Just by a kind of way of review we've been talking about spiritual gifts. We open the series here with the idea that there's a lot of spiritual things that we've been given that even in the Bible are sometimes called spiritual gifts, but we're we're dealing with what I've I've kind of termed spiritual gifts proper. There's this group of gifts that are given to the church members, and they're for use and service to God So we looked at the difference between those spiritual things that are given by God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit, and how those compare to the spiritual gifts proper described in Romans chapter 12. In essence, there are many things that could be described as spiritual gifts that are outside of the seven spiritual gifts given to believers in the church. Today's lesson, we're going to continue that idea by discussing the gifts that are gone. I have gifts there in quotation marks. What do I mean by this? There are some things that are described in Ephesians chapter 4 and 1 Corinthians chapter 12. that some people and religions claim to be part of the spiritual gifts proper. They'll claim, this is my spiritual gift, and it's something that God has done away with and is not around or available anymore. That's why I say the spiritual gifts that are gone. The misinterpretation of this idea has brought about much false doctrine. While they're not the only ones who hold to this false doctrine, this view is most prominently held by those within the Pentecostal charismatic movement. You'll see that as we go along through the lesson today. So for sake of review, the spiritual gift proper, as we've defined it according to the Word of God, is a God-given ability distributed to individual Christians by the Holy Spirit. to be used in their service to God within a local church. I believe that each Christian has one gift and that there are seven total gifts as described in Romans chapter 12. There are spiritual things that are given to all mankind in general. There are spiritual things that are given to every believer. There are spiritual things that have been given to churches. And there were spiritual abilities that were given to Christians in the first century. But understanding the difference of the between these different spiritual things and the gifts helps us to prevent doctrinal errors. So if you have your place there in 1 Corinthians 13, we'll read verses 8 through 10 as our introduction for our lesson today on the gifts that are gone. First Corinthians 13, verse number 8 says, Charity never faileth. But whether there be prophecies, they shall fail. Whether there be tongues, they shall cease. Whether there be knowledge, it shall vanish away. For we know in part, and we prophesy in part. But when that which is perfect is come, then that which is in part shall be done away. Let's open with a word of prayer. Lord God, we love you. Lord, we thank you for your word, what it can teach us, Lord. I pray that um you would open our hearts and our minds to the truth in your word today that we would be presented clearly and that we would understand what you would have us to about this idea. Uh Lord, that you You would protect our church from false doctrine, Lord, and those who would attempt to uh corrupt the purity of the church in a doctrinal manner, Lord. Pray that you would teach us through your word today. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. So as we begin this morning, we're going to talk about this idea that there are these gifts that have ended. I've entitled this point, the ending of the parts. If you notice in our passage we read, there's things that are in part, and those things that are in part will be done away with. First Corinthians thirteen is in the context of the broader context of chapters twelve through fourteen, which are again in the broader context of First Corinthians. So backing away out, first Corinthians, we understand as a church. that had a lot of issues within the church, specifically regarding uh arguments, divisions, schisms, uh people not getting along with each other, uh personality cults that were developing within the church, and hey, I'm following this guy and I'm following this guy, and uh this is all developing within the church. They even told Paul as we looked at several months ago in our series on overcoming knowledge. They said, Hey Paul, we've got all the knowledge We're good, but we want you to settle this thing for us. But very high-minded church that was very carnal uh at its base. And so they had a lot of issues they were dealing with. And in um chapters 12 through 14, Paul is answering this question regarding spiritual gifts, spiritual administrations, and spiritual operations, as we saw in the first couple verses of chapter 12. There's a lot of Discussion around these in the church. People were claiming things they didn't have. People were imitating things within the church and a lot of discussion going along with that. And Paul is trying to sort that out and clear that up with the specific things that are being addressed as problems with the other thing. So this is in the context of describing these spiritual gifts, the ad spiritual administrations, and the spiritual operations. If you remember last week we defined these three, the gifts would be the spiritual gifts proper. Those would be the God given abil abilities to individuals. He also lists their administrations. Administrations are the areas of service, the way that you use your gift, your position in which you use your gift would be an administration. Then you have the operations. That would be the power of God on your ministry. So that's the context that's being discussed here in chapter 13, where we start talking about charity. So 1 Corinthians 13 also describes Christian love. That's charity. Christian love that's being demonstrated here. This is in the context of what's better than the Spiritual Gifts Administration's operations he just listed. He primarily highlighted things that the Corinthian church was jealous over and having divisions about. Look back in 1 Corinthians 12, verses 28 through 31. It says there, and God hath set in in the church first apostles, secondarily prophets. Early teachers, after that, miracles and gifts of healing, helps, governments, diversities of tongues. Are all apostles? Are all prophets? Are all teachers? Are all workers of miracles? Have all the gifts of healing? Do all speak with tongues? Do all interpret But covet earnestly the best gifts, and yet I show you a more excellent way. So he brings to light, you guys have been arguing and fussing about and claiming that you have all these spiritual things I'm going to show you something better. And that's where we roll right into chapter 13, which is about love. Having Christian love one for another So that's what he's highlighting here. His reason for writing chapter 13 was to show them a better way than the things that they desired to make themselves look spiritual. He teaches that love is better than any position or power that they could desire. He wanted the church to develop a love that serves one another Charity in the Bible, that's God's agape love. The essence of God's love is sacrifice, it is giving. It's a love that gives. It's a love in action. When we have John three sixteen, for God so loved the world that he gave. That's where you get your definition of love. It's a giving love. The church at Corinth was seeing what their gifts and their could and their service could do for themselves. And Paul said, no, church is about loving others. And that's what we're going to show you is a more excellent way. He ends this chapter, chapter 13, on love. By describing the fact that there are things that are in part that will one day be done away with. So looking back where we started in verse number 8, he says, charity never faileth. So there's something that doesn't go away, and that's charity. That's Christian love. Love will never be done with. You're never going to be done expressing love of Christ within the local church. You're not going to say, well I've loved him enough. He doesn't get any more from here on out. Alright? That's just that's just I've filled up my my quota of love for that guy, and that's all he gets. Alright, there's no running out of love. There's no um there's no end to that love. You'll always need love within the church. You're never done showing God's love one to another. You remember Peter when he asked Jesus, how many times can my brother offend against me and I forgive him? Seven, can we call it good at seven? And Jesus says, Nay, unto seventy times seven. Charity never faileth. Don't let it run out. That we have love one for another. That's going to continue These other things that he's going to address here, he says, those have a time, those have a place, but they're going to be done with at some point. What we're not done with is the church is loving others. And we need to keep that. We need to keep that at the forefront in our mind and our hearts. It's more important than anything else we're talking about is showing that love of Christ. Jesus even told the disciples, Hereby Solomon, know that you're my disciples, if ye have love one for another. You love one another, that's how the world knows you're my disciples. Um no wonder the world's not interested in coming to church when churches fussing and fighting with one another. I can't imagine the the Corinthian um population around them, the community, looking into this church and seeing the immorality, seeing the fussing. the fighting, the arguing, the divisions, the putting one another down, saying, I don't want to be part of that. And Paul's saying, no, that's that's that's pushing people away from Christ. We need to keep love at the forefront. Love is most important, Christian love that serves one another. So he says, charity never faileth. Then he's going to go into the things that are going to fail, meaning are going to end at some point If we keep reading, it says, Charity never faileth, but whether there be prophecies, they shall fail. He says, Prophecies shall fail. At some point, prophecies are going to be done. What is he discussing here? Now prophecy is one word that we really need to understand in context because prophecy can be a gift. It can be an administration and it can be an operation. For example, we have the gift of prophecy. We're going to in two weeks after Roundup Sunday, we're going to spend the whole lesson talking about the gift of prophecy. That's the gift, that that aspect of prophecy still around today. You have the administration of prophecy. That would be the office of a prophet. That would be the position that a prophet would hold. And so that is one aspect. And then there's the operation. That would be the ability given by God to see the future and foretell the future John in the book of Revelation was prophesying what's going to happen in the future. That was a power given by God to John for that purpose. Also the ability to speaking on behalf of God. The Bible the Bible's done, the prophecying prophesying is done as well. So what Paul is referring to when he says prophecies shall fail, he's referring to the operation or the power of God given to speak the inspired word of God. So right now, he said, there's some men that are still being powered by God to write the Word of God. At some point, that's going to fail. That's going to be done. We're not writing the Word of God anymore. That's going to come to an ending point. So that's clarified here by context. We'll see that a little bit more. The ability or the quote gift of speaking the inspired word of God in the form of new revelation was going to fail and it was going to stop. It has stopped, and no one today has this operation, has this ability to foretell the future, divinely inspired by God, giving new revelation. That has failed. It is not around anymore. Failing in the sense that it's stopped. It's no longer taking place. So prophecies, he says, that's something that is going to fail. And we keep reading, it says charity um never faileth, but whether there be prophecies, they shall fail, whether there be tongues, they shall cease. So whether there be tongues they shall see. Tongues in the Bible is the supernatural ability to speak in a language not previously learned. We learn about tongues firstly in Acts chapter 2, where on the day of Pentecost there were a large number of nations gathered in Jerusalem and the disciples were given the power to preach the Word of God in language they had not previously learned. We understand that it's a real language. Because the people that were there, I believe there were eleven people groups that were listed in chapter two of the book of Acts, they said, how is it that we hear them in our own language? uh in our own tongue. How do we understand them? They don't know our languages are from Galilee. Why do they why are they speaking in my language from wherever I came from? It's it's an They hadn't learned it. They didn't have a Rosetta Stone. They just were given the ability by God to speak in this language. And the people were given the ability to understand what was spoken so that the message of the gospel could go forth. That's the biblical idea of tongues as far as the uh operation or the power of God given for ministry. If you read my devotional this week on 1 Corinthians 14. you understand that the church at Corinth had corrupted this real supernatural operation into a form of man-made nonsense. Regardless of what all he's discussing around tongues, he says here very clearly, tongues shall cease. Very clearly lays it out, tongues shall cease. It's going to be done in this form that is biblical and in the form that's unbiblical, it says it's going to cease. Whether they be tongues, they shall cease. Very clearly lays that out. So we have that tongue shall cease. You also have whether there be knowledge, it shall vanish away. Alright, so whether there be knowledge, it shall vanish away. This idea of knowledge is likely referring back to 1 Corinthians 12, verse number 8. If you look at that, it says, For to one is given by the Spirit the word of wisdom, to another the word of knowledge by the same Spirit. This idea of the word of wisdom, the idea of the word of knowledge, we don't know hardly anything about that, because that's all that's mentioned right here, and it mentions that knowledge shall cease in verse number 13, and then It ceased, so we don't really know what's referring to. Obviously it's not talking about knowledge because we're having Sunday school so you can grow in your knowledge. We have the Word of God, the book of Wisdom, Proverbs that we read. That's so we can gain wisdom. Obviously, the idea of getting wisdom and knowledge is not something that's done away with, but there's something specific that God's referring to here, the word of wisdom, the word of knowledge. They said that at some point that is going to cease It refers to something beyond the wisdom and knowledge we're supposed to pursue. It refers to a specific ability given to some individuals in the early church. Possibly could refer to spiritual knowledge, wisdom, and discernment, such as when Peter knew that Ananias and Sapphira lied to the Holy Spirit about the selling of the land. He knew how asked the live the Holy Spirit. There was some wisdom knowledge that he didn't get from research. He didn't have a private investigator. Follow him around. He didn't look up their receipts He just knew they were lying to the Holy Spirit, something that God gave him. Uh so that's possibly what the word of wisdom or the word of knowledge could refer to also if you think of um Peter, when he was told by the angel, Three men are coming to you, you go with them, preach to Cornelius, um and the gospel went to the Gentiles at that point, also possibly when Ananias different than the one that was killed for selling lying about his land, but the Annias who brought Paul in uh to to the fellowship of the of the gospel by the God gave him a vision, said go to Paul, and he's He's believed on me, I'm going to use him. You go anoint him, you go baptize him, and Amazon is like, hey, I've heard about this guy. You guys know the story. Um so possibly that is what's being referred to here, but we don't know, it's not laid out clearly in scripture other than the fact that it's done away with. That knowledge has that knowledge has ceased. It said it was God said it was going to vanish away. So there's a couple things that he lists out here. Love never fails, prophecies are going to fail, tongues are going to cease, knowledge is going to vanish away. It goes on here to say, we know in part, and we prophesy in part. We know in part and we prophesy in part. What is he referring to? Now he's specifically referring to something that was partially settled knowledge and partially still being prophesied First century church, as what's what's going on in there, there's something that he's talking about here that's saying is being prophesied. It's prophesying in part Revelation is still coming from God, and there's part of it that is knowledge, for we know what part of it is done. What he's referring to here is the Word of God. Part of it's done. We know in part. Part of it is being prophesied. It's still being delivered. So he's talking here about the Word of God, about the Bible. The part knowledge was the written word of God. The part being prophesied was still being written. Even as Paul penned this letter, he was prophesying. He was giving the word of God to the Corinthians. And he says, when that part was done, then, well sorry, when that which was perfect is done, that which was in part shall be done away with. That's what we get to in the next verse. But when that which is perfect is come, then that which is in part shall be done away with. Now in the Bible, when you see the word perfect, it doesn't carry our modern definition of perfect and the idea of sinless, without error, without flaw, although the word of God is without error and without flaw. The word perfect means complete. He says we've got something done in part, we've got something we're still working on, but when it's complete, the parts are done away with. Once this is completed, then those things that are in part shall be done away with. The Bible is partially known, partially being prophesied. Some point it would be complete, and the parts are no longer necessary be done away with. We'll look at it in a little bit as we go into this lesson further, but many of these sometimes called sign gifts were given to authenticate the message of the gospel before the Bible was written. After the Bible was completed, those things that were in part were ended. God gave the people in Acts chapter 2, the disciples, the ability to speak in these known languages that they hadn't previously learned. to authenticate the message of the gospel. Because the New Testament hadn't been completed yet. So he would give them this ability, this power to do miracles, to heal, to speak in these languages they hadn't learned. He gave them those abilities to prove that their message was coming from God. Once the Bible is completed, that proof wasn't necessary anymore. We had the completed word of God. So we said once that which is perfect or complete is done, those parts are done away with. Specifically those parts listed right there. Prophecy shall fail, tongue shall cease. So it's the ending of these parts. There are these things that are in part that will one day be done away with. That's the ending of parts. So as we continue looking at this, we'll go a little bit more specifically into some of these things that are claimed today that people have that the Bible says are done away with because the Word of God is completed. So secondly in our lesson this morning, we're going to look at the ending of positions. There are two positions that are sometimes claimed by people today that were ended with the completion of the Bible and the death of those that served in those positions. Now we'll talk about it, but there is a remaining form of these positions that are still filled in the church today, but not in the way that is claimed by those who falsely interpret them. These positions are listed in Ephesians 4, verse 11, and he gave some apostles and some prophets and some evangelists and some pastors and teachers. So we're very familiar with evangelists, Pastor Manny Starr, evangelists, we're very familiar with pastors, we're very familiar with teachers. And then there's these two other categories, apostles and prophets. And this is something that people claim to have this position anymore, but what they're claiming is something that was in part that's been done away with. So first of all, we have this idea of an apostle. There are actually five different types of apostles in the Bible. I don't know if you knew that or not. There are five different types of apostles in the Bible. The first one is called the apostle of our profession. Hebrews chapter three verse one describes it, wherefore holy brethren, partakers of the heavenly calling, consider the apostle and ho high priest of our profession Jesus Christ. Christ Jesus. So Jesus Christ is the apostle of our profession. Jesus had that name of an apostle. He's obviously still our apostle. But no one today is trying to claim his position. In the future, the Antichrist will come and try to claim Christ's position, but we don't have, this is one type of apostle, but that's not what we're talking about as far as something that has been done away with. Then we have an apostle after the manner of the twelve. These are described several times as apostles in Luke chapter 6, as well as Matthew chapter 10. The names of the 12 apostles are these. And then Revelation 21, where it says the wall of the city had twelve foundations, and in them the name of the twelve apostles of the Lamb. So there's a group of apostles, an apostle after the twelve, listed there together as a group You also have an apostle who was born out of due time. This is how Paul described himself in 1 Corinthians 15, as well as he also described himself as an apostle to the Gentiles. A specific role that he had to the Gentiles in one born out of due time, that is described for us in Romans chapter 11, verse number 13, an apostle to the Gentiles. So Jesus Christ is an apostle. The twelve apostles were apostles Paul was an apostle, and then we get to the idea of other apostles, which is a very broad category in the Bible based on the definition of apostles. The word apostle means one who has been sent. And so there are people who were sent out of churches to go plant other churches, and they were given the title of apostle Barnabas was given the title of apostle. James was Apollo, Silas and Timothy. These are examples of people who were sent by churches and were given the title of apostle because that's what the word apostle means. Those who have been sent. broad category of apostle is what today we would think of as a missionary. Now we don't call our missionaries apostles, partly because some people claim to be apostles that aren't talking about a biblical thing. But that would be this idea in the sense that it's still around today. People that are being sent by churches. Those are by definition apostles, but again, we don't use that term because it gets confused with false doctrine. So that would be this idea broadly. So that one is still around today. And then you have the fifth category of apostles, and that's false apostles. 2 Corinthians 11, 13 says, For such are false apostles, deceitful workers, transforming themselves into the apostles of Christ. So one thing a false apostle will do would be to claim to be an apostle of Christ. And that's what's described in 1 Corinthians or 2 Corinthians 11. Revelation chapter 2 is addressing the Ephesian church, and he says in there that he He knows how thou canst bear them that are evil, thou hast tried them which say they are apostles and are not, and hast found them liars So two of these, there's five categories of apostles, two of these are still in existence. We have the idea of missionaries being sent once, we also have false apostles, people claiming an apostleship that's not given to them by God. When someone in modern day claims to be an apostle, they're speaking of an apostle after the manner of the twelve or after the manner of Paul. But what they actually are are false apostles. How do we know they're not apostles? There are requirements that were given in the Bible for somebody to be considered an apostle after this manner. We'll go through these quickly. No one will take time to read all these passages, but I'd give them to you if you would like. So the requirements for someone to be an apostle after the manner of the Twelve are after the manner of Paul. First of all, the apostles were part of the founding of the church. Ephesians 2. 20, and are built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the chief cornerstone. So if somebody today claimed to be apostle, number one they're not because they weren't part of the founding of the church unless they're upwards of 2,000 years old. The apostles were described as being part of the foundation of the church They were chosen personally by Christ. Galatians 1 talks about how Paul was done so. Also, we know the 12 that were called by Christ personally. That was this group of apostles were called personally by Christ. Thirdly, an apostle had to physically see the resurrected Christ. They had to see him personally, they had to see Christ after his resurrection to be considered an apostle. Again, somebody claiming that today? Not true. A false apostle. They have not seen the resurrected Christ. Another requirement of apostle is that they must receive their message by direct revelation from God, a couple passages of scripture that teach us that. And we have see also that God gave these men special signs to authenticate their message. Acts 2. 43 says, many wonders and signs were done by the apostles. So God gave them these abilities that are now done away with to prove that they were apostles. That is another requirement that they have. So these requirements were listed, and no one today meets these requirements of being an apostle after this manner. The church at Ephesus was commended in Revelation chapter 2 for being able to identify false apostles. Which gives us a pattern that we as a church need to be on guard or watching out for false apostles, someone who claims this uh gift, spiritual gift of sorts that is no longer available for them to have. So we have to be on guard for false apostles. So that's one thing claimed today. Apostle after the manner of the twelve, that's no longer available. That's no longer something that is around for churches or for individuals to claim. Secondly, the other office that people claim to have or position is that of a prophet. We looked at this in 1 Corinthians chapter Twelve verse, sorry. I mine my reference is wrong there. Anyway, we just looked at chapter 13, verse number 8 Whether it be prophecies, they shall fail. Now we discussed when we were going through that passage how that is the ability to speak new revelation from God or to foretell the future. God is no longer revealing the future or direct revelation through men. All God desires for us to know about the future is what he has already put in the Bible. The way that a prophet functions still today, in the role of often as a pastor, is to foretell what's already been foretold. When I preached a series on end times last year, that was an aspect of prophecy, understanding end times. But I was not telling you something new. I'm telling you what God's already told us about the future. So that role is still there, but not in the role of giving new revelation from God. There are some today who claim to fill this role of a prophet, but the Bible is clear that God speaks to us through his word. This job of a prophet in the church exists kind of in the job of a pastor. I said that there already. While the role of apostle can be seen in a missionary, the role of a prophet can be seen and a pastor, the thing that is claimed today by people who claim those titles is not biblical. Those would be false apostles as described in the Word of God. So those two offices in that function are done away with They're a quote gift that is gone. So thirdly, today we're going to look at the ending of powers. The ending of powers. This is the um We're going to discuss here the different operations category from 1 Corinthians chapter 12. Operations, if you remember, that was God's power given to individuals to use their gift in their office. To complete their, let me actually I wrote this out very technical definition here. These operations represent the power of God on individual Christians. In the early church to enable them to use their gift in their administration to authenticate the gospel message before the Bible was completed. For example, Paul tells us he had the gift of prophecy. His position was that of an apostle. He was the apostle born out of due time. He was the apostle to the Gentiles. So that was his administration God gave him power over disease so that when he was a shipwrecked prisoner, he could give the gospel to a town on an island, and they knew his message would come. This guy came off this boat, shipwrecked, prisoner, slave, going to Rome to be tried. What does he have to tell the governor of this island? Well, because he could heal people, he had audience with the governor who was able to give him the message of So that was God's power on Paul for the purpose of giving out the gospel. And these are the things that have finished with the completion of the Word of God. So what are these so-called sign gifts? We have the word of knowledge, the word of wisdom. We've talked about those already that we're not sure what they are, but they are something that has been done away with. Then we have the idea of tongues. Now, tongues is a it could be a whole Sunday school lesson in and of itself. There's a lot of confusion regarding this idea in the Bible. Whenever you read of God ordained tongues in the Bible, it is a miracle. It's seen a few times in the book of Acts. The first instance was on the day of Pentecost and clearly refers to known languages, and as I said already, we went into more devotional or detail on that in the devotional this week that went on on 1 Corinthians 14. Tongues in the Bible almost always are referring to known languages being spoken to groups that use those languages. The miraculous part of this ability to To speak in the other languages is that you can speak in these other languages even though you had not previously learned the language. These are not the tongues that we read about in 1 Corinthians 12 and 14. This was what The Corinthian church was doing to mimic this ability to speak in these unknown, previously unknown languages. Paul addresses both tongues and the unknown tongue in these chapters. Tongues in the plural form always refers back to the known languages that were spoken without previous education in them. The unknown tongue was the Corinthians' attempt to mimic the real miracle of the tongues The unknown tongue would be more in line with what the modern day so-called gift of tongues. The use of tongues in 1 Corinthians as well as the mo in modern day has and um had at that point completely strayed from the biblical teaching on the subject. Very clearly here in 1 Corinthians 13, we looked at it, the Bible said, tongues shall cease. That was going to be done away with. Very simple, very clear to understand as we talked about last week. When the Bible we use the clear to interpret the unclear He told here that tongues shall cease. Not that they were going to cease and in the nineteen hundreds in a revival in California they were going to come back. Um that's not he said tongues are going to cease when that which is perfect is come, being the completed word of God, and very clearly tongues talking about no languages. Also something claimed in tied together with tongues is the interpreting uh interpretation of tongues. Paul talks about that a little bit in 1 Corinthians 14, but he highlights it to draw out the um unbiblical nature of what they were doing. Because you see, obviously, if someone was speaking in an unlearned language to one to whom that language was native, there would be no need of an interpreter. When the people came out on Acts chapter 2, spoke in a language they had not previously learned, this person in the audience say, hey, I can hear them in my own language Interpretation wasn't a necessary miracle because they already understood what it was. What the Corinthian church was doing in an unknown tongue that they claim this is some kind of unknown tongue that only God understands, well then you need to have somebody explain what you're saying You need an interpreter for that. So that's the context of this interpretation tied to this false use or misuse of gifts there, or of the gift of tongues, so-called, in 1 Corinthians chapter 14. So since the gift of tongues has ceased so-called, so has the gift of interpretation. Another so-called gift that has been done away with is the gift of healing. Now obviously God can still heal. Uh we praise the Lord for when God does, we pray for miraculous healing. We got a list on our welcome center there where we go every Thursday night, we pray over the spiritual needs, uh physical needs of the church, and God has the ability to miraculously We've seen him do it many times here even in our church, and lots of testimony we could give personally in our own lives, how God can still heal. The quote, gift of healing was something that was given to an individual to at will grant healing power to someone in their presence. Peter, when he went to the temple to pray, With John, they went there, there's the man who asked them for silver and gold, and Peter and John said, I don't have any silver or gold, but what I have, I give you in the name of Jesus Christ, rise up and walk. That was a gift that was given to the disciples in order to authenticate the message of the gospel. the ability to heal someone at will. This is no longer happening and had even begun to dissipate prior to the end of Paul's ministry. And Acts chapter 19, we see that there were people that were sick who Paul was able to send with a messenger one of his handkerchiefs. It was given to the sick person, that sick person healed. That was the power of the gift of healing given to the Apostle Paul. Yet when his son in the faith, Timothy, a couple years later, was sick, Paul didn't mail him a handkerchief. He mailed him a prescription. He said, here, take this for your stomach's sake. So Paul, if Paul still had this ability to heal remotely just by sending a handkerchief off, wouldn't he have done so for this son of the faith that he loved so much that was pastoring these churches that he had started? He'd do everything he can to help this young man, but but he didn't choose to use this gift of healing, and that points evidence is the fact that that had started to go away. Why? Because the Bible was being It was being written and it we were getting more of the Word of God and didn't need those sign gifts to authenticate this message. This gift was given specifically along with the other ones to authenticate the message of the gospel through the apostles, especially for the Jews. Matthew chapter 10, this is when Jesus sent his disciples out to preach the message of the gospel. He said, But go rather to the lost sheep of the house of Israel, and as ye go, preach, saying, the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Heal the sick, cleanse the lepers, raise the dead, cast out devils. Freely ye have received, freely give. This is something they haven't heard before, they're going to need to know it comes from God. In order for them to know that it comes from God, you need to heal, you need to raise the dead, you need to cleanse the leopards, you you you do this, and people know the message comes from We even see that in the life of Jesus, as the people say no man could do the things that he does except they were sent from God. That gifts were given to show that this message was coming from God to the Jewish people. So this gift was given in this time, it was done away with at with the completion of Scripture. A modern healer is either demonically empowered or a con artist. Most of them are con artists. modern-day healer. God miraculously heals today, and he does it through prayer. James chapter 5. What saves the sick? Not the healer, not the gift of healing, not the preacher laying hands on someone. The prayer of faith saves the sick. God heals through prayer. God doesn't heal through people. Alright? And we're involved obviously in praying for somebody, but it's the prayer to God, and it's God doing the healing, but it's the prayer of faith. It's not the putting out of hands. It's not the anointing with oil. It's not the person. It's not the gift that they have. God says, if I'm healing today, it's through the power of prayer. And that's where we see God's healing take place. The last one that we're going to look at today as far as the sign gift was the gift of miracles. That was given for the same purpose as healing. And it was given to authenticate the message of the disciples. Both this and the gift of healing ceased as the canon of the Word of God was being completed. God can still heal. God can still do miracles, but these are not the gifts that He's given to individuals. So overall we see there are some groups today that are claiming these so-called gifts, saying that I can do this, this is some power God's given me, this is some anointing that God has for us and for our church. In the Word of God, God clearly lays out, these things are in part. And in part, they're going to be done away with. And when they're done away with is going to be when the Word of God is completed. The gifts are sometimes claimed today. Their form, their function, and their facilitators are all contrary to the teaching of the Word of God. We need to take heed to a warning that's given by Jesus. A wicked and adulterous generation seeketh after a sign. We need to stop getting so caught up in exciting so-called claimed manifestations of spiritual power and stick to the completely sufficient Word of God. You know when even songs that we choose to teach the children, sometimes there's a lot of doctrine there. One of the songs we teach our children is the B-I-B-L-E Yes, that's the book for me. I stand alone on the Word of God, the B-I-B-L-E. That's what we need. We need the Word of God. And that's enough. That's what God's given us. That's what God expects us to be to be satisfied with. We have the Word of God and we have way more. You know, in having the completed Word of God We don't have time to go into it, but Peter talks about this and how it was better than seeing and hearing Jesus in person. He says we have a more sure word of prophecy than that we have seen, we have heard. John talks about my eyes have seen, my hands have handled. But we have a more sure we have something better than having Jesus presently here on earth because we have his word of God. We have the word of God here physically with us. That's amazing that that would be claimed by the apostles. that having the Word of God was better than seeing Jesus for themselves physically here on earth. We have this, we need to be satisfied with this and stop pursuing uh other things that that are claimed that are out there. False, false apostles, false doctrine. uh teaching this out there. So these gifts, so-called, are the gifts that are gone. They're no longer uh available today, and those who are claiming this gift are claiming something contrary to the Word of God.