As well Romans chapter thirteen It's good to see everybody uh out this morning and nice to see the Lord's house filling up and uh getting getting uh more and more more people uh attending in the Lord's house. That's a wonderful thing to see, especially gearing up towards next week with Anniversary Sunday. We want to see the scenes bursting on that tent with people people people under it looking forward to a good day in the Lord's house. As you know, if you've been coming for a while, we have been going through a series on biblical civics. Kind of just looking at what is a Christian's role in relation to their government and in relation to uh those that are also citizens under that government and how does that work in our relationship towards God and our relationship within our family and our relationship within the church. And we've kind of looked at uh those topics a little bit individually and not at all exhaustive, uh, but have gone into some detail regarding uh those areas Today's lesson we're going to be going into the idea of the Christian citizen. What does it mean to be a citizen that is a Christian? What does it mean to be a Christian that is a citizen? and how how do we relate uh to our government and and what what are our roles and responsibilities that we have uh in that. We do have notes available uh in the back. If you They're not available online yet. They will be by the end of the lesson getting those together online. But we do have Those notes available to follow along with the lesson. So today's lesson is kind of going to build a lot on the things we've talked about already, going so far into this series. There's going to be things that we're going to be drawing from and references Today is the lesson that I believe that most that have been attending have been looking forward to. This is the well what am I supposed to do lesson We've seen how government works and how it should work and how it doesn't work, and we've seen what the responsibilities we have, and we've seen the roles that government fills and family fills and church fills a little bit, but kind of the well what are we supposed to do? Uh what are we supposed to do about it when government doesn't do what God says government should do? And and how should we be involved in these things? That's kind of where we're going to get into a little bit today. If you remember, when we introduced the topic of biblical civics several weeks ago, I said that I began this journey personally by simply trying to figure out my role. as a Christian, as a pastor, as a citizen, as a father, uh in the midst of all the political upheaval that has taken place over the last year or so. We have been asked or told as citizens to do things uh that have not been asked of us in recent history or even ever um from our government. It brings up a lot of confusion as we have people in political power doing things they've never done before claiming power that they've never used before. And this drew out a lot of debate. This is especially true in churches. I talked to many different pastors over the course of the last year. And it seems like every church came down to a slightly different place on what are we going to do? How are we going to handle that? That's one benefit of being part of a independent Baptist church is that we get to do what we want to do. We don't have to look to some higher order and ask them what to do We go to God and we say, God, from your word, what's our responsibility? And we find that. And that's what the churches and pastors had to do There was a lot of discussion on the what we had the biblical right to do, what we have a biblical obligation to do when it comes to government. The most common passage I heard discussed on the topic is the one that we've been using for most of our lessons, Romans 13 Romans thirteen seems to be a fairly straightforward uh Bible principle. Basically the passage says, Let every soul be subject unto higher powers for their ministers of God to execute judgment on evildoers. seems to be uh fairly straightforward. We need to be subject to higher powers because they've been set up by God to punish those who do evil. But as we go into modern application and we begin to ask a couple questions, it becomes a little more confusing on where we're to be applying this uh in for ourselves. Does this still hold true when higher powers subvert their purpose and begin to punish good and promote evil? What about when the government wants to force people to do good instead of punishing those who do wrong? Who exactly are the higher powers? Just these two questions make this modern application not so clear-cut. A second passage that's often considered, if you're going to go, what is what are what is our role with government as Christians, you go to Romans 13 And then you go over to what Jesus said in Matthew chapter twenty-two, which we discussed last week, render unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and unto God the things that are God's. Again, a fairly straightforward passage, but we went into a good bit of detail, about 50 minutes worth last week, to show that there's a little bit more there than just the simple, the simple what are we supposed to do in this regard. So understanding that passage as well. I want to start this morning as far as looking into our role as citizens with kind of this thought on those two passages, kind of to introduce uh where we're going today. Understanding that yes, we do have a role uh in obeying government. We spent a lot of time talking about that last week and the week before dealing with And we do have this role to render unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's. But when we look at the two men who wrote these two things, we have Jesus said render unto Caesar the things that are Caesars, we have Paul saying, Let every soul be subject unto higher powers. This is a point that I heard made. uh by someone else earlier this year discussing these two passages passages. They said, well, understand that both men who wrote these things advocating submitting to the government were executed as criminals by the government. So it it's not quite as straightforward there as everything the government says we're supposed to do because obviously that didn't take place uh in these men's lives. So what is our role as Christians? What is our rights as Christians? citizens and how does that play into uh the way that we conduct our lives. So kind of introductory uh points there. Let's open with a word of prayer and then we'll begin our study this morning. Lord God, we love you and we thank you for your word. Lord, it has the answers for us if we're willing to look into it. I pray you'd help us this morning as we study this topic, that it would come across clearly. We go through this, there is individual application that we have to make as we search out, Lord, what you want us to do as individuals, and pray that we'd be willing to be led uh by your Spirit in these matters and under the direction of your word. We ask that you bless our time and your word this morning. So we'll begin this morning by talking about the duties of a citizen. Some of this will be review, uh, as I said, for the last couple of weeks. But the first duty of a citizen is to be subject unto You're there in Romans thirteen, verse number one says, Let every soul be subject unto the higher powers. For there is no power but of God, and the powers that be are ordained of God. continues to go into talking about what those powers do and why we should obey them and when we would have to fear them and when we would not have to do so. So this passage, a couple things that it points out to us in regards to our duty to be subject to the higher powers It points out that the government authority originates with God. We took a lot of time to talk about this when we talked about the foundation of government, is that that's where this power originates. That's where it started from. God gave them government authority originally. God set it up. And when they are executing wrath against those who do evil, they are executing their being God's ministers, actually the Bible says there. God's servants doing this job. So this passage teaches us that the government authority originates with God. It also illustrates the purpose of government, and that is to punish evildoers in a way that it becomes a terror to those who It actually says there in the passage, if you continue reading, which we're not going to do for sake of time, but it says this should be a terror to those who do evil. That's the purpose of government, is that people who do wrong should be afraid. should be afraid of the government. And it's it's sad to say that in many t times as that government power becomes subverted, it the people who do evil cease to be afraid of the government. And those who are doing good start to be afraid of the government, and that's when it begins to subvert its purpose. But the purpose of government, why God set it up originally, was to punish evil. In fact, if we go all the way to the beginning in Genesis when God instituted government for the first time, the first power given to government was that of capital punishment. To put to death those who murder someone else. And that is the first role of government. And we see here in Romans it extends that to all evildoers. It actually is extended further in 1 Peter 2, but we'll get to that in just a minute. So this is the role of government, to punish evildoers. Here in Romans 13, it also commands that we be obedient to these powers, insomuch that your doing good causes you to have nothing to fear from them. So it's saying there, you do right, this government that's doing executing God's power, you don't have anything to fear for them if you're doing good. It's only a fear to those who are doing evil. So there is a command there to be obedient to the higher powers And this passage concludes in verse number 7 with the reminder that there are things that are due to the government, but there are also things that are due to God. If you look back in verse number seven there in Romans thirteen it says, Render therefore to all their dues, tribute to whom tribute is due, custom to whom custom, fear to whom fear, and honor to whom uh to whom honor. We looked at this last week as far as government is do some things from its citizens. Uh but don't forget that God is do some things And God always gets his due first. And when there's a conflict, the due always goes to God for us as Christians. And that's what leads to the death of both of both Christ and Paul, is that we're going to obey God rather than men. And it led to led to their death, but they were and and as much as they could uh obeyed government power as long as it was not uh um causing them to do something Something that was that was evil. So what are some applications we can get from this passage? First of all, we understand that we need to ask the question, who is the higher powers? We discussed this last week. Who is our Caesar that we're to render unto here in the United States? That's the context we're looking at this passage in. And in the context of the United States, the higher powers are temporary political leaders chosen by the people under the authority of the Constitution and other government governing documents. I will say that again, temporary political leaders chosen by the people under the authority of the Constitution and governing documents. So that's who are the higher powers. In fact, in the United States, no person is ultimately the higher power. The higher power goes back to those governing documents and the Constitution. That is the higher power. Anybody else is a lesser power as far as that goes here in the United States. Their power only extends as far as they have been given power by governing documents. That's why in our state, as well as many others in the country, we're still under a state of emergency. Why are we under a state of emergency? Because their power is limited. Except for in times of state of emergency, then their power is extended, and they want to continue to use that extended power so they keep us under a state of emergency because they understand they don't have ultimate power. That a po power is limited and they have to use these other things, such as a state of emergency, to extend those powers. That just illustrates the principle that our governor is not the ultimate higher power. It goes back to the governing document. And those governing documents get their power from the people. And so we looked at that again in detail last week and won't take time to go over that again. So as far as application goes, we understand who the higher powers are. Ask the question, should Christians be subject to higher powers? Well, yes, the Bible tells us to let every soul be subject to higher powers. Yes, we should, as long as they do not compel us to go against the commands of God. We're going to be looking at this more later in the lesson. But as a citizen, and specifically in the United States, you do have the right to contest a lower power on the authority of a higher power. And we'll see that play out in the life of Paul actually as well. So yes, we should be subject to higher powers, but what about when two levels of power disagree? And what do we do in relation to that? And again, that we'll get more into that later in the lesson So should a Christian do this? Should a Christian use their rights to contradict a lower power in order to obey a higher power? Again, this should be prayerfully decided on a case-by-case basis, and we'll understand this context better. as we get further into this lesson. So the first duty of a s Christian citizen is to be subject to higher powers. The second duty, as we discussed last week, is to render unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's. This is in Matthew 22. We're not going to go back and read the passage. But basically, by way of review from last week, there are things that the government has the right to ask of its citizen on the basis of what the government provides for them. In the illustration given in Matthew, Matthew chapter 22, Jesus uses the coin. The coin is a symbol of the fact that the Roman Empire is ruling over the Israelites, and they have provided for them protection along with a currency to use. And Jesus says this government that has provided you something, they have a right to ask things of you as well. And so that's the premise behind render unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's. Now it also is true that there are things that only belong to God, and the government has no right to demand or forbid those things. So by way of application, how do we do this as a citizen? Some things that we discussed that the government has the right to ask of its citizens include economic things, that would be taxes, political things, the government has the right to expect uh its citizens to be informed voters, uh, perhaps even an office holder for some Uh there is militaristic things that the government has the right to ask of its pe uh ask of its citizens. That would be support of and perhaps service in the military and their judicial things. The government has the right to expect its citizens to follow its laws, along with in our country serving on juries. So these are some things that we should render under Caesar. We have an obligation to our government because of the things that are provided to us by them And there are some things that belong to God that we should always disobey the government in order to do. And that would be God's the worship of God and the obedience. Obedience to God. Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's and unto God the things that are God's. We always give those to God's first. The government has no right to demand our allegiance above God, our obedience above the things of God. And we uh it has no right to demand those things, and we don't have to uh follow the government uh in that. Surrender unto Caesar. The third principle as far as a duty of a Christian citizen, we're gonna find in 1 Peter chapter 2. So if you go with me there in your Bible, 1 Peter chapter 2. There's two of them that we'll be finding in this passage that we have a duty to do. Hebrews, James, 1 Peter chapter 2. And that is to submit to every ordinance of of man for the Lord's sake. First Peter chapter two, verses twelve through fourteen Says there having your conversation honest among the Gentiles. Conversation meaning your lifestyle, honest among the Gentiles. that whereas they speak against you as evildoers, they may by your good works which they shall behold glorify God in the day of visitation. So Those outside of the church, that's what he's pointing to there with with Gentiles, and we know Gentiles were brought into the church, but he's speaking to a Jewish audience here. He says, Those outside the church, then they call you an evildoer, but by your good works, they're going to end up glorifying God. And what good works is he talking about? Verse number thirteen, submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake, whether it be to the king as supreme, or unto governors. as unto them that are sent by him for the punishment of evildoers and for the praise of them that do well. So we see here that God is saying In order for your testimony's sake to reach people with the gospel, they're going to notice your good works. And those good works are submitting yourselves to the ordinance of man, not for the ordinance's sake, not for your own sake, but for the Lord's sake. And there's a testimony that we carry there by being obedient to the laws of the land. And we follow that as Christians. So there is a duty we have to submit to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake. This is the intersection of the last two points that we've been discussing. The fact that we give to God's what is his and we give to the government things that it is due. That intersects here in this obedience and how it relates to our testimony. When we give God what is His, we will be the kind of citizens that a lawful government desires to have. And it is through our being good citizens that unbelievers see God working in us. So these are the intersection of us as Christians and how this plays out in our society. We go on from here to talk about the next duty that we have as Christians, and that is listed here in verse number 17 as honor the king. Look at verse number 17. It says, Honor all men, love the brotherhood, fear God, honor the king. Notice he puts fear God there first. Again Keeping that principle, what gods is gods and what is the governments is the governments. But he talks there about honoring the king. Now this honor we know is not the idea of worship. like we would give to God, that that only belongs to the Lord. But there is honor, there is respect, proper respect that is due to those who are in positions of authority. And we do this based on the understanding that their authority ultimately comes from God God has given them the authority that they have, and we honor them for it. Also understanding that when they do the proper job of government, they are acting as God's ministers or God's servants. We see that in Romans chapter 13. We are warned in Jude 8, actually, of people who have crept into the church to promote false doctrine, depravity, and to deny Christ. One characteristic of these people that is listed in verse 8 is that they speak evil of dignities. Speak evil dignities, talking down those who are in authority. Now that would refer in context to people within the church talking down church authority, but also used by using the word dignity there is pointing to talking down government authority. It's interesting we consider the historical context here that they were speaking evil of dignities in the church. These false prophets were, and that was underneath the Roman government, who was persecuting the church. And that was the historical context of what was going on here. So this is the where it says here, the duty to honor the king. If you turn to 1 Timothy chapter 2, we'll look at one last duty we have as Christians. 1 Timothy chapter 2, Christian citizens, a duty that we have is to pray for those in government. Pray for those in government. 1 Timothy 2, verses 1 through 4, the Bible says there, I exhort therefore that first of all supplications, prayers, intercessions, and giving of thanks be made for all men. for kings and for those that are in authority, that we may live a quiet and peaceful life in all godliness and honesty, for this is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Savior, who will have all men to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth. So we see here that we're commanded as Christian citizens to pray for kings and for those who are in authority. What should we be praying for them? Well, we pray for them, first of all, to be saved. Notice in the verse there, it says this is pleasing to God, verse number four, who will have all men to be saved. You pray for these people in authority. Why? Because God wants them to be saved. So pray for them. Pray for them that they can be saved. But also beyond that, what is the goal of praying for them is listed there in verse number two. It says, Pray for kings and all that are in authority, that, or so that, or in order that We may lead quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honesty. Our goal in praying for government is that they would lead in a way that we can live the Christian life the way we're supposed to. That we can live in godliness and not be in fear, that we can live honestly and not be in fear, that we can enjoy a quiet and peaceful life, that we can reach people with the gospel, that we pray for our government leaders so that we can continue to do these things that God has required of this. Understanding that if they say no, we're going to do it anyway. But pray for those who are in power that we can do that without having to fear from those who are in authority. So pray for government leaders, a duty that we have as Christians. So we have the duties of Christian citizens. I want to go on from there to talk about the rights of Christian citizens. The rights of Christian citizens While we as Christians have duties as citizens towards our government, this does not separate us from the fact that we have rights as well. These rights should be used as us as Christians to further the work that we have been called to do by God These rights should be protected by Christians so we continue to do what we have been called to do by God. Looking it just in that context we're talking about in 1 Timothy chapter 2, that we can live right now we have the right in America to live in godliness. and honesty without fear of our government. It would be a shame for us as Christians to allow those rights to go away that we we have to do those in in an illegal manner. And so it would be our our duty to use our rights to continue to live our lives the way that God wants us to without having to be in fear. No Christian in history has been afforded the rights and privileges that we hold as citizens of the United States. Yet very few Christians throughout history have been as careless with the rights that they have. Let's just take a modern example. Christians in China do not have the right to meet together. This is today, do not have the right to meet together and hold church services But they ought to obey God rather than men. So what do they do? They meet in secret. They have these underground churches where they meet and they hold services together, and they do so as faithfully as they can, sometimes meeting in a different location every week in small groups to continue to meet together according to what God has commanded them to do because they do not have that right. I've talked to someone who has been in China, had a chance to talk to a Chinese Christian. The Chinese Christian had been saved for five years. Um just five years old as a as a baby Christian that he had been saved, three of those years he had spent in prison for being in church services as a as a baby Christian. Why? Because he was going to obey God rather than men. And he didn't have the right that that we do in America And the freedom of assembly and the freedom of speech that we have, freedom of religion. Yet we in America, we have these rights as citizens to attend church. And there are some people, many people throughout our country call themselves Christians, they haven't been to church in over a year Not using the rights that we have, and one day those rights may be gone. What are we going to do then? So as Christians, we have rights and we need to use them to further what we can do as Christians. So how should a Christian use his rights? This is a hard question, and in our our country it boils down to a matter of liberty. We have freedom. We have liberty in America. It was the founding principle that we can have this liberty. There are freedoms that we enjoy, but should we always exercise those freedoms? Just for illustration's sake, maybe we can take an example from our principle of Christian liberty. Because in Christ we have liberty as well. Whom the Son has made free shall be free indeed. We have this Christian liberty, but there are times when we exercise that liberty. And there's times that we curtail that liberty. And we need the Holy Spirit's wisdom to do that. In Christ I have liberty, but there are times that I should curtail those liberties in order to help others to not be a stumbling block to someone else. That's an example we can look at in just this this past year when it comes to the the use of masks. For a long time in the church we we were all wearing masks. Why? To help others Just in case someone came that was worried about it and was going to be concerned being in the Lord's house and saw people without masks. So we wore them. We curtailed our liberty in order to be helpful to someone else. As a Christian, all things are lawful for me, but all things are not expedient, all things are lawful for me, but all things edify not. 1 Corinthians 10, verse 23. This means that There's things that I have the right to do that aren't the right thing to do. And the same is true even in our country. There's a lot of rights, quote unquote, that we have as Americans that are not good things for us to do And so we don't exercise those rights. We may have the liberty to do them, but we curtail that liberty in order to follow God. So we have these things that we we would not do. And as a Christian, I also have liberty, but I'm commanded to use that liberty to serve others So we have these curtailments on liberty, but we also have liberty that we've been given to enjoy. God wants us to enjoy our liberty as Christians, so as Americans, can these can these apply as well? Do I have times where I need to use my rights? And there are times where I may need to curtail my rights. In understanding this idea of a Christian citizen, I believe that the best way to see it in action is in the life of Paul. He in fact was the one who wrote Romans 13 under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit. He was the one who was executed by the Roman government for his Christian faith. So I'd like to take this morning, some time this morning, to do a Bible study on the life of Paul, specifically in his relation to human government. Where were times that Paul interacted with government and what did he do? And what can we learn from that? So we're going to go to the book of Acts, chapter 7. We're just going to walk right through the book of Acts this morning and look at Paul's life, and I'll comment as we go along. But this will be the main uh thrust of our lesson today is seeing citizenship acted out in the life of Paul. Understand his historical context. He wasn't in the United States. The United States wasn't around. He was in Rome. And as in Rome, he had rights as a Roman, different rights than we have. But we see how he used his rights, when he curtailed them, when he exerted them, and maybe we can learn some lessons from that in our lives as well We're introduced to Paul in Acts chapter 7, verse number 58. And you understand that his name was originally Saul. That's what he was called prior to his salvation. Even for a certain period of time, we'll take note when his name is changed But Saul here is introduced to us in Acts chapter 7, verse number 48. No, fifty-eight, sorry, fifty-eight. There we go. And cast him out of the city. This is at the end of Stephen's quote unquote trial. They cast him, speaking of Stephen, out of the city, and stoned him. And the witnesses laid down their clothes at a young man's feet. So here is Saul. He's introduced to us and he was a a witness to Stephen's death. And this is where we are introduced to him for the first time. We go to our first interaction with Paul in a government setting in chapter 8, verse number 1, actually. And it says there, and Saul was consenting unto his death. We'll stop there. Saul was consenting to his death. Whose death? Stephen's death. What was he consenting to here? What was Paul involved with here? Paul was overseeing consenting involved with an unlawful use of government power. The Jews did not have the right to put someone to death. And Paul, here as an unsaved person, was exerting the right of might, the right of force to execute his will on others. And in doing so, he he broke the Roman law, uh he broke the laws of God, and he we see him here using unlawful government activity. It is the government's job, we've said this already, to enforce capital punishment, but this is a passage, a group of men who usurp this power for themselves unlawfully Pilate we tells us this in John chapter 18. Pilate said unto them, Take ye him and judge him according to your law. The Jews said unto him, It's not lawful for us to put any man to death. They understood. They didn't have this right. But they usurped this right by power of mob force, by power of group and might, that they took this unlawful power themselves, and Saul participated in it. So he was consenting to an illegal execution. We go to Acts 8, verse number 3. We see Paul continuing in this unlawful use of power as for Saul. He made havoc of the church, entering into every home and hailing men and women, committing them to prison. So Paul uses this police authority that was given to him by the Jewish religious leaders against the Christians. Since there were no repercussions on their unlawful use of government power, they broadened their persecution against the Christians. An important point there, here government power was usurped, was used unlawfully, and it was unchecked. So what happened? It continued to go on unlawfully because no one stepped in and said, this is a wrong use of power. The Roman government didn't do so. They didn't stop that use of power. So when unlawful power is not challenged, it will continue and it will grow worse. Let's go to Acts chapter 9, continue looking at the life of Paul, verses 1 through 3. Here, Saul seeks an extension of his police power from the high priest to continue to persecute the Christians. Verse numbers 1 through 3 it says, And Saul, yet breathing out threatenings and slaughter against the disciples of the Lord, went unto the high priest, and desired of him letters to Damascus and to the synagogues, that if he found any of this way, whether they were men or women, he might bring them bound unto Jerusalem. And he journey journeyed and came near Damascus, and suddenly there shined round about him a light from heaven. So the Jews, we understand, they had a limited role of power. They could judge people according to their law. They did have this limited power. And Saul was using this government power given to him by the Jewish leaders to be a terror to those who did good. So he was using power unlawfully. In this context, the Christians that he was persecuting had no political recourse to escape that persecution under Roman law. They had no rights. These Christians did not have any rights that they could claim to avoid this persecution. So what did they do? They went into hiding or they fled. Because they didn't have the right to stand up in a government way against them, that they hid or they fled from this persecution. Their only right they had was to not be put to death by the Jewish leaders, but that right had already been infringed without consequence. This is what we see from Christians who are under evil governments without the rights that we enjoy as citizens They have no political recourse, so they're forced to hide, flee, or face judgment for obeying God rather than men. So that's the context of someone without rights. If they don't have the right, what what do they do? They have to go into hiding and still try to obey God in the midst of the persecution. But when we get to Acts chapter 9, verses 4 through 6, we see Saul's conversion. We won't take time to read the passage, but we have the light shining from heaven. Christ speaks to peaks speaks to Saul, and he is converted. And here Saul goes from being an agent of the government sent to punish those doing good to being one of the good ones that the government was seeking to punish. So we have a we have a change here in the life of Saul. There is a great change in somebody's life when Christ saves them. In the midst of all this talk of governments and rights and citizens and power, let us not forget the greatest power of all, and that's the power of Christ to change. And that's example for us here. We have an unlawful use of government power by a government agent, Paul, being completely fripped around, and he's now one of the ones who want to do right, and the government is seeking to persecute all through the power of Christ. Through the salvation of individuals, Christ can affect way more political change than we are capable of as citizens. Some Christians and churches can get so involved in the weeds of politics that we lose our purpose as believers for reaching of reaching people. So this is an important lesson for us here in the life of Paul is that the greatest political change that took place was when Paul became a Christian. And so as much as we can use rights and voting and things to make changes. What if we just got everybody saved? That would make some great, great political changes. So again, keeping the primary thing for us as Christians in mind. So in Acts chapter 9, verses 23 through 24, we continue to see Paul, or Saul, as he's still called here, and his uh his involvement with government. In verses 23 and 24, the Bible says And after that many days were fulfilled, the Jews took counsel to kill him, speaking of sa seek speaking of Saul. But their laying away was known of Saul, and they watched the gates day and night to kill him. So he's in the position now where he has unlawful government authority going after him. And uh what what do we see him doing here is that his position is flipped instead of exercising unlawful government power himself, he's being subjected to it. He faces the possibility of an unjust death from those that would exert government power that they did not hold. So what did he do? Now he's in the position of fleeing He he has no recourse to stand up against the government that's doing things unlawfully. Even if he were to claim his rights, these people didn't care about his rights. They were going to execute him. whether the law said they could or not. So what does Saul do? Saul flees from that. In Acts chapter 9, verse 31, this is another illustration of the point that we just made. Says there then had the churches rest throughout all Judea, Galilee, and Samaria, and were edified, walking in the fear of the Lord, and the comfort of the Holy Ghost were multiplied. So what's taking place here is that yes, Saul are there are still people who want to kill Saul, but the focus has come off of the Christians. Saul was the one who was executing this this um um persecution against the Christians. And he was saved. And when this person was saved in the government position, what happened? The churches had rest. They no longer had to face that persecution. Why? Because of the conversion of an unjust government authority. The church had rest from persecution. Again, this reminded us of our duty to reach people for Christ. Christians would have less to fear from those in political office if we were able to reach them for Christ. Now at this point, Paul is going to step off the scene. He's going to go be trained by Christ to be a preacher for him for a while. And this lasts until Barnabas seeks out Paul to bring him to Antioch for a year. Then as famine hits the Roman Empire, Barnabas and Saul travel to the area of Judea to bring financial relief to the Christians in that region. We see that in Acts chapter 11, verse number 30. Which also they did and sent it by elders by the hands of Barnabas and Saul. So Saul is returning back to the area of Israel at this time. to minister to the churches that are in need. But we go to chapter 12, verses 1 through 3, we see again a government start to bring ramp up its persecution against Christians. It says there, now about the time Herod, about that time Herod the king stretched forth his hands to Beck certain of the church, and he killed James, the brother of John, with a sword. And because he saw it pleased the Jews, he proceeded further to take Peter also. Then were the days of unleavened bread. So Peter is arrested. James is killed. Why? Because the government leader executed this authority against them. The Jewish leaders had somewhat stopped persecuting the church, but their influence extended to the Roman authorities, who at this point put James to death and vexed the church. Again, seeing these actions please the Jews, Herod proceeded further to arrest Peter as well. So understand here a principle we can learn is that as wicked people have an influence on those who wield political power, that political power will be used wickedly. So the Roman Empire, what's going on here? These wicked Jewish leaders are exerting authority or or influence on the political leaders. And what is the political leaders doing? They're trying to please their base. And so they start to persecute Christians. Could the opposite be true as well? What if instead of what it says here, what if this verse read, and when Herod saw that this thing displeased the Christians? Would the story have gone a different direction? But there weren't righteous people influencing the government. There were unrighteous people having an influence on the government And so there's a role for us as Christians to exert righteous influence on those in power to see them do things that are right. And unfortunately, that did not take place here. The next place we see Saul interacting with government leaders is in Acts chapter 13, verses 6 and 7. It says there, when they had gone through the isle unto Paphos, they found a certain sorcerer, a false prophet, a Jew whose name was Bar Jesus. which was with the deputy of the country, Sergius Paulus, a prudent man who called Barnabas card called for Barnabas and Saul and desired to hear the word of God. So what what's going on here is that they had as they begin their missionary work he travels to this place called Paphas. Here he comes into contact with a deputy, that would be a government official of the country, named Sergius Paulus, and this government official was being influenced by a false prophet. So this Bar Jesus fella, he was influencing this government leader. But Paul gets the chance to talk to the government leader. And through Paul's testimony, the government agent was converted. Look in verse number 12. Then the deputy, when he saw what was done, believed, and was astonished at the doctrine of the Lord. So through, here's an example where Christians were able to negate negative influence on a politician. And it's also in this passage in verse number nine where Saul's name is changed to Paul. He goes by both, but then it's going to switch from here on out. So it goes from being Saul to being Paul. And so it's actually this this deputy is the only person mentioned as a convert in this area. Um not saying there weren't any others. I'm sure there were people that were saved. But this is a specific instance where there's a government leader who has a wicked influence on him, but Christians got to him, and he got saved. And that changed the influence, that changed the impact here in this area. So in Acts chapter 14 we see the next place uh that Paul interacts with the government, and that's in verses five and six. Acts chapter fourteen, verses five and six. And then when there was an assault made, both of the Gentiles, also of the Jew Jews, with their rulers, to use them despitefully and to stone them, they were aware of it, and fled into Lystra and Derby, cities of Laconia, and unto Again, Paul facing persecution from people who are using their government's authority unlawfully, and Paul has to flee the area once again. He is forced to flee because of an unlawful use of the law. Those in authority were using their power to punish good instead of punishing evil. And here he is using wisdom to flee. instead of fighting for his right because he understands that those he would be resisting did not care about the law or care about his rights. They had illustrated that already. And we get to Acts chapter 16, and we're going to see a change take place in Paul and the way he interacts with these government authorities. Acts chapter 16, verse 20 through 23. Says they brought them to the magistrates, saying, These men, being Jews, do exceedingly trouble our city, and teach customs which are not lawful for us to receive, neither to observe, being Romans. So Paul and Silas are brought here by a group of Jewish people to the magistrates. They're put into a legal context And there's an accusation brought against them that they were actually infringing on others' rights. They're saying they're doing stuff to us that we don't have the right to do because we're Romans. So they're bringing this into a legal context. And here in this legal context is where Paul is no longer facing unlawful use of government. He's in a position where he can defend his rights as a Christian and as a citizen there. Acts chapter 16, verses 35 through 39, we see the first use by Paul of his rights, and that's after he was put in prison. And he was beaten unlawfully by this magistrate. In verse number 35, it says, when it was day, the magistrate sends the surgeons Sergeant saying, Let those men go. And the keeper of the prison told them this saying to Paul, the magistrates have sent to let you go. Now therefore depart and go in peace. Paul, you're free to go. Everything's forgiven. You can be released from prison. But what does Paul do? But Paul said unto them, They have beaten us openly, uncondemned, being Romans. What's he saying here? He says, I have a right as a Roman to not face judgment until I've been condemned by law. And they didn't do that. They executed the law unlawfully. And have cast us into prison, and now do they thrust us out privately? Nay, verily, let them come themselves and fetch us out. Pretty bold words from Paul. He's saying, no, I had rights as a Roman, and my rights were abused by those in power. I want them to come and fix it. And so he stands up for his rights. He defiantly stands up against the unjust treatment of the law based on his rights as a Roman citizen. He points to the fact that his rights had as a Roman had been ignored, and he chose this time to exert his rights. He was free to go, but he demanded a public release from prison. based on his unjust treatment of the law. Now why would Paul do this? He had the right to go. Why why not just go? Well one reason is that this would let Paul go about his work in the future with more freedom because he'd been exonerated instead of excused. He could have just been dismissed from prison and he go faces the next magistrate and hey, that's the guy that got beaten for preaching. He's preaching again, let's beat him for preaching. But Paul said, No, no, I had the right to not to be beaten because of my Roman citizenship and his exertion of his rights protected him in the future so he could have freedom later. If he had not stood up for his freedom here, he would not have had freedom to preach later. Even though again that was curtailed as well. But he stood up for his rights in order to protect his ministry and his testimony. He also is exerted his rights to protect those rights in the future. If he was arrested later and tried to claim his right as a Roman, what standing would he have if he had not claimed it earlier? If he had not claimed it here and they come come arrest him later and said, Hey, well you can't arrest me and put me in prison, I'm a Roman. So well you were already arrested and put in prison. What do you mean? There's something not adding up here. So Paul used used his rights to get himself exonerated in its legal context. Acts chapter 21, we see the next interaction Paul had a couple chapters later. Paul got in trouble a lot He was uh In verses thirty through thirty-three we see Paul being attacked by a mob. The city was moved, and the people ran together, they took Paul, they drew him out of the temple, and forthwith the doors were shut. And then when they were about to kill him, tidings came to the chief captain of the band that all Jerusalem was in an uproar, who immediately took soldiers and Centurions and ran down to them. When they saw the chief captain and the soldiers, they left the beating of Paul. Then the chief captain came near and took him and commanded him to be bound with two chains and demanded who he was and what he had done. soldier comes in and he just sees the situation. All the cities in an uproar. They're beating this individual. He breaks up the fight. He arrests the ones that he was getting beaten. He said, Okay, who are you? What did you do? What's going on? He finds out here. Well We see it go on from there in verse number twenty or back up a little bit. Alright. No, sorry, further ahead. I'm reading my numbers wrong. Verse number thirty-nine after Paul interacts with the um with the Roman uh soldier here. Verse number thirty-nine, he uses his rights as a citizen to speak fre freely. This is actually one of the four times in the Bible the word citizen is used in verse number thirty-nine. But Paul said, I am a man which am a Jew of Tarsus, a city of Cilicia, a citizen of no mean city, and I beseech thee, suffer me to speak unto the people. So he called upon his right as a Roman to face his accusers. He had a right as a Roman citizen to face his accusers, and so he he calls upon this right. I'm a citizen of this city. It's not a small city, it's a an important city, and I have a right to address my accusers. And so what does the what does the captain do? He says, okay, that's your right. So Paul exerts his right here to speak freely to the people. What he's doing is he's usually his national rights to be a witness. Because what he does here, he doesn't argue about why he shouldn't be persecuted. He goes right into preaching the gospel. In this legal context, facing his accusers, what does he do? He preaches the gospel to them. He uses his full rights to serve God as much as he could. And Paul often used his rights, we'll see in his life, to further his ministry. He said, I'm in a situation right now where I'm not free to preach God, but I have the right to do so. And so he called upon his rights to further his ministry. And to continue to do what God had called them to do. And we see again Paul's use of Roman citizenship in Acts chapter 22, verse number 24 through 29 Says though the chief captain commanded him to be brought into the castle and bade that he should be examined by scourging, that he might know therefore w that Wherefore they cried so against him. And as they bound him with thongs, Paul said to the centurion that stood by, Is it lawful for you to scourge a man that is a Roman, uncondemned? When Centurion heard that, he went and told the chief captain and said, Take heed what thou doest, for this man is a Roman. Then the chief captain came and said unto him, Tell me, art thou a Roman? And he said, Yea. And the chief captain answered, With a great sum I obtained this freedom. And Paul said, But I was free born. And so Paul here is talking, having this conversation about citizenship. He is actually a higher-ranking citizen than the one who was about to issue this unjust treatment of the law against him. He uses this um Roman citizenship to resist corrupt government officials. They just said, Well we're not sure what's going on. Let's just beat him and find out what he did. Maybe he'll tell us after we beat him. That's not something that they had the authority to do, the right to do, but these corrupt government officials were not were not following uh their their law accurately. They had been corrupted through their power and they were going to beat Paul for no reason. But Paul had, and he exerted his right as a citizen to resist these corrupt officials This is an example of something we mentioned earlier, how you can resist a lower power in obedience to a higher power. This was a local official who said, Paul, you have to do this, you have to be beat. Paul says, No, you don't have the authority to beat me Because of my rights as a Roman. He's calling on the higher power in order to protect his rights as an individual. So we see Paul acting out this way as well, using his Roman citizenship to resist corrupt government officials. And the last example we'll look at is in chapter 5, verses 11 and 12. We know it continues in the life of Paul, but we see here Paul making a claim to Caesar to be judged by him. Verse eleven says, For if I be an offender, or have committed anything worthy of death, I refuse not to die. But if there be none of these things where I whereof these accuse me, no man may deliver me unto them. I appeal unto Caesar. specific to Roman law, that any Roman citizen had a right to appeal his case to the highest court land, that would be Caesar. That would be just like in America, we have the right to appeal our cases higher if we don't like a lower court's decision. Now that gets in the way sometimes as Our cases have been appealed many times, but this is a right that he had and he used. Now, I want to point out why did Paul do this? Paul was exonerated here. This government said, You've done nothing wrong. We would let you go. But Paul said, I appeal to Caesar. What was he doing here? Why was he using the right? Acts twenty three, verse number eleven. And the night following the Lord stood by him and said, Be of good cheer, Paul, for as thou hast testified in of me in Jerusalem, so must thou bear witness also at Rome. Jesus told Paul, you've been a preacher in Jerusalem. I need you to get to Rome so you can preach with me there as well. So what was Paul doing here? He had the right to be exonerated, but he appealed this case to Caesar. Why? So he could be brought to Rome. to preach the gospel. Paul using his rights as a c as a citizen to further the work of God. And so using his rights, protecting his rights, claiming his rights, why? To do what God had called him to do. That's what we see here in the life of Paul. So the right use of rights by the Christian citizen, we should use our rights to do what God desires that we do. And we should protect the rights that we have so we can continue to do what God desires we do. We end this morning with the responsibility of the citizen. We don't have time to go through all this. We need to understand the purpose of government. Why is government there? And then we pursue that purpose. The biblical purpose of government. And we have the right to do that in America through voting. To say, you know what, that's something the government shouldn't be doing. This person wants to extend government power beyond what God says. This person wants to limit government power closer to what God says. Let's put this one in to continue to try to get the power to match what God wants it to be. Understand the purpose of government. Then we need to pursue that biblical purpose of government. We should use our rights as citizens to pursue these goals in government, exert that influence that we have. We should use our rights as citizens to ensure that our continued rights to effect these changes, and we should use our rights as citizens to protect our rights to render unto God the things that are God's without fear. Again, this all goes back to we obey God first Um we give to God we're gonna obey God no matter what, but we have rights as citizens that may make it where we can do that without fear. And that's what we should be pursuing in the use of our rights. Again, on its case-by-case basis, and using the wisdom of God, Paul sometimes ran, sometimes stood up and said, You don't have the right to do this. So he had wisdom in his life to do it, but he always used his rights to further the gospel. And uh that's our our role as Christian citizens as well. Let's go ahead and close down a word of prayer and we'll be dismissed. Lord God, we love you and we thank you again for your word and Just the practical applications we have in it, Lord, the stories you've written in there for our example. Uh Lord, pray you to give us wisdom uh as citizens in our country to use the the rights that we've been given, Lord, uh to Further your work, to do what we can to uh reach people for Christ, Lord, and take advantage of the rights that we have, Lord. There's people all over the world that would love to have the freedom that we do uh in their country. Just spread the gospel. Lord, but it's so easy for us to sit idly by because of the freedom that we have and not take advantage of it, Lord. I pray we would As we see in the life of Paul, use our freedoms to further the witness of the gospel, Lord. We pray that you bless our time now as we go into the morning service. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen. Thank you.