We've we've we've been through this all year, been looking uh at the Old Testament, trying to keep a what would be a bird's eye view, not digging too far down into the weeds, but just getting a scope of what was taking place during the general history, the patriarchal history. moving on into the Exodus and the conquering of uh Canaan, the judges that ruled uh as soon as they came into the land of Canaan there, the judges that were in control until they cried out for a king And uh God answers their cry, allows them to have a king. The i the monarchy begins uh with three kings under a united kingdom. Uh Saul, uh David and Solomon, and then the kingdom is split into a divided kingdom. We looked at the divided kingdom, the Israel and Judah. and uh the path uh downward trajectory that took the kingdom ultimately to a place where they went into captivity the exile period where they were in captivity under the judgment of God, but they knew that captivity was going to come to an end and that God would allow them to return uh when that came to a conclusion and so we see at the end of their time of exile the return we looked at that period the Ezra, Nehemiah and Esther and what was taking place there We're going to bring at the end of the return or the end of this era, we get into the very last kind of closing chapters of the Bible, the Old Testament here. And uh the note in preparation for, hey, we're on our way to God's plan of bringing the Messiah uh into the world and preparation for that. But through that all we looked at the Old Testament um Do you happen to remember what I'm talking about? It's it's colored, multicolored uh graph that shows the books of history and the books of poetry and the major and minor prophets divided up into divisions. Um so We have um the books of history beginning, let's say those together. I wanted to get them on the screen so you could see them. But there's there's Twelve of those, Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy, Joshua, Judges, Ruth, 1st and 2nd Samuel, 1st and 2nd Kings First and second chronicles, Ezra, Nehemiah, Esther, Job, Psalms, Proverbs. Sorry, to stop there because we got into the books of poetry. So we went to the end of the twelve books. I was looking at his graph. That's not the uh that's not that's not my uh uh graph there, so It's hard to read sideways. But anyway, so then we have the books of poetry. We went through the 12 books of history. Then you have the five books of poetry. which Job which begins with we have Job, Psalms, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, and Song of Solomon. So those five books. Uh then uh after Song of Solomon, um you begin your major prophets. Right? Isaiah, Jeremiah, Lamentations, Ezekiel, Daniel, Hosea, you get there's your major prophets and the minor prophets. Hosea, Joel, Amos, Obadiah, Jonah, Micah, Nahim, Habakkuk, Zephaniah, Hagi, Zachariah, Malachi. Now we've been going through that throughout the year, tried to break it up into manageable segments where you might be able to remember and think about those names and then know where you're at. and hopefully you put a little bit of effort on your own and that you've committed those to memory. You know, you really get as much out of whatever it is that you put into it One of the things that I to this day kick myself for is not learning Spanish when I was a teenager. Uh I could have learned Spanish so very easy because all of my kids my friends were Spanish speaking. A lot of their parents only spoke Spanish and I was in their homes all the time and their moms would be yelling at me in Spanish, you know. And uh I could have learned Spanish so easy as a teen But I mean I got to the place where I could function in that environment and I kind of knew what their mom wanted from me or whatever and I did not put any effort in And if I would have just put a little bit of effort in, at that time in my life, I would have had the skill to speak Spanish the rest of my life. And now to try and go back, it's like trying to take a college-level class. w without any assistance and all of a sudden trying to cram this into my brain and uh very very hard. And so what I'm saying as we go through these types of lessons like this, you could get Well, you could get a little bit out of it when you sit here and and you know the teacher teaches and like, oh yeah, that was interesting or whatever, but you also could get a whole lot out of it. if you put a little bit of effort in uh on your side and think through it and ponder it and and kind of evaluate it and look back at it so that it goes beyond just what was said here in the class. but your own personal understanding of those things can benefit can benefit you greatly. So I just want to encourage you that direction. So here we are. At the end of the Old Testament, we have what I've entitled this lesson basically uh A Nation Repenting. A nation repenting. We've got to this place where God is calling his people d divine correction, saying, Hey, there's some things that you need to do. Let's consider this. Let's look at it until we see first of all God's provocation to faithfulness. He's saying, hey, there's a need, there's a necessity for you to be faithful to do what you're supposed to be doing, to continue on this path. And so We see that in the book of Hegai uh that God is calling them back to faithfulness to fulfill the duty, the job that they have been given. So uh we look first at the man here. Hegiai means my feast. My feast. Hey yeah, I was probably very likely born in captivity. That's all he ever knew. He was born during that time and was looking for the time when they would be released and allowed to go back He was a contemporary of Zechariah and Ezra, a contemporary of them. So they ministered during this time in different places under different things, but they were uh and had different messages that they were bringing, but they were contemporaries one with another. Uh he returned to the land, uh the promised land, there with the group which was Zerebbal, uh which you remember Zerebbal was the first one to return. Out of the three returns that took place uh here, you have Zerebel and Ezra, which both take place in the book of Ezra. The first six chapters of Ezra are the return of Zerebel, where they concentrate on the rebuilding of the temple. And then um Ezra rebuilding the people, and then Nehemiah rebuilding the wall. So the three returns, the first took place with the rebels. The largest group went back with him, that first group that went back And he prophesied in the second year of Darius the king. So we see that in Hegai chapter number one. Let me open my Bible here if you wanted to look at that. You get to The end of the Old Testament there. Hagai chapter number one. In the second year, it says right at the beginning, it opens up Haggai one in the second year of Darius, the king In the sixth month, in the first day of the month came the word of the Lord. They say that this is the most definitive uh dating of any book in the Bible that they can they know exactly when this happened and there's not any question sometimes You know, a book might be fifty years one way or the other as far as like, oh, it's probably done around this time, but could be as much as this or could be as much as that. You know, they don't know 100% exactly when but took place during this time period. Well this book, they know exactly when it took place because God gave it to us here a very clear date and marking of when that happened And so it is the second shortest book, second shortest book in the Old Testament next to Obadiah, uh just being two chapters, a very quick read. uh two messages he brings basically. He kind of brings a message and then uh opens up again and brings another message sent from God to the people. So the shortest the shortest book here. This is the first message begins right with us here in chapter number one. Those that had returned with the rebel to build uh the temple uh we're excited about it. They went back with excitement and joy and you know any new task is fun and everybody's thrilled to get involved and yeah let's get after it but they got back there and they began laying the foundation of the temple there. You can read about it in the book of Ezra, and uh you'll see that right away opposition arises. Right away there were some people not happy about them doing this, and so opposition arose, and so the people got a little bit discouraged. They weren't quite as excited about the work that they were supposed to be doing God calls Hagi to provoke the people to get back to the work. Say, hey, you came back here to build the temple. This is what you were going to do, and you you're not doing it. This is what God asked you to do and you're not accomplishing it. So Hei has a message of faithfulness. Now, by and large, his message is addressed to Zerebel and to Joshua, to the leaders. Uh but obviously it is impactful and uh carried on to the people, but he's addressing them. He's saying, hey, this is the problem, this is what's going on, and because the people had gotten distracted The people had gotten distracted being involved in all they got all their own they got a little discouraged about building the temple and thought, well Uh we can't do that right now. The opposition is great and it's not going to be very easy. So you know what? Let's go over here and let's go ahead and till our fields and And let's get we we gotta get some food to eat, so let's go ahead and get a good farm going over here. And let's let's build a house. And I need a house for my family and And and my kids are getting up of age and where they're going to need their own house, so let's build a house for them. And and they got very distracted doing a lot of other things, not necessarily sinful things, not necessarily things that they shouldn't be involved in. But what God had called them to do, what God wanted them to accomplish, was being left undone. It's not like they were simultaneously uh, you know, working all day at home and and and coming in the afternoon and working all afternoon at the at the temple and and hey let's accomplish this. No, they had basically said, well, uh it's a little bit difficult to do this, so we're not going to bother with it. We're going to go do this instead And God wasn't pleased with them. So he sent Hagi with a message to call them back. Verse number two of chapter one. Thus spake the Lord of the hosts, saying, This people say the time is not come, the time that the Lord's house should be built. They're saying, Oh, it's not I guess we can't do it right now Then came the word of the Lord by Hagi the prophet saying, Is it time for you, O ye, to dwell in your sealed houses, and this house lie in waste? Now, therefore, thus saith the Lord of hosts, consider your ways. He says, think about what you're doing. You see, God didn't immediately send punishment, he kind of sent some warnings. He kind of sent some things that had they been paying attention, they would have realized there was a problem. That maybe they weren't experiencing the blessings of God on their life like they should. And yet they continued on down the path. He says, consider your ways. Now look what he tells them there in verse number six. He says, you have sown much and bring in little. Ye eat, but you have not much Little bit drink. Ye clothe you, but there is none warm. He that earneth wages, earneth wages to put into a bag with holes in it. He says, I've been trying to get your attention. You're out here working the field and working the field and working the field, and it's just not producing like you think it should be. There's a reason for that. You've been laboring as much as you can to get as much money as you can. And it seems like no matter how much you work, you keep stuffing it in your pocket and like there's holes in your pocket. All of it's going somewhere. You have no idea what's going on He says, would you just pay attention? Would you just think about what it is? The fact of the matter is, is you're lying in your sealed houses. And you're letting the house of God lie in waste. He says, what you're supposed to be doing is building the house of God. He said, would you consider your ways? Would you think about what it is that you're doing? He called them to faithfulness. He said, consider your ways. Well, he had exhorted them. One poet said Nation has planted with little return. Hage I exhort so that the people may learn. They've neglected the temple to build, therefore they labor without being filled And that's what God was telling him here. Hey, you guys are laboring, laboring, laboring, and not much is getting done because you're leaving God's house in ways. So he asked the people. Is this how it's supposed to be? Verse number 7, he says, to consider the cost. Again, saying, consider your ways. Thus saith the Lord of hosts, consider your ways. Consider your ways. He says, this and there is a valuable cause. For doing what God asks you to do. There's a reason. There is a cause. Like David said, is there not a cause? Is there not something worth living for? Are we living just to bring in the harvest? Are we living just to have a nice house that we can sit down in in the evenings and and enjoy some time of relaxation? Is that what life is about so that we can acquire a nice vehicle to park in the driveway? He says, no, that's not what the cause of life is. That's not what the motivation of life is. There's something more valuable than that. There's something bigger than that. There's something more important to that. Would you consider it? Would you think about it? He says. So he calls him. He says, Wow. Look at verse number 8. Go up to the mountains and bring wood and build the house, and I will take pleasure in it. So the cause is to bring pleasure to God, to put a smile on God's face. He says, and I will be glorified, saith the Lord. The cause is to bring glory to God, that men might be drawn to him. And he says, Ye looked for much, and lo, it came to little. And when you brought it home, I did blow upon it. Why, saith the Lord of hosts, because of mine house that lieth in waste, and you run every man into his own house Therefore, the heaven over you is stayed from dew, and the earth is stayed from her fruit And I called for a drought upon the land and upon the mountains and upon the corn and upon the new wine and upon the oil and upon that which the ground bringeth forth, and upon men, and upon cattle, and upon all the labor of the hands. He says, boy, wouldn't you like to have the blessings of God back on your life? Aren't you tired of just fighting against it? So he said, the cause. is to make God glad, to bring God glory, and to restore God's blessing unto you individually This is what we should be living for. This is what should be meaningful to us. He said, consider the cause. Then the people pause and they think and they say, well, let's commit. Let's commit. They commit to obey. in verses twelve through fifteen of of this chapter, I think it begins right in verse number twelve that it states that there's a Rebel, the son of Shatil, and Joshua, the son of Joshedek, the high priest. With all the remnant of the people obeyed the voice of the Lord their God. They they said, Okay, we're going to obey God. We're going to get back to the work. We're going to do what God wants us to do. He calls this these people back to faithfulness here in Hegai. And we get to the second message in chapter number two. The prophet, or there's a poet that said, Temple is nothing compared to the first. Yet go on working, not fearing the worst. Now that the people are giving their best, God will pour out and the land will be blessed So in chapter number two, the temple is being built and the the people are a little bit discouraged. They're a little bit taken aback. They say, boy. The glory of this temple is not that of the former. They said it's not as exciting, it's not as big, it's not as glorious as it once was, and they're a little bit discouraged about that As a matter of fact, grown men are seen here weeping as they behold what they perceive to be an insignificant edifice compared to what it once was. You know, we need to be very careful about comparing one thing against another because the important thing was not the size or the grandeur of the edifice. The important thing was who was present. And sometimes as men we're very impressed with grandiose things. But let me ask you, would you rather have a babe in a lowly manger that was God in the flesh? God with us, Emmanuel? Or be in a mansion, the biggest in the land, and not have God You see, a lot of times God is not the one working in the great grandiose things. Size is not necessarily representative of God's presence or power. So we've got to be very careful about that. The Bible describes the spirit of man and the spirit of God and that our spirit beareth witness. And there should be something present in your heart when you get into the house of God, a place where you feel and know that God's presence and power is there. And it it is not about the size of the place or the grand host. I mean, I believe God's house should look as as professional and as good as it can. We want to be a good representation of our Lord. We want to just want to just say, well, it doesn't matter. I mean we want to do as good a job as we can do. But we understand that that is not what makes a church Or is edifice or evidence of God's blessing or God's power on a place Our family got together at Christmas and we actually went to Chr went to church on Christmas Day. The uh church that we went to had a service on on Wednesday evening. And uh so we went to church on Wednesday evening. That was fun. I actually enjoyed that, going to Christmas on Christmas Day. I told Mary we got in the car, I says, you know Nothing's open on Christmas anyway. You can't do anything else. Might as well go to church. I mean it's it was kind of fun. We and we had a long service. It was probably two, two and a half hour long service on Christmas Day uh because the preacher preached and then he asked my dad to preach and so my dad preached and yeah he was a little long winded. Uh but uh it was a good service. We had a good time. It's just a small little church But uh you could feel the presence of the Lord. I tell you what, we sure would rather have God present than have a beautiful building, right? have God's presence. And that's what that's what he was trying the prophet was trying to warn them about and tell them, listen, the former glory is not present. But God promised to fill it with his glory in verses 6 and 7. He says, I'm going to fill it with my glory. And in verse number 9 of chapter number 2, God promises to build it again. This is a promise that is yet to come to pass, a prophecy of God that's going to be fulfilled in the millennial kingdom. It's described for us in Ezekiel chapters 40 through 48. Obviously not going to take time to read those eight chapters, but you can read about it there in the book of Ezekiel, but God is going to build that great temple in the millennial kingdom. Uh this is one of the reasons why there's so much contention over the Temple Mount there in Jerusalem because uh God has said he's going to build the temple back and uh right now there's something in the way. And uh the there's obviously great contention over that location. But listen, God's in control, right? We don't have to worry about it. When God's ready, it'll it'll happen and uh he is not worried about what might be presently in that place So he reminds the people of the necessity of holiness. Verses 10 through 17. He goes through and he teaches here a very clear principle that we understand that uh the defiled is not made clean by touching something clean. If I take a filthy, dirty plate and I go to the kitchen cupboard, I get out a clean plate, and I rub it all over the dirty plate, the dirty plate is not made clean that way No, what happens? The clean plate is made dirty. That makes very clear sense, but for some reason people think the opposite would be true. uh about us personally in our lives and there is a call to holiness saying, listen, uh you you need to be separate from the world As Christians, you shouldn't be going out. You're not making the world pure and clean by getting involved in that stuff. What's happening is you're getting dirty. So he calls them to holiness. And then God promises to bless them after the completion of the temple, after they complete what God has called them or given them to do. And so then we're going to move on to the that's just two quick chapters there, Zechariah. There's many more here in the book of Zechariah, but it God has some promises concerning their future here. in the book of Zechariah. The man, Zechariah means Jehovah remembers, Jehovah remembers. And he is a contemporary, obviously, of Haggai. We know that Where Hagi was a very practical preacher. Hagiai was a hands-on getting his hands dirty. He was down there in the muck with them. He was saying, hey, let's get this built. Let's do this. Here's what we need to do today Zechariah uh was a prophetic preacher. He he preached and talked about what was to come. He looked towards the future. He looked way down the road and said, listen, this is what God wants to do. Now, because he preached that way, he uses a lot of symbolic language. And so you gotta be really careful when you're interpreting scripture that's symbolic in nature. And uh you can draw a lot of uh applications or uh things that maybe aren't necessarily so. And so because of that This Zechariah a lot of times is very hard to interpret in direct ways because of its symbolic nature and its picture of things that are yet to come, things that are in the future. But uh we see the theme of this in chapter one and verse number three. He says, Therefore say thou unto them, Thus saith the Lord of hosts, turn ye unto me. saith the Lord, turn ye unto me. Turn back to God. Turn to God. Do what God wants you to do. So he has some some visions concerning blessings and cursings. in chapters one through chapter number six concerning blessings and cursings, uh dealing with the victorious writer in chapter one. This is God showing that God is their protector, symbolically illustrating and showing that God is going to protect his people. This victorious writer comes in. The victory over the four horns in verses 18 through 21 The four horns are the four great nations that God is going to give them victory over, and we'll see some of that take place even in the inter-testament period, uh where God is giving them victory over nations, that nations that thought they were going to be in control are no more. And uh so God blessing, God protecting, God providing for his people. In chapter 2, we see the the measuring line laid out, the standard given to them. Chapter 4, the unclean priests. God was going to purify Israel by dealing with the sin, by cleaning out those that were sinful. Punishing sinners. He's going to bring about a great and glorious new clean people for his glory. So you give some facts about fasting in chapters 7 and 8. Some facts about fasting. You see these uh look at chapter seven and verses five and six. The people had fasted for themselves and then they were claiming spiritual benefit out of it, or what have you saying, um and behold Oh, I'm sorry, chapter five. In chapter seven verse five. I was in five verse seven. Seven verse five he says here Speak unto all the people of the land and to the priest, saying, When ye fasted and mourned in the fifth and the seventh month, even those seventy years, did ye at all fast unto me Even to me, and when ye did eat, and when ye did drink, did not ye eat for yourselves and drink for yourselves. He saying, listen, you were fasting, but it wasn't for me. It wasn't for God's glory. It wasn't for uh a better relationship with me. You were you were fasting for personal benefit, for personal gain. Now, for a couple years now, you guys know I've been doing intermittent fasting to help control my weight And uh, you know, that that works for me because it's easier for me just to not eat, just stay away from it, than to try and eat carefully. And so like if I start eating, it's just It's hopeless. I just gonna eat, you know. So for me it's just easier. But see, that would be like me fasting for intermittent fasting to control my weight. And then coming into church and giving testimony about how I fasted and prayed and and spent time yesterday. uh, you know, putting away the food so that I could get a hold of God and and and talking about that when that's not what I was doing I was fasting for personal uh health to try and control my weight, which is nothing wrong with that, but he's saying, listen, you're doing it for yourselves, you're not doing it for me. And so they wanted uh glory or benefit out of it just because they were doing it, but he's saying you've got to consider the ways and the motivation for what you're doing. Then he has some discussion concerning their destiny in chapters 9 through 14, where they're going, what God is going to do with them ultimately, describing the coming king. Then God's deliverance of the people, chapters twelve through fourteen, God's deliverance of the people. God was going to send a king and God was going to deliver them, uh, allow them to be freed from this. The terms used in these prophecies caused many Jews to miss the Messiah. They looked for a king They would not see the baby Jesus. Even here they begin to use the description or the term of shepherd. Of of giving guidance, but they they didn't want to see that. So many of them, you know, missed the Messiah when he came because what they were looking for was a king that was going to free them. Ultimately, he describes here in chapter 11, verse number 12, uh the what would ultimately happen in Matthew, I think it's 20, chapter 26. But where Jesus was betrayed for 30 pieces of silver. You see, 30 pieces of silver was the cost of a slave. And the prophet here was talking to them and saying, hey, uh, aren't you going to give anything for the Messiah? Aren't you going to give anything for God? And they're like, oh, we'll give them 30 pieces of silver. Essentially a slight uh a a slam a well all he's worth is is the amount that a slave is worth And so that prophecy came to fruition in Matthew when Jesus was betrayed for those 30 pieces of silver for the cost of a slave. Uh very, very sad to see that, but the prophecy is being fulfilled as it comes to fur comes to fruition. Then the last book of the Old Testament here you get to Zechariah Malachi, um, a book. I've titled the power powerful Malachi in his in his preaching and his call for people to consider God and what God has for them. The temple has been built. The sacrificial system has been operation. The spiritual life of the nation, even with the temple there, is at a low, low place. And uh so the God sends Malachi to preach to them and call them back to repentance. Malachi means my messenger In chapter three and verse number one, we see him called that. He says, Behold, I will send my messenger. My messenger. And this is what Malachi means. He was the messenger. He prophesied during the time of Nehemiah. So we are dealing with the return here. These books were taking place, but these prophets were serving and ministering during this time period. Um and so when you're trying to lineate things in a linear way like this timeline is. Sometimes you think, oh, these books didn't happen until right here, Ezra, Nehemiah, and Esther are over. But you know, these were happening And then these prophets were ministering in that time period as well. So we see that he prophesied during the time of Nehemiah. It's been a hundred years since the temple was built here by this time, by the time Malachi is is speaking. Uh it's been ten to fifteen years since the revival that's recorded in Nehemiah chapter number eight. Nehemiah chapter eight, the the revival that was recorded there. So another ten to fifteen years passed. And you know that that's a process which we we should have beheld as we walk through the Old Testament, but we need constantly reminded and we need constantly called back to God. And I'm thankful that in my life that God has had a messenger for me. There's been many times when I was cold, when I was distant. When my heart was getting hard, that God had a messenger for me. And whether that was somebody uh in the pulpit of the church that I was attending. or a revival meeting that I was that I was at, or a conference that I went to, or maybe a family member or a friend that had enough courage to come and address me and say, hey, I'm not sure you're going the right direction. But I had a messenger that called me back and and it is just the nature of men. Uh we we tend to get cold We tend to get distanced. We tend to drift. And if we don't have a messenger to call us back, to to remind us of the cause that we're living for then we could get distracted and discouraged and go go another way. And so we continually need to be reminded, which is what Malachi does. He reminds them of what they're supposed to be doing. We see his message, the forgetful people. Chapters 1 and 2 here, he names their sin. He he gets very direct with them. He's a shoot straighter. The leaders among the people were leading the wrong way. The people were going the wrong way, and he says, man. You guys are responsible for this. Look at chapter 2 and verses 7 and 8. He says, For the priest's lips should keep knowledge. And they should seek the law at his mouth, for he is the messenger of the Lord of the host. But ye are departed out of the way. Ye have caused many to stumble at the law. Ye have corrupted the covenant of Levi, saith the Lord of hosts He says, you guys are supposed to be leading people towards God, pointing people to the law, to the book, and you've corrupted it You you've messed up. You're leading people wrong. He was very direct with them. He says, hey, come turn back before it's too late. He spoke to them about the fact that God had chosen them in verses two and three that they're a chosen people. God Loves them, God protected them in verses three and four. And God calls the remnant in chapters three and four to to come back. God has been grieved over those that disobeyed, but God is made glad. God is made glad When we return. He rejoices over the faithful, the remnant that returns. And I would much rather be part of the remnant. Part of those that are being faithful. God calls these people to repentance and to deal, asking them to deal faithfully with the Word of God and that He would pour His blessing out on them. Very familiar verses in chapter three and verses eight, nine, and ten, of course, dealing with uh robbing God. But in this is where he says uh And will I not open the windows of heaven and pour ye out a blessing that there shall not be room enough to receive it? The blessings of God upon them if they would return and do what God asked of them. The words of this prophet did not move everyone, just like the words of a preacher won't move everyone. Not everyone is going to get it. Not everyone is going to allow the Holy Spirit to come in and break up that foul ground, that hard heart. But some will. Some will repent. And uh that's what God did here for a number of them preparing the way. For this inter-testament period, a time where the voice of the Lord was not heard until he comes on the scene with the next prophet that's carrying a message is John the Baptist. And he comes on the scene preparing the way for the Messiah. So looking forward to getting into the New Testament here in a couple of weeks. And we'll walk through that. But if you do not have, if there's something in your Old Testament notes that you do not have, you should have an overview for every book of the Old Testament. There is a few that Brandon does not have done yet that he will get to you next week. But um you should have an overview for every book and then it looks like I mean today was the last day, so you should have consecutive numbers all the way to what is it, hundred and forty one. Right? So that's a hundred and forty one pages. And if there's any lessons that you're missing, see Miss Debbie right here. She will she'll get you the lessons that you're missing. Just so you can have a completed notebook If there's any blanks that you're missing, you could see her and she'll let you know what needs to be filled in in those blanks and so on