I'd like you to turn to Psalms 55. So Hebrews chapter 4 and verse number 16 and Psalms 55. This is the start of a new month, and we are going to be preaching this morning on that theme that has been our theme for the year. the idea of us approaching life on bended knee. That has been the goal from January 1 until today. Hopefully building a pattern in our lives, building a habit where the people of Hunt Valley Baptist Church approach every part of their life on bended knee. We've tried to put an emphasis on it, we've tried to put a focus on it, and uh kind of pointed that way in our devotionals as well as the theme for the year, month by month, looking at different aspects of prayer. I will be getting to our verse of the month, which is on the screen right now, which is the verse found in Hebrews. You know, Tozer, I believe it was, said that uh every failure in the Christian life is a prayer failure. It really is in direct proportion our success as a Christian and our or our failure as a Christian is really directly tied to our success or failure in this area of prayer in our lives. In this psalm, Psalm 55, we're going to take this psalm and the situation that took place in the life of David. And deal with and emphasize the thought for this morning. David, that psalmist of Israel, we find him here in Psalms 55 discouraged We find him distraught. One might even say he was defeated. We certainly can say that he was overwhelmed. Because that is his own word found here in the text in verse number five. Would you look with me, follow along as I read the first eight verses of Psalms 55? It opens up here with David crying out to God. He says, Give ear to my prayer, O God, and hide not thyself from my supplication. Attend unto me and hear me. I mourn in my complaint and make a noise Because of the voice of my the voice of the enemy, because of the oppressions of the wicked, for they cast iniquity upon me, and in wrath they hate me My heart is sore pained within me. The terror of death are fallen upon me. Fearlessness and trembling are come upon me And horror hath overwhelmed me. And I said, Oh, that I had wings like a dove, that they will, for then would I fly away and be at rest. Lo then would I wander far off and remain in the wilderness, Sila. I would hasten my escape from the windy storm and tempest David here declares in his life that he is overwhelmed That it's coming from every side. The the burden is too great. The challenge is too strong. It's it's gotten to the place where he had trial upon trial heaped upon him, and then one more trial came after that. He thought there's no way. I can't take it anymore. So we see here in these first eight verses, we see David's complaint. David's complaint. He finds himself complaining to the point that he says there in verse number two, it sounds like noise. Have you ever Had cause or felt the need to complain. I have a joke I say sometimes, you know, like when we're lifting something really heavy, I grunt, like, oh, you know, and I say It doesn't really make any difference, but it makes me feel better. You know. Uh you know, it's sometimes like when you you hit your hand I have a a bruised thumb. Mr. Becca was telling me what to do. to avoid my you know how your thumb turns all red? She said, put it in your mouth and suck on it. I said, well we'll see if I'll try that next time. You know she said that'll keep it from the blood c collecting there and do that. And I said, oh, old remedy, I didn't know that. But you know, you hit your thumb and you know you're just like, ow, oh, that hurts. You cry out. Sometimes the complaints can be so loud or so monotonous that it sounds like noise. It seems like there's so much going wrong that it's just one thing after another. Have you ever been there? Ever felt like complaining? David said, his enemies, the wicked, oppress him in verse number three. It's just they're just attacking him. They're oppressing him. It's there all the time and you can't get away from it. He says something that we all would like to say. We all would like to do in verse number six. He says, Oh, that I had wings and I could just fly away. Y you ever felt like that, boy, I w I mean just drop it and say see ya. You can find me in Aruba Or better yet, don't find me at all, you know. Uh I'm outta here. Uh the just if y the just the burdens and the struggles The challenges are so great, you feel like, oh, if I could just walk away. I just I've I've had it, I'm up to here, I can't take anymore. I just want to walk away from it all I heard tell of a couple that they when they had challenges, when they had little spats, disagreements. I know you all don't have that, uh you husbands and wives there, but when when this couple had a disagreement They had made a habit of going to the Lord in prayer. Well, they were having an unusual fervent discussion one day, and the husband said, Hun, I think we need to go to God in prayer. And they bowed their heads and began to pray. And this wife, this lady in all of her spiritually spirituality, she says, Oh, that I had wings like a dove. For then will I fly away and be at rest. And the husband chimed in and said, Lord, why don't you feather her up and let her go? He he said, that's fine with me. I don't know that prayer was helping their discussion at that point. But have you ever felt like just getting away from it? I mean you just say, Oh, if I could j forget this job, I'm outta here, right? Then you realize you don't have a check if you do that and oh man You know. Every part of our life we could look at and say, sometimes we've just wanted to walk away, just just done with the struggle of it, just done with the burden of it. David was overwhelmed He had more than he could take. I think this morning about the teens that are in here. These teens facing life's challenges. As adults, we look back and look at them and say, well, what do they have to deal with? But these things are dealing with some things. Things that are real in their heart and in their life. They've got it coming from every side. They've got mom and dad on their case all the time, just on their case. Whenever give them any breathing room. Say amen, kids, right? Mom and dad just won't let them go. They're just on them and and then they got school and the responsibilities of school and all that they're supposed to do and they've got friends over here telling them to do this and friends over here telling them to do that And this battle between friendships and relationships, and oh, what am I going to do with this and that? And on top of that, they have what they want to do for their life And how they want to live and how what they want to do, but then also they've got the church and they've got God's will and the pastor telling them, this is what God wants you to do And more, they feel overwhelmed. It's too much. They don't know what to do. You know, teen suicides in America. Attempted suicides is up fifty percent in the last twelve months. According to the CDC and hospital records, the attempted suicides for teenagers Young people between twelve and nineteen up fifty percent. I think young people are feeling overwhelmed today They're feeling like they just don't know how to deal with it all, the pressures of life and the struggles and the challenges, and they just feel like they want to fly away. They're resorting to suicide. I think about moms in here. Man, what a burden any mom carries. The love for her children and that that never-ending ceasing care and concern for her loved ones. And the burden of of the family and the home and everything that they would like to do and all the things that they're that they're leaving undone and and and it doesn't stop. keeps coming and then you get the unexpected bill in the mail and and you you find out one of your children are sick and and and the the burdens just pile up and you think, oh if I had wings as a dove and I could fly away. Men. More and more today men are just walking away from their responsibilities. They're saying they're overwhelmed. It's too much. I can't take it. I'm just gonna I'm just I I am just walking away. I'm gonna just shed all of this and go down the road And that's not right, but what I'm saying is people are overwhelmed. Like David was here In this text, overwhelmed. My goal today is not to make you feel overwhelmed. By reminding you of all of those burdens. But my goal here in this first point is we consider David's complaint of being overwhelmed is I want you to feel the weight of that so that you could rejoice with true appreciation for what David tells us next You know, only when we feel like we're sinking do we really appreciate a lifesaver. And if you're here this morning you say, well, that's not me, I'm not overwhelmed. The day will come. The time will come when you will need this message. I want you to put it in the back of your heart and mind, the truths of the Word of God this morning, because if you're not presently overwhelmed, or maybe you say that's not me, I haven't been overwhelmed yet, the time will come. I think Satan's going to make it his personal objective to overwhelm you. But we see David's complaint, and then we see David's confession. Look down in verse number 16. He says in verse number 16 through 19, he says, as for me. I will call upon God. And the Lord shall save me. Evening and morning and at noon will I pray and cry aloud, and he shall hear my voice. He hath delivered my soul in peace from the battle that was against me, for there were many with me. Beloved, God will hear your cry. It is the privilege Of God's saints to be able to call on him in prayer. It is the privilege of the believer to call on God in our hour of need. Beloved, we are blessed this morning, for we truly are able to cast upon him all our cares, because he careth for you. Through prayer, we are given access to God. Would you look now at our second text, Hebrews chapter 4? The theme verse for this month is verse number 16, which I hope many of us will commit to memory. If we have not already. But I'd like you to back up to verse number 14 and get the context of these couple of verses. He says in Hebrews 4, 14 through 16, he says, seeing then that we have a great high priest. That is passed unto the heavens. Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our profession. For we have not a high priest which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities, but was in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin. Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. David said in his hour of need that he was going to call on God, that he was going to call upon him, and that God would deliver him. Beloved, the blessing that we have in being able to come to God is that he was tempted in all points like we are. He understands and knows what it is that we're going through. And he is there for us. Have you ever had somebody that was so important you would like to give them a piece of your mind, but you didn't have access to them? You know, maybe the CEO of your cell phone company, you wish you could call them up and just let them know what your issue is, what problem you're having. You know, maybe there's somebody that you would oh, maybe you think, well if I could just talk to the president I could fix this problem. I could I could let them know what to do with this situation. If I had access to the president, you might have desire to have access or speak to somebody of of great importance in today's world and we don't have access to them. But beloved, because of the privilege of prayer, we have access to God, the creator of the universe. He is our high priest, and he is tempted as we have been tempted. He knows what you're feeling. What he's saying here, Christian. As he tells us, he says, you're overwhelmed. It's too much. The burden's too great. And he says, hold fast. Hold fast. Hold fast. Why do you hold fast? Because you have the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. the creator of the universe, the sustainer of every need, the supplier of your salvation. You have him there at your ready call. You can hold fast in the struggle. You can hold fast in the battle because you have the privilege of bowing your head and begging God to come on the scene for you. You have access to God. You can hold fast because you have a direct line to the King of Kings. I mean there's a lot of people you might call that couldn't help you at all. But you have access to the one that could make the biggest difference. What a privilege. What a privilege to have access to God. Isaiah 40, verse number 12 says, Who hath measured the waters in the hollow of his hand? He has met out the heavens with a span. He comprehended the dust of the earth in a measure and weighed the mountains and the scales to God who knows how many grains of sand are on the earth. Is waiting to pick up your call. By prayer, we come into the presence of God Almighty. Who is it that's given this invitation? He says here, let us. Let us. Let us, Christian. Come in, come boldly to the throne of grace. Let us, that is all and any who have, although they know the wickedness of their own heart They've been saved by the blood of the Lamb. They've been forgiven of their sin. They know Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior. That is us. That you and I, if you have been saved today, if you understand and know the forgiveness of God for your sin, you have been given access to God the Father. Let us, let us come boldly. There's a plea there, there's a supplication there. He's asking and saying, Come on, Christian, let us go boldly to the throne. John 15, verse number 7. That familiar verse: if ye abide in me, and my words abide in you, ye shall ask what ye will, and it shall be done unto you. Let us, those who've heard and responded to God. Accepted the sacrifice of his son on the cross for our sin, through that great high priest, we've been given access to God. Oh, are you taking advantage? Are you exercising that privilege today, Christian? This is not just for the pastor. Right. This is not just for the great spiritual Christian in the church. The weakest Christian here today has access to God. You may look at your life and say, I'm the most miserable, I'm the weakest, I'm the sorriest Christian that ever lived. Well, you know what? You're in good company, because Paul said the same thing about himself. He said he was the chief of sinners. But I want you to understand, you may think that you are the weakest of all Christians. You have access to God. You can come to God in prayer. He calls you. He bids you to come. To come. How are we to come? We're to come boldly. We're to come boldly. We need to understand that in the biblical times, if you remember that Uh common man was not really allowed to come before kings. You remember the story of Esther? She had such a great great need to maybe save her people, but she understood that listen if I go before the king unbidden I could be killed. This was not something common man was not allowed to go into the presence Of kings. Here we are bid, Christian, and have the great privilege of coming into the presence of the King of Kings. What a thrill. What a privilege. Oh. I didn't say we come into his presence carelessly or flippantly. But beloved, we come confidently, confidently, boldly, and not because of us, but because of who stands Between us and the King. Jesus Christ, our mediator, the one mediator between God and man And when God looks at you, the one who's been saved by the precious blood of his son, he sees the righteousness of Jesus Christ. And you are accepted into his presence because of the righteousness of his son And his son is making intercession for you and I. Oh yes. And where do we come? We come to the throne. We come to the throne, beloved, we need to realize that he is the King. Not only was He prophet, not only was He priest, but He's the a king. We come into that presence. Prayer is at the same time our greatest need and our greatest privilege. Prayer is at the same time our greatest need and our greatest privilege When? When do we come? He says here in this text, we come and we might find help in time of need. That you might find help in time of need. Beloved, that's when you're supposed to come to God. When you have a need. You might be here this morning, you might say, Well, I feel like that's the only time I come to God. Well you might want to work on that a little bit. But listen. That's when he bids you to come. He says, Come to me when you have a need. Come on. Come to me that ye might find help in your time of need. Do you have a need this morning? Are you overwhelmed this morning? Are the pressures and the trials and the struggles of life? so great that you say, I don't know if I could take it anymore. It's just too much. All the stuff going on in the world today and all the concerns over our health and all the struggles over our finances and I've got my burdens of my own family and situations at my job and struggles to do what God wants and struggles to do what I want and I just can't take it Come that you might find help in your time of need. Come to find help when you have that need, Christian. You know that you will come when you have confidence in God? Look back in Psalms chapter 55, if you would. In verse number 22, we see David's confidence. David's confidence in his God. He says in Psalm 55, 22, cast thy burden upon the Lord. And he shall sustain thee. And he shall sustain thee. He shall never suffer the righteous to be moved. Dear friend, God will hear your cry and He will answer your prayer Come to Him in your hour of need. Prayer itself is faith in action When you, by asking, are coming to him, you are displaying an expectant heart. You are showing that you believe that God can do this. We look to Him to meet that need And what is it that God says to you in Jeremiah thirty-three three? Call unto me, and I will answer thee. And show thee great and mighty things that thou knowest not. What God wants to do for you is even beyond what you're asking. We have the privilege to come into God's presence. And we can have confidence that He will hear and that He will answer. Isaiah 65, 24 says, And it shall come to pass that before they call, I I will answer. And while they are yet speaking, I will hear. But that verse is saying is when you have that prayer in your heart Before you even are able to articulate it, before you're even able to just get the words out. Sometimes you might not even know what words to say, but God hears your heart's cry. And he says, okay. I'm going to answer that. You've come to him. Can I implore you today? To come boldly to the throne of grace, to exercise that privilege that is yours, to talk to your God There might be many things in this life that fail you, but God never will. You can trust him. You can come to him. You can have confidence. David had confidence in his God. Are you overwhelmed today? Exercise the privilege that is yours. To come to the King of Kings and Lord of Lords and pray. Seek his face and let him meet that need He says there in our second text, in verse number 16, he says, Let us therefore come boldly into the throne of grace. That we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need Dr. McLaren says that this reference to mercy and grace is significant. Because the one expresses the heart of God that we may obtain mercy, God's mercy in our life. in our situation. And the other expresses the hand of God that we may find grace to help in times Grace, getting that which we do not deserve. But God would extend his hand and help you and I. in our hour of need. But we've got to exercise that privilege of prayer. Let me ask you today, are you doing that? Are you praying? Talking to your God? Are you exercising that privilege that is yours? Beloved, there is power in prayer. And when saints pray, earth is affected with the results. When saints pray, the power of heaven is extended into the realm of earth. You know, when I was typing this up and I made a typo and uh I thought it's not necessarily a bad thing. I accidentally typed infected instead of affected. When saints pray, earth is infected. With the power of God. I did it on accident, but I thought, you know, that's not not a bad statement. Because the power of God comes into our situation and makes a difference. Through prayer, we reach beyond our own ability into the ability of God God to see that we might have mercy and grace to help in time of need. The privilege of prayer. I hope you see it as a privilege. And I hope the next time you feel overwhelmed that these life's burdens are too much, you'll take advantage of that privilege and come into the presence of your God.