I believe I'll give you some insight this morning that could change your life. It could help you. It could make a difference. I had the wonderful privilege on Friday night to preach a Valentine's banquet for uh Bible Baptist Church in Loola, and I preached at the banquet there for to many different people in different walks of life, different experiences. From some people they were there and they were just dating. They hadn't even started on the vi the the exciting prospect of marriage yet, but they're looking that way. All the way to a couple that had been married over fifty years and All of life experience in between. The amazing thing about the Word of God is that it is powerful and practical to every single group of people. It's not uh uh uh just practical or applicable to this group over here. Or it doesn't just touch these lives here. The word of God is quick and powerful, sharper than any two-edged sword, and it doesn't really matter so much how it's presented as it does to the heart that is hearing it. And a heart that's hungry and looking for something from God, God will reach down and touch your soul Now I'm going to deal this morning in a large way with husbands and wives, but I want you to remember the fact that you are all from a family. Amen? You're in a family somewhere at some point. You're either a part. You know what? I don't care if you live at home by yourself right now, you have a home. It might just be you and the cat, but you have a home. And there are some hindrances to having a happy home. How many of you would like to have a happy home? I want to have a happy home. I'll tell you what, the old saying there's no place like home, that is so true. And it ought to be. It ought to be our refuge It ought to be a place of sweet harmony and fellowship. But most people are saying there's no place like home with tongue in cheek. Like you better believe Man, it's a holy terror there. There's war there. There's fightings and strife there. There's problems there. There's no place like home. I'd almost rather be anywhere else. People are dealing with that today, but I know and I believe because of the power of God, every single person here can have a home with filled with harmony and peace. And that's what we want. So I'm going to give you a couple of hindrances to that this morning and hopefully be a help to you. Turning your Bibles to Isaiah 53, verse number 6. Isaiah 53, verse number six. I've been in the ministry since 1999. I went into the ministry three months Before the world was going to end. You remember that? In year 2000, Y2K? I went into the ministry. Three months later, the world was supposed to end. Martial law was going to be declared in the United States. I mean everybody was gonna be fighting. Everybody was gonna be stealing everybody else's stuff. It was gonna be terrible. Hey, can I just this is a little side note here, but you know what? Stop listening to the screen Theorists and trust God. God's in control and God knows what's going to happen tomorrow. Just trust God. I've been in the ministry since 1999, and then I can tell you after 22 years of marriage and 18 years. In the ministry, I've learned a couple things. I've learned a couple things about having a happy home and some of life's struggles and the weights and the highs and the lows that we face and deal with. One thing I learned about a home is that there's no perfect couples. How many of you know there's no perfect couples? I just want to remind you, because sometimes we we get in our mind that we come into church here and we see this couple coming in. And he's got his Bible under his hand and his arm around his wife and we look at them and we say, Oh man, boy, look at that happy couple. They're just so amazing Boy, they got the joy of the Lord. I tell you what, I wish our home could be like their home. You haven't seen their home, friend What you've seen is what they put on for everybody else to see. You haven't seen their home. There's no perfect homes. There's no perfect husbands. And there's only one perfect wife, and I've already got her. So the rest of you plum out of luck. Let me just throw this out there. Don't ever, sir, look at another lady and think I wish my wife looked like that. Don't ever look at another lady and think, boy, I wish my wife could handle situations like that lady just handled that situation. Ma'am, don't ever look at another man in this church and see him carrying his Bible and looking all sharp and think, boy, I wish my husband was like that man. You don't know that man. You don't have to live with that man. You don't know what he's like. I can tell you right now, you're married to the one that God wants you to be married to. You that means you are married to the best woman that you could possibly be married to. And you are married to the best man that you could possibly be married to. There is nobody that would be a better fit for you than the one that you have right now. You say, Well, I'm not sure about that, Pastor. Well, take it from the authority of the Word of God that that's a fact. Because here's the situation, friend. You ain't got no other option. That ship has done sailed. It ain't gonna do you a bit of good. I learned how to speak at Fairhaven. It ain't gonna do you a bit of good to think about what might have or what coulda. That should have been done. You know the secret to a happy marriage, they say, is enter it with two eyes, two eyes wide open, and after marriage live with one eye shut Because now it's too late. What I'm saying is what you've got is for life You've got the mate God wants you to have. There's nobody else that's going to make life any easier for you. Nobody else is going to solve that problem that you might be dealing with. What you have is a person that God wants you to be with. You've got to resolve yourself to that. And understand that you can have an amazing home, an amazing relationship. Another thing that I've learned from life, from being in the ministry and being around Christians, is we're real good at Putting on a show. We're real good at letting people think that things are okay Not letting anybody see what it's really like. You see, we got our Bible under our arm and we got a suit on and We we dressed up for church on Sunday and we've even ladies maybe put a little put on a little bit of makeup and you put a smile on your face But I can guarantee you this morning in this size room, there's people in here that their homes are in holy turmoil. They're here and they're smiling and they might even sit together, but they've got to the place where they're good at putting on a show and they don't want anybody to know how bad things really are at home Can I tell you that you're not alone this morning? I want to help you. I want you to realize you're not alone and you're not the only one that's faced a struggle in your home. Everybody goes through it. You got a God in heaven who wants you to have a victorious home You got a pastor here that loves you, and he'll be willing to work with you and help you and spend time and effort to do whatever's necessary for you to have a happy home But you're just putting on a front. The whole time, you're miserable. You're at home and you got no joy. It doesn't have to be that way. It doesn't have to be that way. God wants you to have so much more. And I know that in your heart you want more. But what I'm saying is we've got to the place where we're good at making it look okay, and we don't want anybody to see behind the doors of our house and see what it's really like. You may have the church fooled. You may have some family members fooled. But can I assure you this morning, how many of you believe and understand you don't have God fooled? God knows what it's like. God knows what's going on in your home. God knows what's going on in your relationship. You know, I've learned also that it doesn't matter how long you've been married. Everybody faces it. It doesn't matter if you have been married just a few months, or if you've been married for 50 years, everybody faces challenges in their relationship Jake and Amanda been married less than a year. Love words Still on the honeymoon even though they don't even know it. Just a couple months ago I knew that their six month anniversary was coming up I said, hey Jake, you want Amanda available for dinner this week? He said, sure. Mary and I took him out to dinner and we sat him down and we ate a good meal. Together. And I said, Jake and Manna, you're off on a good start. You're going to have a good home. But I don't want to just take for granted That everything's going okay. The first year of marriage is rough. You got two lives that were going their own way, two rivers flowing and going their own direction. And you all of a sudden push those together. On one night, now these two rivers are supposed to flow in unison. Sometimes that creates some churning in the water I said Jake and Amanda, I just don't want to take for granted everything's going okay. See you guys doing all right. And Amanda unloaded. She said, Pastor, you would not. No, I'm just kidding. I'm just kidding. Praise God they're doing good, but what I'm saying it doesn't matter if you've only been married a few months. Or if you've been married thirty or forty or five. fifty years. You can get to the place. You never thought you would be there How could two people that are ready to put their lives together, nothing in the world matters. It's all about the love we have, and we're going to put our lives together. And how can you get to the place where you're putting your lives together and everything else is put aside? To the place where you can't even sit down and talk about what you want to do with the dining room set that came from grandma. I mean, you can't even decide how to how to split up the furniture. Nobody wants to get to that place, but what I'm saying is if you don't take care of some things in your home, one day you'll be there and you'll say, Pastor, I don't know how we got here. Things were good. Things were going okay. I'm going to tell you this morning how you end up there. Everybody faces trouble sometime. How many of you know who Ann Landers is? This is dating some of us. Anne Landers wrote a column that she titled, Anne Has No Answer. In the column she wrote: the sad and incredible fact is that after 36 years of marriage, I am being divorced. As I write these words, it is if I am referring to a letter from one of my readers. That we are going our separate ways is one of life's greatest ironies. How did it happen that something so good for so long did not last forever? The lady with all the answers. Don't have an answer to this one. Perhaps there's a lesson for all of us here, at least there is for me. Never say it couldn't happen To us. I want you to understand that you've got an enemy this morning, the devil. And he wants to destroy your home and the joy that you could have Your home should be the happiest place on earth for you. And it can be, but the devil wants to steal that from you. Another thing that I've learned is that circumstances are not what makes a difference. You say, boy, if we just had more money, things would be okay. No I'm telling you, I've learned circumstances are not what make a home happy. Boy, if we just if I just had a good job, or if we just had a car that would run, or if we just had this, or if we didn't have that. Can I tell you some of the people with the greatest problems have everything they could ever want? It's not the circumstances that make a home good It's not their surroundings or what you have or what possessions you have or how much money you have in the bank that make your home happy or not Circumstances have little to do with it, and quite possibly the better the circumstances are, the more struggle you're going to face in your home. Because you can w when you got each other, you can go through a lot. You guys looking at getting married someday? Maybe if anybody will have you You ladies want to get married someday? You dating anybody right now? You guys you aren't none of you guys dating anybody? Okay, any single no I'm just gonna I tell you what, marriage can be the most magnificent and beautiful thing. Just like you want it to be in your heart. What you're looking for You want that joy, you want some guy to love you and cherish you. You want to have that in your home. You want some girl to be crazy about you, to think that you're the most handsome, most strong, most capable man in the world. That's what you want. And they're out there somewhere. You can have that. And it doesn't have to grow. I need to get to my message This is all introduction. We haven't even read the Bible yet. I want to help you this morning. I really have one thought from our text. One thought. You can have this. Look at our text verse this morning. Bible says in Isaiah chapter 53, verse number six. Isaiah 53, verse number six. Read it together with me. All we like sheep have gone astray. We've turned every one to his own way. The Lord has laid on him the initial. All we like street have gone astray, we've turned every one to his own way. The greatest hindrance To a happy home is what happens after a little bit of time of marriage. We begin to turn everyone to his own way. We as individuals, that would be the husband and the wife or the children, decide that they want to turn to their own way. We've stopped esteeming the other better than ourselves. You say, Oh, come on, Pastor. You set us up. You made us think you were going to give us some profound thing that was going to change our lives. The word of God is simple. The word of God is practical. If you get a hold of this, it will change your life You see, what you need is you need a heart checkup. The heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked who can know it. Sometimes, as individuals, we treat each other like Christians. Christians sometimes treat Christ. In Ezekiel 33, verse 31, he says, And they come unto these, all the people cometh, and they sitteth before thee as my people And they hear thy words, but they will not do them. For with their mouth they show much love. But their heart goeth after covetousness. You see, there's a lot of Christians that with their mouth they're showing God a lot of love But their heart is going after covetousness. And what I'm saying is that we get to the place in our homes where we know how to act, where we know how to look like things are okay. We may even, on occasion, look at our mate and say, I love you. But do you understand, Christian? The word of God says that we are supposed to be doing the will of God from the heart. That means we're supposed to be coming to church and spending time fellowshiping and worshiping God because we've got a love for Him and we want to commune with Him and we want to build our relationship with Him Not because if we don't show up in church somebody's gonna think that we're backslidden. Not because this is just what Christians do Not because this is where I'm supposed to be on Sunday and so I go there. No, see we've gotten real good at being a Christian Doing the will of God. We show up for church. We're here. We're carrying our Bible. We may pass out of track. We're doing what God wants us to do, but the heart was gone a long time ago. We've stopped communing with God a long time ago. We stopped looking for God's will in our life a long time ago. And we've gotten real good at looking like a Christian And what I'm saying, friend, is a lot of times in the homes, husbands and wives have gotten to the place where they know how to exist together When I got married before I got married, I looked at my wife and I said, I don't want to get married. She was crushed. She said, Oh no. I'm not kidding. She was she was crushed She said, man, I I said, I'm I'm serious. I don't want to get married. Look at all these couples out here. They're just existing. They're living in the same place, but they're strangers to one another I said, I don't want that. Why do I want to sign up for that? Hey, I believe once you're married, you're always married. So I looked at her, I said, if I marry you, we're going to be married for the rest of our lives. And I don't want to just exist. We're gonna have a home. I want it to be a happy home. One where we love being together. And what I'm saying is that people get to the place where they they've learned how to live together They've learned how to exist, but the heart was gone a long time ago. Because every one of them turned to their own way. They've turned to their own way. You see, when you get married, your heart is turned to your mate You see on the honeymoon? On the honeymoon, it didn't matter that she was 25 minutes extra getting ready. You were just glad to be with her. It didn't matter when you got in the car and she says, Oh, I'm so sorry for being late. That's okay, honey. I mean it doesn't matter that we paid $65 for those tickets and we're We're not going to get to use them. I'm just glad to be with you. It's okay, honey. Now you now you've been married a couple years I told you we were leaving at six o'clock. You know we spent that money and we can't we're not gonna get that money back Our heart's not turned to our mate anymore. Our heart is not turned towards them. We're not willing to give towards them at all anymore. Because we want our way now. Hey, God wants me to be happy. Well, God wants you to be holy, I can tell you that. And your happiness is found. And doing the will of God from the heart. And your happiness is found in making your maid happy. I wanna t I want to run down a rabbit trail right there, but I don't have time this morning. Marriage does not eliminate conflict. It exposes it Many times, sorry-eyed young people with love in their heart think they're gonna get married And oh I know we have differences, but love is going to cover all that, right? It's going to be okay because we love one another Because we have we're in love and all those differences and those problems that we're choosing to ignore right now, what happens, couples, what happens? When you're first married, the love that you have in your heart is turned towards your mate, and it's it causes you to ignore those those those areas of friction. After you've been married a little while, familiarity will not allow you to ignore it anymore And you begin to want and demand your own way. You begin to desire. You know, the honeymoon's over. You know Mary, are you guys doing okay? Mar Mary, I'ma tell on us. I'ma tell on Mary first. And then And then I'm gonna tell on me. But what I'm telling on me is not near as bad as what I'm telling on her. Mary, she likes to get one more thing done. Now listen, I don't care if you want to get out of bed at four in the morning and work all day. But at three o'clock, if we're supposed to leave at three o'clock, we're supposed to leave at three o'clock. Now you could do whatever you want to do until three o'clock But if we're supposed to leave at three o'clock, we're supposed to leave at three o'clock. Three o'clock is not the time to take out the trash I know the trash needs taken out, but not at three o'clock. Because at three o'clock we leave. And she has this I mean, I just love her for it. It's just one more thing. We we it's time to go. I know, but if I finish filling the dishwasher, the dishwasher will be clean when we come home I know. But right now it's time to leave. So I don't care if the dishes stay dirty. Well it's time to leave. Just get the dishwasher filled. And I'm going outside anyway, so I'm just gonna grab the trash and take it with me No, it's time to leave. Amen. You know, I come in and say, You need to do something to help this process along. So that we can so that at three o'clock we can go. I'm just letting you know. It's two hours till three. So we can be ready. Now I'll talk to one of my brothers for an hour or to my parents. And we hang up and Mary looks at me and she says, What'd they say? And I say, Oh they said that they're in Florida right now and then they're going to be going to Georgia. She says, You were talking for an hour I said, yeah. She said they said a lot more than that. Said, not really. That was about the gist of it She like, well, why can't you tell me what else they said? I don't remember what else they said I don't know. I gave you the bullet points. I gave you the important stuff. It's good enough. She wants the details. She wants the minute information. I'm just not built that way So you adjust. But what happens is we get to the place where we turn every man to his own way. And we start demanding that they meet our expectations instead of having our heart turn towards her. And being willing to give to what her needs are, being willing to adjust. Being willing to make that change because my heart is turned towards her instead of my heart being turned towards my own way and wanting what I want Living in that place where you're demanding your way leads to problems, leads to resentment, leads to major conflict in the home. You begin to start to deceive one another. In small ways. Like you know that there's gonna be a little bit of conflict when you go and you buy that five dollar coffee from Starbucks, but you like coffee You know there's going to be a problem, and so now instead of being open with your maid about that coffee, you try and find a way to get some money so it won't show up on the credit card And then you buy the coffee, and then before you get home, you throw it away. That's a small thing, but what I'm saying is you're leading to major problems in your home Because you're deceiving one another. And that's going to make its way into many other things. And then some resentment starts because now I don't have the liberty to go buy coffee I just want to get a coffee, but I can't because she won't let me. Or sh I could do it, but I gotta deal with all the attitude and the problems that come with it and the conflict that comes with it. So now I'm living in resentment because of the position I've been put in over a stupid cup of coffee, because I can no longer be open with one another Because she's demanded her way. And because I'm not willing to forget the coffee and say, I want to do this for you. You start demanding your own way and it puts you in that place. The deception, the resentment, the impatience, the rebellion. Sometimes you live in that place and the word love is still spoken. I love you, but the heart has long since turned away. I'm trying to help you this morning. Marriage is not a 50-50 thing. Marriage is not a hundred percent, hundred percent thing. Marriage is 100% zero percent. That's the kind of love that Jesus had for you and me He gave it all, not expecting one thing in return. And our relationship with our mate is looked at like the relationship that we have with Jesus. Jesus Christ. And Jesus Christ gave it all and didn't ask for one thing in return from you. And this reciprocal love that's demanded in today's society is destroying our homes. We are the husbands that say, I love you no matter what. I love you no matter when. I love you no matter where. I'm going to be with you to the end. You could hate me and despise me. And I'll love you with every one of my breaths. Where's that kind of love? You love your wife like that, and I'll tell you what she'll reverence you Where's the wives that say, oh, he might not be all that I want him to be, or he might not be everything that I might have dreamed him to be, but he loves me, and I'm gonna love him whether he loves me back That's biblical love. Have any of you ever read about the 80-20 rule? The eighty-twenty rule You see, there's there's a thing in marriages where we have this problem. You see, our mate provides and gives to us 80% of what we would like to have. I mean they're great. We've got a good companionship and they're a good mate and we share life together. Eighty percent of what I want and would love to have in a mate is there in her. But there's twenty percent that It's just that this doesn't measure up. I mean there's 20%. There's this little thing that I wish she had that she doesn't have. I'm still wishing my wife had a million dollars and she hasn't got it yet What what happens is we get fixated on the twenty percent. We get fixated on the 20%. And she does 80% of everything that we would want and make. And we get fixated on that twenty percent. And then you're out in the world somewhere, and you meet somebody. And oh, hi, and She has the twenty percent that she's missing. And we think, oh, that's what I've been looking for You better be careful. You're going to get stuck with 20% and lose the 80% that you had. You got to get your mind off of the 20%. You understand you got no perfect mates There is no perfect husband out there. There's no perfect husband. Just telling you. There's there might be some 80% husbands. Or you might have to put up with like a forty percent like me. I I don't know but what I'm saying is don't get fixated on the twenty percent man Sir. Praise God for the 80% in what you got. And love that 80% with everything you have. And you know what, instead of looking and saying, Man, I wish they would provide that other twenty percent, how about you look at yourself and say, Am I given a hundred percent of me? mate needs? What percentage of what my what my mate needs out of life am I providing? When you're looking at it that way, you're looking at it right You see, we've got to have the mind of Christ. Turn to Philippians. Turn to Philippians. You guys know where we're going. Philippians chapter 2, verses 1 through 8. If there be therefore any consolation in Christ, any comfort of love, any fellowship of the Spirit, any bows and mercies Fulfill ye my joy, that ye be like-minded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind. Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory But in lowliness of mind, let each esteem others better than themselves. You want to get rid of the strife in your home? Just get that verse right there This is what we're talking about this morning. We're talking about instead of demanding your own way and having everyone's heart turn to their own way, turn your heart towards your mate Let each esteem others better than themselves. Look not every man on his own thing, but every man also on the things of others. Let this mind be in you, which is also in Christ Jesus Who in being in the form of God thought and not robbery to be equal with God? Here's God Almighty, equal with God Justly so, but he made himself of no reputation, and he took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Jesus Christ refused to seek his own way, even though he could have done justly, even though he could have deserved it, even though he was all God He still did not seek his own way. He sought the way of the Father, all the way to the cross, and gave it all because of his love for you and I And yet we are so full of ourselves who are broken and undone and selfish and we that we have a hard time meeting the needs of our mates And yet we still look and act as though they owe us more. They owe us more. I'm saying if you want to be happy this morning Don't turn to your own way. Have the mind of Christ. Seek God. There's a tendency that we have to look to our own things. Do you understand this morning? Gotta come simply fight. Self and surrender the spirit of humility. It's never That's another thing that I've learned. I've learned that it's never too late. How many of you have seen the video? And I'm almost done How many of you have seen the video or you remember us tearing down the brick wall in between the two four years out here? Last night I was telling Brother Schrock about that We tore down this 12-inch block wall that went all the way up into the attic over here. We took it down one brick at a time with a Chisel hammer. Took one brick off, picked it up, and hauled it outside. And we took one brick off and picked it up and hauled it outside for hours. 710 fifty brick all the way down and level with the ground to make the foyer open like it is. What I'm saying is that for years now, maybe you've been building a wall over Resentment in your home. Maybe you've been building a wall of anger in your home. Maybe you've been building a wall where you and your mate don't have that joy anymore. I'm telling you this morning, it's never too late. Just like that brick wall was built one brick at a time, you can go and take it apart one brick at a time by choosing to avoid strife one time If strife and conflict is about to start and you say, No, I choose not to do that, I'm going to turn my heart to my mate and yield, that brick can be taken down Oh, there's still a wall there and there's a lot of work to be done. But the next time you feel anger rising and you put it down and you say, No, I'm not going to get mad. I'm going to let love win. And you put it down, then you take in one more brick of that wall down. And before you know it, just like when we took that brick down, we that thing down, we were chiseling away, and we got to the place where there was enough people around and we were chiseling away at it and we got another another chisel hammer and we got it going over here and then we got some bunch of kids involved and the chisel hammers couldn't even keep up with the people hauling the bricks out. They'd grab a vic and and go and before you know it we were down at the ground and what I'm saying is it may look impossible to You say, Pastor, we've gone too far. There's the wall's too big. It's too hard. I'm telling you, it's not. It's not. God can give you that happy home. You just gotta choose. Don't be turned everyone to his own way. Turn your heart to your mate. And with the power of God. Yield to him and start taking the wall down one brick at a time.