Your uh Bibles this morning to the book of First Timothy. First Timothy will be in chapter one to get started this morning. 1 Timothy chapter 1, we, as I mentioned, will be getting back into our series on rightly dividing the Word. looking at this idea of the the the topics throughout the Bible and an aid to our understanding of Scripture as a whole, kind of looking at how things are broken up and divided. By way of review, we have been looking for we looked the first week of this study at the importance of making proper divisions in the Bible. This is something that Timothy was told to do is to rightly divide the word, and that idea of dividing is to separate, is to cut something straight, to understand the proper division of the Bible. division uh is very important uh to God and it really is a way that is his his wisdom is illustrated. We see division from the very beginning when God created the the the light and he separated the light from the darkness. He he creates division. There's divisions between right and wrong. There's a division between uh the saved and lost that God has has created divisions, and we need to understand those properly if we're going to understand um how we are going to have a proper theology and how to properly categorize truth. If we start sticking promises by way of example, if we start sticking promises that were made to Israel and claim them for our church, that might lead us to a crusade to go reclaim the Holy Lands That would be an example of wrongly dividing the word, understanding what goes where and who it who is scripture is applied to in in what ways. We understand, of course, that all scripture is profitable, but we need to understand those divisions. So the first division we looked at was the division between the Old and New Testaments. We did that during our first week. We moved on from there to talk about the five covenants that are described in the Bible and how there are these different covenants, and some were for a time, and some uh continue uh in uh into eternity, how they're made to the nation of Israel, how we get to partake of that covenant, we get to um enjoy the benefits of the covenant, of the Abrahamic covenant as Christians through Christ. So we saw the covenants and how those are divided. Then we took two weeks to consider the topic of dispensationalism. So we've been looking at, and I hope you can see kind of the cumulative effect of the information we're studying that got some foundational and and building on that division to see where some other things are divided, kind of creating a tree like you would in school, how it starts here and then we split it up into groups and we split that into groups and we're kind of dividing things down and for a little while we're going to continue continue doing that building off of the material we've already studied to look at other divisions and further on this series we'll get into more what I would call topical divisions. and say, okay, here's a category by itself, and here's how it's described throughout the Bible. But we're still building on this idea of, okay, we start with the idea that there's two testaments, and that gives us two Old and new covenant. Well what are the covenants? So we look at the covenants and we see these different time periods. So that leads us into dispensationalism. Dispensationalism, we did talk about the three primary covenants was the covenant of or the sorry the three primary dispensations. the covenant um the dispensation of the law and how that bled over into the dispensation of grace. So we're going to be building on that idea today with talking about the law. What is it? How do we rightly divide the law? What purpose does it have? What function uh does it have? What how does it apply to us as believers today? Um what what do we need to understand concerning the law? Why did God give it? How did God give it? All those things looking at the law. Now this is going to be a two-part lesson. We're going to look this week week at dividing the law, and next week we'll look at the division between law and grace. So really in my outline it's one continuous outline, but we're going to break into those two parts to talk about for this week and for next week. The law was one of the primary pillars of the Jewish faith. It was what their worship of God revolves around. It was how God gave them instructions on how to worship him, how to make sacrifice to him. So it was a main pillar of their of their worship and of their um relationship with God, their Jewish faith. However, by the time of Christ they had elevated the law beyond its proper place. They were using the law as a standard of their holiness as opposed to a standard of God's holiness. The law was supposed to say, here's how holy God is, and here's what you should live up to. They looked at the law and said, hey, look at how good I am. So they had elevated the law beyond its proper place of what God intended for it to do. These Jewish religious leaders had failed to rightly divide the word when it came to the law. This led them to reject the Christ that the law was supposed to be pointing to. Israel was supposed to see the the law and see it as a standard of holiness that they could not achieve on their own, and that there needed to be a sacrifice in order for them to be righteous, and that's all that the law was pointing towards the coming Christ However, they got it in their mind, well, look at how good we are based on the law, we don't need a sacrifice. We're good as we are And we have righteousness that's found in the law, and they completely misapplied and misunderstood what God intended the law to do for them. However, this failure to rightly divide the word concerning the law did not stop with the Pharisees. This was a problem that also plagued the early church There were many false teachers that were trying to impose the law on Christians as a standard of worship and to rob them of the liberty that they had in Christ. There was a council, the Council of Jerusalem, that took place in Acts chapter 15, and this council was to determine the impact of the law on the Gentile converts. A bunch of the church leaders got together and said, What's What what are we doing? All these Gentiles are getting saved, and some people say they have to follow the law and some will say that they don't. And where does this come about? And they had to get into the Word of God rightly divide the truth and see what applied to them as Christians uh from the from the law of the Old Testament. This controversy, however, was not resolved in the first century. Confusion regarding the nature and purpose of the law still continues today There are entire so-called Christian denominations that are repeating the mistakes of the first century, false prophets, and are combining aspects of the law into their faith and doctrine. All this is So today we're going to be looking at the purpose of the law, how it relates to us as believers today. Does it still have relevance to us as a church? Is it just something that we can we can We can toss out with the bathwater. What's the purpose? What's the function of the law for believers? First Timothy chapter one, Paul is addressing Timothy. Young preacher, and he's giving him some warnings concerning false teachers. Specifically in chapter one, the false teachers that were trying to bring the um converts, the Christians Back under the laws of Judaism. And Paul addresses the law in verse number 8. Verse number 8 there, 1 Timothy 1, the Bible says, but we know that the law is good. If a man use it lawfully. We know that the law is good if a man use it lawfully. So Paul is telling Timothy, hey, the law is not bad. The law is not something The law is not sin and of itself, but there's a right way to use the law. You need to understand how to use it rightly because these false teachers are using the law in the wrong way. So as we look at this topic today, we're going to see what is the lawful use of the law. What is the right way that we're supposed to understand the law as believers? Let's go ahead and open with a word of prayer, and we'll get into our study this morning. Lord, we love you. We thank you for your word and the things that we can learn from it today. Lord, I pray that you'd help us as we study this topic today that we would appreciate the liberty that we have through the grace that was given to us in our salvation. from Christ, Lord. Lord, pray we'd helped us as we study this topic today to get a better understanding of how you would like us to understand your word. Lord, we ask this all in Christ's name. Amen. So we look at the law as a whole, kind of a broad scope today. We're going to start with the foundation of the law. Where does the law come from? What is the law built on top of? You know, it's very important when you're going to have a solid structure to have a good foundation. This goes to our story in the New Testament that Jesus told of the wise man and the foolish man. One built his house on a rock, the other built his house on sand. And it's very important to have a good foundation. In a few weeks, a group from our church, as well as a couple other churches. are going to be going down to Belize and we're going to be helping them to build a building. Now a problem that Belize has is the ground's not made of rock. It's got a lot of sand in there. It also has a lot of flooding. So was talking to the missionary in preparation. They're going to build the foundation before we get there. To build the foundation, they dig deep into the earth, into the sand there, the flooding, and they pour these concrete columns. And then on the concrete columns they build a metal frame that stands about four feet off the ground and then a whole metal frame that stretches under the floor of the building. That's their foundation. And if you didn't have that strong foundation you would see when a storm would come, the the building would just fall down. We get to see that unfortunately as hurricanes hit some of these islands and poorer nations like Haiti, where uh just one storm can wipe out entire cities and places and people's homes just gone. 'cause they don't have the resources, the knowledge, the ability to build good foundations. So if the law was going to to be something that was strong, the law was going to be something that was That would last, it has to have a good foundation. So, what is the foundation of the law? The foundation of the law is God. God is the foundation that the law was built upon. We see in Luke chapter 22, or chapter 2, verses 22 through 24. We won't go there. We'll look at some other scriptures later, but this verse is when Jesus was being brought as a baby to the temple for the sacrifice that was required for his birth. In verse twenty-two it says, When the days of her purification, according to the law of Moses was accomplished. Now I'm pointing out here a connection that this verse is making between the law of Moses. We notice that, then we'll keep reading. They brought him to Jerusalem to present him to the Lord, as it is written in the law of the Lord. So the Bible there in Luke chapter 2 says the law of Moses had this rule, and it is in the law of the Lord. The two are the same. The law of Moses is the law of the Lord. It is God's law that was given to Moses. So the law starts with God. We see that God gave his law to men. We understand that God is the creator. God made all that is. God spoke it into existence. God made man. God made the universe. God made the world. God made everything that that is, everything that we we can see everything that we can't see, God created it all. God made that, and when God made that, because He's the creator, His creation belongs to him. I remember uh growing up as a young person, I really enjoyed playing Legos. And I had a brother, and he also enjoyed playing Legos. And it's something I'm seeing repeated in my children, that when you make a creation out of Legos, that belongs to you, and your brother can't touch it. Your brother can't use it. It goes in your drawer, not back in the Lego box. Because if it goes back in the Lego box, he breaks it and says, I didn't see anything. Uh I just used these pieces. No, no, that was on my helicopter. No, then you have all these problems. So I remember having a a Lego board that I would build my creations on and then I would slide it under my dresser when we were done playing because that was my creation and I had authority regarding my creation. God is good that's a kind of a silly picture, but the world is God's. God made it, it belongs to him, so he has authority over the things that belong to him. Yesterday we were working downstairs assembling John and Romans and making conversation. We've had a very fun time in that ministry making the John and Romans and And uh Miss Trudy asked me a question while we were down there and she said, What's the best part about being a parent? And the context was my boys were there helping work, moving things around, uh stacking books together, helping, helping uh run the machinery and things that were down there and they were helping out. So she asked, what's the best thing about being a parent? And before I had a chance to answer, my son Titus chimed in. He said, I think I know. He said, Really? You think that you know what the best part of being a parent is? So I wanted to see the wisdom that would emanate from my six-year-old So I asked him, Titus, what do you think the best part about being a parent is? He said, you get to tell the kids what to do. That is the best part about being a parent from the perspective of a six-year-old. Yep, the parents are the boss. So again a silly illustration, but God created man, we're under his authority. God has the right to give man His law, because man is his creation. God has the authority to give man his law. But not only does he have the authority, he also has the power to enforce the laws. Another thing that my kids will do will come up with rules. I think a good rule would be this, and it's usually something that their sibling is doing that they don't like. But we have to have the conversation quite often. You don't get to tell your brother or sister what to do. You don't get to make the rules. Why? Because really you don't have the power to enforce or the authority to enforce the rules that you're making. But God, He has the authority, He also has the power to enforce His law. No matter what men may think, all men will stand before God one day and be judged by God for breaking his law. Now I remember as a teen I would often hear the phrase, only God can judge me. It's still probably popular today, but it's something that I I saw quite a bit and heard quite a bit that people would would say that But can I tell you today, things will not go well for you when God judges you. I don't want to face God's judgment. I'm thankful that I get to experience his grace and his mercy. Jesus faced God's judgment for me, and he did the same for you. If you have accepted his sacrifice by faith, you can be spared God's judgment as well. We don't want to face the the wrath of God for our sin. I I hope that God doesn't give me what I deserve. I want God's grace. I want what I don't deserve from the Lord. I don't want what I do deserve from the Lord. I want to experience His mercy, and that's what available to us in Christ. But God is the authority. He He is going to judge man for their breaking of his law. So the law is built upon God. It has God as its foundation, God's power, and God's authority back up God's law. Secondly, we see that not only does God's the law come from God, it's founded upon the nature of God. God's nature is what the law comes out of. We understand that the most important aspect or or trait that God has is his holiness. The fact that God is completely separate from sin, that God is holiness. When you see in Isaiah as the as the angels stand around God, they're they're just they're just um Consumed with God's holiness. You see it in Revelation. They stand around the throne saying, Holy, holy, holy. That's what God is. God is holy. And the thing that the law reveals is God's holiness. We see the law and the standard that is there. What it reveals is that that is a holy God. Understand today that God is not a hypocrite. He does not require behavior of man that he does not exhibit himself. It's very hard to to respect an authority that doesn't follow their own rules. You can have where so you have a boss that never is at work at time and it's going to write you up every minute that you're late, that you're going to have these things. If you have somebody who's in authority that's not following the rules, it undermines the authority of their law But what we have with God is that God is not a do as I say, don't do as I do type of authority. He is a God who is holy and he expects holiness from his creation. And that's what the law reflects. The law reflects God's holiness. He summarizes the law seven times in the Bible with the phrase, Be ye holy, for I am holy. Why does God want us to be holy? Because He is holy. That's what the what the law is built upon or based in. It's founded upon his nature, the fact that God is a holy God You know, we could do away with all laws everywhere in the world, all governments, all police, all military, if everybody would follow the one rule, be ye holy as I am holy. We'd have no more problems. Because all of our problems animate from people failing to be holy as God is holy. So the law is based, it reveals the nature of God, it is based on the nature of God and the fact that God is A holy God. That's what the law is founded upon. We also see, thirdly, when it comes to the foundation of the law, is that the law requires the existence of God. There could be no law if there was no God. There is no law without a lawgiver. Our society is falling apart because we're trying to eliminate God and keep some structure of law. I heard an interview recently, I wish I could remember uh the fellow's name, but it was the interview of an atheist, and he said, Yes, I'm an atheist and and I reject belief in God, but I hope America never does Um he said, I don't want other people to have this same type of theology that I do because without a God there's no one to say what's right and what's wrong. And I wouldn't want to be in a in a society that has no standard of right and wrong And so he says, good enough for me, but I don't want my society to have this mentality. It was a very interesting interview that he was saying because he understood that God is a moral authority. Without a lawgiver, there's no basis for law. Without God there is no law. If man's morality is determined by his own logic and authority, we're left with the idea that might makes right. If I can make it happen, then it's the right thing to do. If I think it's okay to kill somebody, well then I that's what I think. Well who are you to tell me that it's wrong? Who are you to say that man is valuable? Well, God said man is valuable. So if I can have an authority to point to God, that's where law can come from. But if law comes from what man thinks, we see what man thinks in society today. We see how stuff is falling apart. Without God, there's nothing wrong with murder, theft, or any other sin. It's just your opinion versus my opinion. So morality can't be determined by man's logic. If morality is determined by social acceptance, that's what we have laws today, right? Just what everybody thinks is okay to do. Well, does that leave us with morality when we follow what everybody thinks is okay to do? Understand that the Holocaust was socially acceptable at the time. The Aztec Indians in Central America found it socially acceptable to make eighty-four thousand human sacrifices in one week at the dedication of their temple. That was socially acceptable. Society just determined it, right? Even in our country today, some states in America are trying to make it socially acceptable to kill children even after they're born. There's a bill right now in California that has in this bill that it says this a person shall not be subject to civil or criminal liability or penalty Or otherwise deprived of their rights based on their actions or omissions with respect to their pregnancy or actual potential or leg pregnancy outcome. They're not responsible for the pregnancy outcome. What's the pregnancy outcome? When a baby is born. Including a miscarriage, stillbirth, abortion, or perenatal death. Now the prinatal is defined as the time surrounding a birth, a couple months before to a month after, but some legal definitions include up to 24 months. If this bill passes, a person could potentially not be held criminally or civilly responsible if their actions lead to the death of their two-year-old child. Because it's socially acceptable. Can man just determine what's right by themselves? No. There has to be a standard of right and wrong. There has to be an absolute authority. There has to be a lawgiver. in order for there to be a law. Without God, you can't argue whether something's right or wrong. You have to have God in order to have law. Without God we would have no law or normal So that is the foundation of the law. It comes from God. It comes from God's nature, it comes from God's person. You have to have God in order to have the law. Secondly, we see the formation of the law. Where did the law come from? How did we get the law? We see, first of all, that the law was given to the nation of Israel. In Romans chapter 9, verse So the law was given to And what nation is there so great that hath statutes and judgments so righteous as all this law which I set before you today God's saying, Hey, any other nation given the law like I've given it to you today? God gave the law to the Jewish uh people, to the Israelite nation. This is where we get into the Mosaic covenant, talking about our covenants. This gets us into the dispensation of the law, going back to the lesson on dispensation. So the law was given to the nation of Israel. It was not given to the Gentile nations. In Psalm 147, verses 19 through 20, verse 19 specifically, God showeth his word unto Jacob, that's a reference to the children of Israel, his statutes and his judgments unto Israel. He had not dealt so with any nation. The Israelites were a special nation that God had a special relationship with, and God gave the Israelite nation his law. It was given to the nation of Israel, not given to the Gentile nations. So the law was also what formed a division between the Jew and Gentile. We see this conflict a lot in the Bible of Jew versus Gentile, and it was the law that that separated them. In Acts chapter 15, verses 6 through 11 deal with this, but verse number 9 says, and put no difference between us and them. That's talking about the difference between the Jew and the Gentile that were there prior to salvation. The law, the ceremonial law that separated a Jew from a Gentile, God's God removed that and put no difference between us and them. Also in Ephesians chapter 2, verses 11 through 16, verse number 15 specifically says, having abolished in his flesh the enmity, even the law of the commandments contained in the ordinances. The law of commandments contained in the ordinances, a reference to part of the law that created division and enmity between the Jew and Gentile, Christ abolished in his death. So that enmity was no longer there, so that the two who were separate could be united in Christ. And that was provided for by the sacrifice of Christ on the cross. So it was uh it was it was um given to the Jewish nation, not to the Gentile nation. It was used to divide the Jew from the Gentile, and we see that it was given to Moses at Mount Sinai. Uh this is the Mosaic covenant, this is the cov We see how it was given. First of all, it was spoken by God to the Israelites. This is uh something that's often missed as as we read it, but when you read the story of the giving of the Ten Commandments there in Exodus chapter 19 and twenty we understand that after the Ten Commandments were given by God, the Israelites said, Moses, you go up on the mountain, you talk to God, we don't want to talk to God anymore because we're afraid we're going to die. Um so you go talk to him. What that tells us is that the Ten Commandments were given verbally by God to the entire nation of Israel. God spoke them to the nation for them to understand this is your God and this is His law. That was given by God to the entire nation. Then Moses goes up on the mountain to meet alone with God, and God gives him the rest of the law. And it was delivered to Moses while he remained on the mountain. So the law was given to Moses at Mount Sinai. This is the the law as a whole that was given to Moses there on the mountain. So it comes from God to the Jewish nation at Mount Sinai. Thirdly, I want to look at the facets of the law. How does the law broken down? What parts does the law have? There's really three different parts to the law, and this is where we're going to get into this idea of rightly dividing. How do we understand what goes where when it comes to the law as a whole? Understand, first of all, that the law in the Bible can refer to several different things. It's called several different things or has it several names. We have understand that the law of Moses refers to the first five books of the Bible, also called the Pentateuch. The first five books, that's the word Penta meaning five. That's the law of Moses. That's referred to by Christ where he says that is not written of me. In the law of Moses, that would be referring to all Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy. So the Petateuch is called the law. The law of also references the covenant between God and Israel at Mount Sinai. And the law also refers to one of three categories in the Bible, and that's determined by the context. We have the overall law given by God, but really is broken into three parts, and that's what we want to really understand today in this proper division. So first of all, the first breakdown or category of the law is the commandments. This is seen in Exodus chapter 20, verses 1 through 17. We would refer to this primarily as the Ten Commandments, but there's a little bit more encompassed in this. But the idea of this command, this this section of the law, is it's really the moral law. The law that God intends for all men everywhere. That God has this law in place. Turn with me to Romans chapter two. Romans chapter two. Romans chapter two, verses fourteen and fifteen. For when the Gentiles which have not the law do by nature the things contained in the law, These having not the law are a law unto themselves. Verse number fifteen, which show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience also bearing witness. that their thoughts the meanwhile accusing or else excusing one another. So you see here it's talking about the Gentiles and saying the Gentiles don't have the law. We saw that already. The law was given to Israel. But the Gentiles can by nature do things that are found in the law. Even other nations had rules, had laws. that followed the moral law. And there's a lot of similarity. In fact, archaeologists and some historians would say, okay, well Moses copied from the Code of Hammurabi because a lot of the rules for this nation were reused by the Israelites over here. Well that's just a reflection of God's moral law that He put into the hearts of men, that God showed you what's right and what's wrong. Look at the verses again. For the um when the Gentiles, they don't have the law, but their nature causes them to do the things that are contained in the law. They have not the law, they are a law unto themselves, which show the work of the law written in their hearts. God wrote the His law down for the Israelites on tables of stone. But God also put His law in the hearts of men He wrote it in the hearts of men for you to know this is right, this is wrong, this is the moral law. And so the moral law is a category of God's law that anybody anywhere can understand right and wrong. That you can teach tea I mean, children need to be taught what's right, but you don't need to teach what's wrong. Because they already know. They already know how to do wrong. Uh it's built into their nature and to know the difference. They can know when they're in trouble. And uh this could extend as far as right and wrong, I I've had Um pets that knew when they did wrong. Everybody ever had dog that was in trouble, go hide. Uh that they they knew they that they knew that there's a there's a right and a wrong, but That that's obviously animals are not mor morally uh culpable, but right and wrong is built into the fabric of of of creation. That we have God's law in our heart and we know thou shalt not kill, even if Nobody told us thou shalt not kill. We know thou shalt not steal because even if nobody tells us thou shalt not steal. We understand these things are wrong in our nature. That's God's moral law that's built there into the commandments. There's a part of God's law that is moral in nature. It's the standard by which all men shall be judged for their sin. When somebody stands before God and they're unsaved at the at the great white throne judgment He's not going to bring up their failure to perform certain sacrifices and throwing seeds that were mixed of types in their fields together. That's some Some law that God gave specifically the nation of Israel, but He's going to judge them on, here's my law, thou shalt not do this, thou shalt not do this, thou shalt not do this. Did you follow that? That's the law that judges men by God's moral law. The primary listing of this law is the Ten Commandments. However, one of the ten fits into a different category. That'd be the command regarding the Sabbath. Because you couldn't just know by yourself that you're not supposed to work on Saturday in your heart. That's not part of the moral moral law that continues. But the rest of the Ten Commandments are part of God's moral law. And there are parts of the law as a whole that's moral in nature. So when we talk about the law, it could be referring to law as a whole or it could be referring to one of these aspects, the first aspect being the moral law. So how do we know if something is part of God's moral law? How do we understand, okay, this command, is this part of God's moral law that God wants everybody everywhere to follow? And to to be obedient to, or is this something specific to the nation of Israel? How do we understand that? How do we divide that? There's some ways that we can determine this. First of all, if it's reaffirmed in the New Testament. A lot of the Old Testament was reaffirmed in the New Testament. In fact, all of the Ten Commandments were reaffirmed, except for the Sabbath, were reaffirmed in the New Testament by Christ, saying, This is what you need to do. And he actually, in the New Testament, gave us more rules regarding the law, said, okay, well, the law told you not to not to murder, but If you have anger against your brother without a cause, that's murder in your heart. The law said not to commit adultery, but I say if you look on a woman to lust after her, you've committed adultery in your heart already. Just added to the law So if the law was reaffirmed in the New Testament, we know it's something that God continues beyond just the nation of Israel. We can also look at it if it's defined or described in the Bible with in what I've called enduring terms Uh one example of this is the word abomination. Abomination is something so repulsive that the the images something that you would want would make you want to throw up. That's the word abomination. And there's things that the Bible says, God says this is an abomination. And so if it was an abomination to God then, God's the same yesterday and today and forever, it's an abomination to God now. So terms like that that would carry forth uh to today, that would be um that would be uh something we could understand as part of God's moral law. And also thirdly, if it's something that's naturally understood by men, this is what we looked at with the law of God written in the hearts. of the Gentiles. We understand that you can you can understand that it's wrong to do this by your conscience sake, and that's built on into God's moral law. So that's the commandments, the first aspect of the law given to us in Exodus chapter 20, verses 1 through 17 primarily. Although there are other things throughout the law that we can understand from some of these other principles and in the New Testament that this is something that God says, this is right, this is wrong for everybody. Secondly, we have the civil law. The civil law. This is in Exodus chapter 1, or sorry, 21 through 24, and most of the book of Deuteronomy. encompasses the civil law. Now the civil law is God's moral law applied to a society. For the nation of Israel, what did God's commandments or God's moral law mean for them on a day-to-day basis? We understand in our country we have a couple more than ten laws in our country. I think somewhere in the probably almost a hundred thousand more um laws than just Because we take God's law and apply it to situations in society. An example of this is the Old Testament. The civil law is where God took his moral law and made it specific to the nation of Israel. God's moral law thou shalt not steal. So what does that look like on a day-to-day basis? One of the laws For the civil law was when your cow gored another man's servant, you had to pay him for that servant's lost labor So you stole this man's servant's labor by the actions of your animal. Thou shalt not steal means you pay him for the lost labor. That's a civil law, taking God's moral law and apply it to a situation in society. Remember um how God how Jesus categorized or summarized the Ten Commandments in the New Testament, God's moral law. What did he say? Love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy might. This is the first commandment. The second is like unto it, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. And then what does he say? Upon these Hang all the law and the prophets. Every other law is built on God's moral law. That's this idea of the civil law. You take the moral law, you apply it to society. So The civil laws of the nation of Israel, there's a lot of good principles in there that we could kind of codify into our law books. Uh, but it's not the law for for us as Americans. Well, we have we see the difference there. The civil law was specific to the nation of Israel, how they were to understand God's moral law on a day-to-day basis. So God's civil law is seen there as that second category. Thirdly, with the law, you have the ceremonial law. These are the laws specific to Israel's worship of God. The Jewish worship system, sacrificial system, priesthood, temple, tabernacle, those things. in the Old Testament that were fulfilled in Christ, that's God's ceremonial law. This is described in Exodus chapter 24 through 31 and most of the book of Leviticus. These are laws that relate to Israelites' worship of God. God gave specific laws to the nation of Israel that were fulfilled in the person of Jesus Christ. These laws were not binding on any other nation, and these laws are not binding on Christians today. This was the the part of the law that was to drive the Israelites towards Christ, to prepare them for Christ, seeing Christ in the sacrificial system. And we'll talk about that a little bit more as we continue. So these are these three categories. When you see the law referred to in the New Testament, it could be referring to all of it. It could be referring to God's moral law. It could be referring to the ceremonial law. There's not too many references back to the civil law, but there's these three categories and understanding how to properly divide between those helps us understand okay, what does God want for us today? So what we're going to look at last this this morning, and we might not have time to finish, but we'll pick it back up next week, and that's the function of the law. What did God want the law to do? Why did God give the Israelites his moral, civil, and ceremonial law? These uh these these four that we're going to look at, there's a lot more we could, but I I have four I've got no sorry, I have five here. Um these are primarily going to be referring to God's moral law. The ceremonial law had some more things in it for the nation of Israel, but we're going to be looking at the law in its moral sense and what did God intend for that to do. First of all, you're in Romans chapter 2. Let's flip over Romans chapter 7. Romans chapter 7 verse number 7. First thing we understand about God's moral law and what it was intended to do is that the moral law defines man's Romans seven, verse number seven, the Bible says, What shall we say then? Is the law sin? God forbid, I had not known sin, but by the law, for I had not known lust, except the law said, Thou shalt not covet. So he says the law is it is it bad? No, it's not bad. It's by the law I learned what sin is. I learned what's right, I learned what's wrong because God told me what was right and what was wrong in the law. We also see in first John chapter three, verse number four. Whosoever committeth sin transgresseth also the law. transgression of the law. What is sin? Sin is when you transgress God's law. That means you transgress to go across. When you cross God's line, that's when you've sinned. I used to teach the children downstairs what sin is. Sin is anything that you think, anything that you say, or anything that you do that breaks God's law. That's what sin is. It's defined by the law. We understand sin because we understand the law. So that's the purpose. Without the law, we wouldn't know what sin is or sin isn't. Now this might bring the question, well, what about the Gentiles that didn't have the law? Could they know sin? Well, uh they have the law of God in their hearts. So yes, they do know sin. Although it's not written specifically for them, uh as far as given to them by God on tables of stone, God put the law in their hearts so they can still know that they've broken God's law by their actions. They can still have their conscience tell them that they have done what is wrong, that they have sinned. They may have been without the Pentateuch, but they still had God's law. Do you ever get in trouble as a kid for breaking a rule at somebody else's house for something that wasn't against the rules at your house Maybe maybe there was something that you you were allowed to do at home, but you went to somebody else's house and and got in trouble. Uh I I get in trouble every time we go to my wife and grandpa's house uh because you have to use the play snap Now we use placemats in my home once a year. And so when I get a paper plate and put a sandwich on it and go to the table, I don't think about putting a placemat down. two. And so there's the when you when you don't know what the rules are, you don't know when you've crossed the line. And so at my first time there, I learned where the line was. And then I accidentally crossed it every time we visit and have to be reminded that that's where the lines are But the law shows where the line is that you have to cross in order to be doing what's wrong. So the law identifies what a transgression is. That's the purpose of the law. It defines man's You want to know what sin is? When you break God's law. That's what sin is. The second function of the law is that the law declares men guilty. Let's go back to Romans chapter 3. Romans chapter 3, verse number 19. Now we know that what things soever the law saith, it saith to them who are under the law, that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world may become guilty before God. The law declares that men are guilty. When God does judge the unsaved for their sin, there will be many, if not all, that begin to make excuses or to argue. against God's God's right to judge them or their their sin and and what they had done. But this verse tells us their mouth's going to be stopped. They're not going to have anything else to say. The evidence is going to be there that they are guilty because the law is going to stand there and condemn them. And say they're guilty, they've broken the law. So that is what the law does. The law points out the fact that they will be that they are guilty. The law determines that. The law shows that man is guilty. Think of John chapter eight. We'll end with this point. But John chapter eight, you have the woman who was taken in adultery. And uh the people brought the the men there brought this woman to Jesus and said, This woman was taken in adultery, even in And the law of Moses says that we should do this. What do you say that we should do? And Jesus tells them, let him that is without sin cast the first stone. And then he begins to write down on the ground. And we don't know what Christ was writing there on the ground, but there's a good chance he was writing down the law of God. Because as he was writing on the ground, Their conscience began to prick them and say, hey, you're guilty. And they left. And Jesus looks up and everybody was gone. Where's your accusers? They're all gone. Why? Because the law says we're guilty. These meaning when he says, Let you without sin cast first stone. You're worried about the law when it comes to this lady. What about the law when it comes to you? And all of those that They were convicted in their hearts, their conscience pricked them, and they they went back home. Because the law says that we are guilty. That's the function of the law. That's what it does. Man's law was not given as a way for man to prove his innocence. It was given as a way to prove to man their guilt. We see where people have messed this up, and they say, you know what, I'm good enough to get to heaven. I'm good enough to be accepted by God. The righteousness of the Pharisees. And man uses God's law to say, Look at how good I am That's completely wrong. That's not what the law does. That's not what the law is intended to do. The law is intended to stand there and you look at it and say, I'm not good. I'm not right. I'm not clean. I'm not holy. That's what the law does. It stands there and tells that we are guilty I've given the example before, but one of my favorite illustrations of this is the Ark of the Covenant. On the ark, they have the angels that are looking down at the law. They look down into the Ark of the Covenant and they see the law, and the law declares that men are guilty. But between the angels and the law is the mercy seat where the blood goes. So they can block the fact that man is guilty, just like we saw a few weeks ago with Brother Nettieme's illustration of the bill that was owed and it got covered up. The bill says you're guilty. The law says you're guilty, but Christ can be a covering that will cleanse us from that guilt. So the function of the law, first of all, defines our sin. Secondly, it defines our guilt, that all men are guilty before God. We'll pick this back up next week, but we'll see also that the law drives men to Christ. It gives directions to society and it depicts Christ in a type and a foreshadow of what he would do and how he would fulfill the law. But we're out of time for today We'll pick this back up next week. I hope you can see kind of the divisions of the law and start to understand how that applies for us today. Next week we'll come back and look at the idea of law versus grace and what we get to enjoy in Christ.