We are going to look back at parable. We've taken and looked at a few of the parables, so you can turn in your Bibles this morning to the book of Matthew. The book of Matthew. The vicious vine keeper. Matthew chapter 21 is where you want to be. Matthew chapter 21. This uh particular parable appears in several of the other uh parables as well, uh or several of the other gospels I mean in uh Mark chapter twelve verses one through twelve and in Luke twenty nine through nineteen this parable is found. He's got the notes that he's given away there. You want to be in Matthew chapter twenty-one. That's where we what we're gonna be looking at. And Luke twenty. Luke twenty nine to nineteen. Luke twenty-nine to nineteen. That's where this parable is found. And they're very similar in each of the gospels. There was some small uh differences. Which we understand comes from who happens to be writing it. this morning is uh uh just uh as a starting off point to get in our mind kind of what takes place in this parable, Matthew twenty-one, verses thirty-three through forty-six. He says here, he says, hear another parable. There was a certain householder which planted a vineyard. and hedged it round about, and digged a wine press in it, and built a tower, and led it out to the husbandmind, and went into a far country. And when the time of fruit drew near, he sent his servants to the husbandmen, that they might receive the fruit of it. And the husbandman took his servant and beat one, and killed another, and stoned another. Again he sent another servant, more than the first, and they did unto them likewise. But last of all he sent unto them his son, saying, They will res they will reverence my son But when the husbandmen saw the son, they said among themselves, This is the heir. Come, let us kill him, and let us seize on his inheritance. And they caught him and cast him out of the vineyard and slew him. When the Lord thereof of the vineyard cometh, what will he do unto these husbandmen? They say unto him, he will miserably destroy those wicked men, and will let out his vineyard unto other husbandmen. which shall render him the fruits in their season. Jesus saith unto them, Did ye never read in the Scriptures? The stone which the builders rejected the same has become the head of the corner. This is the Lord's doing, and it is marvelous in our eyes Therefore say I unto you, the kingdom of God shall be taken from you and given unto a nation, bringing forth the fruits thereof, and whosoever shall fall on this stone shall be broken. But on whomsoever it shall fall, it shall grind him to power powder. And when the chief priest and the Pharisees had heard his parables, they perceived that he spake of them But when they sought to lay hands on him, they feared the multitude because they took him for a prophet. Here we have this parable that I've titled the Vicious Vine Keeper. Uh but if you're looking at a list of parables even in the list that I gave you in your introductory notes, it might be listed as the husbandman Many people listed as the husbandman, others listed as the rejected son. Also a couple of titles that are that are given there to this same parable that's in In the passages of scriptures that I've given to you already. But here this parable takes place in the midst of the Passion Week, uh as the death of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ is fast approaching He gives to these that are hearing him another parable. After Jesus condemns the Jewish leaders here for failing to believe John the Baptist, for failing to believe the message that John brought He says, hey, the tax collectors believed, the the harlots believed, and you, the Jewish leaders, the those that uh have an understanding of the law and you knew what the prophets said about my coming You don't believe. Christ brings an indictment against these Jewish leaders who claim to follow the Father, but in actuality are just fulfilling their own will. It is again like rubbing salt in the wound almost. He says uh after You know, talking to them after presenting the truths that he had already presented, after condemning them for not hearing and believing. He says, let me give you another parable. He says, let me put it to you like this. Let me illustrate it another way. After he had already illustrated it and stated it and made it very clear, he says, let me illustrate it another way. And he does that for them. Then we see here, first of all, in your outline, the telling of the parable. This is the the in the context of what is told Christ in dealing with these Jewish leaders who didn't believe. If you were to back up just a little bit, you'll see that this, as I stated already, takes place during the Passion Week. That means it's towards the end of Christ's uh time on earth. I mean, he is about to be taken away. He knows that his Death is imminent, that it could be at any time. He knows that his time here on earth is short. And during this, the end of his uh ministry on earth, he's telling the Jewish leaders, hey You rejected it. And therefore it's going to be taken away from you and given to somebody else. They challenged Christ's authority to state these things. You remember that a parable is generally brought on by a question? uh brought on by something that people came and asked Jesus and they said, what is this? or what does this mean? Or or how come this happened? And something motivated Jesus to start to tell a parable and he would teach through parables. And so the the Jewish leaders, they had questioned Jesus Christ. Uh look back in uh Matthew chapter 21. Let's see here if we looked at Um let me see if we can start up here. So verse number twenty three, he says, and When he was come into the temple, the chief priest and the elders of the people came unto him as he was teaching and said, By what authority dost thou these things? Who gave thee this authority? And Jesus answered and said unto them, I also will ask you one thing, which if ye tell me, I and likewise will tell you by what authority I do these things. The baptism of John, whence was it? From heaven or from men? And they reasoned within themselves, saying, If we shall say from heaven, he will say unto us, Why did ye not then believe him? But if we shall say of men, we fear the people, for all hold John as a prophet. So they came to him and they were questioning him as to where his authority came from. What authority does he have to teach these things, to to to heal people, to do the miracles that he's doing? And as the Jewish leaders, anybody that had authority was given to them by them. They they are the ones that said, okay, you can serve in this position or you can do this and and they they presented the gave people their authority and so wondering where his authority came from and of course Jesus understanding their intent here. Their question was not simply an inquiry, uh, which many times is what happens. People's questions are not just an inquiry, just wanting to know. It was an accusation. They were coming to him and saying he didn't have the authority to do these things. They didn't give it to him, and they were accusing him of that. And so of course he questioned them about John the Baptist and kind of put them in a pickle where they had to uh well if we If we say that John the Baptist, you know, was given his authority from heaven, then we'll have to then he'll say, why didn't you guys believe him? His authority was from heaven. But if we say it was from earth, then all these people that like John the Baptist are going to be mad at us And so now what are we going to do? And Christ kind of put them in a pickle with that question, and uh he understood and knew what was in their heart. So this motivated him to s to tell and teach several parables dealing with this idea, first of all with the two sons. We've already taught on that parable of the two sons. It exposed the hypocrisy and the deceit that the scribes and Pharisees had while they were in you know, testifying to their own obedience. Uh, but they have full full of hypocrisy. And then there's the wicked vine dresser or what we're dealing with here, the vicious uh vine keeper, uh that he's telling them that's what we're dealing with today, and then he tells the uh story or the parable of the wedding the wedding feast. These three are in response to their question about his authority. Um they they they wanted to know, but their question again was not just a matter of inquiry, but it was an accusation against his authority. His authority was seen in every miracle that he performed. Every miracle that he performed showed and gave validity to his ministry and to his authority. His authority was seen in the prophecies that were fulfilled. These men, Jewish leaders, studiers of the law, studiers of the of the Old Testament, would have known the prophecies that were fulfilled in this man, Jesus Christ. They would have known that. And John the Baptist tried to preach and teach that to them and yet they didn't accept it. So we see the characters. What are the characters that are found in this story, this parable that Christ gives us? The first one is the landowner, the landowner, and the landowner represents or is a picture of God Himself. as the owner of all, he is the one in this story is the the owner of this land. Then there's the vine. The vine is a picture or representation of Israel, uh God's chosen people, the people that he had richly blessed and and and put into the vineyard. Then the the watchtower. The watchtower is number three there. The watchtower is God's protection over the whole vineyard. God had continually uh protected his people. Then you have the husbandmen, those uh in in life is the caretaker of the vineyard, well in the parable here that is talking about the chief priest and the princes of Israel, those leaders, these Jewish leaders that he was talking to right here. Like it said in the parable, they said these these men perceived that Jesus was talking about them. And they for they had kind of deduced that. And so uh you have the husbandman, the chief priest, and the leaders of Israel, then the servants. Number five was the servants. They are the prophets that were sent to warn the people. Jesus sent servants into the land to warn the people. And we'll see what happens to them and then his son, of course, was Jesus Christ, God in the flesh, whom these people, uh Jewish leaders, were talking to. So this this is who's in the parable, but now the truth of the parable, what is it that he is trying to teach them? What is it he's trying to get across as he tells them this story Well, in Psalms 2, verse number 12, he says, Kiss the Son, lest he be angry, and ye perish from the way, when his wrath is kindled but a little. Blessed are all they that put their trust in him. That Psalms is talking about recognizing the Son for who he is. Pay him respect. See who he is. See and recognize who he is. He says, kiss the son lest he be angry recognize the Son, God in the flesh, here with them. And that's the thing, is God in his love and his compassion, he had faithfully and consistently pursued the children of Israel I mean you think about the story of the children of Israel and the progression of events that we're looking at in the Old Testament and just started talking about here, but how God continually pursued after them. And they continually rejected him. How he found another way to seek them again, and then he rejected them. How he would draw them back in the judges and uh he would work with them and draw them back to him and they they would come back and and repent and and get back in fellowship with with God the Father and then they would turn away and go into apostasy again. God continually pursued them, even in the face of outright rejection and disdain. He still pursued them. Ultimately, he sent his only begotten Son. As in the parable, he says, they killed the servants. I sent the servants to gather the fruit, and they killed the servants, but you know what? Surely they would reverence my son. And he sent his son into the vineyard. Remember, the vineyard was the children of Israel. He sent his son into the vineyard, and they rejected the son. And ultimately killed the son. And then he asked those Jewish leaders, the husbandmen, he says, what should be done with this husbandman? And he said, Well, well, they pronounced their own judgment. They said, man, they should be uh judged harshly. They should be taken care of that and all all of that should be taken away from them. And given to another husbandman that would give the fruit that uh comes forth. And they pronounced their own judgment there. He taught them that This here parable shows the fearful results of this foolish rejection of the Son. Those who reject Christ will be replaced by others. You know, this is something that we see when we think about uh of a biblical worldview. You know, we understand that God is in control. And nothing takes God by surprise. And we think of that in our own lives, but we also need to recognize that in a global stance And understand that God is in control. And when something happens to a nation on the other side of the world, we look at that and we realize God is in control. And we do not know what God is trying to do with that group of people. He might be trying to draw them back to Him. He might be trying to get them to turn to him. He might have put witnesses and teachers and preachers of the gospel in key places and then presented this hardship to get them to turn to them. We don't know what God's doing, but we know that God's in control. Having an understanding, the global view that God is in control of the affairs of men. And when you look at this, you see that those people that rejected God They were they were turned over, they were given away, they were they were rejected. And so you look at sometimes there's nations, there's groups groups of people that Not their dad or their grandfather, but their great-grandfather or their great-great-grandfather. Their families rejected God. They stood against God and they didn't want God to be in part in their country. And there's countries, entire countries that when communism came in, this is what they did. They said, we are going to obliterate. Every single copy of the scriptures inside of our nation is going to be burned. And they went out as a nation and attacked God. Got God out of the nation. Okay? What does God say going to happen to those that reject him? And we look at those nations now and we see where they're at, and we want to give them the gospel, but they're generations of people that have never that don't have the truth. And we feel for them, but understand they rejected God several generations ago, and now these children have to reap that. And in America, we better take heed. Because as Americans and in America today we are as a nation taking a stand against God Now not not us as individuals or or maybe our our church but as a whole as a nation we're taking a stand against God and our children are going to reap that And we better be in prayer for our country and for those who are in power that they would not take a stand against God or reject God because he said here they'll be replaced The children of Israel were replaced in the kingdom program. Bailey put it like this. Those who reject Christ will be replaced because of the rejection of Christ. Israel was doomed to judgment and is replaced in the kingdom program of God for this present time, the church age, by those who will demonstrate the fruits of faith. And that is demonstrated by us. Now There's a common misconception with regards to rejection. Some people think, well, I'm not rejecting God. I believe in God. I believe there is a God. And I'm not rejecting God just because I don't accept his son. But according to this, you did. And rejection is rejection, whether it's done kindly or whether it's done in anger. Some people think, well, I you know, I'm not an atheist. I'm not going to defy God and say there is no God. I mean I believe there's a God, but I'm not going to accept his son. No matter how kind or sincere that is, it's still rejection. And we've got to understand that. Now the translation of the parable, let me give you this. The translation of the parable, we've looked at these different people. Now what do they mean? The landowner. It's amazing in Isaiah chapter 5. Why don't you turn there? Let's read a couple of verses there from the book of Isaiah. Isaiah, Jeremiah, Lamentations, Ezekiel, Daniel. I don't know if that helps you to be able to find it. Um where you're where you're at, but Isaiah what did I tell you? Chapter five, Isaiah chapter five. This will sound very familiar to you. He says, Oh I'm in Song of Solomon. Wrong book. Okay, Isaiah chapter five. He he says, Now will I verse number one Now will I sing to my well-beloved the song of my beloved touching his vineyard, my well-beloved hath a vineyard in a very fruitful hill. And he fenced it, and gathered out of the stones thereof, and planted it with the choicest vine, and built a tower in the midst of it and also made a wine press therein, and he looked that it should bring forth grapes, and it brought forth wild grapes. And now, O inhabitants of Jerusalem, and O men of Judah, judge I pray you betwixt me and my vineyard. What could have been done more to my vineyard that I have not done in it? You recognize this? Isn't that very similar to what we read in the parable? He's talking about setting up a vineyard and putting a watchtower and he says, Hey, I've done all this for you. What more could I have done? What more could I have done that I haven't already done for you, the children of Israel He said, Wherefore when I looked that it should bring forth grapes, it brought forth wild grapes. And now go to, I will tell you what I will do to my vineyard, I will take away the hedge thereof. And it shall be eaten up, and break down the wall thereof, and it shall be trodden down, and I will lay it to waste. It shall not be pruned. He he's here talking about this is w this is the reference that he knew these Jewish leaders would have been familiar with when he was talking about this vineyard that had been set up. And the landowner is God And he was generous, he was loving, he was compassionate, he did everything he could uh for his people Then the vineyard was Israel and uh an honored plant. If you think about the vineyard, especially in this time, the vineyard was the vine was the most precious of all plants. It was the most profitable. It brought forth the most fruit. It gave the most benefit. It was something that took nurturing and care. But when you did it right, it was cared for. benefit to those that had it. And Israel was supposed to be that way for the landowner, which was God. It was protected by the owner. It was hedged about. You know God put a hedge about his people. It was called the law. He put a hedge about his people to protect his people, to keep them separate from the nations that would defile them or or uh destroy them. He put a hedge of protection about them. He digged a press for them. That is talking about provision. He made provision for them. He had blessings for them. The watchtower was God's protection over the entire vineyard. You know at times when the fruit is ripe, the vineyard is uh ready for attack. I mean there's very little that uh I mean it's a very crucial time. Animals can come in and eat the grapes. Uh a a drought or a change in the weather could destroy the grapes. Uh wildfires could destroy the grapes. There's so many things that could get in and destroy the harvest at fruit time when it's supposed to be bringing in the fruit. And uh Jesus or God was the protector of the vineyard. The husbandmen, the chief priests of Israel, we told you that already, the servants, those were the prophets that were sent to warn the people. And he says here, I sent in the servants and you killed them. And that's what took place when you think about as I uh Isaiah who was sawn asunder, Jeremiah who was stoned. Amos, who was murdered with a club, John the Baptist, who was beheaded, Stephen, who was stoned to death, these prophets that he had sent in to teach them and to help them, uh, and they had been Stoned and beaten. His son, Jesus, God in the flesh, after all of his provision, all of his protection that he had given them, they plotted to kill his very own son. And the resul the result was that they were going to be rejected. They were going to be rejected. And ultimately the Romans came in and destroyed Jerusalem, and the people were cut off. The final blow. He let out the vineyard to another husbandman. They lost all they had. They lost their their position. The keeper of the vineyard gave it uh that he gave the job of keeping the vineyard to somebody else. In our day and age the keeper of the vineyard is the church. Is the church. We we are given the task of bringing forth fruit and being a keeper of the vineyard. So the teachings of the parable, this is is dealing with the practical things. What can we learn from this? What can we take away? from this. And I've got about five minutes to give you this. So the vineyard owner is patient. His judgment was uh held back time and time again. We can learn this about our God, that uh he's a patient God. Seeing that he patiently waited and didn't judge the people, even though they rejected him time and time again. However, we should not presume upon the patience of God, because there is an end to it And sometimes uh people think that, oh, because God hasn't, you know, I stole that and I didn't get struck with lightning, so Maybe I could do it again and you steal something else. And we can't presume upon God and His love and His mercy when we know we're going the wrong way. It's like when you're running down the highway and you see an officer on the side of the road and you look down and you're going uh a little bit over the speed limit You know, you're gonna slow down and hoping he has mercy. If he's already clocked you, maybe he'll have mercy, right? But if you just presume upon that and you just fly by, what's he gonna do? His light's coming on and he's coming out. I mean if he sees that you slowed down and you're responding to the fact that the authority was there, you know, maybe he won't stop you. Some people want to just presume upon God. And they even though he sees and they they realize it and they just run headlong into sin. His patience isn't going to last forever. Don't abuse the privileges God has given us. He just might take them away The privileges and the blessings that God had given the children of Israel and His protection and His provision ultimately got taken away. And we see that in the children of Israel's life and the hardships that they've dealt with. over the years. Don't abuse the privileges God has given us. We have a privilege of having and holding the Word of God. We have that privilege. There's a lot of the part of the world that doesn't have the Word of God. We have that. Don't abuse that privilege. The privilege that we had could be taken away. And we won't have that. We have freedom to worship, to gather, and to uh study the Word of God without fear of of reprisal. Don't abuse that. Don't don't just say, oh well I could take it or leave it. You do that, God might take it away, and then you won't have it. We've been given this privilege. uh of having uh the word of God, of hearing the word of God. We've been given the privilege of conviction by the Holy Spirit, the blessing of having the Holy Spirit lead us in our lives. And the more that you reject that, the more you lose of the Spirit's leading. The Spirit's not going to continue to try and change somebody that doesn't want to be changed. But as the Spirit teach teaches you and you respond, then He'll continue to teach you. And you respond and He'll continue to teach you. But don't don't reject it. Don't don't abuse that privilege or or it'll be gone. It'll be taken away. It's notable that someone with a hard heart will not be convicted when presented with truth. They're only going to be infuriated. These Jewish leaders here. When presented with the truth, did they respond and say, Oh, Jesus My Lord, you're right. We have just rejected you time and again and recognized him for who he was. Did they respond? No. They got infuriated. They were ready to kill him right there, except that they would have been taken by the mob of people that still love Jesus. So that's just something to know. Uh notice that somebody with a hard heart's not going to respond when presented with truth. They're just gonna get mad at you. Um God has sent forth many servants. How are you treating the servants God has sent forth to you? How do you appreciate and respect and honor or lift up or pray for the servants that God has sent for you? Several things that as far as servants that God has sent us. He's given us the scripture. God reveals his plan. through the scriptures, there's something that He sent to us, His Spirit that convicts us of sin. We the sowers, those that come and present the truth to us. Somebody that cares enough about you to tell you the truth, whether that's the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ to bring you to a saving knowledge of Him or truth to help you in your life. Those that sow the truth of the Word of God in your heart, how are you responding to the servants that God has sent? And then God sent his own son, Jesus Christ, in pursuit of you to to win you to him. How have you responded to them? Now when you reject Jesus, you are, in effect, rejecting the faithful pursuit of God. How many you think about that? Somebody that has continually loved and continually pursued you, and you reject his son, you're rejecting that faithful pursuit of God. You're relying on a false presumption of the godless world that we live in. This false presumption that uh presumption that God's not going to come. Presumption that that God doesn't care, whether God doesn't care about us, or maybe some think that God doesn't care about our sin. Some think God doesn't care what I do. But that's false. God does care what you do. And it is important to him. Just because he's had mercy doesn't mean he doesn't care about what's taking place. And you're going to receive the fearful punishment that all the guilty receive. And that's for anybody who rejects God's pursuing, loving hand. Truly, God has given us wonderful blessings. He's made us partakers of the inheritance of the saints. He's delivered us from the powers of darkness. He's given us redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins. We need to value and make full use of these great blessings that God has given us, lest they be taken away, as it was here for these in this parable.