We have been studying the book of first John, turn there if you would. I have got to move quickly in order to get done at a reasonable time this evening. Hopefully still leave some time for prayer at the conclusion, although there is a lot to cover tonight in the topic that we want to look at. I just dropped a cough drop in my mouth. It's called a fisherman's friend and uh it's potent too. I mean it's potent, yeah. My mouth feels like it's on fire. Uh but maybe it'll clear the passageways and uh make it so I can speak till the conclusion here. We are in 1 John chapter number 3. We've been looking at this passage of Scripture, studying the book of 1 John. I considered calling this the love life Although I did not want anybody to uh confuse the topic uh on this portion of scripture uh or be distracted by the title. So This evening I have titled this passage of scripture The New Life. The New Life. This is the new life that we have in Christ. And this new life we have in Christ is defined because love is central to it. When you understand uh the commandments that are given to us by God, when you understand Uh and we've taught on these things a little bit. I don't want to belabor it, but uh love as a Christian is central. Love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. Love thy neighbor as thyself. These, you know, of course, are the the great First commandment and the second is like unto it. Those two sum up all of the law. If we would keep those two commandments, we would keep all of the commandments. So love is central to the Christian and the Christian's life. Look with me if you would. In 1 John chapter 3, these verses contained in our thought tonight as we look at this new life that we have in Christ is verses 11 through 18. He says, For this is the message that ye heard from the beginning, that we should love one another, not as Cain, who was of that wicked one, and slew his brother, and whether slew he him, because his own works were evil and his brothers righteous. Marvel not, my brethren, if ye would if the world hate you, would we know that we have passed from death unto life because we love the brethren. He that loveth not his brother abideth in death. Whosoever hateth his brother is a murderer, and ye know that no murderer hath eternal life abiding in him Hereby perceive we the love of God because he laid down his life for us, and we ought to lay down our lives for the brethren But whoso hath this world's good and see his brother having need and shutteth up his vows of compassion from him, how dwelleth the love of God in him? My little children, let us not love in word, neither in tongue, but in deed and in truth. So we're going to look at this new life that we have in Jesus Christ. We have a new nature, and love is central to it. We of course know that this new nature we have from Jesus Christ does not destroy the old nature. The old nature is still there and it's something that we've been talking about in Sunday school as we battle the world, the flesh. and the devil. And that old nature is there and it's something we're still going to have to deal with. But we do have a new nature given to us. And that new nature gives us new appetites. That new appetite is a desire to love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, and with all thy might. So we want to see several things this evening, and we're going to try and go through this relatively quickly, but I want to Try and dissect these verses a little bit, try and give a little bit of insight to each of them. I know just by reading them that if you've been in church in any length of time, you have a a working knowledge of this passage of scripture. the text that we've read makes sense to you. I don't know that there's anything that we read there that you would be like, well what is that talking about? I mean to me it's pretty straightforward. But we want to dive into it a little bit, maybe give a little bit of clarity, maybe show some of the importance of it. And I want you to understand, beloved, that as I read this text, I myself was convicted, I believe that this is talking about a type of life. A new life in Christ. This is a type of love that I have yet to attain to as a believer. I think it's talking about a type of love that God expects out of the heart of the Christian that I still need to aspire to. It's something that I looked at and I thought, wow, how far short do I come from understanding, from fully grasping and living out this love that Christ expects for the believer to have. And I I know that we we hear about love and we talk about love and we we say, oh yeah, we've got to love one another. Amen. But I'm not sure we fully grasp or understand it. And that's what I hope tonight for you to get. First of all, I want you to see The clarity of the command. The clarity of the command is given to us there in verse number 11. He says, For this is the message that ye have heard from the beginning, that we should love one another. John is going to go a little bit deeper into the truth that he introduced to us back in chapter 2. Excuse me, in verses eight and nine. You turn back there if you would, chapter two, verses eight and nine, he says, Again, a new commandment I write unto you, which thing is true in him and in you. Because the darkness is past, and the true light now shineth, he that saith, He is in the light, and hateth his brother, is in darkness even until now. He's taught this new commandment he's talking about there in verse 8 is the commandment that I that you love one another. In John chapter 13, verses 34 and 35, if you want to write that next to those verses 2, 8, and 9, or write it next to verse number 11 of chapter 3, write John 13, 34 and 35, because that's where he talks about that new commandment. He says, A new commandment I give unto you that ye love one another. So he was giving him a new commandment, and we talked about the idea back when we looked at this passage of scripture in chapter 2. that it was not new as in not having been said before, but it was new in the importance that God was placing on it. It was new in the focus that God was presenting there to them. And we just described and talked about that and we're not going to continue. go over that again, but there's no question, there's no doubt that there's the believer is to love one another. It has always been part of God's plan from the beginning that God's people would be known by love. This is how that the world would know that you are my disciples. How is that? How is it? The Bible tells us this is how men know that you are my disciples. That you love one another. That's what the Bible says. That you love one another. I've got to move quick to get through all this tonight, and I believe that it's very important what we're going to get. But from the very moment that man was given new life in Jesus Christ He is committing to a life that should be governed by love. Now that sounds wonderful, and that sounds sweet, and we think, oh, that is fantastic, but I hope tonight that you'll understand the full meaning of that. And maybe uh the importance of it will be driven home to our heart this evening. This again is a test of sonship. We've talked about this through all through 1 John. You have The test of sonship, there's many different ones given. If you're wondering about your salvation, if you're saying, Oh, I I wonder if I'm saved, well This is one way, one test of sonship, something that you can look at and say, okay, do you have a love for the brethren? Is there an undeniable love for the brethren that's present in your life that you can't get away from, that you can't deny It's going to be there. It's very clear that he tells us that this will be present in the life of anyone that is truly a son of God. The storms of life reveal the true character of a child of God. And so it is, the conduct of man reveals what he is. Just like you know a fruit by the tree that it bears When the storms of life come and men live their lives, we get to get a picture, we get to see who they are, and so is love a defining characteristic of your life. To love is to live, but to try and live without love is to die. That when you look at this passage of scripture in dissect it and break it down, you see that very clearly. To love is to live in the light, but to hate is to live in the dark. You can see that very evident on somebody's face. You find a young man or young lady that's in love And their face is all aglow. They're they're alive. They're so happy. I mean they're they're they are in love and and Oh my goodness, nothing in the world could possibly uh damage or hurt this. I mean they're just they're just in love and their face is all aglow, but then You find somebody who is bitter and angry and upset and their face is full of anger and hatred. And you see that. It's evident on their face. That darkness that's inside is present. It's evident. You can see it. And that's what he's describing for us here. He gives us a contrast. In the following verses, as we see the opposite of love is hate and the result is murder, we see it in the contrary message of Cain. In verse number 12, he says, not as Cain, who was of that wicked one and slew his brother, and wherefore slew he him? Because his own works were evil and his brothers righteous. So we have this contrast here. We have the the it's contrary to that love that was the kind that Cain had. It's contrary to the love that the world even knows and expects. It's different from the love that men see in the world today. The characteristics of worldly love are this, and I don't have time to dig into these, but I want you to know worldly love is satanic in its origin. It's trying to get all you can instead of give. It is selfish in its operation. The characteristics of worldly love, satanic in its origin, it's selfish in its operation. We see that Cain just wanted what his brother had. And it is sinister in its outcome. We see that in verse number 15. He said, Whosoever hateth his brother is a murderer. And ye know that no murderer hath eternal life abiding in him. Love is sinister in its outcome. This is the worldly love, the style of love that the world has for one another. They do have and they do know love, but this love that is satanic in its origin and selfish in its operation and sinister in his outcome is not the kind of love that we have. given to us and birthed in our heart is a new life in Jesus Christ. It's a love that's altogether different. That's what we want to see tonight. Thirdly, we see the cause for this world's cruelty in verses 13 through 15. The cause for this world's cruelty. As he says, marvel not, my brethren, if the world hate you. Marvel not. Don't send any question. Don't wonder. Don't think, boy, why do they hate me? Beloved, it's just the fact of the matter is the world is going to despise the righteous man. Why did Cain kill Abel? Because his works were evil. That's what the Bible says there. Because his works were evil and Abels were righteous. The actions of the righteous will reveal the wickedness of an evil man. And so the evil man doesn't like that. The world sees that, and every Christian who is living as he should, without saying a word, is a beacon of light that shines. into the wickedness of a corrupt society. Every Christian who's living as he should is a beacon of light that shines into the wickedness of a corrupt society. And so the world doesn't like that. They don't like you shine. You don't have to say a word. You don't have to preach at all. It is your life that stands as a testament of the mighty works of Jesus Christ. And they look at you and they realize in what you are in Christ is what they should be, but they know they're not And the shame and the guilt causes them to reach out and attack you. That's what happens How could we expect any different than that which they did to Christ? They despised and rejected him. Matthew 24, verse 9 says, Then shall they deliver you up to be afflicted, and shall kill you, and ye shall be hated of all nations for my name's sake. Luke 6, 22 and 23 says, Blessed are ye when men shall hate you, and when they shall separate you from their company, they shall reproach you, they shall cast out your name as evil for the Son of Man's sake, rejoice ye in that day, and leap for joy, for behold, your reward is great in heaven. For in like manner did their fathers unto the prophets. He's saying this the way it's always been. The world uh hated him before it hates you. And if you're going to live and do right, the world's gonna despise you. So we should understand that the cruelty of the world and where it comes from. We see the evidence of new life in verse number fourteen. He says there, we know that we have passed from death unto life because we love the brethren. He that loveth not his brother abideth in death. It's an evidence of the new life that we have, this new life in Christ. That evidence should be present, the evidence that you do love the brethren. Beloved love is not the cause of this new life, but it is the confirmation that you have new life. It is the confirmation that you have new life when you love the brethren. This love is a desire for the well-being and the benefit and the blessing of other men. You desire that they experience the complete and full blessing of God in their lives. In verse number 15, he explains to us that the very act of hating is likened unto murder. Of course, calling to mind that passage in Matthew 5, 21 and 22, he having heard that it was said by them of old, that thou shalt not kill, and whosoever shall kill shall be in danger of judgment. But I say unto you that whosoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of judgment. And whosoever shall say unto his brother Rakha shall be in danger of the council, but whosoever shall say thou fool shall be in danger of hellfire. You see, beloved, the law forbid murder, but love forbids anger Love forbids hatred. Love forbids envying and jealousy. The pulpit commentary's comment on this particular verse says, love is the only security against hate. And as everyone who does not love is potentially a hater, so every hater is potentially a murderer. A murderer is a hater who expresses his hatred in the most emphatic way. But a hater who does not murder abstains for various reasons from this extreme expression of his hate But the temper of the two men is the same. He's saying the the the Feeling in the heart is the same, although for various reasons one person is able to refrain from actually committing the murder. The root problem, the heart problem, is the same in both men. One person somehow is restrained from committing the act, but they are both guilty of the same sin. That's what he's describing for us here. So he's saying you might call yourself a believer, but if you have hatred in your heart, eternal life does not abide in you. You see, beloved, so many people call themselves Christians, even God-fearing, God-loving, Bible-believing. Baptist. In church every Sunday morning, every Sunday night, every Thursday night. And yet there's people that they will not talk to. God's saying, don't talk to me about the love you have for God when you have hatred in your heart for your brother. He said, don't describe for me your your love for God when you can't even get along with your brother or sister in Christ, or, God forbid, one of your own family members. You can't get along with your own wife, your own husband. Your brothers are sisters. This is a serious matter. 1 John 2, verse number 9 says, He that saith he is in the light and hateth his brother is in darkness even until now. Listen, I I I know Christians that would get up and and teach a seminar on soul winning But they won't even talk to their own kids. They won't have fellowship with their own family members. There's a problem there You can justify it and explain it however you want. The Bible calls it sin. It's not right. We need to get off of our high horse and our our our our own little ho holiness Because he says it's not right. He quite literally says, if you live that way, you don't even have new life. We see in verse number 16 the character of Christ. He says, hereby perceive we the love of God because he laid down his life for us. And we ought to lay down our lives for the brethren. Christ gave himself first. Always Christ gave himself Not just gave things, not just gave money, but gave of himself. Christ gave of himself I think sometimes our problems with our children in today's world is because we believe that The giving of things can replace the giving of self. And this is not true. Your kids could do with a whole lot less things if they had a little bit more of mom and dad. Giving of your time. Giving of yourself. Not just, oh yeah, here, let me give you another toy. Oh, you know kids, they like toys. They're not going to turn it away. They're not going to regret But you know what? Given enough time, their hearts are going to cry out that they would gladly leave the toy if they could just have their dad. Giving of ourselves. We see that example in Jesus Christ. who gave of himself first. Giving of yourself is the expression, the greatest expression and demonstration of your love. If you want to know what love is, or you want to know how to express or show your love, look at the character of Christ 1 Peter 2. 21 says, For even hereunto were you called, because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that you should follow in his steps. That you should follow in his steps. His steps of giving himself. If you and I are to follow Christ's example, this equals giving, giving of ourselves. We see verses 17. And 18 Lastly tonight, the commitment to compassion. The commitment to compassion. He says, but who so hath this world's goods, and seeth his brothers, having need, and shoved up his vows of compassion from him, how dwelleth the love of God in him My little children, let us not love in word, neither in tongue, but in deed and in truth. He's saying, don't just talk about what you might do, but Give of yourself. Give. Have compassion on others. Let it motivate and change you. Let it be something that you use and do to make a difference in people's lives. Christ laid down his life for you and I. He gave himself. He sacrificed for us. You might say, well then is that to be my end? Am I to sacrifice my life as Christ did for Christ or for my fellow man? Maybe. But we know for sure that we are to present our bodies as a living sacrifice. Holy and acceptable unto God, which is a reasonable service. So He's not calling you maybe to give your life and death in service to the cause of Christ, but He's certainly calling you to give your life in life. For Jesus Christ. If you have the ability, then do it If you can shut up your heart to the needs of men and deny the love of Christ, we're not following his example But if you're willing to sacrifice that which would have been spent on you to help another Although it's surely not as intense of an application as sacrificing yourself. It still is sacrificing what you would have been yours or what would have been spent on you or what you would have been able to enjoy yourself and said, okay You know, I uh I I take my emergency fund and more often than not I give it away. We were down in Indiana and uh we were at the uh graduation. In the middle of graduation service, God spoke to my heart and said there's a couple young people here that need some encouragement. And I re I reached over to grandma and grandma Uh Samuel was sitting next to me and so during the song I said, Hey, you got fifty bucks I can give you a hundred for? She says, why would I do that? I said, well I would do that any day. Anybody ask me that. And I says, well, God wants me to give fifty bucks to somebody. I'll give you a hundred so I can give them fifty She's like, well, I got changed for 100. I said, great. So I took that, I took my you know my emergency fund and uh I divided it up. I gave it to Mary because it was a couple young ladies and I said, I don't want it to be coming from me. I said, I would you take this and give this to these ladies and tell them that they just need to stay faithful. I know that they're discouraged. They're they're they're struggling with something. I don't know what it is, but would you just give it to them? Tell them that God God will take care of them. You know, it's such a small thing. But just taking something that, yeah, I mean I could have used that for myself. I could have used it for one of my kids, you know, we could but something small, God said, hey, give that to them Who knows how far reaching that little bit of encouragement would be? You know, Mary exemplifies this for me very often, all the time. I see Mary do this for me. I I mean I was trying to think of specific examples, but there's just so many things that she does and my kids might be able to tell you exactly. But like so like what she'll do is Maybe we're somewhere like let's say we're at the graduation and she'll say do you want some cake? And I'll say sure and then she'll come back and she has a piece of cake and she gives it to me and sits down. And I'll say, Oh, you didn't get one for yourself? And she'd be like, No, that was the last one. I just got it I got it for you. And I'll say, Oh no, you you can have it and she's like, No, you you get it. You wanted a piece of cake, you can have it. I'll just eat this peanut, you know. No but no she she gladly graciously she wants me to have it and enjoy it, you know And and I you know an example? Mm the other day we went to uh out to eat and they found out it was our anniversary on our anniversary day and so they said well you get a free dessert which is pretty awesome because we are at Fogo to Chow and a dessert's like fourteen bucks there. And uh so they gave you a free dessert, you know. And uh you know Mary loves chocolate, anything chocolate. And I said, Hon, this is your anniversary, you get whatever you want. And she's like, Oh no. She's like, I know you would want the cheesecake, you can get the cheesecake And I said, no, you get whatever you want. I I'll enjoy whatever. She's like, no, you get the cheesecake. So we got cheesecake. That's just stuff like that she does all the time. What I'm saying is just small expressions of love. Can you see how Christ says If this display of love is absent from your life, then it's quite possible you don't have new life at all. No amount of talk will ever replace Caring for the crippled, guiding the blind, or feeding the hungry. You know, you and I don't have a hard time with compassion when it's talking about like Mary and I loving each other I mean that's easy, right? It's easy for me to love her. It's easy for her to love me. I mean, obviously, right? I mean, wow. It's easy, but the love that we're talking about as far as what Christ is talking about Think about Christ who loved those men that put him on the cross. You see, you and I as Christians, we're we we understand love and we say, yeah, we're supposed to love one another. After all, Glenina, she's a very giving person, and she'll give anybody a ride. And if she needed a ride, I'll give her a ride. Yeah, sure. I'll be happy to help you, Galena. You know. But You know, you y you needed something and you're stuck on the side of the road and Brother Kriego drives by And you see him, you say, hey, hey, Brother Kriego, and he just goes, see ya! And just keeps on going. And then the next day, you're driving by and Kriegos on the side of the road. What are you going to do? See ya! Because that's how we are, right? Because we would look at it and say, hey, what goes around comes around. You're going to reap what you sow. Ha! Instant justice! Oh, look at that, you got what you deserve. But the love of Christ says I don't care how I was treated yesterday, if he's on the side of the road, I stop for him. And that's where we are missing the boat, Christian. That's where we're missing the boat. Richard Wernbrand, in his book Torture for Christ, describes page after page of such horrific abuse of Christians For nothing other than just naming the name of Christ. And yet somehow they found ways to love those that captured them and beat them. Let me give you just a couple of examples. Let me read for you. The communist discovered one young girl who had been spreading the gospel to other children They decided to arrest her, but to make her arrest as agonizing and as painful as possible, they found out her wedding day was a few weeks away So they waited until the day that she was to be married, on her wedding day, standing at the altar with her bride, uh in her bride's dress, with her groom, the most wonderful and joyous day of her life, they suddenly broke through the doors of the church. and the secret police rushed in. They roughly put manacles on her wrist, and she looked towards her beloved and kissed the change and said, Th I thank my heavenly bridegroom for this jewel he has presented me on my marriage day. The tortures and the brutality continued without interruption. Many times I lost consciousness that he was in prison for over fourteen years. Many times I lost consciousness. It became To the point where the torturers uh thought I would die and they would return me to my cell, allowing me to gain a little bit of strength so that they might bring me back and begin their work again. Many men died during these stages of ongoing beatings, yet somehow my strength returned and I went through it over and over and over again. During the ensuing months and the years, through several different prisons, they broke four vertebrae in my back, many other bones all throughout my body. They carved me up in dozens of places. They burned and cut over 18 holes into my body. I have passed through brainwashing myself where I had to sit for 17 hours a day. for weeks, months, and even years, hearing the communism is good, communism is good, communism is good, Christianity is stupid, Christianity is stupid for seventeen hours a day. They piped this loud volume. Several Christians have asked me, how could you resist such brainwashing? There's only one method of resistance to brainwashing, beloved, and that is heart washing. When a heart has been cleansed by the love of Jesus Christ, and if the heart loves him most of all, you can resist all torture. A pastor was tortured with red-hot irons, then cut with knives, then beat very badly, and stuck into a cell with starving rats. He could not fall asleep because to fall asleep would mean the rats would begin to eat him. He stayed a week, awake, defending himself, on his feet for over two weeks. Day and night the communist brought, then the communist brought before him his 14-year-old son and began to beat his son. Until finally the pastor could take it no more, driven almost mad himself, finally he cried out, Alexander, Alexander, I must say what they want. And the son answered the father and said, Do not this injustice. Do me not this injustice of having a traitor as a fair as a father. Withstand, Dad withstand, if they kill me, withstand Handcuffs with sharp nails on the insides were placed around our wrist. When you shook in the bitter cold, the nails would slowly tear into your skin. We were placed in cells called iceboxes. They were so cold that frost and ice would form over the box and covering the inside of the box. Doctors would watch through the opening until they saw that we were on the brink of freezing to death. They would pull us out warm us up just enough to put us back into the box to freeze to the brink of death again We were forced to stand upright in boxes that had been filled with nails. As long as you stood perfectly still, you were in the center of the box and free from puncture. But as your body fatigued and as days our hours turned into days, you would fall asleep and you would drift in one direction or another and become stabbed by the nails that surrounded you on every side What the communists did to Christians surpasses all human understanding. We were given one piece of bread a week. some measily dirty soup each day. When one Christian was sentenced to death, he was allowed to see his wife before his execution. His last words to his wife were, you must know that I die loving those who kill me. They do not know what they do. And my last request for you is that you do love them too. Do not have bitterness in your heart because they have killed your beloved. But have love that they might know your Savior. On page 63 He says, this book has not been written as much in ink as it has been in the shed blood of those that have gone before. As in the book of Daniel, when the three young men who were put in the furnace did not smell like fire upon being delivered from it, so the Christians Who have been in communist prisons do not smell of bitterness against these communists. No, a flower, if it is bruised under your feet, rewards you. By giving you its sweet perfume. Likewise, a Christian tortured by the communist rewarded their torturers with love And thereby brought many of their torturers to Christ. And he said, we have one desire To give to these communists who have made us suffer our very best. And our very best is the salvation that comes through Jesus Christ. That's the kind of love that he's describing in the book of John. I I don't think it's the kind of love that we think about and oh, I love Mary and Mary loves me and oh I love my kids and Yeah, boy, I love my church family that's good to me and cares for me and prays for me. You say, no, I love those that hate me. And despitefully use me. When we learn to love like that, then we've learned to love. Like Christ expects someone with new life.