Well, I definitely appreciate the opportunity. I hope you have enjoyed listening to Pastor. Uh my husband. Um he Um sometimes to be entertaining. Anyway, uh sometimes I'm sitting on the front row and he or the second row I sit in the second row And the thing is if I ever sit anywhere else, you know, if I'm taking care of something and I just slip into the back, feel like, Is my wife in here? Because I'm not in that spot. Like there are other seats in the auditorium but I couldn't be there. That's where I am if I'm there. So he thinks I know you he'll say something to me later. I know you weren't in there but and he'll tell me something. I was in there. Anyway, a few weeks ago I was sick on a Sunday morning and I was listening to the services, but I was literally in bed And he um he asked me later, he said, Did you listen to the services? I said, Well I listened enough to know you have no idea how old your children are and he said, Oh, you heard that 'cause he's like Um, however old they are. M I don't know, my wife's not here. Like because I I'm not there, he can't know how old they are. So that was the thing. There is an oh, I'm just checking. If you need a chair there are there's one empty one up here. Do you need a do you need another seat? Oh, okay. I we can say I can help you out there. But anyway, so I appreciate the attention. For those of you that weren't in here yesterday, we've um my husband and I have been Married for thirty-six years, been in the ministry all of that time we got married and started working for his dad while he was still in college. He had a year and a half left when We got married, which worked out really well for him because he still had to student teach and so therefore he had someone to make all the visuals and do the bulletin boards and you know all those important things that are helpful for a student teacher and I remember him coming back from class one time saying, They said to tell my wife she makes my visuals. I guess they could figure out that he did not make it because he would not have cut out the letters and laminated it and so forth back when you had to use the contact paper and you know anyway. It was a little more of a process than sticking it in a machine like like it is now. Anyway, so Um we were we've been married 36 years and we've worked worked worked for his father for the first four and a half years of our marriage and then the Lord called us him to pastor and we c took a church in Kansas and that's where we've been for thirty-one and a half years now. So uh we've been grateful for the Lord to uh give us the opportunity to serve And I rarely pray like we my husband and I have a habit of praying. He al we always pray together before he leaves in the morning. Normally we leave different times. But then and at night before he goes to sleep and uh I say he goes to sleep because he almost always goes to sleep before me but we will pray together and that's every time that I pray I I almost always say And thank you for the opportunity for a place to serve because it is truly an honor and a privilege and I'm I'm grateful. And yes, ministry can be hard. Those of you that are in ministry, those of you that are pastors wise, assistant pastors wise, principal wise, whatever, or teachers, serving can get overwhelming sometimes, but It's so a privilege and honor and I wouldn't trade it for the world, no matter how many printers leave us and do crazy things anyway We still survive and go on. But anyway. So uh today I wanted to talk about the ABCs of a good marriage. We're just going to go through the first ten letters of the alphabet, not all 26. So hopefully it will help us get a little bit of progress. I had a few uh funny things to read you. But this is coming from like third graders who they asked, you know, how do you know who to marry? And Alan H. Tenny says, you gotta find somebody who likes the same stuff. Like if you like sports, she should like it that you like sports and she should keep the chips and dip coming. Um Christian age ten says, Well, no person really decides before they grow up who they're going to marry. God decides it all way before you get to find out later who you're stuck with. And then says, How can you how can a stranger tell us two people are married and Derek who's AJ says well you might have to guess based on whether or not they seem to be yelling at the same kids. And then um what do most people do on a date? And when that says Well dates are for having fun and people should use them to get to know each other. Even boys have something to say if you listen long enough. And then is it better to be single or married? Well it's It's better for girls to be single, but not for boys. Boys need somebody to clean up after them. Anyway, just a little bit to um make make us remember there are humorous things. Okay, so we're going to start with acknowledge, A for acknowledge, and this goes a little bit with um what the lesson that we just had from Pastor But the verse here, acknowledge when you are wrong and even when you are not. The reason I say that is because there are times when there is a type of argument where you feel like There there is boat fault on both sides possibly, misunderstanding. Um I will say probably any time there has been a misunderstanding with my husband and I it's where he thought I knew what he was thinking. And it was like he was saying yesterday when he said something and then I was supposed to draw conclusions from it and things like that that happened and he'll say, Well you should have known Okay, well you should have told me. I I am definitely a pleaser. I am definitely one that will bend over backwards. I will you know, he he will ask me it he's notorious for figuring out what illustrations he wants. at you know five minutes before the surf and he's calling me and my phone's already off but I can tell him I watched that he's calling me. So I'll run to the office where he is and he'll say, I need crutches or I need a ladder or I need, you know, something So I run two buildings over, up three flights of stairs, and get crutches from the third story and bring it back down all the way over so that by that time I probably need the crutches. Anyway. And I will do whatever it takes. to make him happy and to whatever it takes to for him to be satisfied. And so it's only if I don't know. So if he will communicate to me, that really helps. But sometimes that's difficult because he thinks, Well, we've been married this long, you should know what I'm thinking. But that's not always the case But anyway, acknowledge when you're wrong and even when you're not. James five sixteen tells us confess your faults one to another and pray for one another that you may be healed. The effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. We know that um By asking someone to forgive us, it relieves us, as he was saying there. It takes a bigger Christian to admit fault and an even bigger Christian to admit fault when they're not wrong You know, I I'm sorry I misunderstood you, I'm sorry I didn't get I I was a disappointment or whatever, but trying to resolve the situation rather than standing your ground Um, it's often pride that makes us want to be right. I was right. That was the truth. I have a mind for details And um it's I I don't know why God gave me that mind, but I w on the way here Or w right before we left, um Pastor was going to use a boat for an illustration. He was at the church, I was at home finishing getting ready and he had the guy that was there, Josh Daniels, ha had him called me and said, I'm looking for the on third story, looking for a boat. Now third story is like a Disaster zone, I don't know. It's like all the storage, all the Christmas decorations, every prop, flower, everything. It that's where it goes And depending upon who carries it up there, depends on whether or not it gets back to where it goes. But anyway, he's walking out to third story and he said, Where's the boat? that I'm supposed to be getting. I said if you walk straight ahead to the right, it has a bunch of stuff from Missions Conference sitting in it. The missions conference is not this past year the year before, but it's sitting such and such a place and it has like lantern nuts and all that stuff sitting inside of it to the right. That is just how my brain works. And I can't tell you how many times I will send someone up there and say it's on such and such a shelf, this high, blah blah blah, because that's how my brain works. I remember details. So if I say And and he will uh to now is to the place where he'll say, Okay, and what was I wearing and where were we standing and which way was I facing? Because he knows I'm going to remember But anyway, he says I tell him now though that it wouldn't matter if I remembered I could make something up and he wouldn't know because he doesn't remember. So he'll say You you're just making that up. I didn't say that. But anyway, it we uh work it out obviously. But sometimes we need to ask ourselves, does it really matter Is it important for me to establish that I was right, that was how it happened? Is that e is that really even important? Is it important enough to make us both upset with each other for the rest of the day or through the supper or whatever. Is that is it that important? So sometimes to ask yourself, does it really matter Um, to keep a marriage brimming with love and a loving cup. When you're wrong, admit it, and when you're right, shut up. Just a little thing to help us remember sometimes it's better to just be quiet The second thing is to beware of comparisons. Very familiar verse, Second Corinthians ten twelve, for we dare not make ourselves of the number or compare ourselves with some that command themselves, but they measuring themselves by themselves and comparing themselves among themselves are not wise. We often the the problem with us is we are comparing with others Um in our lives sometimes the grass seems greener on the other side. We look at other marriages, other people and think, you know, why can't he be more like this person? Or why can't our marriage be like this? Or why can't we have money like this person? Or why can't we have a nicer car? Or in our minds we're questioning why our situation is not as good as we see other people's than than it is. And we have to be careful about comparison. So beware of comparisons because first of all it's not wise, the Bible tells us that plainly. Secondly, that causes us to be in c content discontent with our lives. And we don't see what God has given us because we're too busy looking at what God hasn't given us or done for us or provided us with. And so sometimes also I mentioned a little bit yesterday, but movies and media can taint our vision of what marriage should be like. And so we get this picture of this, you know, romantic couple who, you know, does everything together and is so loving and you know, share sweet words and then there's times when you can barely stand be in the same room. Like it's I I'm not saying that's how it should be. I'm just saying that sometimes we by looking at other people we think, well, I just must not be in have a normal marriage or I I'm never gonna have that because of who my husband is or whatever. Instead of realizing Well thinking about what God has given you and and being grateful for that. The third thing, C is to create interest in things that interest Him Now, some people are interested in different things and can do different things. My husband has always been very um sport-minded less and less as the years go on. Um he's never been one to really watch sports. He doesn't care about watching sports and we didn't even have a screen for most of the years of our lives. But he liked to play And so basketball, volleyball, whatever. Now I don't mind playing volleyball. Um, I'm not as much into sports. He loves playing pickleball. He likes doing things. He doesn't want to watch people do things, he wants to do them. But he also likes playing games and he likes to learn new games. I like to I'm the type of person when you when I go to a restaurant I order the same thing that I have ordered the last twenty five times I have been at the restaurant because I know I'm gonna like it. I know it's about the right amount And I know I'll eat half of it, take the other half home and Seth or Silas or one of the boys will eat the rest of it or something. But I do I do the same thing He's he walks in and he says, Well what do you suggest? What's new? Is that sandwich good? Is that spicy? You know, and he's asking all these questions. I'm thinking, just order the chicken bacon sandwich already or something, you know, in my mind because he likes to try new things. Well, you need to create interest in the things that interest him. Um so flip the verse I have for that, two Philippians two four, look not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things of others. Sometimes it's easy to be selfish and to think, well that's what I wanted to do. You know, we go on a vacation together and and my husband's very good about trying to take a family vacation every year to get some time away with just the family and and to spend some time together. And uh for several years we didn't go very far. We'd just go to Brampton, it's just four hours away. And when you have little kids that's nice because D you have to stop at too many bathrooms and you got kids polytraining and you're calling so much stuff and so forth. But it was uh he would still take the time to do it. And it wouldn't matter to me if it was five days or if it was a week and a half, which most times he would try to be back for the next Sunday But it just didn't matter, he would take the time to get away and that and that was very important. But the things that he likes to do, it's important to try to take an interest in those things. Now i I'm not saying you need to go play basketball. I'm not saying you need to go play If you don't like to or you trip over your own feet or whatever it is. But the allow hand to have interest but also take interest in those things. You know, at least ask that you win or You know, not say when he says he lost, like, oh he deserved that, you know. You can kind of put a damper on the spirit there Anyway, so take an interest in the things that interest him. Sometimes people like fishing or hunting or whatever. My husband's never been into that. Praise the Lord, I'm sure it saves us a lot of money over the years. H his thing is tech. He likes the newest iPad, the newest iPhone, the newest t computer, whatever. He is very he likes tech. And that's all that's the only thing. He doesn't really have a vice if you say as far as fishing, hunting, guns, whatever. I mean he has some guns but He's just not into that full fledged all the equipment and so forth, which I'm glad I don't want bear spray and all that junk in my house. So just one less thing for me to have to put away. But anyway, um Just take an interest in whatever things interest him that it will make your marriage better. The the fourth thing is for D is don't be disappointed when he doesn't meet your expectations Um maybe it's time together, maybe it's the romance, maybe it's the amount of money you think he should be making Uh if you're in the ministry you you know have another saint coming if you thought there was going to be more money because typically it's um minimal especially at the beginning But the Lord the Lord rewards you eventually. Sometimes it takes a while that you think that, okay, we're always going to be scraping by to get the car to church every week and you know eventually that that catches up. But there are times that you have to say, um and in Psalm thirty nine five it says, Behold, thou hast made my days as a hand breath and mine age as nothing before thee, barely every man at his best state is altogether vanity. You married a human and you are human And you have to allow him, as Pastor said in the first session, as he was talking, I'm thinking, you're stealing my devotion. How could you do that? And so I just wanted to remind us Don't be disappointed when he doesn't meet your expectations. You know, part of the reason we're disappointed is because our thoughts were it was going to be this way, we were going to have this much time together, we were going to, you know, and children or ministry or problems or health or something interrupts that and then we're disappointed. You know, it's just it doesn't life no matter who you are Whether in ministry or not, life does not always go according to how you have imagined it to be before you were married or be when you were a teenager. Um You don't want to get to the end of life and realize that you were unhappy the whole your whole life because you were expecting these expectations to be fulfilled And they never were. You want to get to the place where you're happy in what God has given you and the the relationship that you have and making work on making it the best relationship that it can be instead of thinking about what you don't have and what he doesn't do and how w what things you don't do together and whatever and and just be happy in what God has provided for you it will make you happier and it will make your relationship much better. Um l letter E. Endure yourself by doing the small things. Becleethiacles nine ten, whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy might, for there is no work, nor device, nor knowledge, nor wisdom in the grave, whither thou goest Also we have Galatians 6. 10, as we have therefore opportunity, let us do good unto all men, especially unto them who are of the household of faith. Um I I try to be thoughtful and it's very often that I will make stew or something and I will put three or four dishes together and take it to people that are at church just because just to be a blessing and people that especially that I know that like it or that are single and don't cook for themselves much or whatever. But i I I should not be thoughtful of these different people at church and not thoughtful of my own husband What kinds of things does he like? What are some small things that you could do? Can you make his favorite cookies or dessert or something? Or can you make sure there's different quirks that they have. Maybe they like bread with every meal. Maybe they don't like a certain kind of vegetable or, you know, whatever it is that you um know that you should do. My husband likes dessert with every meal It doesn't matter what sh what meal it is, it could even be breakfast and he will be at the closet saying, What should we have this sweet? And he'll be trying to find something and he's t he's very much in that habit the kids will give him a hard time and they'll stand there and watch him, there he goes to the fridge There he goes to the closet. He's not even getting something out. He just opens it and looks in it. And then he opens the closet, looks in it. And he just he wants to have something sweet after every meal. And so in my mind when I go shopping, I try to pick up, you know, little hershey bars or some things that he likes Not that he needs them and not that we need to have them, but it's something that he likes to have at a meal and so it's something small. Uh there are certain desserts that he likes. There are certain things like Italian chicken that he does not like. And by the way, Italian chicken is the easiest thing ever. Chicken breast in a pan with Italian dressing and you just bake it But he obviously doesn't like Italian dressing and he when he talks about it, he makes it sound like we had it every Sunday. I would not make it more than once a month or every six weeks or something but in his mind because he didn't like it it felt like every Sunday I guess. So he'll say every Sunday my wife would say, uh no, your wife did not make every Sunday. But that's okay. We will forgive him. Maybe. Anyway, so endear yourself by doing the small things. There are little things like um I remember as a kid my dad teaching me how to polish shoes And so that's something that I like to do for my husband sometimes. He he will polish them almost between every service. He just likes to shoot shiny. But there are many times that I will do it just to um do something that helps him and that he likes. Um they're obviously getting illustrations together for him for services But sometimes, you know, we think, well, I make meals, I do the laundry, I clean the house, and we think of what I would consider bigger things. But what are some small things that are not like commanded or expected, but just little things that might help? So there are times that I will get stuff together or I'll have something and he'll say, Do you know where And I'm right there, you know. Because I was trying to think ahead and try to be ready for what he wants. That kind of thing is you being a helpmate to him, but also showing him that you're putting extra thought and effort into it and that's important. And if he's not terrible, you're gonna say, Well, he doesn't do that for me. Um, and my husband is not the overthoughtful super, you know, whatever. Um, he just uh I'll give you a illustration on um we got married on Christmas and on I uh well on December nineteenth, but then we were away for our honeymoon. So we I thought way ahead. I got a uh I ordered a plaque that put our picture on it and a little um thing that said for six days I've been yours because by that time we had been married six days. and happier girl you never see and so forth and it had a um little poem on it and I put our picture in it and I had that for us for our first Christmas together. He had nothing. he didn't think about that we were gonna be gone over Christmas. He's just not that type of person. But I'm not bitter, I promise. I'm just illustrating that we think differently He's he's not and I can't expect him to think like that. Now it's me that does the thinking. Don't forget your mom's eighty eighth birthday is next week. You know, I'm the one that has free minds. You probably should call your brother. It's his birthday. His brother lives in Illinois. And he oh, it is? You know, like I'm the one that has to remember to do and I will remember the kids' birthdays, obviously and I'll tell him, Okay, are we having supper? Are we having oh, it's their birthday already? You know, and January is the worst 'cause we have a first, a thirteenth and a fifteenth. And so they're back to back. And so it's like another birthday already? And so I'm the one that has to remember I cannot expect his brain to work the same way as my brain works I have a brain for details. He does not. At least not concerning that. Now if it's anything concerning church, you know it's he's got it. But it's just amazing sometimes if we expect him to be like we are and it's that's not going to happen. So sometimes the small things can mean even more than the big things. He doesn't come in every day and say, thank you for doing the laundry Or thank you for ironing my shirts. And I still iron. I know a lot of people don't iron, but he likes his shirts ironed and and so I do that. But he doesn't come in every day and do that. But sometimes if it's a small thing he will notice and be grateful. So sometimes the little things can trigger more um thoughtfulness. So then the next thing is kind of covered in the first session that we had this morning, but forgive him of his faults. Ephesians four thirty two, very common verse. And be kind one to another, tender hearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake has forgiven you. When we just put it in that perspective that God's forgiven us us so much whatever faults or seemingly faults that we see in our husbands, if we realize, okay, God's forgiven me is much more than you know, him not taking out the garbage from me and I had to do it or rolling it down to the road or whatever. We we realized that Um, he is not going to be perfect. I am not perfect. God has forgiven me of much and I should be willing to forgive him. Um often it's the people that we're closest to that are hardest to forgive You know, you will back into somebody accidentally at the store. We were just talking about uh how uh you're carrying your purse and you accidentally bumped somebody or whatever, and you will apologize or somebody back their car into you or something And you will, oh no problems, you forgive them and that's fine. But if your husband walks out to the car and leaves the pilot stuff sitting by the door that needs to go to the church and you have to carry it off to the car and saying, Why doesn't he hold me? You know, I'm not saying you say that out loud, but in your mind you're berating him and thinking of the faults or the things that are wrong. We need to be willing to forgive him of his faults. He doesn't see the pile by the door. And unless you specifically say, Hey, could you grab that by the door? In my mind I think Now if I walked right by that pile I'd know that's stuff that needs to go there for Sunday school or that's for our lunch we have to feed the missionaries at church or whatever But he doesn't think that way. He just, you know, he's on a mission, to the car, you know, Sunday morning, whatever. And so he doesn't think about that. But in our minds sometimes we think He should notice that. He should know that. I shouldn't have to ask him to take out the garbage. It's over because it's overflowing or something. And so sometimes we uh j make accusations in our mind. I'm not saying you rail on them or something, but just we we toss faults and and think that they should be more responsible. So forgive him of his fault. It won't come naturally It's not gonna just happen. We have to make that choice. I forgive him. And it's not one of these I forgive him for being a jerk, you know. It's more that I forgive him for being human. and thinking about making that choice instead of just like, okay, that's another thing, and and adding it to the list of supposed things. Number seven, guard against a negative spirit. First Corinthians ten thirty two, give not offense, neither to the Jews, nor to the Gentiles, nor to the church of God. It's human to judge. You know, we tend to find what is wrong. M one of my jobs is to proof At church that's what one of the things I do for the printing ministry. And for a lot of the stuff that my husband's written, I will proof Uh as a mom, you you know, you're checking your kids before they go out the door. As as a mom if you if someone cleans the bathroom, you go in there you don't notice that they've done this and this and this right. You say you didn't wipe the floor right here or the garbage is not empty. Well you notice what's not done, you notice what's wrong And that's what happens when I proof. And I can't tell you how many fulletin boards or or um billboards that I've seen. I thought, you know, they forgot the apostrophe in your or whatever. Like because people you know that's what you're do you do, your mind looks for what's wrong. Well you shouldn't be doing that to your husband. And you guard against having that negative spirit and always find something wrong And you know, it's not uh my husband will will get in the car after uh activity at church or something and he'll say, Well, how do you think it went? And that's not the time for me to say, well, so and so was crabby and we should have had more of this and you know whatever. It's more the time to say, that was good, I think the people enjoyed it, and you know, being positive goes a lot further than me thinking of the five things I thought could have but been done better. Now if he's asking me what can be done better or what we should do different next time, that's a little bit different. But don't like Well that seemed to go well. How do you think it went? And that's not time for me to throw water on the fire and and be negative about it. And sometimes Um, things are not going to happen like we think and so it's easy to find what's wrong. And you we have to guard against that negative st spirit. Um, we need to refrain from saying things like, I told you it wouldn't work. I knew that would happen. I don't know why you would try that It it only gets worse. It just it might be true, but it just gets worse. You we don't need to say it. So we just need to Keep that in. And I think at that point usually he would know, okay, that was dumb. You know, like that he made a wrong turn or whatever That's not the time to say, you know, I knew you I knew you were gonna do that or whatever. That's that's not gonna make anything better. It's only gonna make the spirit go, hm So just guard against that, um, the negative spirit. The same thing with your children, uh, with your family, you know the the Bible talks about and preachers will tell us how the the wife is the Holy Spirit in the home. And when we have a negative spirit, it can put a damper on the whole thing Like, you know, it's like, okay, don't go in the kitchen. Mom is really having a a problem today or whatever. And so you don't want it to be where they have to test the weather before they know whether they should speak up. And you want you want to create a positive spirit. I'm not saying being be fake and all bubbly. I'm just saying Don't don't throw damper a damper on things with unnecessary observations or judgment calls and just guard against that negative spirit. It's natural for us to look what's wrong You know, you look at your child before they go out the door and you don't you don't think, okay, good, you got yourself dressed, it's your shoes are unrossy You know, it's automatically w automatically we look for what's wrong. So try to think about the good things, the right things, the positive things, and to focus mostly on those and say instead Great job getting dressed, you might want to swap your shoes. You know, that does a little bit more for the spirit than you can't even get your shoes on the wrong feet. What is wrong with y on the right feet? What is wrong with you? You know, I I we go over this every day. I don't know why this has to be this way. And then Everybody's just, you know, okay, mom's on the war path, you know, and you you just want to guard against that. So then um number eight Have a personal relationship with the Lord. This has also been covered somewhat in the first session, but Psalm 7328, one verses, but it is good for me to draw near to God. I have put my trust in thee, Lord God, that I may declare all thy works. It's me. It's not, but it's good for my husband. to draw near to God. It's good for my children to draw near to God. It's good for all these people I work with or the other church staff. It's good for me. And it's one of those things that we have to think of. We can't survive on our husband's spirituality He it's his responsibility to be spiritual, to lead the home, to lead the church or whatever his ministry or job is. But leading is not for us to pigtail off the back of his spirituality and think, Well, I don't have to walk with God because he's doing it for us. No, that can't that can't happen. We have to have a personal relationship with God. We have to be able to go to God and ask for requests. We have to go to God and ask for forgiveness. It's in it's important for us. personally to have a walk with God and not to be dependent upon him. You know, that would be the equivalent of saying, um Okay, I'm gonna put gas. My husband has a equinox and I have a traverse. I'm gonna put gas on the equinox, but that should be enough for both of us. No, obviously my car's gonna run out of gas Um but he uh he cannot I cannot l live on his gas. I my car will not drive on his gas. My life will not run on his spirituality. I have to have it for myself. So um just keep that in mind. Um, if your whole family's spiritual health depended on your spiritual relationship, what what would it be like? Would would your whole family be in trouble or would you be able to carry on. Would they if your if your spiritual health was the meter for the rest of the family, where would we be And we need to ask ourselves, do I have the walk with God that I need to have? Do I have a personal relationship? Because it's very, very important. Number nine, invest in your relationship Philippians 2 3 says, Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory, but in loneliness of mind let each esteem other better than themselves. You know, uh it's important for us to realize that uh we're not the only ones Uh this may involve prayer time, listening, helping, focusing, not being distracted. Um some it might involve, you know, when I say invest in the relationship, this might involve even taking care of yourself You know, don't let yourself go. Sometimes uh people have the idea that, okay, well, I got 'em now, so I don't have to take care of myself. I can let myself so. I can you know, look like a bum, I don't have to fix my hair, I don't have to, you know, do anything. Try to do things. First of all because it you ought to to take care of your body for the Lord's sake. But also for your husband's sake But also mentally and physically I feel like it encourages us. You know, you just feel better. If you if you get up and you stay in your pajamas all day in your robe and just lounge around, you you have less motivation and you will get less accomplished. But if you put yourself together, you know, fix your hair, you know, whatever, so that you are a ready to do something, you're more productive. You feel better about yourself. Uh some people like to go get their nails done. I've never been a proponent of getting nails done. I've always cut my own hair. I just it's just a a thing. I don't I don't like people touching me and I I'm just kinda sad type of person. But some people that makes them feel really good. pampered and special. And so they like doing that. My mother in law has had her nails done I for how many ever years. I mean ever since before we were married, I remember she used to do the glue on nails like with super glue. And I r I remember being at the house when one uh s a missionary or somebody was eating their and they had a snail floating in their squat. And she um oh, whoops, I knew I was gonna see one, you know. But but some people enjoy doing that. And they and that helps them feel better. If that's the case, then it it encourages you and uplifts you and makes you feel better. Um somebody said something about my mother-in-law will go like get a foot massage or something at someplace Don't touch me. I'll be laughing. You know, I can't hand people bugs in my teeth. But some there are different things, you know, to for me what's relaxing and actually um um just like therapeutic I guess you would say. I like to go to a thrift store. And not just 'cause I'm looking for stuff for me, but I find stuff for people all over the church. There's probably not one family in the church that I have not bought something for I don't go to one service that I don't say, oh she's wearing the shoes and Sosa has that dress on because I picked up stuff because that is fun to me And I have had at least three ladies tell me, you know what, we're just gonna give you money. You do our shopping because you know what I need more than somebody else And it's just fun to me. That's like um I don't know, therapeutic, but I really enjoy that. And actually on the way we stopped at a thrift store and um He it was good because we'd been going through the mountains and I I said, Can I just stand up for a few minutes? It just was uh a little bit karstic, you know, when you get old and your stomach is not the same as it was when you were twenty and you could ride roller coasters and whatever. Anyway, and uh so there were I said, Oh look, goodwill and he said, Oh my. Anyway, but At the goodwill, I found a skirt for a girl at church, I found a m one or two things for one of my kids, and something else for someone else. And I that's just fun to me. But some for some people it's something else. Do something that helps you I don't wanna say feel more like a person, but to get your brain a a gift away from the stress and whatever, you will feel better when you and more concentrated when you come back to it. So invest in the relationship even if that means to take care of yourself. Um, we want to be the best we can be instead of the what you see is what you get mentality, you know. Um number ten, join together in a common goal. Ecclesiastes four, nine, two are better than one because they have a good reward for their labor. What do I mean by that? You know, I don't expect you to go to work with him every day unless you both work to church. Most of the time that's not feasible. What I'm saying is start a Bible study with somebody Do do both of you do a Bible study with a couple, uh, go souling or make visits together, uh work on a bus route together, teach a Sunday school class or a junior church, and both of you work in it. When you join working in a common goal, it helps put you on the same page. And you're also doing something for the Lord. So it's you know, double rewards, so to speak. because working together for something just gives you more of a bond. So join together in a common goal. It might be memorizing scripture together. It might be making visits or um working a min a ministry, sometimes you might have to ask the preacher, what can we do to help? What is it what could we get involved in as a couple? And and there's I'm sure there is an opportunity. It might be vacuuming together, but there is an opportunity. Um there's nothing like working together to do to have that. Um at least if you could or whoever's got She's gonna pass out of home, but I just want to point out to us that having a good marriage is as simple as ABC. And so um I mentioned yesterday which some of you might not have been in here, but poetry's my thing. I mean I don't know if you consider it poetry. It's worth it, Ryan. But this is um what I wrote to have to do with today and I actually had to have Alicia put this out because I just wrote it on the way But this I put the points in here. So um it starts out, is a perfect marriage possible? I'll just take a little test. For surely I have this down and I'm really quite the best Do I acknowledge when I'm wrong and even when I'm not? Or is the assurance I am right the reason I have fought? Do I compare our lives to others and wish we could redo when the things I think I know may not be really true Do I want what he wants, taking interest in things he likes, whether it's a certain game or sport, or simply taking nature hike? Do I think he should be different? He's not what I expected him to be, instead of striving to be like Christ and focusing on fixing me. Do I remember to do the little things like making his favorite treat, ironing clothes or polishing shoes so he looks all pressed in me Do I forgive him of his fault since I have some of my own? Or do I always bring them up, making sure that they are known? Do I constantly guard my spirit to keep it positive and right, or do I make negative comments that cause a needless fight? Do I have a walk with God, drawing nearer to him each day? Do I trust him in my life and walk in a perfect way? Do I invest in our relationship with health or time in prayer? Do I put my do I myself put together instead of looking like I don't care. Do I want to spend time together to share a common goal? Do things that really mat doing things that really matter like winning a lost soul If I want a perfect marriage, I must look in the mirror to see the things that I must change because it must begin with me. And so I just want to encourage you to keep that handy and maybe it will help you Um, you know, maybe there's only one area. My husband has often said if there is a something that will keep us um You know, we when you go to a conference or a meeting or a ladies' meeting or a service, if you can get one thing, sometimes that one thing will change your life, change your relationship. change your walk with the Lord. And sometimes that will be enough, but at least look for one thing. Sometimes if you look at the whole thing, okay I need to work on this, I need to work on this, and it's like it's so many things you think, okay, well that was a loss Because there's just no way to do it all. Find one thing and and try to improve that. Do one thing at a time. But hopefully you'll be on your way to having a perfect marriage. If you have any questions or whatever, feel free to stop me. We could have a question-answer, but um well I'll just let you dismiss and then if there's anything that you're wondering about or thinking about um asking or a certain situation or something, then feel free to come to me. If you're a pastor's wife, uh I'd be glad to give you my phone number um if you have any questions or w just want to talk about something or a situation I realize as a pastor's wife A lot of times it feels like I I wouldn't say that you're all alone, but you have no one to talk to. You c you cannot discuss your relationship with another church member, doesn't matter how close you feel. Um, you you just you're just kind of not stuck, but in a sense, yes. And so sometimes another pastor's wife is the best. And some of you have a good um I don't want to say support group. I feel like that's kind of a worldly term. But some some of you have people that you already talked to and and are um that are helpful to you But I'm more than happy to do that and and pass my phone number on to you. But y'all have a good marriage.