They're here, that's why they're here, and uh I just felt these missionaries needed a good preaching too, and so no, just kidding. Um No, several weeks ago as I was praying about the conferences what I felt the Lord wanted me to do and I I don't know, I even told Mary earlier in the week, I says, I don't know why I did that. I n I know why, 'cause the Lord told me to, but uh you know, as I was praying about what to preach and and what to have for the service here, just adding uh this time to to the week, but uh I believe the Lord's given me direction and I pray that uh it is both a challenge and an encouragement uh to the church family here and uh of course to these missionaries as well. Uh they were talking earlier in the week that many times they go places and They of course are the guests, so they're they're they're the ones doing the speaking. They don't often get to sit and be part of a service. They don't get to hear preaching. And uh so I hope that they're they're blessed tonight. Um But uh this evening this earlier this week I began to ponder and think about uh the requirements of the righteous. The requirements of the righteous. That's the title of tonight's message, and I just began to do a little bit of study into the Word of God and Saturday on the bus as we were riding up to go do the Toronto Romans distribution, uh I, you know, asked Uh Pastor Z says, hey, if you ever preached on the requirements of the righteous, do you have an outline I can have? And uh he's like, Well, I'm sure I preached something and I so we started kicking around some ideas, you know, sharing some thoughts and He quickly got into the Greek and I'm like, well he's way past me, so uh uh you know he started getting getting deep. There's a lot of uh things that we could look at certainly uh with regards to the requirements that God puts on us as as the righteous. That's something that uh is, you know, really we could dig into it a long ways, but I took three very well-known passages of scripture and uh I just Don't expect to be very long tonight, but hopefully maybe challenge us with regards to this, the requirements of the righteous. We see the first one here this evening in Luke chapter twelve and verse number twenty. We see first of all that there is a required finish. There is a required finish. He says in Luke chapter 12, verse number 20, he says, But God said unto him, Thou fool This night thy soul shall be required of thee. Then whose shall these things be which thou hast. Now we know the story here of this righteous or this this uh really wicked man, but rich man, this rich man who said, Hey, I'm gonna eat and drink and be merry, I'm gonna I'm gonna tear down my barns and build bigger ones and I'm living for today. I I I've got my whole life planned out ahead of me. I've got set forth what I plan to do and I want you to know that God calls him a fool because he was trying to live his life outside of God. The fact of the matter is that there is a required finish. There's a day, beloved, when our soul is going to be required of us. That's a day, an appointment, a time, a finish line that none of us are going to miss None of us are going to pass. None of us are going to escape. There's going to come an hour. There's going to come a day when your soul is required of you. And I want to ask you tonight. I hope I'm preaching to a Sunday night crowd and I hope there's nobody in here. That has any doubt concerning your salvation, you better make sure that God, Jesus Christ, is your guarantor for your salvation. As we heard this morning, it doesn't matter how much money you have, you could take all the money in the world and invest it for a million years and take that and drop it on the at the feet of the Lord Jesus Christ or God in heaven, and it won't be enough to pay your sin debt. But Jesus Christ came and paid your sin debt for you. And if Jesus can be your guarantor, then your debt is paid. Amen? You better have that settled. There better not be any question in your mind. I don't care how long you've been sitting in church or how many messages you've heard, or even if you've taught a Sunday school class or preached a message Or led somebody else to Jesus Christ, I want you to know if you aren't personally putting your faith and trust in Christ and you know that you've done that, you're on your way to hell tonight And your your soul is going to be required of you. And if you wait one second too long, you're going to spend an eternity in a place called hell. And you will forever, for all of eternity, regret not getting saved tonight. Get that settled. But I want to apply this to the Christian here. You understand, beloved, that there's a day coming when uh your soul is going to be required of you. Now we know that God at Jesus Christ is our guaranteor, and praise God, our sins are forgiven, they're under the blood, and we're on our way to heaven But beloved, between now and then, we've only got one life, will soon be passed, and only what's done for Christ will last You've only got this life to live for the Lord. Listen, our life, our days are numbered. Job 8. 9 says our days are up on the earth as a shadow. James 4. 14 says, What is your life? It is even a vapor that appeareth for a little time, then vanisheth away. 1 Peter 1. 24, for your flesh Your flesh is as of the grass of the field. Job fourteen five says, Seeing his days are determined. The numbers of his months are with thee. Thou hast appointed the bounds that he cannot pass. Beloved, we've only got a set amount of time to do something meaningful for God. I signed the Bible this morning of one of these young uh men, Brother Shaver's uh kids. And I asked him, I said, Well who else has signed your Bible? And he said, Nobody. I said, Oh, I get to be the lucky first one. Amen. Uh well then I wrote my light verse in there. Uh Matthew 6. 33, I said, Do you know what that verse says? And he says, No And I said, Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. Christian, we've got to stop living for this life. Everything that we invest time and energy and effort in that's for this life is going to burn up one day It's going to be gone. There's not going to be anything left. It's going to be meaningless and empty and void. And there's not going to be any value in it. We've only got one life to live for Christ. The day is going to come when your soul is required of you. The time is up. No more opportunities to win souls for Jesus No more opportunities to witness to your loved one or to your brother or your sister or your mom or your dad or your or even your own children. Every opportunity will be gone. No more opportunity to do one more thing for Jesus. Your days of service for the Lord are over. The day's going to come. There's a finish line, a required finish. John 9. 8 says, I must work the works of him that sent me well this day. The night cometh when no man can work. Work while you still can. Because the night is coming. I want you to see secondly, I told you it wouldn't be very long secondly tonight. I want you to see there's a required faithfulness. A required faithfulness. Turn to 1 Corinthians chapter number 4. 1 Corinthians chapter number 4. All three of these passages of scripture, if you don't have them underlined, circled, uh notes written in the margin of your Bible, I would encourage you to do that. You need to have these passages marked. You need to have them highlighted. You need to have them underlined. Pick these verses out. These are what are required of the righteous. 1 Corinthians chapter number 4 verses 1 and 2, he says, Let a man so account of us as of the ministers of Christ. and stewards of the mysteries of God, moreover, it is required in stewards that a man be found faithful. These are familiar verses. I'm not saying giving you anything tonight that's earth-shattering or new. You understand that God asks of us that we be faithful. This literally is the heart of Christianity. Man, if we could just learn to be faithful. If we could just learn to be in our place and do what God wants us to do every single time, if we could just be faithful. We've lost the desire for faithfulness today. We want part-time, intermediate Christianity. The passion and desire to just be faithful, to be faithful, to be faithful. We've lost that passion Listen, the the exciting thing about that requirement that God gives us is He doesn't say you've got to be talented. He doesn't say you've got He doesn't say you have to be skilled. He doesn't say you have to have a lot of wealth. He doesn't say you have to have a lot of ability. He just says you gotta be faithful. You might not be that good at it, but it really doesn't matter if you just be faithful. You can just say, hey, I might mess it up because I'm not very skilled, but you know what? I'll be there every single time. Hallelujah. You take somebody here that employs people and if there's somebody that'll just show up for work every single day on time, hallelujah. They can work with them, you can train them, you can teach them if they'll just be there. God's people today have just about completely lost the ambition and the desire to be faithful. You know, when I was in school, I was not a very good student. I'm still not a very good student. School's not my thing. That's why God gave me my wife. Hallelujah. She gets to do the schoolwork. I married her during in between uh you know I have two more years of school left and uh so she got an extra two years of college while I worked, amen. She helped me pass all those classes. But you know what? When I was in high school, I was not a very good student. As a matter of fact, I was a terrible student. I was the thorn in the side of the teachers. And probably to their consternation, I determined that I was going to be in class every single day I decided I might not win any academic achievement awards. I might not excel in math and English and science. I might not be very good of a student. But you know what I can do? I can guarantee that I can be there every single day. And for three years, I won the Perfect Attendance Award. Now I didn't win many other awards, but I won the Perfect Attendance Award. I was in class every single day and you know what? I'll tell you something. Somebody else that could ace the math test but couldn't show up for class. I'll take the guy that'll be there every time. God's people need to get it in their heart and mind that they're just going to be faithful, that they're just going to be faithful. Moms and dads are throwing their families away, stopping being faithful to one another. Moms and dads are are not being faithful to raise and train their kids like they should. Kids aren't being faithful to their families like they should. Employers aren't being faithful to their employees like they should. And employees aren't being faithful to the like their employers. And everybody's using everybody else's failure as an excuse to be unfaithful. Well she didn't do this, so I'm not gonna do it. Yeah two wrongs don't ever make a right buddy Doesn't matter what she did to you. You've been called of God to be faithful to her, to love her. Doesn't matter what he's done. You've been called of God to be faithful. We need some Christians who will just determine in their heart that they want to be faithful to God, faithful to their place of service I want you to understand that this faithfulness here goes beyond just a mere showing up and being in my place. That's literally pretty much what I did for my classes I was not that good of a student, but I knew I could be there, and I knew I could sit in my chair, and that was About all I did. God forgive me. Okay, so but that's not what this verse is talking about. That word there, he says that they're ministers of Christ That word ministers quite literally means in in the Greek it means under rower. It comes from the old slave ships where those men were bound in chains and put in the bottom of the ship, and they would row those ships across for the Roman legions And these were underrowers. They were servants. They were serving. They had a place to serve. I want to ask you, do you have a place to be faithful to? Do you have a place to serve in? Do you got a Sunday school class, a ministry, an outreach, a discipleship program, the choir, the singing specials? Play in the piano, play in the organ, play in your instrument, whatever it is that you can do for God. Are you being faithful to it Brother Jacob, would you be excited for some people that would just show up for church? I mean just be there, just be in their place Sunday morning, Sunday night, and Thursday night? Are you a good Baptist? Do you have church on Thursday night? Tuesday What are you, Presbyterian? Tuesday night. Whoever heard of Tuesday I'm glad that we're independent Baptists and it really doesn't matter. Find a time to worship God and and let's gather together and do it, amen. You can do it on Tuesday or any any other night, but man if there's just people would just be faithful. Oh I know this world wears you out. I know there's things going on. I think one of the reasons that God put me back in the workforce For a year and a half after I was in the ministry for a long time, it's so that I would understand what people go through when they get out of bed at five o'clock in the morning Drive an hour and a half to work and work all day and drive an hour and a half and get caught in traffic and trying to get changed to get back to the work church house on Thursday night I'll tell you what, it gave me a whole new appreciation for somebody that put a high enough priority on God's house to be there. I looked at it and said, man, look at that, because I understand the struggle. I understand the burden. I understand the heartache and the work that it is and all the time and the investment. And I know that if you're going to do it, it has to be something that's in your heart that you've just set aside and purposed and said, it's going to happen because I believe this is what God wants, and so I'm going to be there. It's the counter of a steward that a man be found faithful. There's a required faithfulness, my friend. I want you to see thoroughly that there's a required fulfillment. Turn to Luke chapter number 12. Luke chapter number 12. Again, familiar verses. But in Luke chapter number 12, we see verse 47 and 48. You're there, say amen. We'll wait a little bit, let the rest of you get there. All right, Luke chapter twelve, verses forty seven and forty-eight. The Bible says Did you read it already? And that servant which knew his Lord's will, and prepared not himself, neither did according to his will, shall be beaten with many stripes But he that knew not and did not commit things worthy of strife shall be beaten with few strifes, for unto whomsoever much is given, of him shall be much required and to whom men have committed much of him they will ask the more. Their beloved here is a required fulfillment The fact of the matter is that when God has entrusted each of us with something, it stands to reason that he would expect us to do something with it. that he would expect us to fulfill, to accomplish, to utilize, to take those things which he's given us and do that with which he expected of us. First of all, here under this, I want you to see a declaration for the reason. The declaration for the reason that there's a requirement. The fact of the matter is, is we have all been given much. We've been given much. I don't know how far to get down into this, but I want you to understand that your very subsistence comes from God. That word subsistence may be a little less familiar. It means the supporting of life, the fact of existence. Our subsistence, the very fact that we're alive today is because of God. I want you to know that you and much of the world today there they are under The delusion maybe, and you might be here under the delusion tonight that you're living your life absent or uh outside of God That's not true. That's a lie of the devil. The fact of the matter is every woman, boy, and girl here every single day that they live is an expression of the mercy of God. It's God's mercy being bestowed upon them, given another day to live. The very earth that we live on is a gift from God. According to the Word of God. According to the Bible, it says the earth was given to us by God. The very breath that you breathe is a gift from God. These are things that we could turn for sake of time, we're not going to turn to these passages of scripture, but you could turn to the scriptures and be and see where God says He gives man breath. The breath that you breathe is a gift from God. The sunshine and the rain which sustains life here on earth is a gift from God. The strength that you have to stand and to move is a gift from God. The ability that you have to even eat and digest food is a gift from God. Men today want to act or live or live as though they're living outside of God and that they did it all themselves because nobody ever gave me anything. I lifted myself up by my bootstraps. I earned every single penny I got. I built everything I ever had. Well, you know that's a lie. Because the very fact that they can stand, the very fact that they can walk, the very, how is it that their digestive system just happens to work correctly? How is it that their immune system works correctly? In one day their immune system could stop functioning. Their entire life would be turned upside down if they even were able to continue living at all. It's a gift from God. Every one of us understand this evening that your very subsistence, your very existence is because of God. We've been richly blessed. We've been given much. But not only that, I hope all of you here know Jesus as your Lord and Savior, so your salvation is a gift from God. Your salvation is a gift from God. The Bible says that Jesus, God, that He was the unspeakable gift. We heard some about this this morning, and I'm not going to belabor the point, but I want you to know that it's because of Jesus Christ and that he gave his life that you have salvation. That you've been forgiven. Listen, with that great salvation comes a great responsibility. To whom much is given, much is required. We've been given salvation and maybe we take it for granted, but beloved, with it comes a responsibility. We've been asked to be stewards of this great salvation. 1 Timothy 1. 11 says, according to the glorious gospel of the blessed God, which hath committed to my trust. The Apostle Paul is saying, God committed the gospel to my trust. He's committed it to your trust. He's saved your soul and he's given you the message of the gospel and he's committed it to your trust. Would you take that salvation? Would you take the the the cure for the ailment of man and just hide it? Neglect to share it? Neglect to tell others how they can know the forgiveness of God and be forgiven of their sin? With this great salvation comes a great responsibility We heard on Friday night by Brother Jacob as he preached on those words of Paul where he said, I am a debtor. I'm a debtor. Beloved, if we've been forgiven, we're debtors. We are debtors to an Almighty God. One day on the road to Damascus, God showed his grace and saved Paul. Paul stood up and he lost his physical sight, but he gained spiritual sight, and he understood immediately that he was a debtor. And that the world needed to know about this Savior. With salvation, God has given us the Holy Spirit to guide us into all truth and to comfort us in our hour of Heartache and struggle. That Holy Spirit. He's given us the abundant Christian life that is ours to enjoy. Not only that, beloved, we have the scriptures As Americans, we so underappreciate the gift of having the scriptures in our tongue. As we've talked about and mentioned even the 1040 window a couple weeks ago in describing these nations that that don't have a copy of the Word of God in their own language. And we've got it in printed form, and we've got it in digital form, and we've got it in audio form, and we've got it in video form, and we've got the Word of God in every form, except In our heads, except in our hearts We neglect it. With the gift of owning a copy of the scripture comes a great responsibility to get into the scriptures. To begin to commit this word, hide God's word in your heart. I wonder if German occupation came in and put us in a prison camp tonight, confiscated all the copies of the Word of God. I wonder if between everybody in this room. If we could reproduce one or two chapters of the Word of God. I wonder how much of God's Word do we have hidden in our heart? We've got it. It's here. It's in our hands. It's available to us all the time. But we neglect it Beloved, we have a required fulfillment. That is to do something with God. What God has given us, He's given us our very life, He's given us the salvation, He's given us scriptures. Not only that, beloved, He's blessed many of you with great skill. You have an ability to do things. You've been given gifts by God. Can you play an instrument? Can you preach? Can you sing? Can you teach? Can you can you lead something? Can you corral a a class? Can you w w where what is and where is your skill? I remember many, many years ago. When I was a lowly college student, I just started as a drywall contractor. Really not very good at it at all, to be honest with you. And there was a very skilled drywall contractor in the church that had his own company and had his own employees and had all of uh everything needed to get work done. But every time there was a job at church that required somebody with drywall skill, they came and asked me as a college student, could you do this work? And here's somebody with all of the ability. I mean I was just starting out. I barely knew what I was doing. I'm shocked they even let me do it. And I've tell you in my heart and mind as a young kid, I'm working here and I'm I'm wondering, where's this businessman? Where's this guy that God has blessed? And gave him a company, and gave him employees, and gave him the skill to be able to perform this work, and he's too busy to do anything at God's house? He's too busy to come down here and put on a coat of mud Or to even help me do it? I wonder what skill you have that you're too busy to use for God. What ability? With the abilities, with the skills that God has given us. And we're too busy to use them for the Lord? Well, we can use them for work. Oh, we can use them to accomplish this out in the world. We can use it to earn a buck. We can use that skill to have some piano lessons and earn a dollar over here or do this or do that, but to do it in church. Am I getting too direct? If we understand the skills and the abilities that we have, God gave them to us. And anything we do with them out there is meaningless. It's useless. It has nothing to do, no value in eternity. But every second that we use it inside of the scope of the ministries of God, it lasts for eternity. That alone should be enough motivation for us to say, hey, I'm going to cut out of work early and stop wasting my time here and go down to the church house and spend a few minutes earning some eternal dividends. Amen? That's what we ought to be searching after, what we ought to be seeking for. Do you have skill that you can use for God? What about uh your substance? God has given us all substance. In our country, we are so spoiled today. I am literally embarrassed about how good God has been to me. I'm embarrassed about it. About how good God has been. What about you? Has God been good to you? Are you using your your your substance for God? Whatever that is, you got a vehicle? I mean I love it. There's so many people in here in church that you pick up people, you bring them to church. Take some time and stop and pick somebody up in your car and get them to God's house. I know that takes time and energy and gas and and using your car for God There's nothing better we could do with it. Can I remind you, parents, that you've been given A great benefit of children. You've been given a benefit of children, and you're going to be held accountable for an Almighty God for how they're raised The Shaber's got all these little ones. We were talking about how good a parent we are when there are two or three. You know, when they're real little. Everybody's a good parent when your kid's two or three. Well, that's not true. I've met a few I would like to educate. But You understand we've only got one chance to raise them. Sure. You better stop playing church. You better stop living casual Christianity. You better stop worshiping at work. And playing at church. One day you're going to come to me and you're going to say, Pastor Caleb, what happened to my kids? Because when they were growing and you had the opportunity to influence them for God, you went on vacation instead of we're at church. And I'm not saying don't go on vacation. I'm saying when you're on vacation, you'll be in church somewhere. You put a priority on God. You say, oh, it's just this week or just that week. Yeah, what do you think your kids are going to grab a hold of? They're going to grab a hold of what you put a priority on. When you come to me, I'll do everything I can to love you, pray with you, and beg God to bring them back. For those of you that still have young kids, you've got the chance right now. You better not mess it up. You better put a priority on God's house Put a priority on God's on serving the Lord, pointing your kids towards Christ, being the kind of Christian that God wants you to be Let me just turn that upside down for those kids that are in here, to whom much is given, much is required. Don't you understand, kids, you have a responsibility before an Almighty God and before your parents who've invested in you. invested in you, raised you and trained you correctly, you've got a responsibility to do something with that. And God help you if you take that and throw it away and discard it and go live for self. In God's mercy and grace, He might not judge you today. But to whom much is given, much is required. And those that are in this room, I want you to know you've been given a lot. You've been given a lot. And God's going to require it of you someday. Far better to do what you should with it. Do you know as a church Here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church, I'm in awe of what God has given us. As a matter of fact, I'm I'm a little bit scared. about what God has given us. Because to whom much is given, much is required. This is pretty unbelievable when you think about the fact that a church as young as ours has property that's worth probably about five million dollars. We own three houses. We've got all that acreage right over on Shawan Road. God's blessed us with that that barn to be able to store stuff in and and and as a church. We've got tents that we can use for him. We got bounce houses that the kids can can play in. We've got Sunday school classrooms downstairs. We've got a gymnasium. We've got a beautiful parking lot. We've got an amazing building. Because you don't think it's a lie, you just ask Brother Jacob. I'm I'm just in awe of what God has given us as a church. And a little bit scared that we're not utilizing it to its fullest ability because to whom much is given, much is required. And God has given us so much. We've got to be using it for him. We've got to be seeing God do something in and through this church with what he's given us. God has put together a powerful group of people here. That he's required of us to put together our time, our talent, and our treasure to accomplish something great for him at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. I'm going to try and wrap this up, but I want you to know that there's danger in ignoring this requirement. You see there in verse number 47. And that servant which knew his Lord's will, and prepared not himself, neither did not, according to his will, shall be beaten with many stripes. There is a punishment. For not doing the requirement. There's a punishment for not fulfilling the requirement. There's a danger here And I know some may say, well, ignorance is list. I just as soon not know so much. If I'm going to be held accountable for everything that I know, Well then I just as soon not know it. I mean that's logical, right? Well then I can't be judged for it if I don't know it And so in that case, I'm going to just go to some church that's not teaching me the Bible, that's not telling me what God's Word says, that's not teaching me about soul winning. about separation, about service, about surrender, about missions. I'm just going to go to church that doesn't deal with those things, and then I won't be responsible for it. But I want you to know the Bible is pretty clear that's not an option. Because there comes a time when there's an expectation by God that you would know these things. We see it with Paul many times as he's dealing with Christians, and he says, Hey, you should have learned this already. This is something you should have known. You're not a babe in Christ anymore. Here's something that you should have found out. You should have got in the Word of God and learned these things. You know, my father is as really what I would call a first generation Christian, although he was not, because His mom and dad were saved, but they were just Sunday morning Christians. They just go Sunday morning and and I mean if they miss, no big deal. But Dad got in the Word of God and started learning the Word. He started seeing what God expected of a believer and started growing and transformed his own personal family to try and line up with the Word of God. There's a lot of Christians in churches that they're being preached the truth. The truth is being laid out for them in a platter. And instead of it transforming their family, they're saying, oh, that's not for me. I don't want that. But you see, God's still going to hold us accountable for it. To whom much is given, much is required, and there is danger in overlooking this requirement. Matthew 11, 29 says, Take my yoke upon you and learn of me. God expects us to learn. He expects us to grow. We can't just claim ignorance and pretend as though we don't know. It's like a child who mom and dad said You need to clean your room. And then Caleb goes to Melissa and says, Melissa, Dad said you need to clean your room. And Melissa goes, I can't hear you. And he's like, Dad said you need she goes la la la la la la la la You know, she doesn't want them that's not gonna work, is it? And then Caleb's like, Dad said you need to clean your room. Now this is a long time ago. They don't do that now Well you guys have seen kids do that, right? Yeah, we c we could try and do that with God. Say, Oh, Holy Spirit. No, I didn't hear that. Nope, that wasn't for me. Nope. But God says you no, I sh I told you. I spoke to you about this. I touched your heart about this. Lastly, I want you to see there's a delight in accomplishing the requirement There's a great delight in doing it. Even if it's something that you don't want to do. You know, sometimes in a Christian life you're going to have to do things you don't want to do. Sometimes things that you feel like you're ill equipped to do. I can pretty much guarantee you that any one of these missionaries right here, you talk to them and say, okay, were you fully prepared? Were you ready? I mean you you you felt like you could do this without without question, they're going to say no. They did so with fear and trembling. They embarked on this this path because they felt that's what God wanted them to do and said, okay, where God leads, he enables. And I'm just going to trust that he'll help me do it. Sometimes you're going to have to do the things that you don't want to do. Things that you don't like to do. 1 Corinthians 9. 17, Paul says, For if I do this willingly, I have a reward. But if against my will a dispensation of the gospel is committed unto me, he says, if I do this willingly, I'm going to have a reward. But if I do it even though I don't want to do it. There's a dispensation of the gospel awarded unto me. There's sometimes you've got to do some things that you don't really want to do. And God will bless you for it. There is great reward in that. He says there's a reward. Are you willing to do what God wants you to do? I wonder if God's calling anybody to the mission field this week. Young or old alike. God touched your heart and said, boy If Pastor Z at 56 years old can go to Poland, Lord, what do you want me to do The Holy Spirit struck your heart and gave some some direction to you, but you said, no, no, no, I don't want to do that. I wonder, are you willing to do what God wants? I recall hearing about a saint of God who was praying, and he said, Lord, Lord, I'm willing to do whatever you want me to do. And the Holy Spirit struck his heart and said, Is that true? And he stopped and he said, Well Lord, you know, you know my heart. He said, But Lord, I'm willing to be made willing. I'm willing to be made willing. I wonder tonight, are you willing to be made willing? Are you at least willing to say, Lord, I'm willing to be made willing I'll at least let you take me down that road in and through your power to make me willing to do it. Some jobs, and maybe most, will start out as those that you don't really want to do. Maybe not that glamorous. But there's great reward in fulfilling the requirement. During World War II, England needed an increase in its production of coal. They needed the co-workers to work overtime. And Winston Churchill called together the laborers and he asked of them, men, will you picture in your minds a parade down Piccadilly Square? Will you, will you picture this? Will you see it? The soldiers coming down the road, those victorious from Dunkirk, and those who defeated Rommel in Africa. Will you see then the next group coming, those sailors who kept the vital sea channels open? And then behind them can you see the pilots who have driven the Luftwaffe from the sky And last of all, men, he said, can you see the long line of sweat-stained, soaked men in miners' caps? And someone from the crowd may cry, And where were you during the critical days of our great struggle? And from ten thousand throats there will be the answer, we were deep in the earth, and our faces were in the coal. Beloved, not all the jobs of the church are glamorous. But the fact of the matter is, is many times the very thing that allows the church to move forward. are those people whose face is deep in the cold. Who are in the background doing the day-to-day task, and those are people that will receive great reward. Oh Sometimes people that stood here on the platform, their reward has already been given to them. Those that labored in the quiet and in the dark and in the unknown. Boy, God's counting that. And that reward is yet to come. Beloved, there's a reward for fulfilling The requirement. You know, last week Timothy got to lead the children's choir at Fairhaven And somebody in the crowd took a picture and sent it to Mary and I. And you know, here's Tembo. Leading the choir. Children's choir there at college. And uh I just sent him a little text and I said, hey son, saw a picture of you today leading the choir. Want you to know your dad's proud of you. Thank you for putting God first. He sent me back a note and said, Dad, you can't know what that means to me. Thank you for telling me you're proud of me. And beloved, if that means so much from the mouth of our earthly Father What is it going to mean to us when we stand before our Heavenly Father? When we stand before the Creator of the universe, the Savior of our souls? To hear him look at us and say, Well done. Well done, thou good and faithful servant.