All right, we are going to uh pick up our notes. I on purpose did not put a lot of the scripture in my Notes normally my notes I will include a lot of the scripture that I want to read a reference to for the sake of time. I'll have it right there and I can just read it But if you don't mind reading or looking up a passage of scripture, I'm not going to call anybody. I'm not going to call anybody out or just say, hey, would you read this? But if you would be willing to look up something and read it for us, that might help save us a little bit of time and then also get some other people engaged. And so as I ask for some references, if you're willing to just look it up, raise your hand, let me know that you're willing to read that for us And uh that would be a blessing. So we're going to be looking at a lot of different scripture here as we are going through this. We began the New Testament. Obviously, it it starts with the announcement of the forerunner of Christ and then the announcement of Christ's birth and you know, hey, uh he's on he's coming. Uh so this morning we're going to look at Christ's birth uh really as as that You know, it was announced and told us, hey, you know, Mary's carrying uh the the child uh and but the day's gonna come when you know he she he is gonna be delivered. However, want to consider or think about the fact that uh there was a pre-incarnate Christ. We think about Christ's birth, but we know that the 33 years that Christ lived here on earth is just a drop in the bucket compared to his life. Because he always was and he always will be. So the thirty-three years that we know of him and he is called by the name of Jesus in the span of time is just a a blip because he always was and he always will be. So first we want to look here at Christ before Bethlehem. Christ before Bethlehem to just remember and remind us of the fact that like God the Father and God the Holy Spirit that God the Son, part of the Trinity, always was Even in Micah's prophecies in Micah 5. 2 concerning him, it says about him, describes him as from everlasting to everlasting. That he always was, from everlasting before all the way to everlasting in the future, and so uh you know he always was. He the he was here before Bethlehem, before we see him, that baby laying in a manger. Obviously, Christ is seen at creation. When we went through the beginning of Genesis here, and it's just been a year ago for us, but who knows who's going to be listening to this lesson in uh you know a year from now or whatever but we know that Christ was part of creation. All of the Trinity was part and visible at the creation. They were all there. And we referenced this even last week, I think, where uh God the Father was saying, let us make man in our image. And who is he talking about? The us. He's talking to God the Father and God the Son and God the Holy Spirit. Let us make man in our image. So Jesus Christ was seen there at creation, Genesis 1. 1 and 126. And also is seen in the New Testament in John 1, 1 and 2, and these references are in your notes there, Colossians 1, 16 and 17. So he was there at creation. Christ is seen throughout the Old Testament. When Christ is seen in the Old Testament, that's called a Christophany. A Christophany, a a A uh manifestation of Christ in the Old Testament. And I've given you uh these references, and we're not going to look at all of them uh this morning, but We do know that he is mentioned several times if we look at Genesis chapter number 12, verses 7, 8, and 9, just to See a couple of these. We see that he appears to Abraham. Genesis twelve, seven, eight, and nine. He says here, and the Lord appeared unto Abraham, and said, Unto thy seed will I give this land, and there build an altar unto the Lord, who appeared unto him. This is Jesus, a Christophany, a presence of the Lord appearing and manifesting himself to them several times. You will see uh for instance uh he appears to Jacob, he appears to Hagar. We're gonna look at that presentation to Hagar in the morning service as part of looking at the next name of God. So we're not going to dig into that one. But let's look at the one with regards to Moses. Go to Exodus chapter number three in Exodus. You'll see several times in the Old Testament him referred to here as the angel of the Lord. And that's what we see here in Exodus 3. verses 2 through 6 and this is a familiar story uh for you guys but he says and Moses said I will now turn aside and see this great sight, why the bush is not burnt. And when the Lord saw that he turned aside to see God called unto him out of the midst of the bush and said, Moses, Moses, and he said, Here am I, and he said, Draw not nigh hither, put off thy shoes from off thy feet, for the place wherein thou standest is holy. ground. Moreover, he said, I am the God, thy father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac. God appeared and presented himself to him there. Then Let's look at Gideon in uh Judges chapter number six. Uh that's a long one. We don't want to go through all of that. It's a whole chapter there where he appears to Gideon. Um But we see him throughout the Old Testament numerous times a Christophany, a presentation of Christ, where he was present. You know, we have Abraham, Christ uh was there. Well, you remember the story of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, and when they're in the uh fiery furnace there, and the king looks at the fiery furnace and he says, Oh Did not we throw three men into the fire? And everybody says, yeah, yeah, he was three. He says, but wait, there's a fourth one, and he says, and he is like unto the Son of God. And you know, even the king there recognized that this manifestation that was present there for Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego was like unto the Son of God. So John chapter 8 verse 58 tells us that Christ was here before Abraham. Now Abraham lived 1900 years before Christ. Abraham 1900 years before that, and yet uh he describes the fact that he is the I am. That always was. I am that I am, and uh describes that fact that he was and always has been. Revelation chapter 1 and verse number 8, you don't have to turn there, but that tells us that Christ is and he was and he will be. Again, describing the eternal existence. He says, I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end, saith the Lord, which is and which was and which is to come. The Almighty. So describing His eternal eternal state that He is, He was And he is to come. He always has been and always will be. So before Christ appeared to us in Bethlehem, because he was God in the flesh, he was eternal and he was here. We see that Christ was sent to earth with a plan. God had a plan for him. When he was coming to earth, there were several things that the New Testament tells us about him and his purpose for coming. So we want to look at these first of all. We see you can turn to uh um Let's go to John chapter fourteen. Um so you want to get all the way to the New Testament now, we're gonna look at John fourteen. Verses seven, eight, and nine, we see one of the purposes for why he came. He says here, if ye had known me, ye should have known my father also. And from henceforth ye know him and have seen him. Philip saith unto him, Lord, show us the Father. And it sufficeth us. Jesus saith unto him, Have I been so long time with you, and yet hast thou not known me, Philip? He that has seen me has seen the Father. And how sayest thou then, showest the Father So one of the first things that he was to do is to make manifest or to reveal God the Father. Reveal God the Father to man. He when when people looked at Jesus, they he said, You've seen me, you've seen the Father. I and my Father are one. as God the Son, God the Father, God the Holy Spirit are all three one. We know that he came to be the Savior. 1 John 4. 14 came to be the Savior of the world. That's what Jesus came for. That was why He came. And uh we He came to be the light of the world in John 12. 46, just back a couple of ver ch chapters here were in John. So in John 12, 46, he says, I am come a light into the world. That whosoever believeth on me should not abide in darkness. He's come. And you remember John When John, the forerunner of Christ, you can read the beginning, John chapter 1, there with the forerunner of Christ, he says, I am not the light, but I come to bear witness of the light. And so describing that Jesus, the light of the world, is coming, but John was just a forerunner to let people know about that light. He was not the light, but came to bear witness of that light. He came to be the light of the world. We know that John or Luke 19, 10 tells us that he came to seek and to save that which was lost. He came to seek and to save that which was lost. These are the purposes for which Christ came to the earth, why he was sent to Bethlehem as a babe in a manger. He came to be a sacrifice for sin. Hebrews 9. 26 tells us. 1 Peter 1, 18 and 19 tells us. He came to be a sacrifice for sin. He came to defeat Satan, 1 John 3 and verse number 8. He came to defeat Satan. And not only that, he came to be an example for us. I'm going to turn to 1 John chapter 2 and verse number 6. First John 2 and verse number 6, the Bible says But ye have despised the four and I'm in James. Uh somehow I skipped the that's not where I want All right, 1 John 2, 6. He that saith, He abideth in him, ought himself also to walk even as he walked. He is the example. We are to walk as he walked. He came to be that example for us. And we, of course, know the ambition, desire of a Christian should be to be Christ-like. That we let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. He is the example. And as we read of him in the pages of Scripture, and as we learn of him, It should change our lives to say, hey, we want to live and be like Christ, not uh like ourselves and and we're to be conformed into the image of his Son so that uh God can be manifest, or Christ can be manifest in our lives. So these are the purposes for which He came. He came to earth with a plan. This is God's plan. Christ was sent at the perfect time. Galatians chapter 4 and 4 and 5. Does anybody remember in those verses? what the key words are in Galatians 4, 4, and 5 that describe or talk about the fact that Jesus came in the perfect time. Mary just said it. The Bible says there in the fullness of time, that that phrase in the fullness of time, the idea that when the time was right When everything had been fulfilled, when God had prepared the world inside of God's projected plan, when the fullness of time came? Jesus came into the world. And so God had planned this and laid it out. He was sent at the perfect time. Now, in the New Testament, we have Christ's heritage is given to us in two places, Matthew 1, 1 through 17 and Luke chapter 3. verses 23 through 28. We described and told you in the introduction uh that only two of the gospels have genealogies. Because the other two are presenting Christ in a way in which they do not need a genealogies. As God presents it or as John presents him as God, God doesn't have a genealogy. God always has been and always will be. Uh but we see here that these two, Luke um presenting him as the perfect man, uh And Matthew, they both have genealogies. Beginning with Matthew, the genealogy in Matthew chapter 1, verse number 17 gives us his legal ancestry of Christ from his adopted father Joseph. Now we know that it's not his father, Joseph, because his father is a heavenly father. God was born of a virgin. And Jesus was born of a virgin, Mary. And so Joseph is not his father. He's an adopted father. cared for him, raised him like a father, but it was not his father. So Matthew gives us his legal ancestry of Christ from his adopted father Joseph. Now Matthew lists 47 names, beginning with Abraham and concluding with Joseph. The history is given there, where these 47 names begin with Abraham and conclude with Joseph. Now that's noteworthy because we're going to see a contrast to that in just a minute as we look at Luke. Matthew divides these names, these groups, I'm sorry, these names into fourteen group into groups of fourteen. So he takes, and and it's not an exact translation. You say 47 names doesn't go into 14. uh but he in a broad spectrum is dividing h the Israel's history up and talks about these fourteen men that follow the line of Christ. First of all, from Abraham to David. That was the time of a theocracy. If you remember when we walked through the Old Testament, that time period where God was in control, the theocracy where God was the one Theo, meaning God, uh ruling, theocracy, God ruling, he ruled and he ruled over them directly. He communicated with his people, he told them what he wanted them to do, he guided them, he gave them a pillar of fire and a cloud and God was the one that he in different stages you see him directly leading his people and that's how God wanted it. But you remember the people cried out for a king And they said, we want to be like the other nations, and they cried out for a king, and so God said, okay, you can have a king. And so they get Saul. And uh, of course, following Saul, you have David. So you have from David to Babylon is a time of a monarchy. That's where the kings ruled. And we look through all the kings in the Old Testament survey. All those kings ruling over the children of Israel. You have the the northern kings and the southern kings, Israel and Judah, and the contrast that was there and that time of history in Israel's history when the kings ruled. So you have the monarchy. Then you have the time from Babylon. You remember they went into captivity into Babylon. um to Christ and that was a hierarchy. That was a time when they were in and out of bondage, where other people were ruling over them. where they were kind of passed off from the uh you know Babylonians to the Medes and the Persians and to the Greeks and to the Romans. Ultimately we get to Christ and the Romans are in control and They're oppressed and underneath Roman rule and so you have that time of a hierarchy that is l controlling their their history. And so those names divided up like that are describing the history and timeline of God's people. Now Matthew gives us four unusual names in his genealogies. These four unusual names are ladies. Now it's unusual because in the Middle East They did not consider women to be the you know, the line is generally traced through the man. The line in the history is tracked through the man's family. And so why would God include here in this history in this timeline he would mention these ladies. Not only does he mention these ladies, these four ladies, but these ladies are ladies of questionable character. And it's amazing when you think about them being in the timeline in the genealogy of Christ, you have Tamar, who dressed up in a seductive manner and seduced her father-in-law and sinned in that great way. And then of course we know Rahab. Rahab was a harlot But she believed and God honored her in this way, bringing her into the line of Christ. You have Ruth. Ruth wasn't even a Jew. She was a Moabites. She was a Moabite, and so she wasn't even a Jew in that regard. And how did she end up in the line of Christ like this? Then you have Bathsheba. Bathsheba, you know, whether completely willingly or or uh unwillingly not show, but she was an adulteress. And so you have these that are in the line of Christ, and here's the thing is God includes these in in here for several reasons. One, to show the value and the importance that He places on ladies Historically in history, sometimes people have under undervalued, want you know, God has always valued uh all of his creation, men and women, and has never, in God's economy, has never made women to be any less than men And God, including this in this timeline of Christ, shows us that. But not only that, with these particular women being of questionable character by the world standards, we see a display of the great mercy of God. That God in his ability to forgive and to restore, where other people would have written these women off and said, boy, they're not important, they don't matter, oh look, they messed up. God says, no, they can be forgiven, they can be restored. The mercy of God. We know there is none righteous, no, not one. And every one of us are sinners saved by grace. And the best of men are men at best. And we know that God in His mercy and His grace can forgive and restore and continue to use all of us. And it's an amazing testament of the goodness of God as he includes these ladies in this genealogies of Christ here. Then we see the genealogies that are given to us in Luke. Luke gives us the physical ancestry. You remember Luke presents him as the perfect man. And so we have the physical ancestry of Christ from Mary. From Mary. Not not from Joseph, because we know Joseph was not his father, but from Mary and the ancestry that goes back from that. There are seventy-seven names here. They begin with Joseph and they go backwards. All the way to Adam. Now that's in contrast to Matthew. In Matthew, we see the timeline begins at Abraham, and they track it all the way to Joseph. This begins at Joseph and goes backwards, but it goes all the way to Adam. I have a brief diagram here for you from Jensen's survey of the New Testament. This is just remade but right out of his book, Tencent's Survey of the New Testament, which I hope is big enough for you to be able to see. But kind of give you a picture here. So Matthew here giving us the legal descendants of Jesus, Joseph's genealogies, tracking this, and then Luke. But Luke takes this and carries this all the way back to Adam, and Matthew only takes it back to Abraham. And then we see it comes through here, through the line of David, and yet there's a split-off there from David's children. You have Solomon and Nathan, who are brothers. And then you have Eli, the father of Mary, the father-in-law of Joseph. And uh in uh Israeli histrael history, timeline wise, uh when you have uh is very normal for a family like if I'm a father and I have like let's say just Alicia put this together for me. I sent her a picture of it and said, Can you get this done? Uh so it would be very normal for them to adopt or to call What's his name? Stephen, my son-in-law. Uh it would be nor very normal for me to recognize Stephen as my son. to bring him into the family. Now he is my son. And so that's where you have this uh Heli was a f Heli was the father uh and the father-in-law of Joseph, Jacob, the actual father of Joseph, and so that's where it tracks it back a different way there from, of course, Jesus. And uh I can print this out and give it to you next week so you can have it in your notes. I'll just put it on a separate piece of paper so you can have it in your notes. But just wanted you to be able to maybe visualize that a little bit. So you have the two different timelines that give to us um the hit the heritage, the lineage of Christ. Now, I've included here a third aspect which isn't often talked about, but I would say is just as important, and that is John's genealogies. Because in John, who presents Christ as God, we understand that Jesus is God and that his Father is God the Father John is theological, presenting Christ as God. John is writing his message to the whole world. Not to just one group of people. He's letting the whole world know that Jesus is God. And he tells the world that Christ is the only begotten of the Father. So he lets us know that Jesus Christ, although Matthew and Luke give us This genealogies in the line of Christ fulfilling many prophecies and drawing for us a picture of the timeline where God had promised Abraham. uh that his he would be multiplied and that he would bring a deliverer and David and so you see these prophecies that had been given and these promises and covenants that God had made all the way back in the Old Testament fulfilled with Christ Also, we see that he is God in the flesh, and ultimately his father is God the Father, the only begotten Son of God. John, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son. That is the picture that John gives us showing us that his genealogies began and stop with God the Father. And so that brings us up to and shows us Christ before Bethlehem. But now we want to see Christ in Bethlehem. uh Christ being delivered to us, given to us, we have the birth of Christ in Bethlehem was by divine direction. The time frame, but not only the time frame, but the location. Exactly when God miraculously orchestrated these events to allow Christ to be born in Bethlehem as God had promised. And so if you have your prophecies concerning the Messiah, you'll note the next one there is Micah 5. 2. that he would be born in Bethlehem. That's this sheet of paper. You have that. We're just going to be filling this out as we go along, as we come up to these things. So in Micah 5. 2, born in Bethlehem What you'll put with that is Matthew 2, 1 and Luke 2, chapter number 4. Matthew 2, 1, and Luke chapter 2 and verse number 4. So I'm going to turn back to Micah here. Uh and Micah chapter five and verse number two, let me read that to you. The Bible says, but thou Bethlehem, Eprata, though thou be little among the thousands of Judah, yet out of thee Shall he come forth unto me, that is to be ruler in Israel, whose goings forth have been from old and from everlasting? This ruler that is talking about there couldn't be anybody else but God in the flesh. He's saying this ruler that's going to come out of Bethlehem That's going to be a ruler unto me is a ruler that uh is described there as whose goings forth have been from old and from everlasting. So God from everlasting to everlasting, Micah 5. 2. I would write in the margins of your Bible there if you're wanting to keep up with this pattern that we've given, Matthew 2, 1 through 6. And or Luke 2. 4. This is a prophecy given to us in the Old Testament that is fulfilled in the New Testament. And so you want to just make a note in the margin of your Bible. If you have a good study Bible, that will be noted in there somewhere It's going to already be in the margins of your Bible somewhere. And making note of where that is will help you to better use your study Bible so you'd know how it's working, how it's showing those things to you Then you want to turn to Matthew chapter 2 and verse number 1 and Luke 2 and verse number 4 and mark down Micah 5. 2 so that you see that when you're reading those passages. you'll be reminded of, oh, that's the fulfillment of Micah 5. 2. And let me just read Matthew chapter 2 and verse number 1 to you He says, now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea, in the days of Herod the king, behold there came wise men from the east to Jerusalem. And so Jesus being born in Bethlehem of Judea, so the fulfillment there was by divine direction. God had foretold it, God had planned it, that he was going to be born there. And uh God sent them at just the right time through a decree that everyone should return unto their own city uh to be taxed, that a census was to be done. and the timing of this. I mean you think about in in all of time and all of history uh Mary and Joseph, the the time for her to deliver was at hand and yet they had to go back uh to Bethlehem and this could have been done anyway. God could have orchestrated this or or you know could have made it just a matter of of that Joseph wanted to go see some family or whatever. They went back. God could have orchestrated this or brought it about by any means, but this is how he determined and decided to do it, that Mary and Joseph, uh, you know Joseph probably wouldn't have wanted to take this trip right now. I mean it's time for Mary to deliver. Let's wait till after the baby's born and then we'll go see mom and dad or whatever. You know, they they they would have waited, but no they couldn't wait. They had to get back there and the timing of it was perfect, obviously planned by God so that they would be here, so that the baby would be born in Bethlehem as God had promised The birth of Christ in Bethlehem was announced by the angels to the shepherds in Luke chapter 2. We're going to be turning back and forth between Mark and Luke several times. You know, these these Sorry, Matthew and Luke. These stories that are found in Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John many times are repeated or very similar as we talked about last week So familiar passages of scripture, you know, Luke chapter 2 with the announcements of the Birth of Christ being delivered here and verse number eight. And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night, and lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them And the glory of the Lord shone round about them, and they were sore afraid. And the angel said unto them, Fear not, for behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. These shepherds were watching their flocks by night. They were caring for these sheep. And you know these shepherds cared for sheep that were going to be used In the sacrificial ceremonies, they cared for the lambs, and you know they were looking for lambs without splot and without blemish, these lambs that would be used to ultimately sacrifice and cover the sins of the people. This is something that they would understand greatly. They cared for these animals. And then had to give these animals that they cared for and loved over to be offered as a sacrifice to cover for the sins of the people. And so who better to announce the Lamb of God that would take away the sins of the world, than the shepherds who cared for the lambs Who had been for generations and all of time thus far offered a sacrifice to cover the sins of the people, they would come to understand that They had for generations offered a lamb to cover the sins, even their own sins of the shepherd, but now the shepherd was going to come. And he would cover the sins of all people, Jesus being that that lamb. Not only were they watching their flocks by night, but these shepherds Worshipped the child. They came and they understood who he was. They recognized him in verse number fifteen. And it came to pass as the angels were gone away from them into heaven. The shepherds said one to another, Let us now go even unto Bethlehem and to see this thing which has come to pass, which the Lord hath made known unto us. And they came with haste and found Mary and Joseph and the babe lying in a manger, and when they had seen it, they made known abroad. So not only did they come and worship him, but the shepherds witnessed. of what they saw. They carried the message. They made known abroad of what they had seen there. saying which was told them concerning this child, and all they that heard it wondered at those things which were told them by the shepherds. The shepherds came. And that should be, you know, when somebody gets saved, when somebody's life is changed by Jesus, they want to make known what was done. They want to tell other people about it. They want to share that truth with their family. And oftentimes a new believer is very shocked at how unreceptive the average person is. Because they their life's been changed and they're they're like, wow, uh, this is amazing. Look at what God did and my sins are forgiven. And They want to tell everybody your sins can be forgiven and they they just wonder at awe at how people can be so callous and hard and it not affect them and not impact them at all. It's amazing. We see that he was circumcised on the eighth day per Jewish law, Leviticus 2. 21 and Leviticus, Luke 2. 21, sorry, and Leviticus 12, 1 through 3. talks about those. Now he also there in Luke 221 was officially named we see And when eight days, Luke 221, and when eight days were accomplished for the circumcision of the child, his name was called Jesus. which was so uh conceived in the woman, Jesus. That was the name that he was supposed to be called and he was. Then we see that he was present the presentation of Christ at the temple in Luke 22 to 38. The presentation of Christ at the temple. This visit fulfills two Jewish customs. First of all, the ritual purification of Mary. The ritual purification of Mary. In Leviticus chapter 12, verses 4. And 6 through 8 talks about this, and we don't have time to turn back and look at that. But uh in Jewish custom, a lady was impure for 40 days. after having delivered. It was there was a time of purification that's described there in Leviticus. There's a seven-day period and then a uh 33-day period uh that She is considered unpure and so she could not go into the sanctuary and she could not touch anything holy until after that time of purification And the reason this is important is because several things that we look at often in the story of Jesus, and it's very picturesque and it's very beautiful, and nothing sinful or wrong in the presentation that we see at Christmas time. But it kind of messes with the timeline in our mind. We kind of think like all this stuff happened the night Jesus was born. Jesus in a measure, and then everything happens. We're going to see in a minute, you know, the wise men come, and in our mind, the wise men came the night and presented gold, frankincense, and myrrh there to Jesus. It's when you understand the timeline, it could have been as much as two years later that these wise men come So it didn't happen that night. And so there's several things that we look at in the story of Jesus that sometimes in our mind timelines get messed up because of the pictures that we've seen. And so this is why this is important, understanding that this ritual purification of Mary, we're talking about this happened 40 days after. Okay? Now, Jerusalem was six miles from Bethlehem So not that far they could have run over, you know, gone to the temple and came back because they spent a considerable amount of time in Bethlehem. Again, we think about, you know, Herod wants to kill all the babies. And so the night after Jesus was born, you know, Joseph and Mary get the baby and run off to Egypt. But that's not the timeline because we're talking about a couple time a couple of year period here and uh so here we're talking about forty days. before they would even go to the temple for purification. Also the redemption of the firstborn son with five shekels in Numbers chapter 18 We have uh the story of that numbers eighteen, fifteen, and sixteen. He says here, everything that openeth in my numbers eighteen, yep. Everything that Uh openeth the matrix, all the flesh which they bring unto the Lord, whether it be of men or beast, shall be thine. Nevertheless, the firstborn of man shalt thou surely redeem and the firstlings of unclean beasts shalt thou redeem, and those that are to be redeemed from a month old shalt thou redeem, according to thine estimation, for the money of five shekels. after the shekels of the sanctuary, which is twenty giras. So the they were to redeem them by paying five shekels. Now you can look over in Leviticus chapter number 12 and provision was made. If they didn't have five shekels, if they were poor, they could pay with what? Do you remember? Two turtle doves. They could use two turtle doves. If they were very poor and they didn't have five shekels, they could use two turtle doves. And that's in Leviticus chapter 12 and verse number 8 that describes that. And uh that's what Mary and Joseph used was two turtle doves. Uh so the visit fulfills God's promise uh to Simeon, the prophet. And God fulfills and remembers his promise to all men. Simeon had been told that he would get to see the Messiah in Luke chapter 2. 26. We don't have time to read it. Uh Simeon knew Jesus to be this Messiah. He recognized him. When this baby came in, I'm sure they had seen many other babies. Lots of babies had come in. The Jewish custom was to redeem the firstborn, to come and present him at the temple. So he probably did this on a regular basis, and yet when this child came in, he understood that he was looking at the Messiah He knew that this is who had been brought to him. Simeon knew Jesus to be the Messiah. Simeon prophecies prophesies that he will be the light to the Gentiles and the glory of Israel. Anna knew Jesus to be the Messiah. In Luke 2. 38, she recognized him, knew that this was the Messiah, that he had come to save his people of their sins. Now the wise men come to visit Christ. We're going to wrap this up here. I'm going to try and give you the rest of this. The wise men arrive in Jerusalem asking after the child. They are sent by the king in search of the young child. Matthew 2. 8. So we know this could have been up to two years later. He goes, he doesn't say go find the baby. And in Luke 2. 38, he says, I want you to go find the young child. So he's called the young child by the king there, not the infant, not the baby. Also, when Herod, you know the story when Herod is going to kill the king of the Jews, that he says, I want you to kill every baby two years and younger. Why would he say two years? Because it had been up to two years since that child had been born and presented. Okay? So it had been that long and so he was going to make sure that he got the baby. If it had been the night that Jesus was born, he would say, Go kill all the newborns. But uh he had thought the possibility that this could this child could have been at least that old. Not only that, in ma in Matthew 2, verse number eleven, the wise men come and they find Jesus and it's small things you gotta pay attention to in the Word of God. They find Jesus in a house in Matthew 2. 11. And you can look at it, or you can look it up. They come and they find Jesus in a house. And that is where they present him the gifts They didn't present them the gifts in the manger like we a lot of times are picturing. And there's nothing wrong with picturing those things together like that, but just so we in our mind have the correct timeline. Alright, now they present him gold that represents his deity. They pr they uh I really need to, this is important for us to recognize these things that he was God in the flesh, so I don't want to fly through this. I think we'll pick up here next week and uh Move on down to the next one. I even went with much less notes this week, but I'm trying to move a little slower. So let's close in prayer and we'll be just Lord, we thank you for your love and you're good to us. Thank you for the time in Sunday school. I pray that as we look at these things, we would get an understanding of your word and and uh, Lord, see it in the pages of Scripture. Lord, I pray it would be beneficial to us as our understanding of you grows and what you're doing in the New Testament here with the delivering of your son. And Lord, we'll thank you for it. We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen. So we are to conclude last week's. I think we'll just pick up uh a around the bottom of page number twelve. Um in in the notes there we have uh letter E, the wise men visit Christ and I know we kind of uh touched on this but just want to pick up right there that the wise men visit Christ. And so we are in Matthew chapter number two, and going to be looking at that uh quite a lot today in the book of Matthew. Turn your Bibles there if you would. Lot lots to look at, lot to observe as we're going through this. But we know that the wise men come and visit Christ. We're gonna be digging into this a little bit more. Uh Mary and Joseph stayed in Bethlehem for a period of time. uh maybe as long as two years or relatively close to that. Uh and uh we believe that to be so uh because uh when the king went in search of the baby to kill the baby, you know. Uh it wasn't the night Jesus was born. It wasn't an infant child Uh he actually he says to them in Matthew chapter 2 in verse number 8 he says and he sent them to Bethlehem and he said go and search diligently for the young child And when you have found him, bring me word again that I may come and worship him also. So he acknowledges the fact or uh says, Hey, there's a young child, I want you to go find him, uh and let you know of course he's being deceitful. Uh and we're going to dig into this as we move into the next lesson, but uh, you know, of course he wants to kill this young child And then uh when Herod there was going to kill the babies, we of course know that he chose to kill all the babies that were two years old and younger. So again, the implication or the idea that this infant child was not a newborn just a few hours old or even just a few days old but could have been as much as close to two years old uh during this time. So they remained in Bethlehem for a period of time. Now these wise men come and Matthew 2. 11 tells us that they find Jesus in a house. In chapter 2 and verse number 11, it says, and when they were come into the house They saw the young child with Mary his mother. And so again, the idea that we a lot of times, and there's nothing wrong with you know, the story gets kind of condensed together and put into the manger scene and everything stacked together into one night and and so people in their mind's eye in the picture that they have drawn, all of this happens in one night. Uh, you know, the wise men come and the shepherds come and the star is seen and and Herod says, Go kill the baby if you know That that all happened in one night, but it was not just in one night. It was over quite a long period of of time, as much as two years. We don't know exactly how long But the wise men come and they present Jesus with gifts. There's several things notable here, and I didn't want to just run through this, but I wanted to be able to uh talk about it. And first of all, they They present uh gold in recognition of his deity. I want you to know that Jesus was all God, as if he was never man. and he was all man as if he was never God. That concept or idea of how uh a baby, you know, can be all God and and yet still at the same time be all man and how he can be tempted in all points like we are and yet still have the power of God to do miraculous things is something that's beyond our comprehension or understanding, but it's what the Bible teaches and we've got to be sure that we recognize and acknowledge it. There are many people out there, false teachers, that uh want to take away Christ's deity and say, well, he was a good man. He was a prophet. Uh he did many great and wonderful things. But they don't want to recognize him as part of the Godhead and listen, if he wasn't God in the flesh, he doesn't have the power to save or to forgive sins. Uh and so we need to remember and acknowledge that he was God. We see his deity recognized or think about it in a couple of ways. First of all, we know according to Luke chapter one, thirty five and other passages, but that he was born of a virgin. This is a miraculous thing. This is something where the Holy Spirit, in a miraculous way, allowed a virgin to conceive and bear a child And so he was born of a virgin that d was not given the seed of man and therefore does not carry the sin of man. that nature that comes from Adam. And so he was born of a virgin. He exercised great power, the power of God. Jesus We see throughout his life, not in his childhood years, we're going to talk about those in a few minutes, but in when his ministry began, we see him exercising great power. And we know the story there in uh John eleven, forty-three and forty-four. John eleven is where Jesus raises uh Lazarus from the dead. There are there there is no man that has the power to uh command somebody who is dead to come forth. and call forth the dead and give back life to one that has already perished. And so we see Jesus exercising that measure of deity, the power that he had in his Godhead. And so it's it's Notable, but it's also very important that we as God's people recognize Jesus as God. We see him in his deity. And then he's given frankincense In recognition of his hum his humanity. So yes, he was all God, but at the same time, he was all man. And we recognize this in several things. First of all, in Galatians 4. 4, uh it says that uh he was uh made of a woman. Uh the he his humanity, that he was made of a woman. And so we know that God, although he was deity and he was virgin born, he also was brought forth from the womb of a woman. And so his humanity is recognized there. Uh we know according to Luke 252, which we're going to dig into when we begin to look at his childhood, but we see that he developed like a normal man. He he just grew as he didn't You know, he wasn't a full grown man when he was born. He developed and grew like a normal child and went through the stages and the processes of life and uh grew up like a normal child. He felt normal human frailties. like other men did. For instance, in John 4, verse number 6, we know that he felt fatigue, that he was tired, that he needed to rest. Oftentimes he looked for a way to to get away and to go and to be alone. And so he felt fatigued. We know Math according to Matthew chapter 4 and verse number 2. I'm close to that, so let me go ahead and read it. It said, And when he had fasted forty days and forty nights, he was afterward unhungered. I think I would be hungry after 40 days and forty nights as well. But the idea there is, oh well Jesus fasted forty days and because he was God he didn't need food No, he needed food. He was hungry. He felt that hunger, just like you do when you go without a meal or decide to uh you know, Bob just went through surgery and they usually tell you like how many ever hours before surgery you're not supposed to eat. And uh you get hungry and and you're like, No, you can't eat anything and and you gotta wait till after the surgery and then after the surgery they're like, No, you can't wait You can't eat until this time, you know, and so they kind of put you through it until you get well past it. Uh but you know, your body feels that hunger. Well Jesus felt hunger. And then he felt thirst in John 19, 28. He was thirsty. These just normal human frailties. Yes, he was God in the flesh, but he also was just like you and I in the aspects of our humanity. We see in Matthew 8. 24 that he slept. And so he was given gold in recognition of his deity, frequ frankincense in recognition of his humanity, and then myrrh In recognition of his future suffering, an acknowledgement of the fact that he was the Messiah, that he did come to be given as a sacrifice. with that understanding, with that knowledge, knowing that he was going to give his life a ransom for all. So at this point we know that Christ is somewhere around two years old And uh in our next lesson, we're going to dig into his boyhood, the boyhood of Christ. We want to bring this lesson to a conclusion this morning.