Would you turn your Bibles this morning to Jeremiah chapter 6? Jeremiah chapter 6 and verse number 16 Jeremiah chapter 6 and verse number 16, as I said, it's very unusual for me not to preach some type of patriotic message, some some type of message. regarding Memorial Day and the memorials that have been set up, whether spiritually in the Word of God or in our lives or historically here in our country, in acknowledgement of what uh the sacrifices of those that have paid and done for us and the freedoms we have. However, uh we began some weeks ago as a choir to practice a song that we sang this morning entitled Give Us the Old Paths. And over these last few weeks as we've practiced and sung this song, uh, I just kept getting stirred in my heart to this need for good old-fashioned religion. For good old fashioned Bible preaching, for good old fashioned song singing, for the old time religion. Amen. I I I just was stirred in my heart about that truth and I remember as a young man many, many years ago, I don't remember if it was a tape or maybe I heard it on a radio broadcast, I don't know, but there was an old uh evangelist by the name of Mays Jackson And evangelist, he was a uh old leather lung preacher. I mean the kind of preacher that today they would sell they would say hellfire and brimstone You know, uh I had a a friend uh of ours that came to our kids' graduation and uh He he looked at us. We we had lunch with him on Thursday afternoon before uh the graduation and and he said he was coming and we were kinda surprised. And uh he said, Yeah, I didn't have enough hellfire and brimstone in my life, so I'm gonna come to graduation tonight and get some good old fashioned preaching. And I said, Amen, that's that's good Uh, you know, but Maze Jackson was that way. Well, he preached a message many, many years ago. I don't know when it was first preached, but it was from our text on the old paths. Look at Jeremiah chapter 6 and verse number 16. He says in Jeremiah 6. 16, Thus saith the Lord, Stand ye in the way and see, and ask for the old paths. God is calling, God is asking, he's giving Jeremiah a message and he's saying, Hey, uh tell the people to call out to ask to look for the old paths. Now if you think about the Bible time when this was written and he was asking for the old past, how much more do we need today to be reminded and called back to the old past? These old paths, he says there, and ask for the old paths, where is the good way, and walk therein, and ye shall find rest for your souls Oh my goodness. But they said we will not walk therein. They said we will not walk therein. Sadly, many today have replied with that same reply, we're not going to walk in the old plan old paths. Most today are looking uh for the the the new the uh updated, the upgraded, the new version of whatever it might be. I'll tell you if Maze Jackson could see the average Baptist church today, he would cry out aloud and anew for the old paths. There's without question in our text uh this text that Mae Jackson used, I suppose. Uh he and Maybe even thousands of other old fashioned Bible believing, God exulting and sin hating preachers have used to remind God's people of the need to go back to the old past Anyone believe that believes there's a hell to shun and a heaven to gain must be reminded of the truths that are in God's Word, these old paths. He says, ask For the old paths. Would you pray with me and ask God to speak to our hearts as we speak for just a few minutes on the old paths? Lord, we come to you this morning. I submit myself to you, an unworthy vessel, to preach your worthy message. I ask you, God, that you would give me liberty of thought, liberty to preach and clarity of thought this morning. That Lord you would help me to preach it in the spirit that you would have, that Lord, there would not be any unnecessary harshness, that there would not be any uh any of my own spirit or flesh, but God that your Holy Spirit would do Only what he can do in the hearts of your people, Lord. We ask you to draw us into the presence of heaven that you would speak to our hearts, that you would challenge us for the importance of this. And help us not to buy into the modern philosophy and idea of needing everything new, but that we might be reminded of the old paths that you've given us and that we might gladly walk therein. And Lord, we pray that you would draw us to that place this morning. In Jesus' precious name, amen. This morning I want you to realize that we need the old paths, and that begins with the old path of preaching We need old-time Bible-believing preaching. Old-time preaching of the truth of the Word of God. Would you turn in your Bibles to 2 Timothy Chapter number four. I want you to see these verses in the Word of God because I want you to understand what it is that a preacher is supposed to do. People today need preaching. There is a misconception concerning preaching today. There is a philosophy or an idea that uh preaching should be just right. You know, the the Goldilocks mentality. Some people like it hot, some people like it cold, some people are looking for it just right. And everybody wants it just the way that they want it. And they they want a preacher that's that's old enough to be mature, but young enough to be energetic. They want a preacher that's loud enough to be heard, but not too loud to be obnoxious. They want him to be Engaging but not overboard. They're looking for somebody to fit just right in where they want. The problem is, how many of you understand that every one of us here are all different We're all different. Every one of us have different press preferences and personalities and are things that we like or that we enjoy. Some people enjoy a good uh uh illustration. I like to teach with my hands and work with my hands and I enjoy giving illustrations and using. Though some people enjoy illustrations, uh, but some people they don't really care for those. That's not what they like. But listen, we're we're all different But you know what? Uh the Bible says that we've reached a time or a day that the Bible called the Laodicean Age, that is, when men were lukewarm. When men believed in the rights of the people. That's the Laodicean age, when everybody wanted it how they wanted it. And I think we're in that time today. There's a misconception concerning preaching. I want you to see it in our text here in the verse, 2 Timothy 4. Look at verse number 1. You know, beloved, let me let me say this. We're going to get to verse number one in just a second. Everybody wants preaching a certain way, but How many of you would agree that what a preacher does, how a preacher presents the truth God uses men and he uses their personality, he uses who they are because he prepared them and called them to that job. But how a preacher preaches, I want you to how many of you think it ought to be in line with what the Bible says? It's it's not just a matter of, oh, uh he does this because that's what he likes to do, or he does this because that's who he is, or he does this because that's what it is, but no, he ought to preach in line and even how the Bible says he ought to preach. And so we want to look at that. What does the Bible say? We see here in 2 Timothy chapter 4, verse number 1. He says, I charge thee therefore for God, and the Lord Jesus Christ, who shall judge the quick and the dead, at his appearing and his kingdom. He says in verse number two, again, Paul, talking to his son in the faith Timothy, he says, Preach the word. Preach the word. He says, be instant in season and out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort with all longsuffering and doctrine. The misconception that's a that's prevalent in our world today begins here in verse number three. He says, For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine. But after their own lust shall heap to themselves teachers having it in ears. And they shall turn away their ears from the truth, and shall be turned unto fables. That's the society by and large, even churches that we live in today, or you might hear, you go and you hear somebody get up and they'll read a periodical or they'll tell some story or they'll uh present Some some feel good illustration. They'll have a little uh uh uh what you might call a little a little ditty or a or a sermonette for five minutes or ten minutes And and then everybody walks and goes their own way. We need the old path where the Word of God is opened and it is expounded and preached and the hearts of men are changed. Through that word of God which is quick and powerful and sharper than a two-edged sword, is not the opinion of men, it is the word of God We are to preach the word. We're not to preach opinions. We're not to preach uh our own ideas. We're not to preach about periodicals or or the latest news illustrations or what it might be that we're to preach the word of God. That's what he's supposed to preach. That word preach, I want you to understand, beloved, preach. If you look in the Word of God and you see the word preach, or preaching or or preached. Uh the Hebrew and Greek of those words means to call out, means to herald, to herald like the public crier, to herald for, to cry out. The Greek word means to announce the good news. So, beloved, why does a pastor get so excited? Why does he lift his voice? Is it just because that's his personality and that's what he likes to do? No, there's an example given us into the word in the Word of God that the preaching is to be the heralding out, the calling out, the heralding forth the truth of the message. There ought to be some fervency. There ought to be some importance put on the message. There ought to be some tenacity given. There ought to be some focus given. With this, we see in Isaiah 58 and verse number 1, God telling his prophet, he says, Cry aloud, spare not, lift up thy voice like a trumpet. And show my people their transgression in the house of Jacob their sin. Now God was telling the prophet there, he says, Here's what I want you to do. I want you to get before the people And I want you to cry aloud. I want you to lift your voice like a trumpet. Like a trumpet. I want you to call it out to preach the word and show my people their transgressions and Jacob their sin. They need to see that. That's what the preacher is supposed to do. Ah, Paul, we see Paul giving us an example of how to preach in Acts chapter twelve, verse seventeen, and thirteen, sixteen, and twenty-one four, the Bible says that Paul beckoned with his hand. He beckoned with his hand. Called in attention. Beckoned with his hand. So he's he's used his hand. So the preacher is supposed to be calling out, lifting his voice like a trumpet. He's to be beckoning with his hands, getting attention. See, you think he's doing that just because you're sleeping. Might be. But he's trying to get your attention because the importance of the message. We see Ezekiel chapter 6 and verse number 11 that Ezekiel stomped his foot So these are examples given us in the Word of God. What I'm saying is you might have your presence. You know, you say, Well, Pastor, I believe the man of God should stand behind the pulpit of God. And I believe he should solemnly bring forth the great riches of God's mercy, full of solemnity. There's a place for that As I stood at the funeral home bringing the message on the gospel of Jesus Christ and the hope that we have in him and the joy that we had because Kitty put her faith and trust in Christ, I did so with solemnity. I did so with the uh uh a proper reverence. But when the man of God is following the example, if we're if we said at the beginning and everybody said amen, uh well at least most maybe you did. But most of everybody said amen. That we ought to be preaching according to the Word of God. Well, these I'm giving you according to the Word of God, what is the preacher supposed to do? He is to call out, he is to herald like the public crier, he's to announce the good news, he's to cry aloud, lift up his voice like a trumpet, he's to beckon with his hands and stomp his feet That's what a preacher is supposed to do, according to the Bible. Those are examples that we have on how to preach the word. Paul charged Timothy. He says, I charge thee. Now listen, who does he say there in the Word of God if you're still in 1 Timothy or 2 Timothy there, verse number 1? He says, I charge thee, what does he charge them before who? Before God. You see, the preacher is standing before God. Yes, he is standing before you, but the preacher is responsible to preach the word before an Almighty God, to bring the message That God has given him. You'll see it over and over in the Word of God. God tells the man of God, here's what I want you to tell my people. And he got the message and he went to the people and he said, Thus saith the Lord That's the responsibility of the man of God to preach the word because he has a responsibility before God. He says there to be instant in season and out of season. That means to be ready to preach, to be ready to give an answer, that means to be ready when it's convenient and when it's convenient. when it's not convenient. But then he says to reprove. To reprove. Now to reprove is to scold sharply. When was the last time you sat in a message that you were scolded sharply? We're talking about the biblical example of what we're supposed to be doing as a preacher. The Bible says here to reprove. Timothy, I charge thee before God. When you get up to speak to the people, you need to be instant in season, out of season, and you need to reprove, that is, to scold sharply. One preacher said, men need to be reminded of their own sin far more than the sin of Adam. Okay, see what he's saying is that as long as we talk generally in a broad theological sense that we're all sinners, everybody's okay with that. Yes, we know we all have the nature of Adam, and we've all done things that are wrong. Amen, preacher. Yes, thank you for reminding us of that truth. But as soon as the preacher begins to get down into the nitty-gritty of the Word of God, and he says, Wine is a mocker, strong drink is raging, whosoever is deceived thereby is not wise And he says the the Christian should never have alcohol touch their lips. Wait a minute, preacher. Now you're meddling. Now you're me now you're getting down you you can't you can't tell me that, preacher No, no, that's not what it no, the preacher says, hey, that that sexual sin outside of marriage, sexual relationships outside of marriage is sin Whether it's fornication or adultery, it's sin. And if you're having it doesn't matter if you're fifteen or you're fifty, if you're having intimate sexual relationships with somebody outside of the bounds of marriage, the Bible says it's sin. And you shouldn't be doing it. And it's not okay. It's not acceptable. It's not understandable because you've had a hard life and life's not fair and things are hard. No, it's still sin That's what reproving is. Preaching the truth, telling you that this is wrong. When when the man of God gets up and he says that thou shalt uh Not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain, and that God's people, people that name the name of Christ, should not be using foul language That that is sin, that that's not acceptable in God's sight. Yeah. Now we're getting down to the nitty-gritty and oh wait, wait a minute This is what preaching is supposed to do. Preaching is supposed to step on our toes. Preaching is supposed to point in our life. He says there in the book of Isaiah, he said to him, he says, hey Show my people their transgression. And the house of Jacob their sin. Beloved, we don't need to be reminded about the fact that we have a sinful nature. And talk in a big general way about those things. We need to be reminded the fact, you know, what we're doing is wrong and we need to stop. That's the job of the pastor. That's what, according to the Word of God, the preacher is supposed to do. Now we know that there's going to come a time when men shall heap to themselves Teachers having itching ears. They're going to, like those people in Jeremiah, when he said, Hey, seek the old paths. It's a good way. It's a way of rest. And they they said, We will not walk therein. We know there's going to be some that aren't going to walk therein. We're not going to do it. But the man of God's job is still to preach. To preach the word. He says to exhort. So he's supposed to be instant in season, out of season. He's to reprove. He's to exhort. That means to invoke, to implore, to beseech. To exhort, to invoke, to implore, to beseech. That means God, the pastor, gets down here and he looks you in your God-given eyeballs And he says, come on now, to him that knoweth to do good and doeth it not, it is sin. God wants you to have a walk with him. God wants you to be reading your Bible. God wants you to be spending time in prayer. God wants you to be a witness. God wants you to be in his house. And the man of God pleads with you. He he invokes you. He beseeches you. He asks you. He says, Come on, brethren. Come on, sisters. Let's do what God wants us to do. Don't give in to Satan's attacks. Hold back the attacks of the devil. Get me behind me, Satan, and let's do what God wants us to do because it's right to do, amen. That's what the man of God is supposed to do. He's supposed to say, come on Come on, let's do it. We can do it. Oh, I know Satan is hard, and I know the world and the flesh and the devil. Boy, they attack us and they they sure throw a monkey wrench in our plans, and sometimes they trip us up But we gotta get up and we gotta move forward for God. And with God's strength, God's help, and the strength and help of God's family, you can be successful as a Christian. That's what he's supposed to do. He's supposed to exhort you. Exhort you. Come on. Let's do it. Let's do it. That's what he's supposed to do. He says with doctrine. Well we know he says with all long suffering. We can't skip that one. Amen. Long suffering. That's with love and compassion. You know, you don't have to be needlessly harsh You don't have to be mean. You don't have to be cruel. The preacher does not have to be a jerk. And I can tell you, sometimes This guy gets in the flesh, and I say things in a harsh way. And that's because I'm a sinner saved by grace, and I'm not perfect. And the Holy Spirit convicts me and says, you're an idiot. Those are my people. Those are my sheep. And you've offended them. And I have to confess before God I apologize. I'm sorry for getting in the flesh and speaking how I wanted to speak. Because you're God's sheep. To God's people. I'm exhorted and encouraged to try and help you be what God wants you to be, but I'm to do so with all long-suffering With loving compassion and a patience. I believe God gives a special measure of grace and patience to the pastor. It's something that I I have seen as I became just a few years ago, I took the the position of pastor here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church, and I've seen how God has enabled me to have grace with some people. I've even had other church members come to me and say, Why do you put up with that? Why don't you get them out of the church? Say, because they're just a sinner saved by grace. We're we're trying we're trying to help them come along. Yes, they've got a struggle in this area. Yes, they're fighting or or they're working through something and and I'm praying with them and I'm trying to help them get victory in that area of their life But we gotta have that patience. And God has given me a level of patience that in my own mind I'm surprised at sometimes I think it's supernatural because you're God's sheep. We're to preach with all long suffering. And then he says doctrine, you guys know what doctrine is, that's teaching That's with sound doctrine. That is means we get the Word of God. It's been said that preaching is teaching with an exclamation point. Teaching with an exclamation point. Beloved, we need to preach. We need to preach the whole counsel of God. All sound doctrine, not all of it. Not just our pet peeves. Not just our little areas that we like to focus or the things that we like to touch on. That's one of the reasons I like doing a Bible study, uh verse by verse, like we're going through 1 John, because you're just going to deal with whatever's there. We're just going to address whatever happens to be in the text. And at any given time, we're usually going through some book of the Bible. And you know, most of the time, I didn't even pick it. I asked you guys, what what what book of the Bible do you want to study? We're studying First John right now because a church member said, boy, I would really love to get into First John. I've loved First John and I just would like to understand it better. I says, Amen. Let's study it. So I didn't even pick it. So you know what? The nice thing is you can't say the pastor has an agenda. That he's just trying to nail nail his little pet peeve or whatever. We're just going verse by verse through the Bible. That's what we need to be doing, and that's why expository preaching like that is so beneficial to God's family, because we're getting the whole counsel of God. We're just verse by verse, whatever God has for us, we teach us. You know, the pastor's job is to look in the book and tell the people what it says. Nehemiah 8, verse 8. is a very you might want to write that reference down. This is a very clear explanation of what the man of God is supposed to do. Nehemiah 8 verse 8. He says So they read in the book of the law of God distinctly and gave the sense and caused them to understand the reading That's what the man of God is supposed to do. Read in the book of the law distinctly, give a sense, here's the direction, here's the overall context, this is what God's saying, and then cause them to understand it. Through illustration and application, we see Jesus Christ as one of the greatest illustrators. And all through the book we see Jesus using illustrations. drawing upon the the current things that the the fishermen or the farmers or the caretakers or the vineyards, whatever those people were most familiar with He would draw on that to be able to teach them the Word of God. And that's what the man of God is supposed to do. Try as best as he can to give a sense and help us understand the book. Beloved, we don't need a new message. We need a renewed commitment to the old one. The old message, the new message The new message has given us Christians without conversions. It's given us churches without convictions. Bibles without the blood. Preachers without power. It's given us homes without holiness, daddies without any discipline, people without any purity, moms without any modesty, children without any control, works without wisdom labor without light and faith without any fire. We don't we don't need a new message We need a renewed commitment to the old one. Not only do we need that old path of preaching, but we need the old path of praise. Turn your Bibles if you would to Hebrews chapter 13. I want you to see the verse, uh Hebrews 13 and verse number 15. The old path of praise. If anyone has cause to praise God, it is the believer that knows his sins are forgiven and that he's on his way to heaven. It do it doesn't matter how hard the trial, it doesn't matter what we're going through here on life, ultimately if we know our sins are forgiven and we're on our way to heaven, we know ultimately Ultimately, one day we're going to be in glory. One day our sins are going to be washed away, and our tears are going to be wiped away, and the sorrow is going to be removed, and the pain is going to be gone If anybody's got cause to praise, it is the believer. He says in Hebrews chapter 13 and verse number 15, he says, By him, therefore, let us offer the sacrifice of praise. To God continually, that is the fruit of our lips, giving thanks in his name. You and I should have joy. Listen, beloved, we don't need a laser light show and fog machines and a rock band up here to have a praise and worship service. You don't need that to get somebody, you don't need a a worship team up here getting you in the mood and winding you up to be able to praise God. The believer has cause To praise God at any time because what of God has done for us. We see in this text that the source of our praise, we see in 1315 there, he says, by Him Therefore. By him, therefore, beloved, we need to be reminded maybe that the source of our of all is God. It all was made by Him and was made for Him That all that we have and all that we are is because of God. If you're finding it hard to praise God, maybe you need to remember from whence it all came. I'll tell you what, nothing like going through a little bit of a trial to make you thankful when it's gone You spend a little bit of time in the hospital on a respirator, on a breathing machine. And I tell you what, you'll be thankful for the ability just to take a breath. By yourself. You spend a little bit of time uh wobbling around on crutches Even just a couple of weeks, and man, it's so nice when you can put the crutches down and just be able to walk on your own. God has done so much for us You and I this morning Could be in a hospital fighting for our life. Instead, we're here in God's house. Oh, I'm not going to presume that you're absent of any aches or pains. I know you got those. I know you got things that don't work right. Things that aren't right exactly what they wish they were. Man, God has been so good to us. Is by him the source of our praise. And we see also that our praise is to be continual. He says, let us offer the sacrifice of praise to God. Continually. Continually. Not just here in this place on Sunday morning, but in every place. Not just today, but every day. Not just around our family and friends, but around everyone. Not just when we're happy, not just when things are going good Not just when the sun is shining, but all the time. Because there's always time and opportunity to praise God. To praise him. We offer the sacrifice of praise continually. David Livingston said an hour of praise is worth a day of fasting in the morning. An hour of praise is worth a day of fasting and mourning. You know what? I'll tell you it does something to your heart when you just get y you just get out of the dumps And you start counting your blessings. You start naming them one by one. Yeah, I mean I know you still have aches and pains, and you got things that don't work right, and you got stuff that's just That struggles, but you start to look at the fact that the sun is shining and that it's a beautiful day and that you can stand and that you can walk and And that you have eyes that you can see and that you can breathe on your own and your hands are still functioning and your toes are still functioning at least a little bit. And you can you can just I'm just saying you walk down the list and I'll tell you what, we've got so much to praise God for, and pretty soon you'll think, man, what was I so discouraged about? Because God is good. We need to get back to the old-fashioned praise and praise God because of who he is and what he's done, and not because somebody's standing up here singing some rock song, jeering you up, getting you all excited and happy about Jesus. We ought to be happy about Jesus without that. Amen. Just old-fashioned praise. I want you to see in that text what does he tell us praise is? Look in the text. What is praise according to that verse? We offer our sacrifice of praise, which is what? It is the fruit of our lips, so it should be called out, but that's uh I'm looking for a particular word there. Thanksgiving. Isn't that in the text? It's thanksgiving. It's thanksgiving. Do you understand? Any time you're expressing thanksgiving to God, you're praising him. Anytime you're expressing thanks, you're praising him. You're just saying, man, thank you, God. Thank you, God. Thank you. You're praising him. And we see there that it ought to be called out, the fruit of our lips. It ought to be something that we're saying. You know, it it's One thing to feel it in your heart is another thing to say it. It is something that I've had to work on as my kids get older You know, we're public displays of affection and and all that kind of stuff. We're not so much, you know uh my all my boys and girls, they all give us a hug before they go to bed at night But can I tell you that the hug turns into uh just a little like yeah, okay, good night dad. Good night, you know. Mom doesn't let him get away with that, you know. She pulls him in, she's like, Come here, you know. She pulls him in. I let them get away with it, but you know what I've had to work on as I get older? Sometimes I see things or I feel things like I'm proud of them for something they did. But what I've had to work on is come to the place where I say it. Because they don't know that that's problem. They don't know how much I appreciate that Just the other day one of the kids took some time to clean the house and I love a clean house. And I came in and I said, who cleaned the house? And they told me. Uh that person wasn't there at the time. And uh so I had to remember later to go and sing it. Sing it, thank you. It meant a lot to me. I appreciate you doing that What I'm saying is God does so much for us and it was to be called out, is to be the fruit of our lips. That's what old-fashioned phrase is. Thank you, Lord, and saying. Lastly, this morning, and I'm not going to be very long, but I want to give you, we need the old old-fashioned perseverance. Old-fashioned perseverance. And Ephesians 6. 18 is a familiar verse, but praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit and watching thereunto with all perseverance. And supplication for all the saints. I'm talking about that old-fashioned grit that just says I'm going to stick in there and get her done. I'm just gonna stay at it. I'm just gonna keep on keeping on for God because that's what we're supposed to do. Oh, I know nobody said hi to me, and I know today, you know Timothy Timothy uh moved my car and got a flat tire and and I know that, you know, I mean th there's there's all kinds of problems. I could try and list them, but you know my mind doesn't work very good. So we have all kinds of issues that we could raise, and every one of you might have something in your heart and mind right now But old-fashioned perseverance says, I ain't gonna worry about that. I'm just gonna keep on for God. I'm just gonna keep on for God. Because we're not at Hunt Valley Baptist Church because of Pastor Caleb. We're at Hunt Valley Baptist Church because God directed us and led us there. And we're in God's house this morning to hear from heaven, not to hear from Pastor Canaan. We're here to see God do something in our hearts. Just, you know, I think there's a Bible word Another Bible word for that idea of perseverance. I think it would be good to just say faithful. Faithful. It's kind of a steward that a man be found faithful. You know the exciting thing about that for me is that anybody can be faithful. Anybody can It does it's not based on your skill, not based on your talent. It's not even based on how much you know of this book. It's just saying, you know what I do know? God wants me to be faithful. And I'm just gonna keep on I'm talking about that old time thing where people just stayed in and kept on forgotten. You know, in my grandma and grandpa's day and my mom and dad's day, people just faithful. What is what is all this? Oh, yeah, no, I don't go to church anymore. Since when did God say we didn't have to go to church? When when did God say it's alright for you just to stay home? Have your own worship service? You can have as many worship services at home as you want. Praise the Lord. Do it It doesn't give you excuse to skip God's house. The Bible says forsaking not the assembly of yourselves together is a manner of some in. So much the more, you see that they approach them. We're not supposed to forsake God's house. God loved the church and gave himself for it. How can you say you love God and don't love the things that God loves Old-fashioned perseverance. Old-fashioned just being faithful. Why? Because God has saved your soul. Romans 13, 11 says, and that knowing the time, then now it is high time to awake out of sleep, for now is our salvation nearer than we believe. Beloved today you look around. Our salvation is nearer than it's ever been. If you put your faith and trust in Christ, listen, the end is near. Let's just stay faithful. Let's be found of the master doing. Continuing, persevering. In the face of hardship, in the face of trial, in the face of other goofy personalities that might be around the church And all the things that Satan uses to try and disrupt your spiritual walk, let's just persevere and keep going for God. Because that's what God wants us to do. Here's an old song, I am determined, I made up my mind, I'll serve the Lord. I mean you know that. I am determined, I made up my mind. I'll serve the Lord I've left the pleasures of the world behind. I'll serve the Lord. Amen. Are you determined? Have you made up your mind? Are you willing and ready just to be faithful? Because that's what God wants. I want you to see as we bring this to a conclusion this morning. That beloved, it's a good way. It's a good way. Look back in the text if you can back there in Jeremiah. I know we had to move all over in the Bible this morning, but He says there in verse number sixteen, he says, Thus saith the Lord, Stand ye in the way and see and ask for the old paths, wherein is the good way? And walk therein, and ye shall find rest for your soul. Can I tell you, beloved, it's a good way. That old path is a good path. That old path is a path in which you can find rest. Matthew 11, 28, he says, Come unto me all ye that labor and are heavy laden, then I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn of me, for I am meek and lowly of heart, and ye shall find rest. Unto your soul. For my yoke is easy and my burden is light. Paul Williams wrote this. In the book of Jeremiah, chapter 6 and verse 16, it tells us how we need to live. It's a way that's good and clean. It tells us how we need to walk, no matter where we go. If we walk in the old paths, we'll find rest for our soul Seek ye out the old paths and walk therein, cried Jeremiah the prophet, but they would not hear him. Seek ye out the old paths and walk therein. Stop following after the flesh Stumbling around in sin. Now the old way, it's a good way. It's God's way And we better walk therein. There's a man on the inside of everyone that's born again. He tells us how we need to live if we would just listen to him. He keeps us on the old paths if we won't go astray. Helps us live to be a light to someone that's unsaving Now the old way, it's a good way. It's God's way. And we better walk therein