You can turn your Bibles this morning to Genesis chapter number three. Supper with the shepherd tonight is uh Eighteen to fifty and without kids. Uh so that was the group that was announced. So if you're between the ages of eighteen and fifty and you don't have any children Uh that's who we're going to try and get together with this evening. Uh so you come. We invited you out to our house for a meal and some fellowship and uh it'll be a good time. We'll be looking forward to having you at that time. Uh Don't forget to touch face with Pastor Gus or Brother Glover about your giving statements, so we encourage you to take advantage of that. Plus it can be A uh very it's always a sign of a celebration for us, just excited to see what we were able to do for God over the last year, you know. You say in look You do it week by week and don't really pay attention in the end of the year, you're like, wow, praise God, you know, we were able to give this much to the Lord this year and it's always a time of victory for us. We'll praise the Lord for that. So Get your giving statements. Uh obviously there's tax uh implications there. It can be a blessing and I would encourage you, if it can be help, use it. That's it's part of the tax code, so if you can use that as a deduction, then there's really no reason you shouldn't. Go ahead and take advantage of it, whatever's the most beneficial way for you in that regard. So we are in the Word of God this morning in Genesis chapter number three. Uh we this is the beginning of the year. This was several weeks ago, obviously. Now we've we've uh kind of missed a couple of weeks, so we're a little bit behind, but uh just the beginning of the year a lot of people start in their Bible reading in the book of Genesis and Maybe you have that habit. You begin to start to read through the Bible in a year. You'll read in Genesis and maybe you pick up a couple of New Testament passages each day and to go to trying to read through the Word of God. But the book of Genesis obviously is a book of beginnings. It is literally means beginning or or origin, the the beginning of it all. And can I tell you, beloved, that uh I tr choose to believe God and His Word? Instead of the philosophy of man and the theories that have been come up with for the existence of man and where we all came from, I I I believe it takes less faith to believe that there is an almighty God who by his infinite and divine wisdom began the things that we know today as life and uh started all of this opposed to man's theories. But we have in the book of Genesis what God says took place. We have the beginning, the origin of time, the beginning of where man came from, creation, all of that is described for us Except for the beginning of God. The Bible is very clear that God is the self-existent one. That God always was and always will be. And our minds that are so conditioned by time, do you understand that God created time God established the sun and moon and put them on a 24-hour period specifically so man would be able to gauge time. So we would understand the passing of time and how one day moves into the next. That is by God's design. Well, we who are so Contained inside of time can't even comprehend somebody that always was and always will be. But he is indeed the everlasting God. Psalms 90 and verse number two says, Before the mountains were brought forth, forever hast thou formed the earth and the world from everlasting to everlasting. Thou art God. God always was, and he always will be. What you believe about your origin is Very important. It really is going to dictate how you respond to everything in life. Because if you take God out of the picture, there is no higher authority. You get to do what you want. We're all just animals. There's nothing different between us and a dog on the street or a rabbit in the woods, but it that that's evolutionary theory. But God has established and given us the distinct difference. He has described for us that man has been given a living soul and that we were created in his image. And thereby we are to rule and have dominion over the earth. This is by God's design. Genesis establishes for us the beginning of life, the beginning of plant and trees and animals and fish and fowl and men and women. As we move into chapter number four, we see the beginning of worship and we see the the the passing of time and the the first death that is dealt with in Adam and Eve say feel the pain of loss as they bury one of their own children. As you walk through the book of Genesis, you begin to see history, about twenty three hundred years of history given to us on those pages, and we see the formation of the family and the beginning of nations and the establishment of government and science and literature and fine art and poetry, uh marriage, all these things God establishes for us. But there in Genesis chapter number three, there's a few things that we see for the very first time. On the pages of history and introduced to us in Scripture. These are things that I know that you all are aware of, but I want you to see them in the context. Of Scripture and God's design this morning. As I begin to preach to you for a few minutes on the beginning of sin and salvation. Let's pray. Lord, we come to you now. We ask you, God, you would take the few minutes we have together, that you would allow heaven to swing low and your spirit to speak to the hearts of your people There are people here that need to be encouraged, people need to be strengthened, people need to be challenged to be more of what we should be for you. Lord, you know the work that needs done in the heart of every believer, and I ask God in your power to do that for them individually. By your grace and through your strength. And we'll praise you for what you do in our presence this day. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. We are looking here at the book of Genesis, chapter number three. I want you to see that right off the bat we're kind of It's almost takes us by surprise because if you've been reading the book of Genesis thus far, God has created a perfect world There has been established everything that he he stopped, he paused, he looked at it, and he said, boy, it is good. Into this perfect environment, we're kind of like abruptly thrown Satan The evil one. Right at the first of Genesis chapter number three, verse number one. Down through verse number five we see Satan is introduced, says, Now the serpent was more subtle than any beast of the field which the Lord God had made. And he said unto the woman, Yea, hath God said, Ye shall not eat of the tree of the garden, and the woman said unto the serpent, We may eat of the fruit of the trees of the garden, but of the fruit of the tree which is in the midst of the garden, God has said, Ye shall not eat of it, neither shall ye touch it, lest ye die. And the serpent said unto the woman Ye shall not surely die, for God doth know that in the day that ye eat thereof, then your eyes shall be opened, and ye shall be as gods, knowing good and evil. Beloved, before we're too hard on Eve here, you understand Eve is meeting Satan for the first time. She has never before been faced with temptation. She has never before been you you see we are instructed in the pages of scripture, be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, walketh about as a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour. We have our guard up. In society that we live today, I mean we we get to be pretty cynical people. I mean we we are on the lookout for the scam artist, right? I mean we we kind of we know that when somebody from Africa emails you and says they've got ten million dollars and all they need you to do is pay uh the import tax and you can have it. Yeah, you're not being scammed by that. I mean you pretty much you know, we know that these things are are taking place that w in the society we live that that's but see, Eve here this is the first time this has ever happened There hasn't been temptation like this before. There hasn't been Satan on the scene as of yet. Oi. You and I grow up, we're here in this crooked and perverse world today, and we understand the selfish nature of men. And you tend to develop a seen kince uh uh uh sense of of you know the the the scams that are out there I bought something out of Facebook Marketplace yesterday and it was down in the city and I drove down to the city to meet this guy and he didn't want to meet at his house but he wanted to meet out at uh you know the parking lot and you know, on the way I'm evaluating. All right, should have brought Timothy. Uh You know, I should've should have brought some help. I should have had a at least a witness, you know, I don't know. I'm driving them n neighborhoods are getting a little more sketchy and I'm a little bit like my Censors are going like this might not be uh let's see where I'm gonna hide my wallet just in case, you know, he he wants my wallet. I'm gonna make sure I mean I drove there and I picked it up and I got what what I was getting and and everything went fine. But you boy your senses go up, don't they? Like this is not looking as pleasant as I was hoping. Uh we're aware of that, but see, he was not. Satan has just come on the scene here. Satan, beloved, was a crowning angel. That was puffed up and filled with pride and rose up and said, I will be like the Most High We it's not until much later in the pages of scripture that we learn about where Satan come from. But you see here it's just introduced like out of nowhere. Here's Satan. The tempter, the deceiver, the prince and the power of the air. He catches us unaware. But listen, we learned some things about Satan here. We learned that he was very subtle. Satan's very subtle. He's cunning. He's crafty. Now the serpent was more subtle than any beast of the field. You see, he's subtle as he is the source of doubt. He raises doubt. He says, hath God said Listen, if there's anybody out there that would cause you to question the word of God, can I tell you that Satan is the source of that? I don't care if they call themselves a preacher and they stand in the pulpit, but if they're calling into question the very words of God, you need to turn that off Don't be listening to that stuff because that's people wanting to well there's a lot of good things here but you can't really trust this part of it. Who says what you can and can't trust? If you can't trust all of it, you can't trust any of it Beloved God, what he said is true, and the words that he has given us can be counted upon. And you need to have it settled in your heart and mind that the word of God is right And it is quick and powerful and sharper than a two-edged sword, piercing, the dividing, the thunder of soul and spirit. And don't let somebody call into question the Word of God Oh, they try and be subtle. They'll be real intellectual. Boy, they'll have uh that these people they you know ever learning and never coming to the knowledge of the truth. They're so smart they don't know what they don't know. And then they'll call into question the Word of God. That was Satan's tactic from the very beginning. He said, Hath God said? And then we know we learned that He's the Father of lies He says, ye shall not surely die. He just flat out lies to her. Says, don't worry about it. That's not what's going to happen. The problem is God doesn't want you to be like him. He's the father of lies. That's why we have to be vigilant, because he's a cunning enemy. Not only has God given us here in the pages of Scripture at the beginning the origin of Satan. But can I tell you that we have the privilege of looking in the Word of God and we can move all the way to the end of this book that we carry, that we call the Scriptures, and we see that God is the victor. We see the end that Satan and his angels are cast into a devil's hell, into that lake of fire, into that print that burneth with fire and brimstone, and that is the the place where Satan ends up and so shall we ever be with the Lord. Amen. We know the end of the story and beloved can I tell you that we're on the winning side Oh, Satan has a little bit of time right now. He has a little window where he is trying to pull the hearts of men down into a devil's hell. But Jesus Christ and the Holy Spirit are there calling men to himself and giving opportunity for men to repent and turn to him before it's eternally too late. And beloved, in the end, those that trust Christ are on the winning side. We see an introduction here of Satan, not only that, we see for the first time sin. We see in verse number six and seven, and when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree to be desired to make one wise. She took of the fruit thereof and did eat, and gave also unto her husband with her, and he did eat. And the eyes of them both were opened, and they knew that they were naked, and they sowed fig leaves together and made themselves aprons. Beloved, they understood for the first time that they had sinned. They knew that they were naked and that nakedness was wrong. Beloved, how is it that we have come in our society to the place where we as adults accept nakedness? That it's normal, that it's okay, that there's nothing wrong with it. And there's not people walking around naked in this weather, amen. That's one nice thing about wintertime. People cover themselves up in the wintertime, but man it's it's mind boggling. Even little children when when when they before the age of innocence, they'll ru they'll run through the house in their birthday suit. and don't think anything of it because they have no concept. But as soon as they start to get a little bit older, even a little child, it's it's the law of God is written on the heart of man. And a little child understands at some point when mama walks in the room, he goes He understands he's supposed to cover up. Where is it? We get to a certain age and decide, oh, it doesn't really matter how much I take off. Now this this is free, but I want you to know it's sin. The Bible describes nakedness and man's body is to be covered. I know it's acceptable in society today, but God still calls it sin. We're supposed to cover the body. The Bible is very clear. Nakedness is from the shoulder to the thigh. Anything in here that's exposed is nakedness. Even if it's my belly button. That's nakedness. We're gonna move on. We see verse verse number nine. And the Lord God called unto Adam and said unto him, Where art thou? And he said, I heard thy voice in the garden and I was afraid. You understand, beloved, their own heart told them they knew that they had done wrong, that they had sinned, because I was naked and I hid myself. And the Lord looked at him and said, Who told thee that thou wast naked? And hast thou eaten of the tree whereof I commanded thee that thou shouldest not eat? Beloved, the first sin was committed here. God's perfect world was corrupted by the sin. of man. Adam literally was married to the most beautiful woman in the world. But can I tell you the Bible is very clear? The very nature of sin is that it will never satisfy It is the very nature of it. You are never satisfied. Sin keeps you dissatisfied. And it doesn't matter how far you go down that road of sin, it's never enough. There is no satisfaction in the pursuit of sin and that illicit lifestyle and embracing whatever it is, whatever uh high or whatever joy or whatever thrill or whatever thing you desire, that sin, it is never enough. He tells us some things about sin that are introduced here to us that are very, very Real and and they help us to understand, first of all, we know that sin is pleasant. It's pleasant. You know, that's the very idea, the nature of temptation, is that it's pleasant. It's appealing to us. Psalm or Proverbs 9:17 says, stolen waters are sweet, and bread eaten in secret is pleasant. But it was pleasant to the eyes. It was pleasant to look upon. The very nature of temptation is it's pleasant. Sin has that idea of being pleasant. It doesn't, it it looks really good. How many of you guys have ever eaten at one of these uh diners? I'm not going to name a diner, but you know a lot of times they have the pies out front And they I mean they d I don't know what they do to them strawberries to make them strawberry pies look so amazing. I mean they're so rich and deep red and glossy and beautiful and I mean you look at whatever pie it is that you like and it looks so amazing in there. How many of you have been like me? Like you get that pie and they charge like it looks. Like you paying twelve bucks for a piece of pie, right? And then and then you eat it and you're like It's like half as good as it looked, right? You're like I should have just let the anticipation be enough. You know that's what sin does. It's pleasant to the eyes. It looks so amazing, but can I tell you it is disappointing? We know that sin is pleasurable. I'm sure, beloved, that that was as good to eat as it looked. Hebrews 11, 25 says that he that he chose rather to suffer the affliction with the people of God than to enjoy the pleasure of sin for a season. Sin is pleasurable. There's nobody that's going to lie to you and tell you it's not. There is some uh some level of enjoyment that comes from participating in sin. But the thing that we often forget, beloved, the thing that we choose in our mind to ignore Just like you at the diner, when you're eating that piece of pie, what you choose to ignore is the fact that you're going to be wearing that for six months. Right? You're like, oh it looks so good, I'm not going to worry about the diet today. I'm not going to worry about how long it's going to take me to work this off. I'm just going to have this piece of pie. Beloved, what we forget is not only is sin pleasant and pleasurable, but sin causes pain. We forget about the fact that God has very clearly told us about it. We know what's going to happen, but sin causes pain But Satan hides that from us. He disguises that from us. It looks so pleasant. It feels so enjoyable. But beloved, can I tell you that sin, when it is finished, bring it forth Death. Death. That is the result of sin. Ultimately we see here. Uh wherefore as by one man sinned into the world, and so death by pin passed upon all men, for all have sinned. The result of sin is death. There's going to be a physical death one day, but Satan came to seek to kill and to destroy. His desire is to destroy and to kill all. It brings death. It'll bring death to your relationship. It'll bring death to your uh career. Listen, my my my mom's father was a very brilliant man, very, very smart. He actually worked for NASA, helped develop the very first NASA shoots uh suits that they wore in outer space. He had that kind of a level on it uh level of mind that he had. I obviously don't have that kind of mind. I can't hardly talk, but that's the kind of mind he had. But you know what he did for a living He worked on lawnmowers in his garage. Now there's nothing wrong with that, but the reason he had to work on lawnmowers in the garage instead of work for NASA was because he couldn't stay sober. Because he was a drunk. Because he he had the capacity, but he decided instead to just enjoy the pleasures of sin. Sin destroys. Sin will destroy your life. It'll take from you all that you value. We see here in verse number 16 unto the woman, he said, I will greatly multiply thy sorrow. Sin is painful, beloved. It brings pain. Boy, I wish we could just see the end. You know, they they they don't the the beer commercials don't show you skid roll. They don't show you guys out there puking their guts out living on the street. Oh, the the the Marlborough man They they they don't show you the guy in the hospital dying with cancer and holes cut through his throat because his cancer's eating out his his throat They don't show you that, they they they show you this tough guy standing there with his horse and smoking a marl. This and sin will destroy. Whatever sin it is You allow the allurement of pornography to draw your heart and mind and you think, well it's not really that bad. I all I'm doing is looking, listen, it'll destroy your relationships. It's a it's a consuming fire that will destroy you from the inside out. You don't even understand how terrible it is for you, not just your relationship with your wife, it will destroy other relationships Because it's it it produces a level of selfishness in the heart of somebody that's consumed by that thing. We see the introduction of sin here and we're told some things about it. Yes, it's pleasant, yes it's pleasurable, but it's also painful. In the midst of all this, Satan is revealed his evil intentions to deceive and to damn all mankind. We're introduced to how delightful sin can be or how at least it looks. It appeals to us and things look hopeless. But can I tell you that God gives us the answer immediately? But already here in Genesis chapter 3, and for maybe those of you that haven't ever seen this before, I hope that you're encouraged and you understand that before there was ever a problem, God had a plan. Look at Genesis chapter 3 and verse number 15, we see the Savior. He says, And I will put enmity between thee and the woman, and between thy seed and her seed. And it shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise his heel. Oi, sin created enmity between man and God. But the Savior would bring healing. Sin separates, your iniquity has separated you between you and your God. Beloved, sin separates, but the Savior restores. It's amazing that our Heavenly Father, that our God, before sin ever came on the scene, He had a plan for a Savior. Ephesians chapter 1, verse number 4 says, according as he hath chosen us in him, before the foundation of the world That we should be holy and without blame before him in love. Before the foundation of the world, God had a plan That through Jesus Christ men could be restored. This Savior that God gives I have a cloth right here. I'm gonna try and see if we can take care of this. We see here, beloved, right from the very beginning that we're introduced to the virgin-born Messiah. You see, from all the history, mankind would carry lineage would be tracked through the man. That is where it has been followed, the man's seed. But what is he saying here? He's showing us that it would be from a woman. He says, and the woman in between thy seed and her seed. The Savior was going to come from a woman who did not know man. Who was miraculously conceived, and therefore was not carrying the sin of man with him. He proclaims victory all the way back here in the book of Genesis. Victory that the Savior would win The fact that there would be a great struggle between Satan and the Savior is true, but the fact that he would be the victor is declared. He says, Thou shalt bruise his heel. A wound, but Not a fatal wound. Not a lasting wound. The fact of the matter is, as Jesus was going to come, he'd be born of a virgin, he would live a sinless life And Satan was going to win a victory. He was going to bruise the Savior's heel. He would think he won when he caused the crowds to cry out, crucify him, crucify him, and they would send him to the cross. He would hang on that cross and he would die. And I can imagine Satan and all of his angels saying, Ha ha! We did it! We won! We are the victors! But then three days later, no matter the fact that they set a guard and that they sealed the tomb, it didn't really matter because Jesus decided at the end of three days He would take up his life again. And he rose from the grave, victor over Satan. And then he tells us, oh, you you'll have a small victory. You're going to bruise his heel. But He is going to bruise thy head. That's a fatal blow. And ultimately, Jesus is the victor. The curse of sin would be conquered by the cross. And mankind can be restored to Jesus. From that day in the pages of Scripture, in the book of Genesis, chapter number three, until now, can I tell you that God has been calling men? We saw here, I think it was in verse number 9, he says, Adam, where art thou? He came down to the garden and he was looking for Adam. Can I tell you this morning that God is looking for you? Maybe you're lost and undone, and right now you're on your way to a devil's hell, you've never known the joy of the forgiveness of your sin and being restored into fellowship with God. You can be today, but can I tell you, even if you know him As your Lord and Savior, there's times when we get far from him, where we get way away from him, and the Savior is looking for you, and he's saying, Where art thou? Where art thou? It's been a long time since we sat together, since we walked together in the garden. Could could could you come? Could you come back to me? Turn back to him today. From that day till now, the Savior has been looking for men, calling for us. We see also here, and I need to move quickly, but we see the sentence. The fact of the matter that that sin must be judged. It must be taken care of. We see in verses fifteen through twenty-four and I don't know if we'll read all this, but we want you to see the condemnation of Satan. We saw in verse number fifteen how enmity was put between them and that he was going to be uh cursed. The serpent here is judged and final victory is proclaimed. But then we see that conflict is introduced. And verse number sixteen, unto the woman he said, I will greatly multiply thy sorrow in thy conception. In sorrow thou shalt bring forth children, and thy desire shall be to thy husband, and he shall rule over thee Listen, pain is multiplied in childbirth. Sorrow and struggle in our relationship is a normal part of life. Creation itself, Romans tells us, it groans. Creation itself groans under the weight of sin. Romans 8. 22 We see that corruption is explained. Verses 17 through 24, he says, And unto Adam he said, Because thou hast hearkened unto the voice of thy wife, and hast eaten of the tree of which I commanded thee, saying, Thou shalt not eat of it. Cursed is the ground for thy sake. In sorrow shalt thou eat of it all the days of thy life. Thorns and thistles shall it bring forth to thee, and thou shalt eat of the herb of the field In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread till thou return unto the ground, for out of it wast thou taken, for dust thou art, and unto dust shalt thou return. And Adam called his wife's name Eve, because she was the mother of all living, and unto Adam also, and to his wife did the Lord God make coats of skin and clothed them. We see below the corruption is explained the the ground is cursed. You know, because sin All of the hardship that we endure, people are like, well, why did God do this? God didn't do this, sin did this. Sin is what causes the hardship that we are enduring. All the weeds that grow without doing anything, they come from nowhere. You can work so hard and Plant a plant and you fertilize it and water it and the plant dies and the weeds grow right. Like that's that's the nature of the work it takes to live today because sin is present in the world That is the sentence that was pronounced on creation, that was pronounced on man. Our labor was going to be arduous. It was going to be we're going to we're going to have to, by the sweat of our brow, accomplish things. That death was going to pass upon all men. He said, From dust, you're going to go back to dust. They were removed from the presence of the tree of life. Beloved, sin must be judged. Every wrong must be made right. Every sin must be paid for. And you can pay for your sin's debt by spending an eternity yourself in hell paying for it. But a just God demands that it's paid for. But a loving God found a way to pay for it for you. But all you but you have to accept it. You have to discern that you will take it and apply it to your heart to help mankind understand this process. He institutes here in Genesis chapter number 3. What's going to carry through the old pages of the Old Testament so men would understand these principles. We see sacrifices introduced to us here in Genesis 3. 21. And unto Adam also and to his wife did the Lord God make coats of skin and clothe them. You see, man knew he had done wrong. Man knew he had sinned and he he he had a concept, he had an understanding of it, that somehow that sin had to be covered It's notable here that the man-made coverings were not sufficient You see, they had made themselves fig leaves, right? They had made themselves leaves to cover themselves, but man-made coverings would never be sufficient. There is no man made religion, there is no man made solution, there is no well I think I can get to heaven by doing this, or I can experience God's forgiveness by doing this. There is no man-made solution that is sufficient. God rejected their man-made solution and he provided for them. How did he do that? You see, God is teaching. He's teaching Adam and Eve and He's teaching all of mankind from that time till now that something living Would have to give its life to provide the covering. So he introduced a sacrifice and something living that was innocent, that had it was not their fault. But this animal gave his life to cover their sin. And God is teaching that one day there would be a sinless lamb. That would come and would die and shed his blood and give his life a ransom for all All the way back here in the book of Genesis, chapter number three, we saw the introduction of Satan and how sin came into the world, and thereby a sentence was passed, but a savior was also talked about. And that picture that he gives us immediately about how that Savior would come and he would give himself a sacrifice so that all men, their sins, could be forgiven. Because something innocent, something living, had to give his life. Hebrews 10:14 says, For it is not possible that the blood of bulls and of goats should take away sin. In the Old Testament, the blood of bulls and goats were shed as a picture of what would come, but they couldn't take away the sin. They just covered the sin. But when Jesus came and gave his life, his pure and sinless blood takes away the sin of man. God in his infinite grace from the very beginning pages of time told us of the Savior that would come. He would be born in a major, he'd be betrayed by men, he would be bruised for me. He's going to be beaten by the mob Hung on the cross, but he would break the chains of sin for mankind. And all we had to do is accept it. Hebrews 10. 10 says, but that which we were all sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. That one sacrifice, Jesus, God in the flesh who came and dwelt among men. He came to seek and to save that which was lost, gave himself a sacrifice for all of us. You see, from the very beginning pages of Genesis We learn where all this pain that we feel and the suffering that we endure today, where it all came from. But we're also told about the solution. The solution is Jesus. And one day we'll be rewarded with a place called heaven. If you're here this morning and you don't know Jesus as your Lord and Savior, he's calling you today. He's calling you. Where art thou? You're here in church this morning so that you could know that your sins are forgiven. Would you stand? Bow your heads with me. Just take a moment and pray, and as a pianist plays Christian, where art thou? Are you far from God? How thankful are you for the Savior that gave his life for us? Oh, I hope maybe you learned something this morning, but more than that, I hope you were brought into the presence of God.