Get back to it uh as we walk through the thought for this evening. Um you know it's a privilege to be picked by some Whether it's for a game of softball or something you know as as As trivial as just a a pickup game of basketball out at the parks of somebody that's that's leading a team. and and they they pick you. They want you on their team. There's something special about it. There's something special about being pickin'. Not pick in being picked. Being chosen. Uh to be chosen, you know. Uh maybe it's a little less special when you get down to the very last person that's there, you know, that proverbial last one picked uh and you you almost feel like well you got put on that team by default not because they wanted you uh or whatever it's kinda that kind of loses its specialness. One guy talking about his wife, who was communicating to her friends about how she was the one chosen of all the ladies in the world, her husband chose her And he clarified, he said, that's not quite accurate. I didn't know all the ladies in the world. Uh so I guess I guess it's more like out of all the ladies in my neighborhood that I knew, uh, I chose her. And uh he said, actually, out of all the ladies in my neighborhood that I knew would say yes. So I guess she was the only one. He kind of took all the specialness right out of it. You know, she was building him up and praising him and feeling so special that she was chosen of all the ladies in the world But there is something special about being chosen. In Psalms chapter 33, verse number 12 is a hinge verse for this passage of Scripture. He says here in Psalms 33, 12, he says, Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord, and people whom he hath chosen for his inheritance. You know, you're chosen by God. He has chosen you. And I understand that in this particular text, you know, we're we are and often in the scriptures when you see God speaking about a chosen uh group. We look at it as attributed to the children of Israel, that they were chosen. They were God's chosen people. And that is for sure. But there is also the aspect of the church, and I'm not teaching replacement theology here because it's very clear that we are chosen by God. I want you to think about that thought as we walk through tonight the message this evening is the chosen, the chosen. As a chosen child of God, we see first of all that we've been chosen for salvation. And this is very clearly speaking to Christians. 1 Peter chapter 2 and verse number 9. We're going to get back to Psalms, so you might want to put a your finger there or a piece of paper or something there. We'll be there in a few minutes. But we see in 1 Peter 2, verse number 9, he says, But ye are a chosen generation. A royal peace, priesthood, a holy nation, a peculiar people, that ye should show forth the praises of him who hath called you out of darkness. Into his marvelous light. So God called you out of darkness. God chose you. He drew you to himself. God chose you for salvation. Are you glad tonight that you've been chosen? Are you glad that you've been called out of darkness? People in this world, sometimes you'll see a post on Facebook or you'll see some news article or you'll see something and it will boggle your mind How far gone their thinking is. Like it's not just a matter of liberal or conservative, it's a matter of right and wrong and simple practical truth And you look at it and you hear it and you think, how could they possibly do they really think that? I mean, can they possibly really think that? But the truth is, is they are in darkness. They don't have the truth of the Word of God. They don't have that light that's given to somebody who is chosen out of darkness. And yeah, they do think that. And they might be fully convinced of it. Because they don't have the truth of the light of the Word of God working in their life. You and I were chosen by God. No man comes to the Father except the Father draw him. In John 6. 44, he says, No man come to me except the Father which hath sent me, draw him And I will raise him up in the last day. Now I'm not going to teach tonight for the sake of time and don't need to get into it on predestination and election and God's foreknowledge. That's a topic that stretches my finite ability to be able to try and express and to teach on. The fact is how how can God have foreknowledge of something without making it happen? How is it that God knows who's going to be saved? Yet I want you to understand that everybody has a choice. Everybody can choose to trust Christ. When the Holy Spirit, when God the Father draws men unto himself, We've seen it in church. We've seen it as you have opportunity to be a witness to others where you see the Holy Spirit working and the Holy Spirit's drawing them and they're resisting the Holy Spirit. They're they're saying, I uh no, I don't want it. Have you ever been part of a pickup game somewhere and they're picking teams and one captain uh picks these two good players And everybody knows that those two guys are the they're the good ones. And then that guy picks somebody else and he's like, no, I don't want to be on your team. Because he wants to be on the team with the good guys. He wants to be on the team with the winners, right? And and I don't know if you've ever seen that, but I've seen that more than once in my life where somebody says, No, I don't want to be on your team Well, we're we're picking up teams and I picked you, but I don't want to be on your team. Uh basically, uh, you know, they want to be on the winning team And so they'll say, I don't want to be on here. They're rejecting it. Well, that's what happens when the Holy Spirit is drawing somebody, when God the Father is drawing men unto himself, they have a choice. They can reject God. But praise God tonight, as the Holy Spirit drew you, you responded, and you have been called out of darkness into his marvelous light. We see, beloved, that we're chosen as a chosen people, we're also chosen for soul winning. And John fifteen sixteen he says, Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and ordains you that you should go and bring forth Fruit. That is God's plan for the chosen. You've been chosen and for a reason. What? That you would be a witness, that you would go and bring forth fruit. We have a responsibility as Christians to be fruitful. To go out and reach people with the gospel of Jesus Christ, to preach the truth of the message of the gospel of Jesus Christ. I want you to know that our church as a whole exists primarily to reach people with the gospel. That is the mission, the focus, the goal. That's why we're here. Church here on Sundays and on Sunday night and Thursday night is not just a social gathering. It's not just a place where we get together and we spend a little time with one another and and sing kumbaya. Church is is for a reason, it's for a a focus, it's for a practical purpose in that we could reach people with the gospel. That is the goal. That is the initiative. And when church becomes a place, it's just a social gathering. It's just a place where we get together and it's all that we could pat one another on the back and entertain ourselves for a little bit. check off our spiritual need for the week, we're in trouble. We're in trouble because that's not what church is supposed to be. We've got to keep that focus on reaching the gospel, reaching people with the gospel. The truth of the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. That needs to be our goal, and we need to understand that, beloved, even the days like Roundup Sunday, which was a great day, and we had a lot of fun, and our church family, we enjoyed it, and And boy it was exciting and what kind of weather did the Lord give us. That was awesome. And I heard that there's lots of votes for the blue chairs for anything else we do out on the property. Everybody wants the blue chairs. They were so comfortable And that's why you guys didn't stand up. Amen. It was too comfortable to be sitting out there. And you know, but we had all that great time, but that's not the focus. The focus even on that day was that we could reach lost people. It's not just about us getting together. The goal is that we would see somebody come to Christ. That we could open the door, the window of opportunity, and provide something a little bit different that maybe somebody would say, hey. I'll try that. I'll go to church for that. It's outdoors. It's under tent. Sounds like it might be fun. And we get them in and preach the gospel to them, and they get saved. That needs to be our focus. We've got to keep that in the forefront of our mind. When we get too focused on us internally, we have a problem. And you know what? It ends up leading to more problems. You find a church full of bickering and backfighting and backstabbing. You know why? Because they're not having any new births They're not reaching anybody with the gospel. They're too worried about themselves instead of worrying about who's outside. That's the difference. And we've got to keep that right because we're chosen to be soul winners. Now quite possibly it might be God's plan for you to be chosen to suffer. We see God talking about Paul, he says in Acts chapter 9, verses 15 to 15. and sixteen, but the Lord said unto him, Go thy way, for he is a chosen vessel unto me, to bear my name before the Gentiles and kings and the children of Israel. For I will show him how great things he must suffer for my name's sake. You know, beloved, it might be God's plan that you would have to endure some suffering. Now, I don't think anybody here has by any means resisted unto blood. I don't think any, you look at the suffering that the Apostle Paul was called to endure. It was part of God's plan for him, and he was told in the forefront, hey, you're going to suffer for me. And maybe indeed you and I might have to do some suffering, but I want you to think about something for me with just a second. And that is that a lot of what we're calling suffering today is just normal life. It's just the fact that things happen. Okay? I mean it's just the way it is. And too many times we we start having a pity party. We start thinking about, oh, woe is me, my third car broke down this week. What am I gonna do? Oh my water heater is not working. I I might have to take a cold shower. You know there's people that never had a warm shower in their whole life And I mean I know these things aren't convenient, but that's not suffering, friend. That's not suffering. Now there are things and people do go through real life suffering, but a lot of times it's just us feeling sorry for ourselves. And we look at the kids and we tell them, Stop feeling sorry for yourself, get up, shake it off, you know, go play. Somebody needs to tell us adults that sometimes. Because we sure get a woe is me spirit or attitude. My brand new suburban's up on the up on the lift again. It's spray spraying gas out the gas tank. Yeah, don't don't smoke near my car. You're gonna be in trouble. Or I'll be in trouble. I I found it. I found the problem. A little little gas line was rubbing and it rubbed right through the gas line. Got a little pinhole and it's uh when it gets under pressure it sprays gas out. It's running down the side of the car So got it up on Jack's. Gotta put it back together tonight. Matt said it. That's life. Sweet is I mean We gotta be careful. These little things happen to everybody. It's just part of living. I gotta look at it and say, man, I praise God, I got a car that has problems. That I can at least drive, that I can go somewhere. Not just a car, but an awesome car, amen? So I mean that's hey. It's a I mean but w it's all in how we look at it. We gotta be careful we don't get that that uh woe is me spirit But beloved, God may call us to suffer, and if you have to suffer, I want you to know that God knows what he sent in your way. He knows exactly what he sent, and he will not send something that you're unable to bear He knows what you need to learn, what lessons you need to learn and what you already know. He knows what he needs to prepare you for down the road. And if you've been called to suffer for the sake of Christ, count it all joy. Because it's for God. Not only that, the chosen should be satisfied. In Psalm 65 and verse number 4, he says, Blessed is the man whom thou choosest. And cause us to approach unto thee that he may dwell in thy courts, we shall be satisfied with the goodness of thy house. Satisfied. You know a satisfied person is a thankful person. An unsatisfied person is an unthankful person. Now we're approaching that time of year. You're gonna start seeing the fall colors changing, you're gonna start seeing that that Thanksgiving season coming around. And you know, does it have to get to Thanksgiving for us to be thankful? A satisfied person is thankful. Thankful. Just overwhelming gratitude. and thankfulness because you're satisfied with what God has given you, what God has provided you, what God, how He's blessed you. And you know what so many times it doesn't matter how full we are? If you're not careful, you're still not satisfied. You know, just because the way we are and the way we look at life and how we view things, you know You could be making $100,000 a year and you think, man, I ought to be making $120. You could be making $150,000 a year and you say I ought to Making a hundred and seventy You could have two cars and say, man, I wish I had three. I mean it's it's are we satisfied? You know that satisfaction doesn't come with how much how much we've got or how much Uh we're making it comes with a spirit of heart. Satisfied because why? Because we're chosen. Chosen by God. Living satisfied. He says, happy. Blessed is the man. Happy is the man who is satisfied in God. Now in our text in Psalms 33, we're going to look at a few of these verses here and just kind of dissect this chapter and the time we have left. I want you to see the idea. In this chapter, verse 12 that we began with is the hinge between two principles That God is trying to teach, that He's giving, given to those that are chosen, the inheritance that He's given to us. I want you to see in verses 1 through 3, first of all, that he's praising God. We see three very clear things here. He says, Rejoice in the Lord, O ye righteous, for praise is comely for the upright. Praise the Lord with harp and sing unto him with psaltery and instruments and tin strings. Sing unto him a new song, play skillfully with a loud voice. That praise is given. You know, a satisfied person has a song on their lips. A satisfied person has rejoicing in their heart. A satisfied person has praise, ready praise at their lips. Why? Because they're satisfied, they're thankful for all that God has done for them. And they can't help but speak about and praise God for, man, look at how good God has been to me. But a dissatisfied person doesn't have praise on their lips. A dissatisfied person is not ready to sing a song. We've been given this inheritance here, and you may uh note it in verse number four, the first one. You may, if you mark in your Bible, you may want to circle this or underline it. He says, for the word of the Lord is right. The word of the Lord. In verses 4 through 11, he is talking about the word of the Lord. We're going to come back to that in just a second. I want to show you the other thing that He's given us for inheritance. Look down at verse number 13. He says, um It begins in verse number 13, but we see the actual phrase in verse number 18. He says, Behold the eye of the Lord. So verses 13 through 19 are talking about the eye of the Lord. The eye of the Lord. We've got the word of the Lord. and the eye of the Lord as a great inheritance to us. Beloved, we ought to be excited that we have the word of the Lord in our hand. We've got his word. There are so many people groups that don't have the word of God in their language. They don't have the privilege, even if somebody could get them the scriptures, not even translated into their language yet. And then how many are hungry for the Word of God, but they can't get a copy of it? They would love to have a copy of the Word of God, but they can't get a copy of it. I let you in on a little secret for next year's vision. Next year's vision we're gonna have. You're gonna have to wait. We need the Word of God. You know it has something to do with the Word of God. We've got the Word of God in our hands, and beloved, the Bible tells us very clearly that that's a more sure word of prophecy. I'll never forget the privilege of preaching by the Sea of Galilee. And uh I was preaching to a bunch of pastors and church members and You know, to me walking around the Holy Land was an amazing privilege and I'd love to do it again. But do you know walking along the Holy Land and seeing those places, seeing, you know, Getty and and And uh where Gideon uh the brook there where David pulled his stones out and the valley of Elah there where he fought Goliath and uh the place where Gideon and his men were at and they knelt down and Drew Water and the Peter's uh house and Peter the Tanner's house and seeing all of these places, they're they're amazing, but I don't believe the word of God because I got to see those, that they actually exist No, I have a more sure word. Even if we could even if the excavators uh or uh archaeologists couldn't bring those places back and find those locations, it doesn't matter because the word of God tells me. that it took place. I've got the word of God that I can have right here in my hand. We see the word of the Lord, He It's also in our hearts. He speaks to our hearts through conviction. He says in verse number 4 and 5, for the word of the Lord is right. And all his works are done in truth. He loveth righteousness and judgment. The earth is full of the goodness of the Lord. Right and just truth judgment. You ought to praise and thank God for the conviction of the Holy Spirit. The convicting power of the Holy Spirit. That is the word of the Lord coming and speaking to your heart Telling you, hey, you shouldn't be doing that. Hey, you should be doing that. Hey, this is what you need. Hey, you ought to be encouraged in the Lord. Hey, you ought to stop complaining so much. It's the Spirit of God convicting your heart, and we ought to thank God For the convicting spirit of him. When we sin and do wrong, that Holy Spirit comes and convicts us. His spirit strives with us, and what a privilege it is. I heard recently Somebody said they didn't really like coming to Hunt Valley Baptist Church because every time they did, they were under conviction. I don't know if that's the exact words that that were used because this is secondhand to me, but basically the idea is They didn't really enjoy that convicting spirit. They th th they they wanted to get away from it. We ought to understand that's the Spirit of God speaking to our hearts. And we ought to value and appreciate it. It is the love of God that's crying to you to stop before it's too late. Just like a child, just like a father who would chase his child or call his child and say, hey, hey, don't run towards that street. Hey, don't don't do that. The end of that is going to be painful. Well, don't. It's the love of a parent. And a child doesn't understand that a child looks at it as restrictive, a child looks at that as authoritative, a child says, Oh, I don't like mom and dad always telling me what to do, but it's love that motivates that And the convicting spirit of God is because of God loves us. And He's trying to help us. We ought to thank him for that convicting. If we don't, the time may come where he'll stop convicting us. If we don't respond readily to his convicting spirit, there may come a time when he stops striving with us. You know, you can only grieve the Holy Spirit so long. You can only put them off so long. You can only say, No, I don't I don't want to hear that, I don't want to hear that, I don't want to hear that. And I'm not talking about saying it to me or to somebody else. You're talking to the Spirit of God in your heart. That's convicting you and you're saying, I'm not going to change that, I'm not ready to change that, and you keep pushing the Holy Spirit away, and he's going to say, okay, and he's going to stop convicting you. He'll throw up his hands and say, Go ahead. Do what you want to do. I don't know if you've ever had the privilege of reading the Shepherd's look at Psalm 23, that book written by a shepherd, and talking about the caring for a sheep. How when they have a a sheep that really wants to get out of the fold and just wants to go run and wants to be wild, that they'll bring them back in and they keep using that staff and they'll pull them in and they'll pull them in, but if they if they won't heed that, they'll actually break one of their legs. And he goes on to describe and talk about the fact that if they have one sheep that even after that, as soon as they're well, will not stay, and many times after the broken leg, that sheep will stay right with the shepherd. But sometimes you'll get a very obstinate sheep. And as soon as he's better, he's like our dog Odin. As soon as he's better, he's gone. He's outta here. Uh and you know what? The that in that shepherd's look he says that sheep they'll have to kill it. They'll have to put it down because that sheep leaves other sheep out of the fold and they're all going to get eaten. And beloved, I've seen it more than once in my life where God has taken somebody who is just too obstinate. They did not heed the Spirit of God, didn't heed the warnings, didn't heed the broken leg. And God said, okay He speaks to us through his conviction. He speaks to us through creation. Look in verses six through eight. He says, By the word of the Lord were the heavens made. And all the host of them by the breath of his mouth. He gathereth the waters of the sea together as a heap, he layeth up the depth in storehouses. Let all the earth fear the Lord, let all the inhabitants of the world stand. in awe of him. As you stand back and look at creation, are you in awe of him? I mean I'll tell you what. You you see a beautiful sunset? You see uh a majestic sunrise And you sit back and just think about our Creator, our God. What an amazing thing. When's the last time you saw a rainbow and just thought about the promises of God and how true they are? Isn't there just something majestic and beautiful about a rainbow that crosses the sky? And you sometimes you see the double rainbow and it's just like, man, that is that is awesome. That's a promise from God put that in the sky from The time of the flood till now, it still appears as a standing visible promise to God, to man from God. But an amazing thing. I mean, have you beheld the strength and power of a storm and just sat back in awe? Those winds obey his voice. And I'll tell you what, it oughta make us ponder and think about God, the Creator. The fact that He wants to communicate with us. He wants to talk to us. You know what? He'll even give us counsel, the Bible says here. Look at verses 9 through 11. He says, For he's fake, and it was done. He commanded, and it stood fast. The Lord bringeth the counsel of the heathen to naught. He maketh the devices of the people of none effect. The counsel of the Lord standeth forever. The thoughts of his heart to all generations. The counsel of the Lord standeth forever. God wants to guide you in your life. That's an amazing thing. Think about the creator of the universe, the God, the King of Kings, the Lord of Lords, wants to guide you. Now the steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord, and this is not a mystical, magical thing that you're just in the dark and you're just hoping you're going to step in the right place. The steps of a good man being ordered by the Lord is in communication with God and God giving you direction for your steps. God leading you so that you're doing what God wants you to do. Following his leading in obedience As a chosen person, as a chosen Christian, we have that privilege of the word of the Lord in our hand and in our hearts. Speaks to us through creation, speaks to us through his conviction, speaks to us by giving us counsel to lead us in our daily life. And we see the eye of the Lord in verses 13 through 19. The Lord looketh from heaven. He beholdeth all the sons of men. From the place of his habitation, he looketh upon all the inhabitants of the Lord. The Lord sees you. He looketh on all the inhabitants of the Lord. He sees you everywhere you are. He sees you when you're at home and alone and nobody else is there. He sees you when you're supposed to be streaming the service and instead you're watching Google. Uh watching YouTube. You know, he he sees you when you're at your computer and nobody else is there. He sees you When you're at work and opportunity to do something you shouldn't is is present. He sees you when you are a witness. He sees you. God sees us. All the inhabitants of the earth are before his eyes. The eye of God's eye is on us. He considers us. He thinks about us. In verses 16 through 19, he talks about our calamities. He said, there is no king saved by the multitude of a host. A mighty man is not delivered by much strength. A horse is a vain thing for safety, neither shall he deliver any by his great strength. But the eye of the Lord is upon them that fear him You know, in your community, calamity, whatever problem you're facing, God's eye is on you because you're chosen. Because you're a chosen person. God's eye is present. You have the word of the Lord with you, and you've got God's eye on you. He's watching you. You know how many times a young person is gonna do something and as long as they know mom or dad are watching, they they're confident. They're like mom and dad, oh they're still right there, okay then they're gonna go do it, you know. As long as they know mom and dad are are there, they're around We've got God's eye on us all the time. As a chosen person. God sees you in your calamity You know, there's no strength, no mighty men, no king, no horse that's gonna solve your problem, that's gonna give you security. But with God, you have all the security you need. You have all the strength you need. And his eye is on you. Beloved, these are our benefits. Why? Because we've been chosen. I praise God tonight that I've been chosen. And we of course know that God is not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. And the opportunity for any to be chosen is there. if they would respond. Are you chosen tonight? Are you thankful for what God has done for you? Recognizing these benefits given to us because we're chosen? Are you a soul winner like you should be as a chosen individual? Are you satisfied, living a satisfied life? Willing to suffer for Christ and for his name's sake? Is that you?