In Psalms chapter 27, verse number one is our text verse. The Bible says, The Psalm of David, the Lord is my light and my salvation. Whom shall I fear? The Lord is my strength of my life, of whom shall I be afraid? Tonight I want to bring a message entitled The Folly of Fear. the folly of fear. As we read on Sunday chapter twenty-seven of Matthew and we talked about uh reading that passage of scripture and how Christ was put on trial, a mock trial, a trial that certainly was not upheld by law or one where he was tried by a written law, but he was tried in the opinion of men. And uh ultimately the men, uh the group, the tumult that will erupt rise, uh convicted him. And of course we know that he was beaten and then crucified. And as you continue on reading through that story which we're coming up, praise God, on Sunday where we celebrate his resurrection. But as you read the story of Christ's death, his crucifixion, his burial, I can only think about Christ's followers and how it appeared to them. How they must have felt that it was all over. I mean, you can you know the devastating effect it has on us as individuals when somebody that is just a man that we respect False. When just a man that we respect ends up quitting and we say, Man If he fell, or if he quit, or if he gave up, or if he can't do it, what in the world? And many a Christian have fallen themselves or quit themselves because Of somebody else that fell or quit. And they said, if they can't do it, I forget it, and they walk away. And I think about the followers of Christ, the Son of God. How they had watched him perform so many miracles. How they had watched him do heal the blind and and heal the lame and And, you know, even though he had testified to the fact that as Jonas was three days in the belly of the whale, even so must the Son of Man be in the belly of the earth, even though they knew that he was going to die and that he had said he would raise again. When he died, can you imagine their heart? Yea, even the fear that they had. Here, their leader was crucified. And you can see the crowd yelling in anger about Christ: crucify him, crucify him. And I don't know about you, you probably would have been real bold and said, I'm with him. But I can imagine myself like being like I I'm a follower of Christ, but I mean I don't want anybody in this group to know. They're gonna crucify me. They're gonna hang me with with him. I mean they're what what in the world? I mean, if we were real honest about how we felt in a situation like that, I can imagine the disciples, those that followed Christ, were had fear. What's going to happen now? What's going to happen? I mean, is it all over? Are we going to be able to do any miracles like we did? Are we going to be able to heal anybody? Are we going to see the power of God is all his teaching? Was it for naught? Praise God, it wasn't for naught. Three days later, he rose from the dead. But the fact is, many of us face fear. Fear is defined with a long list of synonyms, such as alarm and despondency, dismay, dread, fright, gloom, horror, panic, terror. Many children are awakened from the sleep of night with a nightmare, in fear of the unknown, in fear of what might be in the darkness. At the same time, many adults who don't fear the dark, they live in what they would say is a nightmare. They live day by day in what they feel is a nightmare. They live afraid. A study of the Bible reveals that fear Has been a companion with the heart of man since the beginning of time. There are seventeen different nouns and thirteen different verbs in the Word of God and its original languages which define and declare the idea of fear. Our Heavenly Father does not want us to live in fear. Almost a hundred times in the pages of scripture there is the declaration, fear not. Fear not. The book of Psalms, where we took our text from this evening, especially encourages the believer to put our faith and trust in God. To help us to overcome the fears that are put there by ourselves, by our flesh, or even by the devil himself. In Psalms 23, verse number four, that very familiar verse, yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for thou art with me, thy rod, thy staff. Comfort me. Psalms 118, verse number six, says, The Lord is on my side, I will not fear what man can do unto me. And our text verse this evening, the Lord is my light and my salvation, whom shall I fear? The Lord is the strength of my life, of whom shall I be afraid? The psalmist here, David, declares unto us this idea of overcoming our fear. So let's look first of all at the problem. There is a problem that has been in the heart of man since the beginning of time. I mean, you can go all the way back to Genesis and you see Adam in the garden. And as soon as they send a picture of sin in our lives, what does the Bible say in the book of Proverbs? The wicked flee when no man pursueth. Because of a heart of fear. David, I mean, Adam went and hid because he was afraid. First time in his life he ever experienced fear. Why? Because he was out of the presence of God. And we as believers are not to live in a spirit of fear. We're supposed to live in the presence of God. But too many times there is the problem of fear. All men face fear at different times in their life. Some fear disappointing others They live in a fear of disappointing somebody else. Or you live in fear of being disappointed. Some fear speaking If you look at a list of fears that people have, speaking in public is is pretty high on a lot of people's lists. They're like, I just couldn't do it. Some years ago in London, a pioneer BBC broadcaster told a story of sitting next to Winston Churchill as he gave a splendid oration to a small group The broadcaster noted that while it appeared Churchill had some papers with him, he noticed that they were blank. And so later on, when he was alone with Winston Churchill, he asked him about it. And Churchill replied, Yes, old boy, but it gave confidence to my audience. Churchill didn't need the notes, but he gave confidence to the audience to think he was speaking from some notes. But a lot of people fear speaking. They do, that public speaking. We feel failure Because of either real or imaginary inadequacies in our life. They could be as imaginary as the boogeyman in the dark for a child, and yet we fear it, even as adults. Do you understand that fear robs us of the possibility of great achievement You see, this is the problem. That fear stops us from the possibility of great achievement. It holds you back. It is bonds, it is chains which keeps you from stepping out It causes one to hesitate or to never step forward. Even at times when fear is not physically destructive to our lives, and there is evidence of the fact that it does and can harm us physically. It puts a great burden on us to men panting and out of breath. Perspiring profusely, riding a tandem bicycle reached the top of a steep hill. Wow, that was a stiff climb, the first said. And the other said, it was very scary. And if I hadn't held the brakes the whole time, we would roll backwards That fear of rolling backwards really held them back from being able to move forward. And that's what fear in our life does, fear of failure, fear of rejection, fear of not succeeding, or fear of the different fears that we face in our lives of financial ruin, maybe. Fear of not getting the job makes us not go apply. Fear it holds us back. It is the thief that steals and robs the happiness that could be yours. No one can have real joy of the God in their hearts when they at the same time are filled with fear and agony You can't experience the real true joy that God wants you to have when you're filled with fear. It keeps you from being able to enjoy what you do have. It's the Eeyore syndrome. Man, what a beautiful day. It's gonna rain. It's this fear that's always present in our lives and it keeps us from even enjoying the beautiful days like today. The fact of the matter is, is fear is the opposite of faith It literally is the opposite of faith. You will only step out of the boat when you have dynamic faith, and fear keeps you in the boat. When you want to accomplish something, you've got to live by faith instead of living in fear. If we want to Walk on water, as it were, for God. Many people say, well, Pastor Caleb, I could never ever do that, whether that be sing in the choir or uh knock on somebody's door or be a witness to somebody or give out the gospel or hand a gospel track or teach a Sunday school class. And and I I've had people in in every one of those scenarios, I've had people tell me that I couldn't do that. Fear keeps us back from experiencing what God wants us to do and the joy of it. You recall the story in Luke chapter 19 of those that were given talents. the story of the talents and those that were given the one that was given five talents he went and uh he he used it and and he allowed it and and through his exercise of use he turned it into ten And it multiplied, it doubled. And the one with three talents turned it into six. And the one with one talent. You know he went and buried it, do you remember? Do you remember why? The text actually says that he was afraid. He said the text in Luke 19 says, uh, I know that thou art a hard man and you want what's yours. And he said, so I was afraid, so I buried it, and here you have what is thine. He was afraid. Fear kept him taking what he was supposed to even do with what God had given him and using it Now there's a whole principle of investing there given to you. You understand that God gave the five talents to a guy that he knew was going to return ten talents with it? And he gave three talents to the guy he knew was going to return three, and he says, You know what? Here's this guy here. I'm only going to give him one You know why? Because God knows. Is fear holding you back? Faith cometh by hearing and hearing by the Word of God. If fear is the opposite of faith, then what we need is faith. We need faith So we've got to get in and spend time in the Word of God. We've got to grab a hold of the promises that are given to us in this book. And live in faith. 2 Timothy 1, verse number 7 says, For God hath not given us the spirit of fear. Amen. But of power and of love and of a sound mind. We have protection against fear. Clarence McCartney said, regardless of what men's progression of faith may be, if they are under the dominion of fear, they are practically atheist. Regardless of the progression of what man's faith may be, if he's under the dominion of fear, they are practically atheists. Do you understand fear is the opposite of faith? If I'm living under the dominion of fear and letting fear rule my life, what I'm saying is my God is not big enough. My God is not strong enough, He's not capable enough, He's not able to solve this problem, to per meet this need, to provide me what what I am, He's not able to fix this, so I must live in fear. He says you're living practically as an atheist, even though you declare yourself to be a believer in God. Because we serve a God who has not given us the spirit of fear. He has given us three things in that text that overcome fear. He has given us power. Love and a sound mind. Power, power of God in our lives, power to overcome. This world, the flesh and the devil, power to be victorious, power. You think about Peter when he walked on water, when he had his eyes on Christ, he had power to walk on water. But when he looked away from him and began to experience fear is when he began to sink And when he cried out and said, Lord save me, the Lord saved him. Praise God. Even in a moment of fear, you can cry out and God will reach down and pick you up He gives us love. First John 4 18 says, There is no fear in love, but perfect love casteth out. Fear. Do you understand? Underst believing and realizing that God loves us with a perfect love. It casts out fear. Pastor Caleb at some point is going to let you down. I'm just telling you right now so you can be prepared. I don't want to. It's not my desire, but I want you to know that I'm human. And in some way, I'm going to let you down. I don't desire that. But that's going to happen. But you understand, God is never going to let you down. And His He loves you with a perfect love. You say, I love you as members and people of Hunt Valley Baptist Church. But by no means is it a perfect love. That's far from perfect. There's times where my love might be distracted. There's times where my love might be turned to another place. But God's love is not. And anything that comes into your life when we are living by faith, what we understand is that no matter what it is. I asked a God who is powerful enough and his perfect love for me cast out the fear that I have of the unknown because I know that God is not going to allow anything into my life that is not for my good and his glory. I used to say it Anything into your life is for one of two things, either for your good or his glory. But I want you to understand that that is not a biblically true statement. It's all for your good. Sometimes we don't understand it. We look at it and say, how can this be for good? But all things work together for good to them that love God, to them that are called according to God We don't understand it. We look at it and we say that doesn't make sense. How could this possibly be for my good? This is not what I want It's not what I desire. This hurts. I don't like this. I don't want to go down this road. This can't be for good. But A God that loves me with perfect love is in control of what comes into my life. And I understand that And if I'm living in faith, then I'm saying I believe that. And that takes the fear that I had about my situation, my problem, my health. And I can trust God. Amen. He also gives us a sound mind. I believe the sound mind comes from acknowledgement of the first two things. The power of God, an omniscient, all-powerful God who loves me with perfect love I can have a sound mind. My mind doesn't have to run to and fro. And I'll tell you what, people live today with anything but a sound mind. It is mind-boggling today, the people who Have what we would in the world today they would classify as some type of mish mental issue. Mental breakdown. They're suffering from And you could say any list of things that people are suffering from. The list is is huge. People don't have a sound mind today. They're so discouraged. They're in despondency. They're anxiety they're living with, these fears they're living with, all these things, and and they're not sure how they can even cope with one more day There's no soundness there, but God's given us a sound mind. It casteth out all fear So let me see the path. Show you the path. As we saw the promise there, the promise is that God has not given us the spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of a sound mind. And let's look at the path. We need faith that throws off fear. Faith that throws off fear. I recall when I was growing up, as I thought about this principle of faith in God, this all-powerful God, who has the ability in If we're living in faith and trusting him, how it should cast off fear. And I thought about my best friend growing up, who was a little Mexican kid, and he came to my chest on me, even though we were about the same age. He was only this tall. And uh he's a little short, very skinny. I mean, my arms were as big as his legs, you know. I mean, just a little Mexican. And we had so much fun together. I mean we did everything together. We were inseparable. And Jaime's dad was a drunk. And uh Jaime's dad would drink them out of house and home about every three months. And they would have to move to a new house because they no longer were paying the rent and they got evicted. So needless to say, they lived in a pretty rough neighborhood. There was mom and dad and five kids living in a one bedroom apartment. And anyways, it was a rough neighborhood and Jaime and I we would go out and do stuff and more than once we were chased by people of the from the lo from the local gangs. I don't know if it's because I was white or 'cause he was Mexican or or or what, but uh th they chased us. And only one time did we get caught. But we would come home late at night, and he lived on the wrong side of the tracks, and there was kind of a demarcation line. We literally It was Interstate 10 there. We would get to Interstate 10 and we would stop and catch our breath. And then from there all the way to his house, we wouldn't stop. Every time we came home late in the evening, that's how we would do it. But one night we were coming home late in the evening and uh I was a skateboarder, so we were riding skateboards, and we're we're skateboarding, and these guys in a car started chasing us So we grabbed our skateboards and we cut through a yard and those guys had to go around the block. And so we were skating down this way and then they would find us again and start chasing us again and we we would cut through another parking lot, we would go around the back of the store and jump a fence and run out in the street. I mean this heart pounding, heart-wrenching, literally sweaty palms. I mean if they catch us, we know we're in for a beating. And we were going as fast as we could, just just booking it, trying to get back to Jaime's house to safety. And we're going, going, going. This this lasts all the way to Jaime's house. We come into the parking lot of his apartment complex just ahead, we cut through this yard and we got a here just ahead of the group of boys in a car. And we are, I mean, we were running. And we ran all the way to his apartment and we bust through the door and we said, Chewy, Chewie, there's guys after us. Now Chewie was Jaime's older brother. And Chewie was probably 6'3, 6'4, 280 pounds. And Chewie reached behind the door and grabbed a baseball bat and said, Where are they? Chewy walked out into the parking lot. And he went right up to the car and he's like, You guys got a problem with my brother? And we're we're behind him. Get him, Jewey, get him. We're like, yeah, you got a problem with us. I mean we were we were tough then, you know The whole time getting to the house we were afraid. I mean we were booking it. I I thought for sure they were gonna catch us and we were gonna get a beat down. But when Chewy was there We were standing up. He casted out all fear. Because we knew Chewie could handle it. Those boys decided they didn't have a problem with us and they drove away. That's how we need to get with our God. We need to have a relationship with our God where whatever we're facing in this life, we can get behind him. And say, yeah, you got a problem? You gotta deal with him first. You gotta deal with him first. You see, faith throws off fear. David said, the Lord is my light and my salvation. Whom shall I fear? The Lord is the strength of my life. Of whom shall I be afraid? This faith that casts off fear is not just faith that this faith doesn't live in yesterday, but it needs to remember yesterday. Look at verse number two in Psalms 27. In verse number two he says, When the wicked, even mine enemies and my foes came, you see the past tense, came upon me to eat up my flesh. They stumbled and fell. David was remembering the victories that he had in the past. And I know that everybody here, given the opportunity, you could look back and say, I remember when God helped me. through this situation or when God guided me through this or when God answered that prayer and we could look back at those things and say we do serve a big God. We do have a big God and He handled yesterday's battle. He can handle today's battle. We need to don't live yet yesterday, but we certainly need to remember the works of the Lord. Amen. David remembered those victories, not only Do we trust him because of yesterday? We trust him for today, but we can have faith to trust him for tomorrow. Look at verse number three. In Psalms 27, verse number 3, he says, though a host should, you see the future tense, should encamp me against me. My heart shall not fear. Though war should rise against me, in this will I be confident. You see, he was going to trust God in the future. Because why? Because he wanted one thing most of all, and it's given to us in verse number four. He had this faith. To trust God and didn't live in the folly of fear, because in verse number four he said, One thing have I desired of the Lord. That will I seek after, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to behold the beauty of the Lord, and to inquire in his temple He's saying, I want to be with God. And when we can stand behind God, when we the first time Adam experienced fear, Was when he was separated from God. If we could live united with God, seeking him, having that one desire to know him. And to be known of him, it would cast out fear. And we could trust him with the faith that overcomes fear.