Chapter number 11. So you can kind of get both of those ready to look at, mark them somehow. Uh you know, this is Mother's Day, and it is altogether very fitting and right that we should uh set aside some time to honor and appreciate our mothers. They certainly live uh very selfless lives in uh pursuit of taking care of their family. And we praise the Lord and are very grateful and thankful for that. You know, um There's a kind of mothers have their own definition of words. There's there's words that take on a whole new meaning for a mother. And some of those words I'll give you today like airplane. This is what a mom impersonates in order to get her one-year-old to eat strained smashed peas. Uh feedback. This is the inevitable result when the baby does not appreciate the peas. Apple. A nutritious lunchtime lunchtime dessert that a child will surely trade for cupcakes. Baby, mom's youngest child, even if he's 42. Bed and breakfast. Two things the kids will never make for themselves. Date night. An infrequent outing with dad where mom can enjoy worrying about the kids in a new location. Eating. What kids are sure to do between meals and not usually at them. Hamper. A wicker container with a lid, usually surrounded by, but not containing, any dirty clothes. Handy wipes, or otherwise called pants, shirts, sleeves, drapes, etc. Dumb waiter, one who asked the kids if they would care for dessert. Genius. Amazingly, all of mom's kids. Well this morning we want to look at Moses and Moses' mother. We embarked upon this in the Sunday school hour, kind of talking about uh the beginning of the book of Exodus and uh really quickly flew through the first 18 chapters. And so we wanted to dig into this a little bit this morning and uh look at Moses' mother and what she did for her son. Mothers, let me just encourage you, don't underestimate the impact that you have on your child, and thereby on your church and on your community. You greatly influence them. Truly, there's no no way for us to measure the influence a mother has. on the next generation. Whether that influence be an influence for good or evil, mom is impacting the next generation greatly. And let me say that in a day in which God-loving, Bible-honoring uh Christian parents are becoming more and more unpopular. We need some moms that would be like Jacobed, love their children, and lead their children towards the Lord. Jacobed, Moses' mom, raised him in a very difficult time. Hard things. She was faced with the command to kill her own son upon birth. In defiance of the king's command, she began to raise him and We'll talk about this, but what I just want to say to you is that just because we live in a wicked culture, it doesn't mean your kids won't turn or grow up to love and honor God. It is still possible. I want to see what Jacobed did for her son Moses and gleaned some truths from her. Would you look at our text here now in Exodus chapter 2? We're going to read the first ten verses. And then get into our thought this morning. In Genesis chapter 2, beginning at verse number 1, reading down through verse number 10. He says, And there went out a man of the house of Levi and took a wife to daughter of Levi And the woman conceived and bare a son, and when she saw him that he was a goodly child, she hid him three months. And when she could no longer hide him, she took for him an ark of bulrushes, and dabbed it with slime and with pitch, and put the child therein, and she laid it in the flags by the river's bank. And his sister stood afar off to wit what would be done to him. And the daughter of Pharaoh came down to wash herself at the river, and her maids walked along by the riverside, and When she saw the ark among the flags, she sent her maid to fetch it. And when she opened it she saw the child, and behold the baby wept, and she had compassion on him, and said, This is one of the Hebrew children Then said his sister to Pharaoh's daughter, Shall I go and call to thee a nurse of the Hebrew women, that she may nurse the child for thee? And Pharaoh's daughter said to her, Go. And the maid went and called the child's mother And Pharaoh's daughter said unto her, Take this child away and nurse it for me, and I will give thee thy wages. And the woman took the child and nursed it, and the child grew, and she brought him unto Pharaoh's daughter, and he became her son, and she called his name Moses And she said, because I drew him out of the water. Lord, we come to you today and I ask that you would take the thoughts from your word this morning and Be an encouragement and at the same time a challenge to the mothers that are in uh the room today. Lord, we thank you for them. honor them today. We appreciate what they've done for us. And Lord, the example that's given to us here by Jacobet, I pray that we would learn from her. We ask you to guide us through the service in Jesus' name. Amen. I want you to see, first of all, that one first thing that she did for her son, which is a duty and a requirement that every mother should do, is that she protected him. When says here in verse number 2, and the women conceived and bare a son, she saw that he was a goodly child, and she hid him three months. In disobedience to the command of Pharaoh and to the rulers of that area, she hid her son. She provided a place of protection for him. It was in defiance of those commands. I want you to know that she did this, and this of course is uh the nature of a mother is to protect her child. All mothers should do this, but she did it in an extreme way in a time that was extremely difficult and in danger for her own life. In Hebrews 11, verse number 23, it says, By faith, Moses, when he was born, was hid three months of his parents. was hid three months. She three months she hid them. Now she recognized, beloved, first of all, that he uh had some potential So she hid him. He had some potential. It says there in Exodus chapter 2 and verse number 2, he says, and he was a goodly child. She saw something in her son. In Hebrews 11, 23, it's translated proper child. She saw that this child was a proper child. Now we don't know that he may have had some very marvelous features. He may have been a very attractive young baby to all mothers. Their babies are attractive. Amen. But she saw something in her child In the book of Acts, chapter 7, verse number 20, that same word is translated exceeding fair. So maybe he was just a very attractive young baby, or maybe he just uh did not Have any defects. Maybe he just wasn't ugly. Maybe he just didn't have any problems. But what I'm saying is as a mom, she looked down at her son and she saw his potential She looked beyond the crib and saw what God wanted to create in this young man. She saw the future for this man. She had a dream for him. Mom, can I ask you, what do you see for your kids? What do you see beyond that cute little child who was on the screen today and said, Boy, I love mom's cooking or I appreciate how she cares for me or just going out to eat with her or spending a little bit of time Sitting down and watching or playing some games, these things, what do you see beyond that little child? Where is he gonna be in ten, fifteen, or twenty years? What's your vision and your dream for him Beloved, can I tell you many people see a doctor, an engineer, a computer programmer. Where are the moms today that see a child of God? Let's see a young man, a young lady, a child that's going to grow up and follow and pursue the Lord Jesus Christ. And maybe he is a doctor. But is he a godly doctor? Maybe he is a computer programmer, but is he a godly computer programmer? Is he in church somewhere? Is his life being a witness and a testimony to a lost and dying world about a savior that forgives sins And takes people to heaven. What is your vision? I'm telling you right now, mom, your dream, your vision for that next generation is going to impact how you behave and what you do each and every day If your goal is entirely that they become a doctor, he'll be a heathenistic doctor. God won't be a part of his life. He'll claim evolution in God. He'll walk away from everything he ever learned about Jesus Christ Your goal has to be first and primarily to point them to God, to show them a Savior that loves and changes lives. Then God can take them and make them a doctor that brings honor and glory to him, somebody that understands that they're fearfully and wonderfully made doctor that understands that abortion is still uh killing a baby, a doctor that knows that every life is precious, whether they're young or the old. Can I tell you the day is going to come in America where they're going to start killing off the old They're going to say they're a drain on society and and we can't afford to keep them around and so we need to just kill them. Listen, that's that's a heathenistic society, a society that doesn't understand that life is precious Life is a gift from God, and every life is valuable. You need to train your young people to first love and honor and appreciate God and then let God shape them in his image. and mold them into what he wants them to be. Nothing wrong with doctors. My dad used to tell me, hey, you want to be a trash man? That's fine. Be the most godly trash man there is in Pine Bluff, Arkansas Be the most godly computer programmer there is in Baltimore. You want to do this? If God has that plan for you, that's okay. But mom, I'm telling you, it starts with what you envisioned for them. It starts with what you see them. Where are the moms that are on their knees at night asking God, Lord, please call my son into the ministry? Lord, please Make him a godly young man, a godly young lady. Please use them greatly in their life. Whatever it is, where are those prayers today? Oh, we're very concerned about how much money they're going to make. We're very concerned that they're going to be able to financially sustain themselves. But how concerned are we that they're spiritual? She saw the potential of her child, this child that was given to her by God. God directed them. He was a special child, and she knew that she had a job to do to prepare him to fulfill God's plan for her. Child. Mom, are you preparing them to fulfill God's plan? Are you preparing them to fulfill God's plan? Not your plan, not their plan, but God's plan. This last week I was talking to a parent with very young kids and I said, can I tell you that your time to influence them passes like that? You've only got one chance to raise your kids for God, and every week, every day matters because the days pass so quick and before you'll know it, you'll be you'll be in church the Sunday before your little girl is going to get married And by God's grace, she'll get married to a godly young man that's going to love her and care for her, and they'll have a home that brings honor and glory to God. But you don't get to that place by accident. You get there when they're just one or two and you're putting them in the crib at night And you're begging God, saying, Lord, give me wisdom to be a godly mother. Help me to raise this child in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. I can't do this myself. I need your help. I need wisdom from the pages of Scripture. She saw something in him and she risked punishment to protect him. She risks punishment. You know, if she was commanded to kill him, but she didn't do it. Understand, beloved, that we are to obey the authorities that are over us. We know that the authorities that be are ordained of God. That Romans chapter 13 tells us that very clearly. And the authorities that were in the land during that time were Pharaoh. But we also know, beloved, that as much as the authorities that are ordained of God and we are to submit to them, that when the authorities that are give a command or an edict that goes against God The book of Acts tells us that we're to obey God rather than man. Because he is the greater authority. You see, that's a principle we understand. We obey the greater authority. If you happen to be, you got some different age kids here and you you say, okay, well, m uh Caleb and Melissa and They happen might be together and we leave and we say, okay, Alicia, you're in charge. And so uh Alicia is telling them what to do, and because Caleb and Melissa are very good, obedient children, they're following all of Alicia's directions, right? Um But what happens when mom and dad come on the scene? There's a greater authority present now. And a lot of times you'll hear kids say, You're not my dad. You know, you're not my mom. Why? Because mom is the greater authority. Dad is the greater authority. And uh in that, and so you always Follow and obey the greater authority. Well, God is the greatest authority. And what he says comes first. And so she risked punishment to obey the greater authority, that is God. We obey God rather than man. And I'm sure that they had some fear. They were probably afraid. I mean, maybe she was going to get killed. Maybe not she didn't obey and kill her son. They might kill everybody in her family. Maybe days were filled with fear, but they didn't act out of fear, they acted out of faith. And that's what a godly mother does. It doesn't make sense in this day and age, in this world in which we live in, that's contrary to everything biblical or Christian. You say, I don't know if I can raise my kid like this, but by faith, Moses, when he was born Hebrews 11, 23. By faith, when he was born, Moses was hid three months of his parents. His parents hid him. Why? Because they had faith that God was still in control. By faith, Moses protected her child from Pharaoh. Man, that is the heart of a mother to protect her child. On August 16, 1987, the Northwest Airlines flight 225 crashed shortly after takeoff. Shortly after leaving the Detroit airport, the plane could not reach liftoff, settled back down on the ground, crashed, killing 155 people. on a nearby highway. One survivor was found walking on the street, a four-year-old girl. Named Cecilia. When rescuers found her, they thought that she must have been from one of the cars because she was completely uninjured She thought they thought one of the cars on the road she must have got out and wandered off and and just they they they were looking for where she was supposed to be, but when they checked the roster of those that were on the flight, they found that she was On the flight. And they found the seat that she was strapped in was closed with the body of her mother. As the plane was going down, Mom unstrapped herself from her own seat, knelt down in front of her daughter, wrapped her arms and her body around her daughter, and protected her daughter. When the flaming plane finally came to a stop, this little girl climbed out from under the body of her mother that protected her. Mom, it's our job, your job, to protect your children. We protect them in this world. But can I tell you the number one enemy that these children have is Satan? Oh, I know that we protect them in this world and all of the things that are out here, but you know there's a Satan that wants to come and destroy their lives. Other people might not understand the steps that you're taking, Mom. Even your family sometimes might not understand why you put a priority on church and why you you protect your home and why your child doesn't have a cell phone when all the other kids have a cell phone. Why your child doesn't have a TV in his room when all the other child kids have a TV in their room Why your child doesn't have an iPad with internet access on it that they get to use any room in the house without supervision. Why? Because it's your job as a parent to protect them And there is a wicked world out there. There is people that would take advantage of the young and you read stories about it over and over and over again. Mom, it's your job to protect them. Don't put them in that position or that place where they could be stalked by somebody out there. Don't put them in the place where they could get a hold of and access and look at Some of the fields, some of you that are older, my generation and and near that, you know, back in the day, if you wanted to get a hold of some illicit material, you had to go to a bad part of town Or you had to go to a magazine rack that was all covered up and you weren't supposed to look at it. They had boards in front of it. And you had to go to that spot and you had to go and be embarrassed and buy it nowadays and plus you had to be eighteen Nowadays, parents are giving their children's cell phones that have pornography on them. They have the all of the wickedness in the world on them, and you're letting them walk around with that And they have access to it all the time anywhere. What do you think the child's looking at? You say, not my kid. Well, you got your head in the sand. Do you remember when you were a child? Satan is their enemy and Satan wants to destroy their life. You say, oh, they need it for protection today. Well then buy them what's called a dumb phone. Get them a device that they can make a phone call on and that's all that it does. You see that's not why they want it They don't want it to talk to you. They want it to get on Snapchat and I I don't even know all the tomfoolery these kids are into today, uh all these different apps, some of you are laughing at me But the apps and all the junk that's out there, I don't have time to keep up with it or research the the filth, the the the TikTok and Instagram, you know, all of those things. Listen, the majority of that stuff is filth Oh I know there's great pictures of flowers on there, but your kid ain't looking at flowers. It's your job to protect them, Mom. Protect them from the attacks of Satan who wants to destroy their life and you say, Oh, but my kid's gonna be whining and complaining. Your job is to be a mother. Right. Protect them. That's what she did. At risk of her own life, she protected her child. We've got to move on. Want you to see that not only did she protect him, but she provided for him. And when I say she provided for him ultimately, I want you to see that it was the hand of God. Look at verse number seven. 8 and 9. Then said his sister to Pharaoh's daughter, Shall I go call to thee a nurse of the Hebrew women, that she may nurse the child for thee? And Pharaoh's daughter said unto her, and Pharaoh's daughter said unto her, Go, and the maid went and called the child's mother. And Pharaoh's daughter said unto her, Take this child away, nurse it for me, and I will give thee thy wage. This is a miraculous turn of events. And Mom is now contacted and brought back into the scene, and by divine intervention, she is giving the child back. And to raise the child, and she's paid to do it. How many of you ladies would like that gig? Get paid to raise your own kids. Amen. Kids are one of the most expensive things you'll have in your entire life Children, I I don't remember the the estimated money that somebody spends on a child from the time that they're born in w outside of crazy things like if they fall and have to have back surgery or if they, you know, I mean get a major disease. But I'm just saying just raising a child, I think it's like two hundred and eighty thousand dollars is the average money that a parent spends on a child from the time they're born till they're till they're eighteen, till they're out of the house. Most expensive thing. Wouldn't it be nice to have somebody else paying that bill? Yeah, that would be awesome. That's what God did for her. What I'm saying here, beloved, is that God knows what you need. And God will provide for you as a parent. God will provide what you need to raise your kids, to train your kids, to give your kids what they need. Listen, God knows and he's in control. I'm not just talking about finances here, although I opened with that. What I'm really talking about here is as a mom, sometimes I know you feel Like you don't have everything that they need. Like you you're not smart enough to give them the education that they need or to help them do and be what what they need to be as they're growing up or or you don't know enough about this or or your area of expertise is not in that area and y you look at it and say, Man, how how can I raise this child I feel Like I don't have what I need. What I'm saying is God knows and God will give you what you need. God gave you that child, and God will enable you as a parent to raise that child for God. God will allow you to answer their questions. God will give you wisdom that's beyond your own mind. The child comes to you and you asks of you a question in your mind, you're like, what am I going to say? And if you're walking with God, the Holy Spirit of God will give you insight and you'll share with that child and you'll walk away. You'll be like, man, I don't even know where that came from. I didn't even know I was that smart. Isn't that awesome? And you you're excited about it. How do I know this? Because I've had mothers tell me this. I've had them explain to me what happened and how God gave them insight beyond their experience. to be able to guide their child in a miraculous way. Listen, God will give you what you need. I've had parents, moms especially come and say, I I don't think I can homeschool my children because I lack the confidence. I don't know enough. I'm not smart enough to give them what they need. I'm not sure if I can do this. Listen, just about anything you do will be better than what the public schools are doing. Right. But what I'm saying is God will give you what you need. It's your responsibility. Don't let modern bureaucrats who've been put in positions of authority, been assigned these positions, put pressure on you as a parent. To say you're not educating your kid good enough. You just look at the public school s education system in the last 50 years and what they've produced. And I think the person that should be called in question as far as how they're educating kids is the people that set themselves up as the authority on it. They set themselves up as the ultimate end-all authority on educating your children and trying to make you as a parent feel insufficient to do so. I want you to know you can do it. And as Home Depot says, we can help. We have people here that have been homeschooling for years. There's people that would be glad to help you and give you insight and show you the resources and things that are available to educate your children in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. God will give you what you need to do it. You need to teach them for God. The destiny of your child is going to be determined by the direction of your days. Let me just caution you and warn you about letting your kids be educated in a public school system. Ninety percent of the time, the reason that parents do that is one hundred percent financial. Just let them go there because it's free. And it costs money to educate your kids. But what is the priority? How important are your children? You you know as well as I do. That in the public school they're being indoctrinated. They're being taught to question everything. They're being taught there is no God Right. They're being taught the world was was, you know, happened by some big bang, some form of evolution, that there is no God present. They're being taught about homosexuality. They're being talk about taught taught about uh transvestitism and uh you know gender change and all of these things. Old class periods dedicated to these things. And you think one hour a Sunday is gonna undo eight hours a day, five days a week, of the world's philosophy and idea being pumped into them for eighteen years? You say for eighteen years they're going to sit under an ungodly teacher, somebody that doesn't know God and doesn't want them to know God. Now I praise the Lord there are some, there are few and far between, but there's very few godly teachers that are in the public schools. There are some, and I praise God for them, people still alight in those places Uh but what I'm encouraging you as a parent, uh you need to take it it's your job to protect them. And you may need to really pray about the option of of teaching your children. uh yourself or through a homeschool uh thing or some other option and we'll be happy to talk to you about how that's done and give you the tools and resources to try and help you do it. But listen it's our your job to protect them. She prepared him for life. Not only did she provide for him by the means in which God gave her the exact ability and exactly what she needed, and God will give that to you, but she prepared him for life in the very short time that she had him. They estimate maybe about five years, maybe he was five years old when you know, give or take a year or two, and we don't know exactly when, but the Bible says when he was weaned. To me, that's pretty old to be you know a nursing child, five. I would probably encourage you to get that done a little bit earlier. Um so Just side note there. Uh by the way, you can potty train them pretty young too, okay? There's no reason you should have a four-year-old walking around in a diaper. All right I mean kids can be potty trained before they're two. You say, What? Yep, it's possible. Why do you want to tri change diapers for two more years? You know diapers are expensive? If you train the child to go where it's supposed to go, then you don't have to keep buying diapers. That just takes work. This is supposed to be a loving sermon This is supposed to be an encouragement to moms. I don't know how we're getting off on this stuff. Um She prepared him for life. In a very short time, moms, you have a huge impact. They say that it by the time a child is five 80% of his character and personality is set. And can I tell you that I have five kids. And my kids are the same people today that they were when they were four. I mean their personalities, their their temperament, how they are is the same. It's amazing. So you're shaping that child's temperament when you let that two-year-old stand over there and just scream. You say w Oh he's gotta get it out. He'll be okay. Listen, there is no reason for a child to behave like that. Right. It's never acceptable. Never. And if you let it happen at home, it will happen at Walmart and at This is really getting hard. Two years old. You've got to control the child. You've got to give them their character, their personality, their temperament is being shaped at two and three and four. If you wait till they're three or four to start disciplining, to start training, to start giving them some direction. in their life. Listen, you've got the battle about half over. You've just about lost it. Now I'm not saying it's done, but I want to encourage you to start giving them some direction. And you say, well, what do I do? Listen If you wanted to go be a mechanic, and you're not a mechanic, you would get some books on it, you would watch some videos on it, you would start learning about it, right? Why is it people think they can be a good parent and they haven't, I mean how many don't raise your hand. How many of you parents in the last year have read a book on parenting? Now some of you, Ms. Crane, her job's done. You know, her kids are out of the house. That doesn't her job she doesn't need to be but if you still have kids in the home, you say, oh well, I'm just a good parent I just know how to raise kids. You need to learn. You need to be seeking wisdom on how to raise your children. The kids get older. How do you transition from that time of consistent discipline to direction? Where where you change from them being obedient because they're afraid to be disciplined to them being obedient because they're afraid to disappoint you. You see, that's the difference. And a lot of parents miss that transitional years where you you have that changeover and you've got to have some wisdom to do that. Where do you get it? You learn. You read, the Word of God has a lot on raising kids, and we're not going to get into that today. But she prepared them for life, and preparation starts when they're one. When they're two, when they're three, when they're four. She only had them till she shall he was about five or six or whatever, and then she didn't have them, but she prepared him for life. There's a whole lot more to life than education and income. Luke 12, 15 says, For a man's life consisteth not in the abundance of the things which he possesseth. I want you to know, beloved, that it's very clear that she taught him to refuse some things. In Hebrews chapter 11, if you're there, I told you to put your fingers there. Hebrews chapter 11. We read verse 23, I referenced it a couple times. Look at verse number 24. By faith, Moses, when he was come of years, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter. Choosing rather to suffer the affliction with the people of God than to enjoy pleasures of sin for a season. Praise God for some young men and some young ladies that have learned to refuse some things. They've learned to say no. Mrs. Reagan's statement. Just say no. Just say no. They've learned to say no. Some kids that were raised and trained and taught That it's okay to say no, that you don't have to go with the flow, you don't have to follow the friend down the path to do all that sin and wickedness and wrong. You ought to stand up for what's right and just refuse to do it And you've got to train them when they're young to refuse and make their lives choices and the right decisions. Kids need to be taught to refuse some things. Moses refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter. You know what? He was given a lot given up a lot when he chose to do that. You're talking about somebody who had, for all intents and purposes, the American dream He had everything that a child could want there in Pharaoh's house. All the luxuries, all the pleasures, all the fun, all the excitement, probably very little to no responsibility But something that his mom put into him made him say, that is not what's important. I'm going to refuse that. She taught him what was truly important in life. She taught him the difference between the eternal and the temporal things. the things that uh are they're only going to last for a moment, he says here, choosing rather to suffer the affliction with God's people than to enjoy pleasure of sin for a season. He knew she he understood that sin was pleasurable for a season, but he said, Listen, that's not what I want out of life. I want something more than that This is not where I need to be. I'm going to resist that. I'm going to say no to that. I'm going to refuse that because I know where the end of the road is. Beloved, you you you you see the guy that is in the cancer ward and his voice box has been removed and he's speaking with a device. And he he wishes that he could go back to the day when he took his first cigarette and put it in his mouth and he began to smoke and he smoked for thirty years or forty years and now he says, Oh, I wish I could go back and refuse to take that first cigarette. You see the man on the side of the road there laying in the ditch after his car has careened off the road and hit another vehicle and killed some mom's innocent boy or girl And he's laying there in a drunken stupor on the side of the ditch and says, Oh, I wish I could go back to the day I took that first drink with one of my friends. I wish I could go back and refuse to take the first drink Moms and dads, we need to teach our young people to refuse some things, to say no to sin, to stop accepting and receiving that, to stop worrying so much about being accepted by the crowd and liked by his friends. And be concerned about how honoring he is to an Almighty God, because God's going to protect him from his life ending up in destruction and ruin. They need to learn to refuse some things Are you training them to refuse? Are you training them when to say no? Not only did he refuse some things, but she taught him to receive some things. Choosing rather to suffer the affliction with the people of God. Look at verse number 26. Esteeming the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures in Egypt. Man, he was going to stand with God, honor and please God, even if it cost him the rich riches of Egypt. I tell you what, she instilled some character in that man. Money is a powerful motivator. He chose to let go of that. He chose to let go of the riches of this world, all that Egypt had to offer. Why? It says because he had recompense. To the reward. That means he had respect to the reward that was in heaven. He understood that the wealth that was offered here on earth was just temporary. It was just temporal. It was not going to provide happiness. I was listening to Dave Ramsey this week. A young man 30 years old called Dan and said his wife and him started with the Ramsey program as as early, late teens, early 20s. I think he was thirty or thirty-one. He said, my my wife and I are right now in excess of one point five million dollars. Our houses are paid for, our cars are paid for. I've got one and a half million dollars in the bank. We both have a good income. And he says, quite literally, I'm kind of wondering. What do I do now? Like what? Like for so long we were living to get to this place where we had Security financially, and that was our goal, and we kept putting all this money. He says, now we've reached it, and I'm like, well, what am I living for? And Dave Tramse says, you reached the point where you realized money does not make you happy, does it? He said that's not the goal. So you reach the place where now you can give generously. You can use what God has blessed you with to be a blessing to to many others. By the way, this parent, this young thirty year old guy says, I don't want to leave it to my kids because I think I'll just put them in the place that I am right now, where they have no goal, no ambition, no need to go out and work, no need to try and and do what we did. I would rather them have character and earn it themselves, which is some good advice for some of you parents thinking about leaving all your money to your children. I mean give 'em something. The Bible says you should give 'em something. At least ten bucks. Now just don't set 'em up for life and ruin 'em. That's all. But she taught him to receive some things. Listen, parents, moms, your kids, your kids are not going to be perfect. But they don't have to be perfect. But do they love God? This is what Moses wasn't perfect. You guys know the story. He went out and killed the guy. I mean, he might have done it for a good reason, but murder's still murder. You can't be going around killing people, no matter what your murder motivation is. And and I mean he did some wrong things, he did some dumb things. The kids they're not gonna be perfect. But do they love God? Moses chose to be with God. That ought to be the goal, the heart's desire of a Mother. We see here what Moses' mother did for him. In the end, Jacobed was rewarded with a godly son, still not a perfect son, but a son that loved God. And he did some amazing things, didn't he, Moses? I mean he was used of God to write the Pentateuch It was used of God to deliver the children of Israel. And you say, man, if I knew that God was going to do that with my son, I would raise him that way too. She didn't know God was going to do that. She didn't know ahead of time. We're looking back on it. She raised him that way because it was right to do. To see your children grow up to be good Christians, responsible, law-abiding citizens productive members of society, God-honoring, faithful Christians, loving spouses. What more could a mother want? Can I tell you it starts when they're two and three and four by training them? The Bible says train up a child. Train up a child. The child's gonna grow as long as you feed it, right? It's gonna grow. But you as a parent have a responsibility to train them, to direct them to be what God wants them to be.