Uh you know, thus far up through chapter number seven, beginning tonight, we're going to look at chapters eight through ten, uh, where we see the accusation of Bildad. I have divided these uh up into three major topics or themes. Uh chapter eight is the accusation and nine and ten is Job's response And uh so we're going to see the heart of the hypocrite tonight, and then uh the strength as Job responds, we see the strength of the sovereign and the duty of the daisman. Uh some thoughts that are very clearly taught as we go through this Uh Bildad being the second of Job's friends to address or bring up the topic of the challenges that Job was going through after Eliphaz And uh you would think his heart would be moved with compassion for his friend, uh hearing Eliphaz's accusations and and all that Job had gone through and you would think he would pull back and pause and say, Wait a minute, uh let me comfort you, let me help you, but he's of the same mind as Eliphaz and Bildad comes again with a uh accusation of uh his likelihood that Job's involved in sin. And he attacks Job in this way and clearly addresses the issue from his perspective So we're going to see first of all his overriding accusation is that Job's a hypocrite. Basically is what he's saying. And uh so we're going to see that. We're not going to read every verse from these many chapters, these three chapters tonight, but we're going to address the topics and then see these things as he mentions them. First of all uh with the heart of the hypocrite, he accuses uh in several places through this uh book here, he acc this chapter, chapter number eight, he accuses him of being a sinner And uh I've been talking and not turning there myself. Let me get there and then want you to look first of all at uh verse number three, Job chapter eight, and verse number three. The first place where he kind of addresses this or accuses him of being a sinner. He says If thy children, I'm sorry, verse number three, doth God pervert judgment, or doth the Almighty pervert justice? He is asking a very rhetorical question. Obviously, God does not pervert justice. God does not pervert judgment. And so basically he's saying, listen. It would be a perversion of justice. It would be a perversion of God's judgment if you were going through this and you weren't a sinner. So God doesn't pervert justice, God doesn't pervert judgment, so you must be a sinner. But the problem is, is he did not understand that wasn't under judgment. It's true that God does not pervert judgment and God's not going to judge somebody uh for a sin they had not committed. That would be a perversion of judgment. That one of the the fears or travesties of of Uh, you know, one of the big arguments against capital punishment is that, well, what if they wrongly accuse somebody? What if they falsely put somebody on death row and And then they uh you know they they die for that and they didn't actually do it. Well, as humans, we could be guilty of that. Uh but God is not guilty of that God does not perverse pervert justice or judgment in any way. And so he comes out right off the bat and he says, Boy, look at this, you're obviously a sinner, because we can trust God's discernment on the matter, and obviously God said you're a sinner because he's judging you But that's not correct. So an incorrect view of God will lead you to an incorrect interpretation. for the scripture and for your life. People's view and perception, how what they've been taught about God, impacts what they think and how they interpret things that happen in life. And that's where Bildad is coming from. He his his view of God as far as judging sin. And so we want to make sure we have a correct view of God and that we understand this. We've got to be careful in today's society with the on the the great movement towards the idea of the prosperity doctrine and that if if you're honoring God, God's going to bless you financially. Young people that grow up in that mindset could begin to believe that they're under the judgment of God because they're not as wealthy as they think they should be. Well, that's an incorrect view of God. And that's determining their thought processes when if they understood the truth of the matter, they wouldn't believe that, but they've been taught falsely. So we see That first his accusation of sin in verse number three. Now we see in verse number four just a brutal, grossly brutal attack of that he says here. He says, If thy children have sinned against him, And he hath cast them away for their transgressions. Can you imagine telling somebody that? Your kids were killed because they got what they deserve. That's basically what he's saying. He says if your if your children sinned and God cast them away I mean, you can gripe about it, but it's their own fault. I mean, that's basically what he's saying. He's accusing Job of enduring this pain, and Job's kids of having died because of sin, when that was not the case at all. We see in verses 5 and 6, he tells them that God is not hearing your prayer because of your sin, which we know that God has told us he will not listen to the prayers of a sinner. You've got to confess your sin and forsake it and make sure you're right with God. But this is what he's saying here about him in verses 5 and 6. He says, if thou wouldest seek unto God betimes and make thy supplication to the Almighty. If thou wert pure and upright, surely now he would awake for thee and make the habitation of thy righteous prosperous Of thy righteousness prosperous. He says, Boy, if you came to God in prayer and you weren't in sin, there wasn't a problem there. He says, Boy, if you were really pure of heart, surely. God would awake. Boy, that brings to mind Elijah and the prophets of Baal. When he was mocking them, and he said, Maybe you need to scream a little louder. Maybe your God is sleeping. Maybe he can't hear you. Maybe, you know, and and the fact of the matter is, beloved, is God is not asleep. God is ready and able to hear. He's not asleep. You don't have to get a little louder. You don't have to try a little harder to try and get his attention. Nope, God is awake and he is ready to hear. And he accuses him here. He says, boy, if you were pure and upright, surely God would hear you. He says, man, the problem is you're not pure. He says, down, look at verse number 20, he says, God has cast you away because of your sin. He says, Behold, God will not cast away a perfect man. Neither will he help evildoers. So, beloved, I have a concern with this philosophy or mindset that Gildad is stating here. I can't speak to his intentions or exactly how he was trying to present it, but the thing is, is first of all No man can ever be perfect enough to warrant God's concern, to warrant God's care. I could never in my life become sufficiently good to deserve God's attention. As I'm still just a sinner. It's not about my works, and yet he proposes this almost the idea is God's not going to cast away a perfect man. If you were perfect, boy, God would would take care of you. And he says, but then God will not help evildoers. I don't know. God came to seek and to save that which was lost. The whole purpose that Jesus came to earth was to save the sinner. was to try and rescue the perishing and care for the dying. So I know in some respects you certainly could say that God judges sin and And God is not the one that makes the wicked prosperous. We know they prosper on their own or with the help of Satan, but he does not judge them for that. But here this is wrongly applied to Job. He has not been cast away. Even though God said he was perfect and upright and he eschewed evil. We see the fifth place that he accuses him of wickedness in verse number 22. He says, Your shame has brought you to nothing. Because that ultimately is the end of the wicked. We see in verse number 22: they that hate thee shall be clothed with shame, and the dwelling place of the wicked shall come to naught. You think in Job's life where he is right now, thinking about where he is, I would say he probably views the entirety of life of his life thus far has come to naught. All that he did, all that he worked for, his entire family, it's all gone. And so Bildad looks at him and says, hey, that's what happens to the wicked. All of their effort, it comes to naught. And so he over and over again accuses him of being a sinner But unjustly so. And this is all encompassed around the fact that he declares him to be a hypocrite in the midst of it Go back to the beginning of the chapter now. We're going to see where he refers to him or how he calls him a hypocrite in several places in chapter 8 here, beginning in verse number 2. He says, How long wilt thou speak these things? And how long shall the words of thy mouth be like a strong wind? Have you ever heard somebody say, boy, that guy's a windbag? That guy, uh that person's full of hot air. Uh basically what they're saying is there that guy talks a whole lot and says nothing. You know, he's just talking and talking and just making stuff up or whatever. And basically, uh Vildad is saying that here. He says, boy, Job, we hear you talking. But it's like a whole lot of hot air. It's like a strong wind. There's no substance to it. You're claiming you're innocent, but obviously you're not, because we see what God is doing to you He says, you're being a hypocrite in your conversation. Why don't you just own up to the circumstances that you're in? I want you to see several things about this idea of hypocrisy. Look down in verse number 11 through 13, he describes here and specifically calls him a hypocrite. He says, Can the rush grow up without mire? Can the flag grow without water? Whilst it is yet in the greenness and not cut down and withereth before any other herb, so are the paths of all that forget God And the hypocrite's hope shall perish. He says, Job, it's self-explanatory. The picture drawn for us here, the example, he says, hey. Can a rush live or grow without the mire? Now the bull rushes that grow along the banks of rivers and in the in the marshy area. Uh in Kansas we call them cattails. Uh they grow in in the edges of the body bodies of water and uh they they They grow because birds come and eat the eat the seeds and then they travel to another body of water. fertilize and drop the seeds and then they they they grow again. And I managed our our lagoon. We had a lagoon that was a couple acres in size. uh wastewater. Uh that's basically a septic that's above ground. And uh after the first year we had bulrushes growing all over the thing. We're like, how in the world, how did we get bulrushes growing here in our lagoon? There's no other bulrushes around. There's no other body of water around. Well, birds. flying in would land on that water and drop the seeds and then they would grow and then they propagate and and uh so what we would have to do is is in the wintertime we would wait for it to freeze And then we would put about three more inches of water in the lagoon and that ice would rise and it would pull all of them right out of the ground. And then when the when the Ice thawed, we just grab it with a rake and pull them up out of the water and they'd be dead for that year, and we've got to do it again next year because they they come and plant some more. But these bulrushes grow up in that nasty, dirty water. They actually thrive. That word mire has the connotation of dirty of of nasty. It's not just wet. It is, you know, bulrushes thrive when they're when they're growing in the decomposing brush, the things that had died previously that are lying there in the marsh and are decaying and falling away. That's where they really thrive and do well. You see, hypocrisy is rooted in death. It's rooted in death. That's where hypocrisy thrives. That's where hypocrisy grows out of. He says, boy, can the rush grow without the mire? It's not gonna No, it's a it's a rhetorical question. It's not going to, but in order for the bull rushes to grow, is they need to find that kind of soggy, wet, decaying, filthy ground. It's just deep, slimy soil Throughout Scripture, and even as we use the word ourselves, when we talk about mire, it has with it the connotation of something at the very least it's poor and quite possibly putrid. We think of Psalms 40 and verse number two, he brought me up also out of a horrible pit. And out of the miry clay and set my feet upon a rock and establish my goings. Have your feet been lifted up out of the miry clay? That old cesspool of the world that we used to walk in That filthy uh ground that was really literally full of death for men are dead in their trespasses and sins The beloved is Christians, old things are passed away. Behold, all things are supposed to be new, and we're not supposed to go back to walk in that cesspool anymore. We're not supposed to go back and dwell or live in that filth anymore, but for hypocrisy to grow, it's somebody that wants to claim to be living on the win on the winning side, and yet their feet are rooted in death. They're embracing the filth of the world. Hypocrisy is rooted in distraction He says, can the flag without water? He said, boy, there in verse number 11, can the rush grow up without mire? Can the flag grow without water? Okay, a flag is in in Bible times probably a very simple kind of tall-growing grass that grew along the Nile River. We currently have some perennials. There are two types of irises that are called a yellow flag and a purple flag. Some of the ladies are shaking their head. They they they are familiar with those. Um so they're saying can can th that grow without water? From my research on that particular kind of plant, it grows best on the edge or the bank of a water, a place where there's actually flowing water They said the seeds will drop into the water and they're carried down the river to a point where they'll get caught in some rocks and then a uh a plant or will sprout up and begin to grow, and then that plant catches more seeds. And pretty soon they actually can stop up a river. They can stop up a uh a stream because of that flowing water and everything gets caught right there, and all of a sudden, if you're not careful, it's very invasive. But what they're saying is the water is necessary. Without the water, the flag's not going to grow. And you say, boy, hypocrisy is not going to grow without that. And so I contemplating that, I think about the busyness the rushing water that that makes that possible. The idea is that We see it very prevalently today in the modern church. The still quiet waiting on God is not very popular. If you see the church services from some of these mega churches It it is phenomenal. I mean it's just mind-boggling. They have the capacity and the means and and they they uh have laser light shows and fog machines and Uh, you know, it it looks like a Taylor Swift concert. I mean, that's that's church They want to claim the name of Christ, but what I'm saying is they need they need the busyness. They need the activity. They need the excitement. They need the emotion. Because they don't have any substance. If you had just a quiet time of contemplation, it wouldn't meet their need. Because God speaks in a still small voice. So what I'm saying is the hypocrite thrives on the activity. The hypocrite thrives on the busyness Because it's all about those things instead of the relationship that's inside. He says in verse number 12, Whilst it is yet in the greenness and not cut down, it withereth before any other herb. Basically he's saying here about the flag they're growing, he says, boy, it's it's still green. You look at it and it looks green. It looks like okay. It hasn't withered yet. Hasn't been cut down because it it still has the image or the substance or that looks like there's something there. But religion based on hypocrisy needs constant activity to survive. It may look like something's happening, but there is no substance there. It's still standing As it withered away, but there is nothing there, we see in verse number 13 that hypocrisy is rooted in desertion. He says, so are the paths of all that forget God, and the hypocrite's hope shall perish. You see, beloved, it's somebody that's forgot God. I mean, they may still carry a Bible, they may still come to God's house, they may still uh sing the songs. But beloved, activity is infin i is empty. All is vain unless the Spirit of the Lord comes down. It is a relationship with Jesus Christ. It is a walk with God that changes our life on Monday and Tuesday and Wednesday and Thursday. And and we come to church and are exhorted and encouraged and challenged to live right and to follow God. And sometimes we we drift and we need to be pulled back. Praise God for the house of God that i is used in our lives to do that. Beloved, sometimes there's people that are still in the house of God, but a long time ago they left. God says they they praise me with their lips, but their heart is far from me. You see, that's the life of a hypocrite, somebody that stands up and wants to praise God, but then his heart is far from God. I would exhort and encourage all Christians to make sure that the heart is right first. And then the praise flows from that. But you see, we have expectations put upon us and we have ministries we're supposed to do and We got responsibilities and we're part of the music program. And so even though I haven't had a walk with God in six or eight months and I haven't spent any time in prayer outside of praying for my meal because there was a church member there. Uh I'm gonna stand up and sing about the love of God before the church. We need to make sure the heart's right first. And let the ministry flow from a right heart and from a right spirit. Now the accusation of Bildad that Job was a hypocrite because he was proclaiming his innocence. Saying, I haven't sinned, and we're going to see that in chapters 9 and 10. But we, of course, know that that was false. But we can learn from it. Use it as a warning sign, a caution sign for us, because we know that many times we are certainly guilty of being hypocrites. I want you to consider this the heart of the believer versus the heart of the hypocrite. You see, God does something in the heart of the believer that is, once you've put your faith and trust in Christ and you're walking with God, something supernatural takes place inside. Something that causes you to do and to live in actions that are contrary to nature itself. Let me show you what I mean. You don't have to turn there, but if you'd like to, in Matthew chapter number 10, God describing here the love of God. He says, He that loveth father or mother more than me is not worthy of me. And he that loveth son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me. And he that taketh not his cross and followeth after me is not worthy of me. He that findeth his life shall lose it, and he that loseth his life for my sake shall find it. You see, understand, beloved, that these are the strongest natural tendencies of the heart of man. These are the most strongest natural relationships to love mother and father first of all, and to love your children most of all, and ultimately to love yourself, surely not to take up a cross. But he says, hey, when you are following God, something happens inside where you no longer live by the natural man, you start to live by the spiritual man, and the spiritual man Says, I love God most of all. He comes before Mother or Father. That's not natural. But the spiritual heart does that. He comes before son or daughter. He comes before self. And I'm going to put self down and I'm going to take up my cross and I'm going to follow God. This is the change that takes place in the heart of man. No longer does that which is natural, but does that which is guided by the spiritual. This, beloved, is why so many would rather live in hypocrisy than to be true followers of Christ. Because to be a true follower of Christ, we've got to not live in the natural anymore. We've got to put God first and we've got to take up our cross and follow Him. He gives us in verses 16 through 19 a list of characteristics of a hit of a hypocrite. He discusses several things. He he talks about the idea of he's green before the sun, but then he's going to wither in the heat. In verse 16. In verse 17, he says he grows up like a weed, but he grows up around lots of garbage and the trash heaps of the world. Verse number 19, boy, he's happy with his empty life. He's happy with the emptiness. And and it truly is empty to live as a hypocrite. One of the most miserable people on earth is a Christian who's trying to stay in God's house, but trying to live in the world. And sadly, some Christians say, well, that's fine. I'm just going to leave leave the church and go live in the world. That's not the answer. That's not the answer. Because you're a child of God and God chastens them whom he loves. Like the prodigal of old, you'll find the world has nothing to offer. You've got family and friends that pray and seek and beg God for you to come back to Him and prayerfully and Lord willing and you're you're would turn around and come back. But you know what, you've lost some things, you'll never get back. You'll carry some scars that you'll never be able to remove. And so the answer, beloved, is to let go of the world and follow God. That's the answer. He says, well, he's happy with the empty life, and verse number 19 describes the fact that he leads others astray. So we've got to move on here. We see secondly the strength of the sovereign that Job uh opens right from the beginning of chapter number nine and he addresses the fact that God is sovereign, that God is in control. And regardless of who I am, Job is saying that, regardless of who I am, regardless of what I've done, ultimately God is the one in control. God is sovereign. He says, man has no ability to speak to God and verse number uh to answer God, he says in verse number three, there, if he will contend with him, he cannot answer him one of a thousand. You don't have a one in a thousand chance of trying to argue or debate with God. In verses four through ten, we'll move through this quickly, but he addresses uh the wise hearts and And the mighty strength of God in verse number four. He is wise in heart and mighty in strength. Who hath hardened himself against him and hath prospered? Has anybody hardened their neck against God? Do you think about Pharaoh? Did that work out good for him? He hardened his neck against God. Is it did anybody ever harden their neck against God who is all wise and uh who is all powerful, the strength that he has? No, it's not going to come out good because God is in control. He says in verses five and six that God's in control of the earthquakes. Verse number seven, he speaks to the fact that God commands and rules the sun, that God seals the stars. In verse number seven there. Spreads out the heavens in verse number eight. God walks upon the seas. Uh we know that in in real life, being able to turn over to the pages of the New Testament and see Jesus walking on the water And God is in control of all these things. He said, Boy, God is sovereign. God sets up the the constellations in the sky and moves them where he will that God does and performs the great miracles in verse number 10, which doeth great things past finding out, things that we can't even comprehend the great things of God, describing his greatness and his sovereignty. The sovereignty of God is the biblical teaching concerning the absolute Infinite and unquestionable exercise of God's will over His creation. God is sovereign Let me just read for you a few verses. I don't even we don't have time for me to even give you all of them about the sovereignty of God, about God's control in this earth. And may we ponder and consider that he is sovereign. He says in Deuteronomy chapter 4 and verse number 39, he says, Know therefore this day, and consider it in thine heart that the Lord, he is God in heaven Above and upon the earth beneath there is none else. God is in control. He says in 1 Chronicles 29, 12, he said, both riches and honor come unto thee And thou reignest over all, and in thy hand is power and might, and in thy hand is to make great or to give strength unto all. Psalms 47, verse number 2, for the Lord most high is terrible. He is a great king over all the earth God is sovereign. He commands and controls all of the earth, all of his creation. Psalms 83, 18. He says that men may know that thou whose name alone is Jehovah. Art the most high over all the earth. Psalms 135, verse number 6, whatsoever the Lord pleases, that did he in heaven. And in earth, in seas, and all the deep places. And we could go on God is in control. He is a sovereign God, and Job recognizes that as he opens this passage and he says, not only is God sovereign, but he's superior in verses 11 through 22. describing and explaining the fact that his life, his all of what he has is in the hands of God. Whether he be perfect or whether he be wicked, ultimately it's in the hands of God. We see that in verse number 20 and 22 through 22. He says If I justify myself, mine own mouth shall condemn me. If I say I am perfect, it shall also prove me perverse. Though I were perfect, yet would I not know my own soul? I think the Bible tells us that As we can't even know our own heart. For the heart is desperately wicked. Who can know it? He says, I would despise my life. In verse number 22, he says, this is one thing, therefore, I said, he destroyeth the perfect and the wicked God ultimately is in control and he can do as he wills with men. He openly describes this here in these verses and continues it in Chapter uh number eleven here. I'm sorry, chapter number ten. But uh We're going to come back to chapter 9, but let's move on to chapter number 10, just quickly see where he points this out a little bit more. He describes his innocence in verses six through thirteen. Look at verse number ten, describing how God had poured him out. He gives two examples of how God had poured him out. He said, Hast thou not poured me out as milk, curdled me like cheese? Thou hast clothed me with skin and flesh, and hastened me with bones and sinews. He says, God's in control. He poured me out and it's his will to do so. It's his privilege to do so, and I I can't say anything about it. He says, I don't I don't understand it But God's in control. Look at verse number 15. He says, if I be wicked, woe unto me. And if I be righteous, yet will I not lift up my head. I'm full of confusion. Therefore see thou mine affliction. He says, I I don't understand. He says, from my perspective, if I'm wicked, I understand I need to be judged by God, and woe unto me, woe unto the man who lives without acknowledging God. He says, but if I be righteous I'm I'm still not going to lift up my head in defiance or in in that that I uh am somebody that God ought to acknowledge or recognize. He's saying, I still even if I am striving to honor God, realizing my humility that I'm not all that I should be. And he says, But now I I'm just confused. I d I don't understand what's going on or what's happened to me. But He goes on and says, God is in control. He describes the brevity of life in verses 25 through 26. He he speaks about how it is swift as a post writer. Say boy life passes fast. It sure does. I can't believe we're already approaching the week of Christmas. He says it's swift as a ship in verse number twenty-six. And I'm looking at the wrong thing here. Do you see where that is? I must have wrote down the wrong number here. Chapter 9, okay, that's why I'm backing up. I'm reading it chapter 10, thank you. Um and then he says it's swift as an eagle's diving. I looked that up. I just thought, well, how fast does an eagle dive? They reach speeds of 150 miles an hour When an eagle's diving to catch his prey. They basically that the prey doesn't have much to do. I mean it's they they come in so quick they get 'em They said they they strike their prey at uh six times their body weight. When they when they hit the prey, they're they hit them with a force of six times their body weight and the average eagle weighs about ten pounds But dives at a hundred and fifty miles an hour. It's amazing. So We're back there in chapter nine already. I want you to see in verse number thirty-three. Well Bill Dad has been talking and he basically Job says boy it doesn't matter what I do In in 29 through 31 he says, Boy, if I be wicked, why then labor I in vain? If I wash myself with snow, water, and make my hands never so clean. He said, Boy, if I if I've been so clean, I've never been that clean before. Yet thou plunge me into the ditch, and mine own clothes shall abore me. He says, Boy, it doesn't matter if I'm pure as a drip in snow, you've already tried, convicted, and sentenced me. You you y y I could say I'm clean and if I was as clean as a driven snow, you've already you'll you'll push me in the ditch just to make me dirty He said, you've already decided, so it really doesn't matter what I do, but then he says, what I need, we see in verse number 33. He says, I need a daisman. Neither is there any daisman betwixt us that might lay his hands upon us both. Daisman was a mediator, somebody that would stand between two, somebody that would advocate for both Somebody that would function to bring the two back together and to restore them. And he says to his friend Bildad, he says, doesn't matter what I say, you're not hearing me. And Bildad is like, well, that's because what you're saying isn't the truth. And the two can't agree. There's nothing he says, boy, we need a mediator. We need somebody to stand in the gap here for us. Beloved, there was a great gulf fixed between what Job was saying and what his three friends were accusing of. Can I tell you something? There is a great gulf between us. And the court of eternity between God and man. We stand in the court of eternity and we need an advocate. We need somebody whose goal and purpose is to bring the two back together, whose job is to stand in the gap and to Reach this way towards God and reach this way towards man. The idea of a daiseman is a powerful truth that we see taught throughout the scripture Beloved, the justice of God condemns Just like Job's friends were condemning him, even though they were mistaken. But the mercy of God provided a dazeman. Provided a redeemer, somebody to stand in the gap. Can I give you a couple things about the Daisman and we're going to be done? The requirement of a daisman is first of all he must be acceptable to both parties. It must be somebody that can unbiasedly stand in the middle and be accepted by both to mediate the disagreement. He has to work hard to bring the two parties together, meeting the demands of each. Our days, when beloved, would never sacrifice the holiness of God. But our dazeman also wept as he beheld the multitudes that were as sheep without a shepherd. The Daiseman must have access to both parties. Jesus is all God and right now sitting at the right hand of the Father. But Jesus, who became man and dwelt among us, was also men and has access to the hearts of men. He is the one mediator between God and man, the man, Christ Jesus. Christ is the only acceptable daisman. As the Son of God, he meets the requirement of perfect holiness. But as the Son of Man, he meets the requirement of understanding the weakness of humanity. The Bible tells us that he took on flesh and that he was tempted in all points as we are Giving us that confidence and that presence of mind to know that he has endured our trial. He has gone through and bore our pain. He understands the feelings of loss and the grief that one endures when a loved one passes. He understands the temptation of Satan trying to come and pull you away from following after God and to tempt you as Satan tempted him in the garden. Yet he was without sin, and so he therefore stands in that gap between God, who is perfection, and man who is a sinner. And bridges that for us. Romans chapter 5 and verses 9 through 11, he says, much more than being now justified by his blood. We shall be saved from the wrath through him. For w when we were enemies You see the two parties, the two sides, they couldn't come together, they couldn't find a way to meet in the middle. When we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his son Much more being reconciled, we shall be saved by his life. We were reconciled by the shed blood of Christ When he died on the cross, it is through the shedding of blood that there's a remission of sin. But because he rose from the grave and he lives again, we know we too will one day Raise again. And not only so, but we also joy in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom we have now received the atonement. 1 John 2, verse 1 says, My little children, these things have I written unto you that ye sin not, and if any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father. He is our advocate. He stands in our corner. He is the one mediator. He is our daiseman. Boy, Job was saying, I need a daisman. I need somebody that would stand here and argue with you guys and try and help you see that I'm not what you say I am. And praise God, beloved, we have a dazeman, somebody who was uh endured and went through all that we've gone through here on earth and he carries that pain and he bears the scars in his body of his trip to to earth and he understands it. And he goes before the Father and plead on our behalf as our daisman. As I bring this conclusion, I don't know how much thought you've given to the sovereignty of God in your life, that God is in control. But beloved, if we know that he's sovereign, then we should humble ourselves. We should ask, is my religion that of a hypocrite? You know, those bull rushes. They can grow pretty tall, over six foot. We had them, they're taller than us. But they're hollow. They're empty. There's nothing inside those tubes. That's what the life of a hypocrite is. It's empty It's hollow. So I ask you, are you drawn to the activity of Christianity or are you drawn to the Almighty Do you have that relationship with him? Jesus describes the hypocrite in Matthew chapter 7. He said, These people honor me with their lips, but their heart is far from me. Do we praise him because he is truly our daiseman, our redeemer, and we have that relationship with him? Or are we living as Job's friend Bildad accused him of being, just a hypocrite? Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and eyes closed and have a moment of invitation and master the pianist to come and play?