I do have a copy of the notes. You should have, we're we're c we're covering the growth of the church, page 92 and 93. That's kind of what we're going to be going through today. If you don't have those, I do have a copy for you here. Alright, there's a couple, Tim, going to hand those out and then to put the extras outside. They got moved and asked Alicia to grab a couple sheets just to make sure that w people coming in would have something uh for today's lesson. So that's where we are. Looking at chapter five and chapter six and chapter seven. There's a lot of stuff here. I was really, you know, m d trying to decide how deep to get uh into this with you guys, like how far to go with each chapter, but trying to keep it an overview and keep moving. So covering three chapters here which will conclude the growth of the church this morning. The foundation of the church is set. It's off to a good start, the Holy Spirit, the work of the Holy Spirit, and the sign gifts that God is using to draw the Jews to Himself and to give credibility and authority to the Apostles and to the early church. Those things are under underway and it is working. The church is growing. It's marching forward in the power of the Holy Spirit. And you know what's going to happen when the Holy Spirit is working and God is doing something the enemy's going to show up, right? The enemy you're moving forward for God and things are going well, things are going smooth, and and the enemy's going to show up. So we see here in chapter number five the disruption of the work. Satan comes on the scene and he's not happy about what's going on, and so he's going to try and throw a monkey wrench in and disrupt the work, and he does for a short, brief time. Now we have here the deception of Ananias and Sapphira. Now their motive in their heart, we know the story of Ananias and Sapphira, and their motive was to look good. Now, I don't have to spend a lot of time here because it hasn't been but about a month ago that I preached a message entitled The Destructive Nature of Deception. and use this passage of scripture and we talked about Ananias and Sapphira and we really went through that in detail. If you would like more uh in-depth practical look at that story itself Go to sermon audio and listen to that, the destructive nature of decep uh of deception. And that is maybe within the last month, I think, the end of uh August, I think, was somewhere right in there that I d taught taught on that. So um you know you can look at that. But their motive was to look good. The motivator was Satan. The motivator was Satan. We know that Satan is the one that wants to disrupt the work. Satan is the one that wants to cause problems. Many times, and Christian, we need to keep this in our heart and mind because sometimes We we think that our enemy is Miss Lisa. You know, we think that the enemy is Miss Leanne or somebody else in the church. Because they're the ones that irritated us or they're the ones that, you know, offended us or whatever, but understand they're not the enemy. Satan's the enemy. And it is Satan that's trying to do things to get in and get you sideways or to get somebody else sideways or to start to think incorrectly and to get you to embrace false doctrines. So Satan is the enemy And we gotta remember that Satan came in to disrupt the work and he he caused Ananias and Sapphira to lie to the Holy Spirit. The message was very clear, beloved, in this passage of scripture. The message was you can't lie to the Holy Spirit and get away with it. The the idea that you think that you could live a lie or or be involved in deception and uh it would be okay or that it doesn't affect anybody else. Some people think, well, it's just me. I can just do what I want to do and this is how I want to live and I'm not gonna It doesn't affect anybody else. I want you to know that's a lie of Satan. It affects everybody that is connected to your life. It can affect them for good if you are honoring God and doing right and pleasing the Lord, and it can affect them for evil or bad if you're not doing right. And we see that here. The entire work of the church moving forward was stopped. During the time that they were in this deception. We saw the same thing happen back in the book of Joshua with Achan. You remember when Achan took the bacon? When Achan went into Jericho and uh he was told not to take of the accursed thing and Achan said, Well, uh I see this It's not that much. It's in the grand scheme of things. It's not going to make that big a deal. And plus, nobody's here to see me. And he took that and he hid it in his tent. And he thought, nobody knew. But the blessing of God was removed, and he thought it wasn't going to affect anybody but him, or maybe even his family, and maybe he thought in his mind, well, I'll be able to live without the blessing of God because I have this money. Well, beloved, that's not a good trade-off, for sure. But he thought he was going to be okay, but he wasn't okay. And we know that they went into the Battle of Ai, and 36 men lost their lives. There's 36 wives that lost their husbands. I don't know how many children, 60, 70, 100 children that lost their fathers Because of the sin of Achan. And we do not live unto ourselves. We need to remember, beloved, that uh Satan is the enemy, and uh he is the one that's going to try and stop you. The message is clear that we we all don't live to ourselves. You can't lie to the Holy Spirit and get away with it. The manifestation of the power of God was not seen again until the sin was dealt with. And we're going to read that this morning here in Chapter five, just looking down at verse number twelve, um we know the five picks up here, but a certain man named Ananias and Sapphira his wife, and then the story kind of progresses But uh I I've relayed that to you and we preached on it. So in sh in verse number twelve it says, And by the hands of the apostles were many signs and wonders wrought among the people. So immediately after the sin was dealt with, of course God killed them. Uh and that was taken care of, but the people saw it, they realized the message of it, and then immediately God's blessing and power was brought back on the work. The signs and wonders were beginning to be formed, they were in one accord in Solomon's porch. And verse number thirteen, and the rest durst not, no man joined himself to them, but the people magnified them, and believers were the more added to the Lord's multitudes, both men and women. The the the multitudes began to grow. The the the manifestation of God's work was beginning to move forward again because Satan's disruption had been set aside by the power of God. Then we see the detention of the apostles in verses 17 through 22 in this passage of Scripture. Uh the religious crowd were a little bit annoyed at God's blessing on the early church. Doesn't that seem contrary to one to the other? I mean doesn't that seem wrong that the religious crowd was upset because they were being blessed, because blind people were being given sight and lame were being given the ability to walk and People were turning to Christ, but that's what they were. We see in verse number 17 in chapter number five. Then the high priest rose up and all that were with him which is the sect of the Sadducees, and were filled with indignation. They were upset Because God's work was moving forward, and they organized opposition against the work of God. And I tell you that the opposition against the work of God and what you're doing as a believer is nothing new. The Bible tells us in 1 Peter chapter 4, Beloved, think it not strange concerning the fiery trial which is to try you, as though some strange thing happened to you. He says, Don't think it's strange that some opposition has arisen. Don't think it's strange that there is some attack as if you're the only one that's ever happened to. He says, but rejoice in as much as ye are partakers of Christ's suffering. That when his glory shall be revealed, ye may be glad also with him with exceeding joy. Having joy Because we know that from the beginning until now, there's going to be opposition when you're doing right, when God is blessing, when you're moving forward in His power. And ultimately uh these men were detained, they were thrown into prison, uh, but God knows where you're at. Amen? Regardless of what happens, regardless of what you're going through, the God knows right where you're at and He knows what you need. And He God saw them in prison and we see in verse number 19 that the prison was opened by an angel of the Lord. But the angel of the Lord by night opened the prison doors and brought them forth and said, Go stand and speak in the temple to the people all the words of this life. So they were in the prison. The angel came and released them, and he says, go back and do what you were doing. You were doing right. Keep on doing it. And they went right back to preaching the word of God. We see in 21 there. And when they had heard that they entered into the temple early in the morning and taught, but the high priest came, and they that were with them, and called the council together, and all the senate of the children of Israel and sent to the prison to have them brought. So they came together and they said, Okay, let's let's let's have these guys that we have in jail. But when the officers came and found them not in the prison and returned and told, saying, the prison truly found we shut with all safety, and the keepers standing without before the doors. But when we opened, we found no man within. Now when the high priest and the captain of the temple and the chief priests heard these things, they doubt of them whereunto this would grow. Then came one and told them, saying, Behold, the men whom ye put in prison are standing in the temple and teaching the people. They said, they're back right where they were. The guys you threw in jail are right back out there preaching, right back out there doing what you told them not to do They were not happy. The dismay of the religious leaders there, they were very disrupted and upset about it. And so they begin to discuss these charges, verses 27 to 39. They discuss the actions against them and that they had been commanded not to preach anymore. Verse number twenty-seven. And when they had brought them, they set them before the council and the high priest and asked them, saying, Did not we straightly command you that ye should not teach in this name? And behold, ye have filled Jerusalem with your doctrine and intent to bring this man's blood upon us. And Peter and the other apostles answered and said, We ought to obey God rather than men. That very clear and powerful truth that we have and still should abide by today is that we ought to obey God rather than man If there is any time that the laws of men or the command of men is contradictory to the command of God, we ought to obey God rather than men. You always, the principle of you always live in obedience to the highest power. So that would mean if You have a babysitter, and the babysitter tells you to do something that you know mom and dad said don't do, you obey the higher power. Uh, you know, if mom and dad tell you to do something that you know that God wouldn't want you to do, yes, you are to obey and honor your mother and father, but you obey the higher power. The higher power is God. God said don't do that. I know growing up I had several friends that, you know, came from rough homes and sometimes their parents would want them to drink. I was there when their parents would give hard alcohol to their kids. And uh, you know, that they shouldn't do that. And it takes time to train somebody to to see the the error of that and to say, you know what, dad, uh mom, I don't I don't want to drink that. That's not pleasing to the Lord. And to try and and it's a very hard thing to do, but we ought to obey the higher power. And that's what he's teaching here, that we ought to obey God rather than man. And then, excuse me, for it is God that exalted Christ the Savior. He begins to teach them, verses 31 and 32. that God is the one that did that. You know, conviction struck home in the part in the heart of these men. And beloved, when conviction strikes the heart of men, they're either going to repent or they're going to react. That conviction of the Holy Spirit, you have the option. You can repent or you can react. Well, the Sadducees here, these the high priests, these group of religious leaders, they reacted. They were not happy. They were quite upset. And uh Gameliel uh reasons with the crowd, verses 33 and 34. They were fit to be tied. And we see that Gamellio comes, he says, when they heard that they were cut to the heart and took counsel to slay them. So they were ready to kill him. They were cut to the heart. This conviction of the Holy Spirit was very present. It was evident in their life. But they didn't respond Correctly, they didn't repent, they reacted. They were ready to kill him. Then stood up among them the council of the Pharisees named Gamaliel. a doctor of the law, and had a reputation among all the people, and commanded to put the apostles forth a little while, a little space. He says, wait a minute, put these guys outside. Let's talk for a second. He says, Give me a little space. Put these guys in the other room. I want to talk to you guys. And verse number thirty-five he says, And he said unto them, ye men of Israel, take heed to yourselves what ye intend to do as touching these men. For before these days rose up, Laides boasting himself to be somebody to whom a number of men, about four hundred, joined themselves, who was slain. and all as many as obeyed him were scattered and brought to naught. So he's saying, you remember this example? This is what happened? He says, But after this man rose up Judas of Galilee in the days of the taxing, and drew away much people after him, and he also perished, and all even as many as obeyed him, were dispersed. And now I say unto you, refrain from these men and let them alone, for if this counsel or this work be of man, It will come to naught. He says, listen, don't don't kill them. Don't make martyrs out of these guys. He says, listen, if this is not a work, if this is the work of man, it's going to amount to nothing. But notice what he says here in verse number 37. He says, But if it be of God, ye cannot overthrow it, lest happily ye be found even to fight against God. He says, you are not going to be able to stop the work of God. And you don't want to be guilty of having tried to stand in the way of the work of God. So don't do this to these men. Don't slay them. If they are men of God, this is not going to stop it. You can try and kill them. It doesn't matter, because this is the work of God. It's not going to make any difference. So he had some wisdom about him. He had some great discernment and he says, let's not kill these guys, because uh here's the thing. If there's not if there's nothing to it, it's not going to matter. These guys are going to fall by the wayside and it's all going to go away But if there is something to it, if it is God, then we're not going to be able to stop it anyway. So he reasoned with them and gets them to uh restrain themselves and obviously pointing out that it truly is a work of God Then we see the discipline of the apostles, verse number 40. They uh come, and to him they agreed, and when they had called the apostles and beaten them, They commanded they should not speak in the name of Jesus and let them go. So they just beat them. Instead of killing, they just beat them. They said, you know, they they got their anger out and The apostles there took a beating, uh unjustly so. This is the first physical persecution the New Testament church is going to endure. This is the first physical persecution that you'll see, and obviously it begins to Get worse pretty quick here. But the delight of the apostles is seen in verse number 41. He says, and they departed from the presence of the council rejoicing. Rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer shame for his name. I wonder, beloved, would we be rejoicing? Do we rejoice at even the smallest slight in today's society, let alone being beaten? Being imprisoned, being unjustly attacked or accused, they rejoiced that they were privileged to suffer for the name of Christ. Did it stop them? No. In verse 42, and daily in the temple in every house they ceased not to teach and preach Jesus Christ. The declaration of the apostles there, they're going to continue to do what God asked them to do. So in verse number six, these apostles continuing even in the face of uh Uh chapter number six, I mean, even in the face of this persecution, they continue to pre teach and preach. And so what happens? In chapter number six, we see right away the delegation of the work to good men. Why? Because the church is growing in verse chapter six verse one. And in those days when the number of the disciples was multiplied, uh that y that that is a natural byproduct of a group of people that are carrying forth the message of the gospel of Jesus Christ. The number of disciples is going to be multiplied. The work of God is going to go forward. The power of God is going to be seen. And people will be reached with the gospel. And so the number was multiplied. As they begin to grow, again, Satan tries to come on the scene and cause some problems, but we see that A situation arose, we see some murmuring among the Grecians against the Hebrews because their widows were neglected in the daily ministration. This is where we see the delegation of some work to some good men in chapter number six. And of course, we see here this growth. I want you to know growth is a good thing. We should desire growth. Growth in the church. Growth both spiritually and numerically. Sometimes churches go through some stages where the church is growing spiritually. We say the church is growing deeper. And you've got to get a deep, solid foundation for the church to be able to grow numerically. Because if you take something that's uh not very deep and you you let it grow massive, it doesn't have the foundation to hold it And it's going to topple over. So God takes churches through some stages where they begin to grow a little deeper and then add it to the church and you'll see the church grow and more uh new converts are brought in and and the church begins to grow numerically and then it seems like there's a little bit of a pause and and again there's discipling that takes place and there's teaching and training and growing the church. uh spiritually and then we can take the next step again that's seen over and over again. Now we don't make a big deal out of numbers here. We don't post the numbers every week how many were here or there uh and don't you know beat that drum so much, but I want you to know that in the scriptures here, especially in the book of Acts, we see over and over again, God gave us a number. that was saved and added to the church. And so tracking that is not a it's not a wrong thing. There are some people that are 100% against any numbers. Any don't track anything. It's not about this, not about numbers. But numbers can be a sign of seeing God blessing souls that are saved and added to the church, baptisms that take place in a congregation. And it's a blessing to see God growing the church. Amen. That's what we want. Are you guys awake? It is a blessing to see the church growing. So we see The Grecians were disgruntled there in verse number one, and what follows is an example of the New Testament church working together in uh accomplishing the work of God. These leaders called uh out of the congregation helped solve the problem that had arised. And listen, the church is not a dictatorship. It should never be a dictatorship. But it also is not a straight democracy. What it is, is a unified group of people going forward together, a balance of authority and activity activity that goes together where they work together as a unified whole to accomplish the work and that's what we see on display here as the whole church comes together to find some men that can help accomplish the and meet the needs here. So we see the deployment of the deacons and this example given to us of deacons in the church and the work that they were supposed to do, we realized obviously the requirement was that they were spiritual. In chapter six, verses two through seven, we see this. Then the twelve called the multitude of the disciples unto them and said, It is not reason that we should leave the word of God to serve tables. Wherefore, brethren Look ye out among you seven men of honest report, full of the Holy Ghost and wisdom, whom ye may appoint unto the over over this business. So They've got the work here that needs to be done, and they call some men. The requirement was spirituality. The role was service. To serve, to help accomplish the work. The role and ministry of the church had been expanded exponentially, and they needed to do something. Uh and so they called some men to help. I'm thankful for the men that uh help serve here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. And not just those that fill the role of deacon. But the men and ladies that serve and labor together, because the you you understand, beloved, that the ministries of the church are very vast in in uh what gets accomplished in a in a church compared to even fifty years ago I was talking to a pastor last week who's just ten years older than me. Not very much. I've reached a point where I kind of just put myself in with that group of people, you know. I just But for him, he looked at me and he's not pastoring right now, and he says, I don't envy you at all. He says, I can tell you that what you have to deal with as a pastor The the administrative, the technical things, the ministry side of things, he said it is stuff that I never even had to think about when I went into the ministry. It's it's an aspect of ministry that I never even had to ponder. And you compare that to when my dad went into the ministry, and it's very different. You know, there was a time with my dad wasn't in the office You couldn't get a hold of them. And that was okay. It was not a big deal. But today, obviously, with the advent of cell phones and uh instant communication, there is an expectation uh that we can be reached anytime, anywhere. And there's a lot of convenience to that, but sometimes there's an inconvenience to it too, as well, isn't there, uh, for all of us. And so ministry's different. You think about social media and uh you know, just I've been talking to Steven a lot about we live in a digital age. And so we need to be ministering through this medium. I mean, we need to have the Word of God out. We need to have means of of reaching people through that. It's what people, it's how they engage today. And we need to have our visitors cards where they can fill them out on their phone. Why? Because that's how people fill stuff out today. That's the they they are but they would much rather type it on their phone or they would have even auto cur fill they could if it's on their phone they could hit auto fill and it would fill in everything for them. And that's how they do it today. So we need to have that. So we've talked about how to most effectively minister in today's society. It's very different than it was many years ago. And I'm just saying I'm thankful for the many people that serve at our church and help accomplish the work. There's so much that goes into ministering today in the world that it takes many people. Working together to accomplish it. And whether you have a position or a title or not, everybody's serving Right? You can jump in and wash dishes. Amen. You could you can everybody's serving, everybody's helping in many areas, and that's what it takes. Everybody doing something. You're like, well, I don't I don't need a big title. I don't need a uh you know recognition, but I can jump in and help right here. And uh that's what it takes for the church to move forward, and we praise God for those that do it today We see the deployment of deacons there. I mentioned the requirement was spirituality, the role was service, but the result, beloved, was success. When the church works together and moves forward, the result is success. And praise God for that when we see God working and see the victory that He brings. And then they d they desire to discredit Stephen, verses 8 through 15. We see that he was a man that was full of faith. Chapter 6 and verse number 8. And Stephen, full of faith and power and great wisdom and miracles among the people, Stephen was doing a great work this first deacon of the church and uh serving there and God was blessing. He was full of wisdom, uh he was full of faith, but he was falsely accused. Verse 11 through 14 tells us that His enemy was very clever. They, you know, came and they uh brought accusations against him that would be receptive to the people. And we see in verse number eleven there that they accused him. Then uh let's see, they uh suborned men which said, We have heard him speak blasphemous words against Moses and against God. So they wanted to They they lied, they were deceitful, but they know people would love Moses and boy if he stood against Moses they were in trouble, right? And uh so they they lied and they brought this Nothing was going to be more central to the religious crowd than Moses and the law of God, and saying that he was against that was going to get them riled up for sure. You know this is very the same thing that the religious crowd did against Jesus. They had to lie. They had to manufacture things to discredit him. None of this was true. And the end result was going to be the same here in a little bit, too, that it's going to result in the death of an innocent man. Just like Christ who died innocently. But you know, beloved, the Sanhedrin did not see hate on his face for all their false accusations and for all the persecution they did. What they saw was heaven. Look at verse number 15 The closing of this chapter he says, And all that sat in the council, looking steadfastly on him, saw his face as it had been the face of an angel. They were falsely accusing him. Ultimately, it was going to result in him being stoned, but they didn't see hate on his face. They looked at him and said, Man, it's like the face of an angel. Even from this beginning moment, his countenance and his spirit began to minister to these saints. And we see the defense and the death of Stephen in chapter number seven. Sh Stephen is accused personally. Uh they accused him wanting to discredit him before the people And Stephen offers his defense of Christianity, not a defense of himself, but his defense of Christianity. And he goes all the way back to the beginning. He begins to go back to Abraham and he says, you know what, from the beginning, from Abraham. And initially those that were hearing him were on his side. They're like, Yeah, Abraham, well, he is the father, uh definitely, and and Stephen begins to communicate with them concerning this, giving them basically a history lesson, but in that declaring God's omnipotence and God's faithfulness through all of it. He takes them back, reminds them that it all started with this Abraham. Abraham who had a promise, but he didn't have a place. You know, the Bible says that he believed God and that it is accounted unto him for righteousness. His faith And belief in God, even though he didn't have the place yet. God had told him he was going to have this. God had told him he was going to have a nation, and he believed it, and even though it was over four hundred years before they would be in the promised land as a nation. He believed that, and he saw it was coming, and it was God that was working. So God called Abraham and made him a promise in verses 2 through 8, and God raised up Joseph. Joseph, who is a type of Christ, and Joseph was despised and rejected. His brothers envied him. His brothers didn't like it at all, and he was despised and rejected, but Christ was despised and rejected. And they didn't they didn't love him either. And he gives them that example and and shows them that. And then God raised up Moses. And called Moses, verses 17 through 35. And we're not going to take time to read all of these passages, but we see that God raised up Moses, and then the Jews rejected Moses. And the Jews rejected true worship in verses 44 through 50. The Holy Spirit had come and began to call on the hearts of men, and just like they had rejected every other step that God had led and directed them, now they were rejecting true worship of God. Beloved, it was never God's plan that men should worship the tabernacle and the temple over God. The place where God's power rested was not what was important, it was the God of the temple. And they were focused on the procedure. They were focused on the rites, the rituals, they were focused on the location instead of focused on God. And the Jews rejected the Holy Spirit, verses 51 through 53. Let's look at that as we're bringing this down to conclusion here. He says, Ye stiff neck and uncircumcised in heart. And ears ye do always resist the Holy Ghost. As your fathers did, so do ye. Which of the prophets have not your fathers persecuted? And they have slain them which shown before of the coming of the just one, of whom ye have been now the betrayers and murderers. He says, Boy Before the just one, which is Jesus Christ, came, you y your fathers persecuted every one of the people that God raised up, you rejected them, and now Jesus came and you guys are have rejected him and slain him. He says, Boy, you guys are as guilty as can be, and of course they didn't like that. And so we see the death of Stephen, verses 46 through 60. The first deacon was also the first martyr. His conviction brought conviction on others. It is his belief in his heart that was unwavering. He knew who Jesus Christ was and what he stood for, and his conviction brought conviction on others. He wasn't wishy-washy. He wasn't maybe this is the case. Maybe that was Jesus. No, he his conviction about this brought conviction on others. And they ultimately killed him for it. Verse number 54. When they had heard these things, they were cut to the heart, and they gnashed on him with their teeth. Can you imagine being so mad at somebody, Bob, that you you bit them as a grown individual? I mean, I know kids sometimes they feel like that's their only defense, right? That's the only weapon they have, and so they bite And you gotta teach children not to bite in the nursery, you know, but they they know that's gonna hurt and so they do it. But can you imagine as an adult being so irate that you you bit somebody, you've gnashed on them with your teeth That's amazing how they got so overwhelmed with conviction. They gnashed on them with their teeth. But obviously they they kill them. But his faithfulness is rewarded. 56 and 57. We see, and said, Behold, I see the heavens opened, and the Son of Man standing on the right hand of God. Then they cried out with a loud voice and stomped their ears and stopped their ears and ran upon him with one accord. They are stoning him, and in the midst of being stoned, he looked up into heaven And he saw the Son of Man lifted up. You remember just a few years ago he was standing before Caiaphas. And he looked at them and he said to them, He says, You are going to see me. At the right hand of the Father. Boy, they didn't like that. But Stephen, being stoned, looked up into heaven and God gave him a glimpse. And he was able to say, I see him. I see Jesus at the right hand of the Father. I see him right where he said he was going to be. He's there. And his faith was rewarded. You know, I don't know this side of li uh of heaven, if we're going to have the privilege of seeing things, sometimes our faith, we know faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen Sometimes we might have to be like Abraham and just have faith even though we never get to see it. Sometimes God rewards you And your faith is something that he rewards and allows you to even be able to see fruit from or the results of in this side of heaven. Like you did for Stephen here, rewarding him as he looked up into heaven and he got to see Jesus, the Son of Man, lifted up. They stoned him to death, but we see also that the heart of Saul was stirred in verse number 58. And cast him out of the city and stoned him. And the witnesses laid down their clothes at a young man's feet, whose name was Saul. This man stood there and saw what they were doing. He saw the injustice. He saw the belief on the heart of Stephen, the conviction that was there, and the grace in which he died. He was not partaking, but he observed it. God used the stoning of Stephen to plant a seed in the heart of this young zealot, Saul, who would bring forth fruit. And then he would go forth and win so many souls to Christ in an unimaginable number, the impact that he had. You know what I'm saying, beloved, is you don't know what God will do with your testimony in the midst of the suffering that you're going through. You might, I'm not talking about being stoned, but whatever you're going through, understand that people are watching. The world is watching you live, and one day they're going to watch you die. And how you die, how you live, is something that speaks to the heart of the lost world around us. They watch us And that testimony plants a seed in their heart. And maybe a year from now or five years from now, who knows what it might be, but that seed brings forth fruit. And God will use them in such a miraculous way. And you might be long gone. But for them, they're going to say, Well, I remember One Christian that I watched, and I saw his faith. I saw his consistency. And I could never get that out of my mind. And when the time was right, they turned to Jesus Christ. What I'm saying, beloved, is that you don't know how far reaching your faith in the midst of uh fiery trials. Can be rewarded with fruit even five, ten years down the road. We don't know what it'll be. But remember the world is rocking. So we see here the the growth of the church this morning, that brings this to conclusion. We've got a closed uh this morning Sunday school lesson