Uh turn in your Bibles to Hebrews chapter eleven. Hope you're there now in Hebrews chapter eleven, verse twenty-four. We'll start there. It says, By faith Moses when he was come to years refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter, choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of God than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season. Esteeming the reproaches of Christ greater riches than the treasures in Egypt, for he had respect unto the recompense of the reward by faith He forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king, for endured as seeing him who is invisible. Then we'll go down to verse thirty two. And what shall I more say, for the the time would fail me to tell of Gideon and of Barak and of Samson of Jephthah, of David also and Samuel and of the prophets Who through faith subdued kingdoms, wrought righteousness, obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions, quenched the violence of fire Escaped the edge of the sword, out of weakness were made strong, waxed valiant in fight, turned to flight the armies of the aliens. Women received their dead, raised to life again, and others were tortured, not accepting Deliverance that they might obtain a better resurrection. And others had trial of cruel mockings and scourgings, yea, more of bonds and imprisonment They were stoned, they were sawn asunder, were tempted, were slain with a sword, they wandered about in sheepskins and goatskins, being destitute, afflicted, tormented, of whom the world was not worthy They wandered in deserts and in mountains and in dens and caves of the earth. Then we'll drop down to chapter twelve, verse one and two. Wherefore seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses Let us lay aside every weight in the sin which does so easily beset us. Let us run with patience the race that is set before us. Looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, I pray that you'd bless this message, God, that you would take our hearts and Lord, that you would uh uh take all the distractions away from the heart. Lord, help us with our hearts and with our minds to focus on your word. Focus on the needs of people around the world. Focus on your will for our lives God, that you would uh fill me with your Holy Spirit's power, and Lord, that you give me the words to say. Lord, that you would just speak to our hearts in this evening's service, Lord our Jesus. I just pray that you would bless this message. In your name I pray. Amen. When we read about uh this uh passage here, read from this passage, the passage Well known as the Hall of Fame of the Faith. Famous people here are mentioned throughout the chapter of Hebrews 11. We have Abel Mentioned and famous people like Noah and Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and Moses. Uh well known names in the hall of fame of the faith. But then we have some lesser-known names such as Gideon and Barak and Samson and Jephthah and others. But, you know, when we read this passage, the author was talking about not just these famous people, but unsung heroes, uh people not mentioned It says uh here of and of the prophets and then it mentions people that obviously are not the people named in the um In the past, in the chapter, people that it says that quenched the violence of fire escaped the edge of the sword. Talks about people who had trials of cruel mockings and scourgings, of bonds and imprisonment, stoned, sawn asunder, uh wandering about in sheepskins and goatskins, afflicted, tormented uh of whom the world was not worthy. And so it speaks of uh all the old test many of the Old Testament saints, if not all the Old Testament saints But it's also a fitting description of the New Testament saints and what they suffered, whether they were thrown to the hands of the lions in the Colosseums. But the New Testament saints of the primitive church and even of Christians throughout centuries of the church age that have suffered for the cause of Christ. Uh it reminds me of the Waldensies. The Waldensies of the 12th and 13th century. These people were called the Waldensies because they hid in the valleys of the Alps. Because they wouldn't baptize their babies, they were persecuted. And uh one person said we're called the Valdensies because we live in a vale of tears But in spite of the danger, in spite of the persecution, they had the uh courage to walk out of their place of safety into places called Albi, uh which was in the southern uh part of France in the district of Albi where they go two by two evangelizing just like we do today uh in a in in the dark ages of of Europe uh to reach a generation. They evangelized Central Europe in spite of the dangers, in spite of uh even uh uh Innocent the Third that wasn't so innocent, but he was the Pope at that time that persecuting them, you know, the crusades against the Muslims. Well he did a crusade against Christians there in southern France. In fact he left uh uh whole villages smoking in ruins But they were willing, in spite of the dangers, to come out of their places of hiding to reach a generation. for the Lord and turn people from darkness to light and from the power of Satan and the God as they went from France to Switzerland to Moravia of all Central Europe winning people to the Lord The Anabaptists did the same things in spite of in the 16th century having uh uh someone could go along the road to Rome and see poles there uh every few miles on the way to Rome with the heads of Anabaptists. On a pike. They would take Anabaptist man and they would uh just fill his head with dynamite and light light light the fuse to see what would happen to him. But in spite of that, they were they ha had such a evangelistic fervor that Cardinal Hose, a cardinal, a Catholic Cardinal, said if it wasn't for the Anabaptists The Baptists being killed by the knife for the last 1200 years, they swarmed more than all the reformers because so many people were being saved through the Anabaptists. The Moravians in the seventeenth and eighteenth century were a small group of people in a church in Harehut, Germany. They sent almost 300 missionaries in 65 years. Twenty-nine of them were sent to the West Indies. Twenty of them died. These are the unsung heroes of missionary endeavor, and that's the title of my message: The Unsung Heroes of Missionary Endeavor. Two of these men that went to the Western Indies tried to get onto an island where there were three thousand slaves. They wanted to reach these three thousand slaves to the Lord. But the owner of those slaves, and the owner of the island, said, We will have none of that nonsense on our island. So they sold themselves as slaves to reach the slaves of that island. The two men were Johann Dober and David Nietzsche. Johann Dober and Nietzsche were on a boat on a way to the West Indies in Hamburg, Germany. The scene is described like this. Family members were weeping. Was their extreme sacrifice wise? Was it necessary? The housings had been cast off and were curled up on the pier. As the ship slipped away with the tide and the gap widened, the young men linked arms, raised their hands, and shouted across the widening gap. May the lamb that was slain receive the reward for his suffering. May the lamb that was slain receive the reward for his suffering. Now, what does that mean? We'll turn to Isaiah 53, 7, and we'll see what that means. And we see here the unsung hero's motivation. What was the motivation that would cause them to sell themselves as slaves? to go to the West Indies and reach the slaves captive there. The Bible says here in Isaiah 53 verse 7, it talks about that lamb. The Lord Jesus Christ. It says he was oppressed and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth. He is brought as a lamb to the slaughter and as a sheep before his shears is dumb. So he opened not his mouth It says in verse 10, Yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him, that lamb. He hath put him to grief. When thou shalt make us soul, an offering for sin, he shall see his seed, he shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. He shall see the travail of his soul and shall be satisfied. He shall see the travail of his soul and shall be satisfied. Obviously, we we preach that that that speaks of the the the travail of God's soul, uh of the Lamb's soul And that God would be satisfied with the suffering of his son, his wrath against sin would be satisfied, but also could speak of the he shall see the travail of his own soul And he shall be satisfied. Christ, seeing the travail of his own soul, would be satisfied knowing that because of his suffering, thousands millions, yea, millions would be saved throughout the centuries because of his sacrifice. That's why the Bible says here in Hebrews chapter 12, verse 1. Hebrews chapter 12, verse 1. Hebrews chapter twelve chapter uh chapter twelve verse one wherefore sing we also of chapter chapter twelve verse two, looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross. He was able to endure the cross. He was he he uh uh saw the travail of his soul, but he endured the cross because of the joy that was set before him. The joy of knowing that souls would be saved because of his sacrifice. I think of what it says in Revelation chapter 5, verse 9, when they sing about the Lamb, and they say they're in heaven, and they sung a new song. saying thou art worthy to take the book and to open the seals thereof, for thou wast slain, and hast redeemed us to God by thy blood out of every kindred and tongue and people and nation. And one day these people from a saved from a kindred tongue, people and nation by the millions will sing to the Lamb. And that is the reward for a suffering. And what Uh Johan Dober and David Nietzsche were saying is, we want to give our lives so that that lamb that was slain for us may receive a reward for his suffering. Oh, that we may have that motivation that motivated those unsung heroes of missionary endeavor. That would say, as they see the Lamb in his suffering, I want to reward him with souls. I believe that's why uh Isaiah he saw the lamb. If you compare uh John 12 with Isaiah 53, what who he saw was the Lamb. He saw Jesus Christ, and it moved him to say, Hear my Lord Send me. That's why Moses was able to endure what he endured because he saw the invisible. It was a vision of the Lamb that was a motivation. of of the unsung heroes. It should be our motivation Because we were redeemed by that same blood, amen. We were redeemed. One day we were there on the slave block of sin. We were s Sinners enslaved to sin. But praise the Lord Jesus Christ came with his blood and said, I will set you free. We were saved and redeemed from that debt. Zinzendorf, when he saw, Zinzendorf was the pastor of that small church, Moravian church, and when he got out of the university and we left the and we graduated, he went to a museum and he saw there a painting of Jesus Christ. Suffering on the cross, and I'm sure the painting was nothing like Jesus Christ really suffered. But it was enough to move him for him to say, These wounds were meant to purchase me. These drops of blood were shed to obtain me. And he was moved to tell people about the Lord because of that. Oh, how we should have a vision of the Lamb slain for us. That will motivate us. See from his hands his. Head, his feet, sorrow and love flow mingled down. A lot of people ask me Especially in Mexico. They say they can't believe that I would be there so many years. And though I asked the question, do you really like Mexico? Do you is that why you're here in some being times in the state? Do you really like Mexico? Like that's the reason why in Mexico so I can be, you know, sitting underneath a palm tree with a hammock, you know, just drinking lemonade or something like that. Like like That's the reason why someone spends their life in in a place it doesn't really matter whether I like Mexico or not. I am not my own. I've been bought with a price, the precious blood of Jesus Christ That's why I'm in Mexico. God called me there. And that's why we should do what God wants us to do and go where God wants us to go because He purchased us. And we want to bring a reward for His suffering. That's what motivated these people. That's what should motivate us. Not only a vision of the Lamb, but also a vision of the lost. Should motivate us. A love for the Lamb and a love for the lost. Proverbs 15, 11. I know one person that loves the lost, and that's Jesus Christ. It says here in Proverbs chapter 15, verse 11. Hell and destruction are before the Lord. Hell and destruction are before the Lord. You know, we got a lot of things that come before us. That fill up our vision. You know, the cares of this world fill up our vision. How am I going to take care of my kids? How am I going to put food on the table for them? How am I going to clothe them? How am I going to educate them And we spent a lot of time thinking and dwelling and working for that end. Because it's before us at all times. A lot of times the accumulation of wealth and the plans that we have fill our lives. The cares of this world are before us. There's something that's always before God, and that's hell and destruction. They're always before the Lord. He never misses it. He's always considering it. It's always before him, and it breaks his heart And ought to break our heart as well to see the damned falling into that river of lava, kicking and screaming, pulled into that lake of fire by the angels. Oh, how we should have that vision. God's vision. He sees it all the time. The Bible says in Proverbs 27, it's Christ's vision and it breaks his heart. Does it break ours? The Bible says in Proverbs twenty-seven verse twenty Hell and destruction are never a fool. We love to sing this song, and I love to sing this song. Though though millions have come, there's roo still room for one. There's room at the cross for you. But let me tell you though, millions have fallen into that pit. There's still room for more. There's room for millions more. And millions of more are going there every day. As we preach this message, thousands are falling into that deep pit of fire. We heard it sung. They're in that flame, everlasting flame. Does it move you? It should. It moves our son, the son of God, Jesus Christ. Christ. It should move us as well. There's a song, Let me see the world through your eyes. Oh, that we see the world dying and going to that wicked place. Oh, that it before our be before our eyes as as it is before God's millions. Have gone, but millions more are on their way. The vision of the lamb, the vision of the loss that should motivate us. It motivates a woman named Adela Torres there in Mexico City. Pray for Adela, she just found out she had cancer and the only foot w w uh working foot that she has, the other one was cut off one day, but when she was twelve years old, she was hit by a car and for years she just had one foot. The other foot wa uh was was m a mangled just uh just hanging there. They finally had to cut it off and now she has cancer her other foot. But let me tell you something about Adela Torres The love of the lost motivated her to go every Tuesday night with us to a mission that we had outside of Mexico City where she spent an hour on crutches passing out tracts in the town square. A love of lost, the love of the lost won't should motivate us and will motivate us if we have the love for the loss that we ought to have I think of Joel Pichardo. He's uh uh chief of uh uh section of the police in Mexico City, has nineteen thousand policemen under him He gets about four or five hours of sleep a day. But in spite of that, he still finds time. A lot of times he's saying, I'm working on Saturday, you just show me the streets that you're knocking, and I'll go there and he'll go there with his unsaved bodyguard and knock knocked doors with a with a uh uh um patrol car uh patrol motorcycle that's also another bodyguard following him as he goes door to door Why? Because it's a vision of the lost. Oh, many times we make excuses why we can't see souls saved. Why we can't witness, why we can't pass out tracts Maybe what we need is a vision of the lost. A vision of the Lamb and a vision of the lost. And not only the vision of the lost dying and going to hell, but the vision of the lost today, how they're living their lives. Turn with me, please, to Matthew chapter 9 Matthew chapter 9 in your Bibles, we see Jesus Christ going from village to village to village with a burden on his heart, trying to see people say to himself, Preaching the gospel of the kingdom of God, preaching repentance and faith in the gospel. And he in verse 35 we see him Jesus went about all the cities and villages teaching in their synagogues, preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing every sickness and every disease among the people. And in those days he was the only one doing it John the Baptist was put in jail. The other twelve disciples were just disciples at the time. They were just uh people sitting at his feet with all the other disciples Hundreds of disciples that would follow him and listen to him. They weren't the apostles. They weren't sent out until the next chapter. He was doing it all himself, and he saw the multitudes there As it says in verse 36, when he saw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion on them because they fainted and were scattered abroad as sheep having no shepherd. And it he was the only one preaching at that time. So much to do with so little time. And it broke his heart. I think of when I go up and down the ridges there in the Kalpa and you saw the slide, you'll see a hillside with tens of thousands of homes, most of them not even painted yet. They never got never had the money to paint them And you and you can go up and down those ridges and I go up and down there visiting people on the three different bus routes that we have out there. Eight hundred and fifty thousand people. With no hope, the majority of them. You go along there and you see the poverty, but then you start thinking of the spiritual poverty. Oh they may not they may not uh have everything that we have here But just think what they could have if they would be saved, amen. The joy of sins forgiven, the love of Christ. But they don't have that. There's n they have no hope. And it breaks your heart. You see families broken there. You see families broken because of sin. The majority of the reasons is because of sin. You see young girls desperate to have somebody, have some kind of security, and they and they find some per the first person that's interested in her and they'll have a relationship with him and then they'll ha she'll have kids by him until he finally leaves. leaves her and finds someone else and she's left there to raise her kids and she to l raise a little daughter and her daughter grows up to be a a a young person And she has no security. So she finds the first person that will that that that pays attention to her and then she's in the same boat. She gets a rel has a relationship with him and then she has kids by him And then he leaves, and then then her she raises another generation of kids and another daughter who doesn't have and it goes on and on and on and on. Because the Bible says, the Bible says As the Bible says, my people are destroyed because of lack of knowledge. And we have the knowledge of God And it breaks my heart as I see it all driving through y'all to just drive through there and I that's why I have the presentation so I can see a little bit what it's like there The harvest is white, yes, the harvest is white as we sing. He says right here, but the harvest truly is plenty of us. But let me tell you that it's not only white, but it's wasting. It's wasting, wasted lives. I think of what John O'Rice wrote when he wrote, So little time and many souls will die and never know the love of Christ, the joy of sins forgiven That's why he says in the next there in the chorus, oh, then to save some dear ones from the burning. Oh, the harvest is great, but it's past. The summer is ended, and we are not saved, they cry out. Oh, I pray that your eye be affected, mine eye affected my heart. Oh, when you see the presentation, is it nothing for you, all ye that pass by? Oh, that you may have a vision, oh, that we may have a vision of the lost. Many times it's blurred, isn't it? Many times it's blurred by the cares of this world, the deceitfulness of riches, the pleasures of this life. I think of in my own youth group sometimes, you know, we'll have a big when it's time for six flags and there's the six flags in Mexico City, believe it or not And oh how it'll be signed on both sides, kids all signed up to go to Six Flags. Pleasures of this life! But then the next week it'll be time to go visit the old folks' home. Where's all those kids that were signed up? Amen. Oh, the vision of the lost gets blurred by the pleasures of this life, the deceitfulness of riches, the cares of this world. Not only do we see the hero's motivation, but how about the unsung hero's legacy? And let me just read about a few missionaries In 1833, a man named Henry Lyman and his partner Samuel Munson, after having studied Chinese and Malaysian penetrated the interior of Sumatra, that's an island there in Indonesia, to preach the gospel. The Basha cannibals, thinking they were missionaries, or thinking they were spies, killed these missionaries and ate them. But praise God, twenty-five years later, the gospel was planted among the Batak Indians, or cannibals there, natives. Fifty years later, the Batak Church can had a hundred and twelve thousand members, but not before two men were willing to go to Indonesia. And give their lives. In 1796, nineteen missionaries came to the shores of Tahiti, where Palmari, the king of Tahiti, awaited them. At Cannibal, he risked and resisted their efforts. to plant the gospel on the island. Three of them were assassinated. Three of the missionaries were assassinated, and others fled, and by eighteen hundred only five of those nineteen men and women were still there When Palmar II took his father's place, he also posed the gospel. But in July of 1812, the London Missionary Society had a prayer meeting to pray for the conversion of Palmarie II. And within a month, Palmarie II destroyed his idols, built a church building, and was baptized. But not before several missionaries had to give their lives for the gospel. In that same year, ten missionaries came to the shores of nearby Tonga, another island. The missionary effort failed. Three of the missionaries were assassinated. One became a native. I don't know how that happened. And the rest returned to Australia. But this is the part I want you to hear. The testimony of the experien of these experiences stirred the Australian Methodists who came to the island and within a few years the chief of the island was baptized. We're starting to see a pattern here. We're starting to see missionaries who would give their lives, literally give their lives sometimes to be eaten, sometimes to be to be killed, but then a wave of people would say, We'll take their place And then the gospel would be established on these islands. It was written of the Samoans. These are Samoan Christians. They're not American Christians, Samoan Christians. It's doubtful that there has been a people in all the world who, in the proportion to the numbers, have provided so many missionaries who have paid such a price in sacrifice and martyrdom. In 1839, John Williams and James Harris explored the Isle of Eromanga. Some cannibals attacked them in the ambush, dragged them half-dead into the interior of the jungle, without a doubt in preparation for a feast. When the news of the death of Williams and Harris came to Samoa, listen to this. 25 Christians offered themselves to go to Eramonga as missionaries. No less than five of those sacrificed their lives before the gospel was established on an island. So here's two men. How you know how why would anyone want to go there? Twenty-five people stand up and say we'll take their place and five of those lose their lives. But guess what? The gospel is established on that island. In the Solomon Islands in eighteen seventy-one, John Coleridge Patterson, traveling with two other missionaries, decided to investigate the island of Nicapoo by himself. The natives killed him, put him in a canoe, directed the canoe in the direction of the ship where the missionaries awaited him. Patterson was covered with a palm leaf. Five lances had penetrated his heart. But in these islands the gospel After at last it was embraced, uh, the gospel was embraced, and the inhabitants embraced Christianity, but not before John Coleridge Patterson gave his life. A week could go on in 1895. A group of seven missionaries, headed by Pat Peter, Cameron Scott, came to Kenya. Fourteen months later, Scott died. The last entrance in this diary said, Here my Lord. Use me in life and death. Or death. The last of the seven missionaries, too weak to continue, return home. But other missionaries took their place there in Kenya. The Christian and Missionary Alliance arrived in Mali in 1923. The work received, and listen to this, the work received new life when three of the missionaries died in one week, victims of yellow fever. But twenty young people that heard their testimonies presented themselves to take their place. Oh, that we have that missionary fervor of those days. Amen. That would say, you know what? Yes, it may be dangerous in Mexico. Yes, the cartels are there. Yes, it could, you know, I've heard a lot about Mexico City. Mexico is now considered the second most conflictive nation in the world. And I I imagine there's some people that would say, well that's the last place I would go. Shame, amen. Shame. Missionary Society wrote to Livingston. Saying, Do you have a good road to you to send missionaries to help you? To see to send men to help you. Livingston wrote back, if you have men who will only come if they know there is a good road I don't want them. I want men who will come if there's no road at all. That is the kind of missionary fervor that those men of that day had Do we have that missionary fervor today? I tell these stories to tell you of what men have done in the past. But what about today? The need is even greater today than it was 150 years ago. There are now six billion more people on the earth than there were back then. You would think we'd have a lot more missionaries going to the mission field. You'd think you'd have people by the dozens like in those days that would be going to the mission field. I'd like to last of all speak of the unsung heroes' replacements. Hebrews chapter 12, verse 1. It was part of our text. Hebrews chapter 12, verse 1. The Bible says here in Hebrews chapter 12, verse 1. Wherefore seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses. Those people of whom I've just written, those people that we find in Hebrews chapter eleven, that endured mockings and scourgings, bonds and imprisonments, torn asunder, slain with a sword, wandering about Sheepskins, goat skins, tormented, afflicted, of whom the world was not worthy. Those are the ones that are that great cloud of witnesses. Those are the ones that are in the stands looking down at us. Those that suffered there among the Waldensies, among the Moravians, among the Anabaptists, and our spiritual for forefathers of the eighteen hundreds that that sent out missionaries by the by the dozens and hundreds. They're now in the stands, those that had their lances piercing their heart, are now looking down at us. What do they think of the 21st century Christian and our efforts? To reach the six, seven billion people that live on this planet. There's a need to be another generation to replace these unsung heroes. We need a new generation of unsung heroes. But do we have them? Do we have those that have the missionary spirit? I think of Psalm 110, verse 3. Psalm 110, verse 3. Psalm 110, verse 3, let me just read it to you. It says that the people shall be willing in the day of thy power. Oh, how how they were willing in the day of God's power in the 1800s. Are we in those days of power today? Shall we have a people that will be willing today? I think of that song that was sung that In a time of missionary fervor. You know, today people write songs a lot of times just to make money. But in those days it was songs that came from their heart and from their spiritual experience. And in the 1800s, a man wrote a song, O Zion haste, listen to the words, Give thy sons to bear the message glorious. Oh, how people had a fervor even to allow their sons to go to the mission field Give thy sons to bear the message glorious. Today it's uh I can't believe you're letting your grandchildren go to Mexico City. My taking my grandchildren there. Believe me, I've heard it And other missionaries have heard the same thing. Where is that missionary spirit of the past? Give him thy sons to bear the message glorious. Give up thy wealth to speed them on their way. Pour out thy soul for them and prayer victorious, like that London Missionary Society that poured out their souls until that chief finally was saved and baptized Oh is I in haste. Oh how we need to have that missionary fervor. Do we have it today? Are we willing to face dangers? Are we willing, as it was preached yesterday, to leave our comfort zone? Where is the daring and trepid Christians of the past? You know, I went to um Pennsylvania uh last January, I was here in Pennsylvania, not too far away in Harrisburg. And I went to a church that's called the uh the Paxton Presbyterian Church So second, uh, it's it's the uh uh one out of two churches, the second oldest church that's still in existence today, where they still uh have services today. Built here in the United States. It's a stone building. I went there because I had an ancestor there that came over from Ireland. Rared them to come from Ireland, uh of my ancestors. His name was Timothy, had two sons, Dennis and John, and uh he actually uh uh lived there in the Paster, and he happened to be a Presbyterian, so I was sure that was the church that he would attend. It was the only church back in those days. So I went there. Timothy Rardon, uh according to the deposition of a man named John Trotter, uh uh entered partnership with John Trotter and they took uh several horses and four hundred s pounds sterling pounds of British uh money uh of goods and went to sell uh goods to Indians in what is today Franklin, Pennsylvania. Ironically where Rhonda and I uh bought our uh bought we we received our license to to get married. I don't know if you buy them or not. I don't think we bought them but but anyways The point is, they crossed Harrisburg, which was Harris Ferry back then, crossed over on a ferry, and went up there to sell goods to Indians. And the Verdon family carved out their existence there in western Pennsylvania among the Indians. I say that to say that many of us are sons of pioneers. Many of us were sons of people that came across the shores, across the seas, and because of their the pioneering spirit of our ancestors, they carved a life out of the wilderness of the United States of America. And my question is, where is that pioneering spirit of even our physical forefathers, much less our spiritual forefathers, who are willing to dare to do the difficult? Nowadays we have young people. That have had the vision of the lost, the vision of the Lamb blurred by deceitfulness of riches, the cares of this world. The pleasures of this world. Roosevelt wrote, Theodore Roosevelt, he was talking about America, but but I'm going to substitute the word Christianity in the kingdom of God. instead of America because it's so fitting to what what he said. Let me just read and see if he really uh if it's fitting to you. I believe it is. Christianity means the virtues of courage Honor, justice, truth, sincerity, and hardlyhood. Aren't those the virtues of Christianity? Courage? Amen? Honor? Justice? Truth, sincerity, and hardlyhood. Those are the virtues of true Christianity. Hardlyhood. The virtues that made the kingdom of God The things that will impede or impede the advance of the kingdom of God are prosperity at any price, peace at any price. Safety first instead of duty first. The love of soft living and the get rich quit theory of life. Now isn't that a good picture of modern day Christians, especially among young people today? Prosperity at any price. Peace at any price. Safety first instead of duty first. The love of soft living and the get rich quick theory of life. You know, I was reading uh I was with a fellow named Andy Amanda, a good friend of mine up here in near near uh Lancaster, and he had a book, an anthology of different missionaries, and and there it had uh the list of in the inland china mission. It was the mission of Hudson Taylor. And how many people went arrived in China every year. And I looked at one year, 70 missionaries and one mission board in China, 70. In one year, another year a hundred for one mission board Why do we have so few today? When we have a is the need less than it was 150 years ago? There are six billion more people on the planet. Are there less Christians? America was only had 100 million in population back then. Now there's 320 million. It's not that there are less less Americans. It's not that the l that the need is l less, it's far greater. There should be so many more Perhaps it's because of the love of soft living. Prosperity at any price. Peace at any price. Safety first instead of duty first. The get rich quick theory of life. Roosevelt also wrote, the credit belongs to the man who is actually in the arena, whose face is marred by dust. And sweat and blood, who strives valiantly, who errs, who comes up short again and again, because there is no effort without error and shortcoming. But who does actually strive to do the deeds Who knows great enthusiasms, the great devotions, who spends himself in a worthy cause, who at the best knows in the end the triumph of high achievement, and who at the worst, if he fails, at least fail fails while daring greatly, so that his place shall never be with those cold and timid souls. Who neither know victory nor defeat. I know that not every Christian in America is called to missions. I know that. But I leave uh I believe sincerely that a lot more are called than are going. I think there's a lot that don't haven't even heard the call because of the way that they're living, they don't even have the ear of God. Or God doesn't have their ear. But they're called. If they would just get right with God, they could hear the call of God. And there are a lot that are hearing the call of God, but I believe because of cold and timid souls, they're not going. Because of peace at any price is the motto of today. Prosperity at any price, duty for uh safety first instead of duty first, the love of soft living, and the get rich, quick theory of life Where's those cr where's those daring Christians that used to run into danger? I was in Mexico City one time and that we had some Indian from India that were visiting our church. They were unsaved people, but we went to their home to eat. And uh uh and all of a sudden I uh we're in the living room and all of a sudden we heard an explosion in the kitchen. And well I knew the wife was there. And so I remember w when that happened, the explosion sounded. I saw one Mexican fellow head out the door, apartment door. I ran towards the kitchen to see what I could do to help and see if there was a need. That just makes sense. Where is the daring intrepid Christians of the past? I believe we, I believe, I believe that people can still be willing. In the day of power, th there are still people that will surrender the missions. Maybe you. We hear expect great things from God, and that is true. But we also need to attempt great things for God. We need to be willing to run into danger. Mexico City is not an easy place. I could tell you stories I won't. It's not an easy place. Neither's Thailand. Neither's Trinidad. By the hope no one here would not accept a call because of the difficulties. I don't want anyone to go to the mission field who's not called. But shame on anyone here who would not go to the mission field because of the dangers, because of the difficulties, because the lack of uh of willingness to leave the comfort zone, because of a cold or timid soul. Turn with me to Esther. We need people like Esther. Esther chapter four It was a time of danger. The Jewish nation were in danger of being destroyed. And Malachi said to Esther, You need to go to the king. You need to have the courage to go before the king. You need the courage to tell the king. What is happening to your people? She said, How can I? If I go there and and he didn't hold out the scepter. The custom is whoever will whoever goes before the king without the scepter being held out to Him or her, it will be the death sentence. Mordecai wrote back, if thou altogether holdest thy peace at this time Then shall their enlargement and deliverance arise to the Jew from another place. While the people of the Jewish nation were in danger, Esther was living in a comfortable place She had her comfort zone there in the palace, free from danger, so she thought. She was at the beginning not willing to face the danger. Not knowing that our own life could be in danger. Mordecai said, if you hold your peace, God can bring deliverance from another place. I believe with all my heart that America was created in the in the human in human history, in the history of mankind. God put America here to reach the world in these last 200 years or more that we have left. You just read the documents. The founders of this nation believed it. Read the Mayflower Flower Compact. Read some of these other compacts of some of these colonies. They believed it. Why do you think America was blessed so so abundantly? We sent more missionaries than any other country. Because we can, because we had the money to do it. But you know what? God can say, you know what, if if if if they're not interested, if they're only interested in the wealth that I gave them to send missionaries, more than the purpose for which I gave them the wealth, I can take the wealth. And ripped the economic rug right from out from under them. He almost did in two thousand eight. He's doing it now. The North Koreans could send an EMP over our nation, you've heard of that electronic pulse, wipe out our grid, and there where would we be? South Korea is already sending missionaries. Philippines are sending missionaries. He can send deliverance from another place. He's doing in Mexico. Mexico missionaries are going throughout the world. But thou and thy father's house shall be destroyed. Who knows whether thou art come to the kingdom for such a time as this? Who knows, young person, if you have not come to this generation, he has put you in a church where you can be hear the gospel and be raised in the Christian home for a purpose. Who knoweth whether thou art come to this kingdom for such a time as this? Then Esther bade her return, bade them return, and Mordecai this answer, Go gather together all the Jews that are present in Shushan. And fast ye for me, neither eat nor drink three days nor three nights, or night or three days, night or day, I also, my maidens, will fast likewise. And so will I go unto the king, which is not according to the law. And if I perish, I perish. Where are the Esters today? Where are the John Coleridge Pattersons today? Where are the people that are willing to say, no matter what, if I perish, I perish, but I'm going to do the will of God because I am not my own. I've been bought with a price. Oh, that we may have a vision of the Lamb and what He's done for us, a vision of the Lamb that was slain, that urges us to do what He would have us to do. No matter what the cost. A version of the lost, a vision of the lost, knowing that if the lost are not saved, if we're not doing our part, they're perishing by the millions. By the billions. Oh, moon my heart when in the slide presentation there of Thailand, when when the brother brother Benjamin said they've never even heard the name of Jesus. I think in Mexico almost everyone at least knows who Jesus is. They've heard the word Jesus. But can you imagine billions of people who have never even heard the name of Jesus? Why haven't they? Golden timid souls. Golden timid souls I'm sure God is calling a lot more. I'm not saying that anyone's called, but I believe he's calling a lot more than are going. I believe there could be some here that God's calling We should all be willing. My people shall be willing. The people shall be willing in the day of power. I believe we are in a day of power. Will you be willing? Let's pray. Heavenly Father. Lord help us to have that motivation. Lord, give us a vision of the Lamb, a love for the Lamb who was slain for me. Slain for me. You were slain for me for a purpose. You wanted a reward for your suffering. You wanted to use me as an instrument. You want to use others as instruments. Not to make money. I know you bless some of us with with wealth, but there's a purpose to speed those who you have called on their way God, we need people who are willing to go on their way. Oh Lord, that you speak to hearts tonight. God, you'll give us willing hearts to give, but also to go. And God, if there's someone here that you're calling, Lord, I pray that they would listen to your call. And that they would obey your call. And Lord Lord that there's some here who are not willing, Lord, that they would just surrender and say, God, I'm willing. I don't know if you want me to go or not, but I am willing. Lord, we should all be willing. God, I pray that we'd all be able to run the same race that the unsung heroes did in doing what you would have us to do. Whatever the cost. Lord, I pray that you would work in this invitation. I pray these things in your name. Amen. With heads bowed and eyes closed, I want to ask some questions. The first question is this. Have uh have you ever been a been confronted with God About the ideal of being a missionary to the foreign field or to a another people. Have you ever been confronted with the ideal of at least being willing to go? And have said at one time in your life, God, whether it was really good, whether it was God's will or not, but you at least said, I am willing to go. Could you raise your hand? I have done that at one time. I have said I am willing to go. Amen. Thank you. You put your hands down. Another question. How many of you have said I've never even it's never even occurred to me? It's never even occurred to me. But if God would have me to go, I am willing to go. Here's my hand. If God would tell me to go, I would be willing to go. Here's my hand. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Thank you. How about you that could not raise your hands saying, I'm willing to go? Maybe what you ought to do tonight, I believe not maybe, I believe you ought to You ought to say, God, I am willing to go. Maybe you struggled with it Maybe God has spoken to you about it before, but you've never surrendered to go. I'm not saying you're even called to go, but you ought to at least be surrendered to go. There's something wrong. If we're qualified to go, but we refuse to go, refuse to even think about it, we refuse to even do God's will, we should be willing to do whatever because we are not our own. Let's stand to our feet. If anyone here has never trusted Christ as your Savior, we always give you the invitation. God loves you. He's not willing that any should perish. You're a sinner, the Bible says for all sin come short of the glory of God. And the wages of sin is death. With heads bowed and eyes closed, if God's speaking in your heart about being saved, come forward and we'll show you how the Bible, how you can be saved. He's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. He wants you to be saved. But maybe you have struggled with a willingness to go. Maybe you couldn't answer that question. I have surrendered to go if it's God's will. I have been confronted with that Maybe I never have, but I don't feel like I'm willing to go. You should surrender to go. I'm not saying God's called you, but you should surrender go. And I invite you to come forward at this altar, and I invite you to Uh get on your knees and tell God, God, I'm at least willing to go. Every one of us should at least be willing to go