All right, for the last time in maybe a little while we'll see what the uh Lord does. Take your Bibles and turn to the book of Romans. Romans chapter number twelve. We've basically spent ten weeks. in this chapter, looking at these couple verses here, studying our spiritual gifts and excited this morning to go ahead and uh wrap up this study on spiritual gifts. Hopefully after today you will have a good idea or at least a good start on identifying what your spiritual gift is. After you do so, after you find your spiritual gift, you say, I believe this is what God has given me, or at least this is what I think this is the gift that God has given me to use in the ministry, I encourage you to go back and review your notes or maybe even review the sermon or the message on that spiritual gift. So you had a chance to hear all of them. Go back in and hone in on the one that maybe you felt like was your spiritual gift to encourage you, maybe some ideas on how to use your gift when it comes to ministry. Just remember that just as the gifts are not limited to offices, offices are not required in order to use your gift I thought I have a couple examples of this. For example, if you are a teen here and you are been studying this along with us here and you feel like, you know what, I feel like I have the gift of teaching. You come and let me know. Um I've been glad to hear decos for anybody if you feel like you've understood your spiritual gifts. I've had several people tell me already. I'd be excited to hear uh what the Lord's led you in this study. But maybe one of the teens come to me after class today and they say, hey Pastor Derek, I've been praying about it, but looking about it. I think I have the gift of teaching, so I'm ready to cover Sunday school next week Um that probably probably won't happen. We probably won't sign you up to cover Sunday school next week. So you say, well, if I'm a teen here in the church and my gift is is teaching, I I can't use it. I have to wait until I become a Sunday school teacher. I have to wait until Um Pastor Derek's not covering Sunday school, I'll have to fill in for him. I I couldn't use my gift because I don't have an office for it, but that's that's not the case You can use your gift into whatever ministry that you have as you serve others. So how could a teen use a gift of teaching? First of all, you can study. Part of the gift of teaching is a desire to learn. So invest time in Bible study to prepare yourself to be a teacher Secondly, find opportunities to use your gifts. Share things with your family that you're learning out of your Bible. Talk to the young people after church. Say, hey, what did you learn in class today? Little Matt, how how what'd you learn? What what did the teacher teach about? And what do you think that means? And you can encourage and help to maybe disciple some young people after class and teach them, share that with them. Do Bible trivia games on the patio out here instead of playing red light, green light, say hey let's go let's guide together, we'll do a do some sword drills here together. An opportunity you could have to use your spiritual gift Participate in the preaching or the Bible storing competitions that empowered youth. Create a group chat with some of your friends where you share some thoughts from the Bible. Ask about opportunities to serve in classes on the bus route or in junior church. But no matter where you serve, there is a way that you can serve with your gift. Let's use another example. Let's say somebody who is an usher Now we haven't been um passing a plate here for a couple months at our church, but say, hey, I was an usher, I passed a plate, but I feel like my gift is exhortation. So so I don't know that I can use my gift of exhortation if if I am just an usher. Well If you see your job as an usher is more than just passing a plate, you can understand that you have an opportunity to interact with everyone that comes to church as a greeter. Part of the job of the usher is just to go around and talk to people and welcome people to the house of God. So that's part of your ministry. How do you do that as an exhorter? You can use your ministry to interact with people regarding their faithfulness. Pay attention to who's here and who's not When someone just starts coming, make it a point to encourage them to come back. After they've been here for a few weeks, encourage them. Hey, you've been doing well really well, coming for several weeks. That's exciting. I'm glad to see that you're taking the step and being a part of our church. Encourage them that way When you notice that someone's gone for a few weeks, reach out to them and see how they're doing. That's not just a job for pastor to reach out to church members that are missing church. You can do it as well. Reach out to them, encourage them, say, hey, can I do something to help you out Maybe for people that don't come to every service, you can encourage them to be faithful to other services. Invite with you, hey why don't you come back tonight to the youth service and you can sit with me and my family. We enjoy having you here for the evening service. That's part of what an ex-order would do Make sure they know about special events. Ask them to be your guest. You can utilize your gift in your ministry no matter what it is. The ministries will all be done, but they're all going to be done a little bit differently based on the gift of the one doing the ministry An usher with the gift of exhortation will usher differently than one with the gift of prophecy. Both will pass plates, both will greet people, but they'll go about it differently based on the way God has gifted them. What I'm saying is that you do not need to change ministries in order to use your gift, to start serving. The only exception to this is someone who's not serving at all. Say, well, I'm not doing anything and I have this gift, so what do I need to do? Well Do something. That's my encouragement for you to do something with ministry. You don't need a ministry, a position. Ministry is serving others. So serve others in the church. You say all I do is come. Well, when you're here, use your gift to help somebody out You don't have to have a position to do that. That can happen during the handshaking time before church, during the timeout in the foyer. Use your gift to help other people. You don't need a job title in order to serve others Now when we began this series almost a little over ten weeks ago now, I mentioned that the idea of discovering your spiritual gifts and gave you some guidelines. along that. And one thing I said was that there's something you could do is take a spiritual gifts test. Uh there were a few cautions that we had when we uh presented this. One is that God is the one who is the only one who can ultimately reveal your gift. And I would never rely solely on a test. I took a test, this is what it said I is, so that's what I is. Uh no, that's not that's that's not the um I know that just bothers the people when I said that, uh grammar-wise. Uh but The test doesn't determine. They can kind of point you the right direction, but God's the one that gave you the gift and He's the one that can reveal it to you. So that's one caution. Another thing that I had mentioned is that I had not come across a spiritual gifts test yet that lined up with what I taught about these seven gifts being the seven gifts and all of them being available to anyone. However, it was brought to my attention a spiritual gifts test that was in a book that somebody recommended to me And it turned out I had the book. I just didn't realize it had any teaching in it regarding spiritual gifts. And this gift test I did make available to you. So on it, it just has five seven people and describes these people with different attributes. And the idea is you go through and you check things. that you really are important to you. Now many of these things are all good attributes and we should all desire to have these, but just kind of think, is that really important to me? For example, one uh person number one, the first question is, you want to make sure that statements are true and accurate. And everybody should say, yeah, when I say something I want it to be true. So we should all feel like we need to check that box. But what it's kind of getting to is how important is that to you? When someone's telling a story from from this past week and the teens are talking like, oh yeah, remember on Tuesday when we went, I think it was around two o'clock, you'd be the one to say, No, no, no, I It was 2. 30. We went at 230. You want to make sure everything said when when somebody's quoting a verse and they miss the the, it really bothers you that they skipped over that word. So that's kind of the idea of making sure things are true and accurate. So as you look at these different things, yes, there will be a lot of things that you identify with, but they're all good attributes relating to these different gifts. So then you go through after you've checked a bunch of these You go see what kind of had the most, and there's some answers at the bottom of which person uh described has which gifts, and that's again just kind of pointing you the right direction. If you still say, I just don't have any idea what my gift might be, these can point you in the right direction. It kind of highlights something. You say, okay, well that might be my gift. Let me try to use it. Let me try to act that way and see if that really is something that God has gifted me at. So there's something she can do after class today after church, sometime this afternoon. Don't be working on it right now during the lesson, but you can go ahead and look at that. Maybe that will help you if you're still at a point where I just don't know what my gift is that can point you the right direction But today we're going to finish the series by discussing the gift of mercy. If you have your place there in Romans chapter 12, we'll be reading verse number 8. Says there or he that exhorteth on exhortation, he that giveth, let him do it with simplicity, he that ruleth with diligence He that showeth mercy with cheerfulness. And we understand that the let him do it is assumed there. He that showeth mercy, let him do it with cheerfulness. Let's open with a word of prayer this morning. Lord God, we love you. Lord, we thank you for um the time we've had to study your word. Lord, we thank you that you've given every person uh in our church a spiritual gift that you desire for them to use and ministry one to another. Lord, we thank you that you've given us a diversity, uh Lord, of gifts that everybody has something different, Lord, and that we don't all just have the same gift that we can minister to each other in different ways to meet different needs, Lord, the way that you have provided for us to do that. Pray you be with us this morning as we finish up this study, Lord, that you would use this in the lives of our church, Lord, to really Help us to be focused in our ministry, to be using our gifts and Lord and growing in other areas that you have us to grow in as believers. We ask that you bless our time around your word this morning, and that we ask that all in Christ's name. Amen. So looking at the gift of mercy. Now mercy and the gift studies, it is it is the last one that we've looked at, and for me it's probably the one that I have the least ability in. We've talked about how every gift there is a level of that we should all be doing that in some way. And this one kind of is is the most foreign to me. And as such, I didn't I came into it kind of like, well, I don't know what I'm going to teach because mercy is pretty pretty simple. They're the criers Um so I don't know what I'm gonna say in Sunday school. But mercy if you're you're a crying people, you see somebody crying, you'll give them a hug and you cry with them. Alright, we're gonna be done this morning But as I got into studying it, Lord really brought a lot more out than I than I than I thought on this thing. So I learned a lot in my study, hopefully I can share that with you So we look at mercy in the Bible, our first point, mercy defined, the first thing that we have to come to is the mercy of God. Pastor taught on mercy a couple weeks ago, but a couple things just to highlight about the mercy of God. That's what we see. When we see the word mercy throughout the Bible. It's mentioned, I believe, 276 times that the word mercy shows up in the Bible in that form. And throughout the Bible we see it and when And it most often is referring to God's mercy towards us. The word mercy carries the idea of kindness and compassion. When it comes to the idea of the mercy of God, we usually define that as not giving what is deserved. Something is deserved, and you withhold what is deserved from them, usually relating to punishment. When somebody deserves a punishment and that punishment is withheld, then we call that mercy. It works hand in hand with the idea of grace. Grace is giving what's undeserved. So they didn't deserve something good, you gave it to them. They deserved something bad, you withheld that from them. That's grace and that's mercy. What does this mean? It's always tied, these two are always tied to our sinful actions Because of our sin, what we deserve is hell. Because of God's mercy, He's provided a way for us to escape hell. Because of God's grace, he's offered us heaven as the alternative. So these two always work hand in hand, and it has to do with our deserved consequences of our sin, and God shows us grace and mercy. A great picture of the mercy of God is seen in a piece of furniture in the tabernacle in the Old Testament, also in the temple, and from our Bible reading this morning in the heavenly tabernacle that is as well from the reading this week. We've been looking at that in the book of Hebrews. So in the tabernacle, this piece of furniture is the mercy seat. Now I know if you can, I don't know if anybody caught this from the reading. I mentioned twice this week in the devotionals that there is no chair. in the tabernacle you say, well wait a minute, you just said there's a mercy seat. Well the chair, there's no chair for the priest. The mercy seat was for God. There's no chair for a priest to sit in the mercy seat was there for God. So what is the mercy seat? It's something for a great picture of God's mercy. First of all, consider the construction. How was it made? What was it made for? The mercy seat functioned as a lid to the Ark of the Covenant. It was made of pure gold, it was formed out of a single piece. On the lid there were the forms of two cherubim. Each cherub would have its wings arching over the mercy seat, covering the mercy seat And their faces would face in and down towards the mercy seat. We see that in, I believe it was Exodus 25, that the mercy seat construction is described. Secondly, we think about the contents. If the mercy seat was a lid to a box which was the Ark of the Covenant, what was it inside? Inside the Ark of the Covenant were Aaron's rod that budded a vessel that contained some manna, and the two tables of stone on which the Ten Commandments were written. Now these were not the fragments of the stone that Moses Broke. This was the new stones that Moses hewed out so that God could rewrite the Ten Commandments for them, and those were stored within the Ark of the Covenant. Now, what is this teaching us? What's the communication of the mercy seat when it comes to the mercy of God? A very important lesson, and this one we could take a whole sermon just to talk about this. It's a wonderful picture of God's mercy. But the cherubim were God's warrior angels. They were often seen in the Bible executing God's judgment when people did wrong. So these two cherubs were the war angels of God. They're looking down at the mercy seat. What are they seeing? What are they looking at? They're looking within the Ark of the Covenant and what's in there. It's the law of God What is the law of God? The law of God is a task is a school teacher that brings us to the knowledge of sin. The law of God exists to point out the fact that men are sinners. So God's angels, who are often used to bring judgment, are looking down at the law of God and they're seeing the law of God that's been broken by man. So what is their what is their response? What should the response be? The response is to bring God's judgment on those who have broken God's law. But there's something between what the cherubim and uh the the ta tables of stone, the law of God, something between there. that's blocking their view of the broken law and that's mercy. Mercy is preventing them from seeing the law that was broken and not just the mercy seat but once a year A blood sacrifice was brought in and sprinkled on them on the mercy seat. So the blood acted as a covering for the law that was broken by man, so God's judgment was saved. That's God's mercy God's mercy is a judgment that was saved because of the sacrifices that was made. And if you've taken time this morning to read Hebrews chapter 9, that's our chapter for today, worked out perfectly for our lesson here. But if the whole chapter is a picture or a description of how Jesus was the high priest that entered in once into the heavenly tabernacle to apply the blood to the mercy seat in heaven that speaks forever, no longer a yearly sacrifice needed, but now is an eternal sacrifice that offers that covering for man's sin that gives an expression of God's mercy. So we see the mercy of God is that covering of our sin that prevents us from having the judgment that we deserve when we put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ. The mercy of God. So that's when we see mercy in the Bible, that should be the first thing we think of is God's mercy that He shows towards us. There's also a mercy that we're called to show to others, and we're going to take time at the end of the lesson. in the gift the um desired to discuss this part how we should all be showing mercy to one another and we also have this idea of mercy here as a gift in Romans chapter 12 and that's going to be the focus of our lesson today So what does it mean? What is mercy defined as? I told you already that it means to have compassion or to compassionate. There's a verb form of that. To compassionate or to have compassion. There are two primary words for mercy in the New Testament. One is the noun form, that is compassion as an entity, and then there is the verb form, which is to have compassion. And when we see here in Romans chapter 12 it says, He that showeth mercy, this is the verb form. It's not just that God has given people an extra measure of compassion. He's given people the ability to show compassion in a stronger way. It's a verb form, it's an action. God gave you this compassion not just to have it, but he gave it for you to use it. The place we see this most often in the Gospels, this word mercy, is when Jesus would be walking around and somebody would cry out and say, Thou son of David, have mercy upon me. Look at my situation and have compassion and reach out to me is what they were asking Christ to do. That's this word mercy for those who have this gift. So what does it mean to have compassion? There's just a really vivid definition given for us in the Webster's 1828 dictionary, and it says this: compassion is suffering with another. It's painful sympathy. It's a sensation of sorrow that is excited by the distress or misfortunes of another. It is pity. It is commiseration. Compassion is a mixed passion. It's a compounding of love with sorrow. So mercy is an expression of love at the trial of somebody else that you want to join them in their sorrow, join them in their suffering. That's this idea of compassion. So that's minute mercy defined, and then we do have some confusion regarding mercy. We brought this up in the lesson on exhortation that it's often confused. when just a cursory glance of what is what is compassion, what is what is uh exhortation, these two kind of seem to overlap. But it should be clear to us now that the gift of mercy is suffering with someone in their time of need. The gift of exhortation is coming along someone in a time of need to strengthen them and help bring them to the next level to disciple them. So that's the definition of mercy, the gift to find. We're going to move on to First of all, we see in Romans chapter 12, verse number 8, it says that they're to do it with cheerfulness He that showeth mercy, let him do it with cheerfulness. This is an interesting thing that Paul does here, and we'll go on and talk about a little bit more as we look into the next admonition. But first of all, there this idea of um Cheerfulness, those with the gift of mercy, they thrive on giving emotional support to those that are struggling and suffering. It is their tendency to join people in their pain. and in their misery. They have no problem usually listening to to problems and trials that others are going through. That's what they do. That's the gift God's given them to minister, and that's what they thrive on spiritually And they're told, first of all, here that they should use their gift with cheerfulness. This word carries the idea of acting with cheerful willingness and cheerful promptness. It's closely related to the word for cheerful in the verse where God says, the Lord loveth a cheerful giver. So the same type of attitude we're to have towards our giving, a person with the gift of mercy, is to have towards the use of their gift. There are two applications that I see for this admonition. First of all, is that you should be cheerful when you're showing mercy. Be cheerful when you have that opportunity to show mercy. You know, there's some people that just love, seem to love misery. They love being miserable. They love having a bad day. Um I've heard uh Dave Ramsey describe people as having eeor as their spirit animal It's just people that enjoy being miserable. They find a special joy in always being sad. Yes, if you have this gift, you will want to join people in their suffering, but remember as Christians we're supposed to suffer cheerfully. Um blessed are ye when you mention a bow and you persecute you and say, Oh man, I'll be able against you uh falsely for my name's sake. We're supposed to we supposed to endure suffering with cheerfulness. And so you go join them in their suffering, yes, be there to comfort and do it a lot and and suffer alongside of them, but but you suffer cheerfully. Don't Don't make their day worse because you showed up to try to help them. Part of joining people in their trials is to help them feel better, but some people can take someone that is feeling bad and empathize with them in a way that leaves them feeling worse For example, we could have somebody come into the church today that was kind of distraught because they've lost their job. And somebody with the gift of mercy can see them and go over and sit with them and pray with them and have compassion on them. And remind them that to get them to look to God in their time of trouble and pray for them that God would provide for them and meet their needs. Or you can see them suffering, you come alongside them and say, hey, what's the matter? I lost my job. Oh man, that's terrible. I don't know how you're going to pay your bills You're probably gonna lose your house. I d I do you need to put your kids up for adoption? Like they could stay with me if you don't have any food. Um and you could you could just join them in their misery and just make them more miserable, but When you show mercy, show mercy with cheerfulness. Bring some strength to their day, not just commemorating in their misery and making things worse. When you join them in their emotional needs, do it with cheerfulness. So be cheerful, first of all, when you're showing mercy, and secondly, be cheerful when you have the opportunity to show mercy. Second application of this idea is showing mirror of showing mercy with cheerfulness relates to the emotional drain that someone else's struggles take on you. If you have the gift of mercy, other people are going to discover this and are going to come to you when they have needs. People people when they're suffering that they want somebody that's going to have sympathy on them. They're going to come. This is why when kids get hurt, they go to mom instead of dad. Because they want somebody to Have compassion on them in their time of suffering. Um go to dad well that's what happens when you jump off the tree. Um Well that's your fault that you're hurting. I'm not gonna have any sympathy about that. Mom will hug them and give them a band-aid and kiss the Kiss bowies and all that. When you're suffering, you want to go to somebody that will help you in your time of need. So people will learn, those in the church that have the gift of mercy, and when they're struggling, they're going to go to that person with mercy. And this is going to be emotionally draining for you. You know, I don't think that anyone has ever called me just to talk when they're having a bad day. Some of you, however, do get those calls. And it might be because you have the gift of mercy, or at least it means that you're more developed in this area than I am There will be some people, probably with the gift of mercy themselves, that will also come to you very often in their misery. And you're gonna when you're constantly called on to share in the emotional struggles of others, it's going to wear on you This is especially true when most people with the gift of mercy are usually more emotional themselves. So when that person catches you at church or their phone number comes up on your phone, you have an opportunity to show mercy again, you're like, ah, again. Cheerfully, cheerfully be willing, cheerfully be prompt. That's the idea of using your gift with cheerfulness. Be cheerful um to cheerfully willing to use your gift. So the first admonition is to do it with cheerfulness. Secondly, if we jump down to verse number um Verse number 15 is the expanded applications for the gift of mercy. It says there rejoice with them that do rejoice. So those with the gift of mercy are called on to rejoice. It's interesting that these first two admonitions go against what we typically picture for those with the gift of mercy. When I think of the gift of mercy, the first thing that comes to my mind is going to people that are struggling and are in pain and are going through a hard time and you join them in their sorrow, that's what comes to my mind. We think of sorrow with those that are struggling So when Paul addresses these gifts, the first two things he tells them to do is be cheerful and rejoice. Because the tendency is to go to those who are in sadness and join them in sadness, he's saying, hey, don't forget to do it cheerfulness and don't forget to rejoice. Rejoicing with them that rejoice is necessary for the longevity of your ministry. If you only emotionally join people in times of sorrow, you're going to wear yourself out and become weary in well-doing. You will get so emotionally drained that you're not going to be able to help other people because you have nothing left to give Rejoicing with those that rejoice is the way that you can come along and recharge your batteries. Go through and find somebody who's happy. Join with somebody who's happy. Be happy with them so you when somebody's sad, you're ready to go be sad with them again. Rejoicing with those that rejoice is very natural to those with this gift, but they often fail to do so because they don't see it as ministry. It's really easy to see someone who's crying after a church service when you have this gift and go, hey, what's wrong? Can I help you? Can I pray with you? It's not as much of a tendency when somebody's smiling after a service and say, hey, did God speak to your heart? What did he do? We see the one is ministry, we don't see the other. But both sides are ministry for those with the gift of mercy. It's just as much a ministry to rejoice with those that rejoice as it is to weep with those that weep. Rejoicing is just as much of his ministry as weeping is. Let me use myself as an example again. It's not my nature to cry with people that are having a bad day. It's something that I try to do, but it's not natural for me As a result, people don't often come to me for sympathy. But on the flip side, I'm not a super bubbly ecstatic person either. When someone comes to me with great news, the best I can do is kind of a smile and say, oh, that's awesome Kind of like came out a couple months ago when Pastor Gus said that's Pastor's excited face. That's kind of where I'm at. I'm pretty emotionally stable. My my wife would like me to be a little bit more so. She'll come running in and the kids have fallen and this is happening. I don't get worked up about things. So just as much as the mercy is not or the weeping is not for me, the rejoicing is a little bit lacking as well. People need emotional support when they're sad, but they also need it when they're happy. As non-emotional as I am when I have good news, I want to tell it to the person who's going to jump up and down and squeal and clap and ask all kind of questions about, oh, that happened and how did it happen? Tell me about it. That's who I want to go share it with. I want to share it with somebody who's going to rejoice with me. I don't really want to bring the good news to somebody who's like, oh that's nice Alright, well, I need you to be happy with me. So that is a ministry. It is a ministry to rejoice with those that rejoice. I want someone, it encourages me to have someone understand my joy as much as it does for someone to understand my pain. So look for people to rejoice with, it's a very necessary ministry. And lastly, in this verse, it tells us to weep with them that weep. Now this one is very natural and it goes it's very un we understand it really well. It's the natural tendency of someone with a gift of mercy. They can seek out, they can find people who are hurting, and they can join them in their hurt. If this is your gift, use your gift to help hurting people. So when it comes to the gift of mercy, do it with cheerfulness. Be willing to do it. Be excited about doing it. Bring cheerfulness into a sad situation. Rejoice with them that rejoice, find someone who's happy and be happy with them. And weep with them that weep. Find someone who's struggling and struggle with them. That's the idea here of the gift of mercy. So who shows us this gift? Who depicts this for us in the Bible? First of all, we have the depiction of Christ. Christ is the greatest example of all of the spiritual gifts. How did Christ show this gift? Well I think of immediately my mind was drawn to Isaiah 53. Isaiah fifty three three through four says he is despised, rejected of men, notice this, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief And we hid, as it were, our faces from him, he was despised, and we esteemed him not. Look at this again. Surely he hath borne our griefs, and carried our sorrows. Yet did we esteem him stricken, smitten of God and afflicted? Jesus was a man of sorrows. Jesus knew what it meant to hurt. Jesus knew what it meant to grief. In fact, he bore our sorrows. He carried our griefs. So Jesus is a example of this idea of showing mercy. Also, first Peter five seven, where we see, casting all your care upon him for he careth for you. When you're struggling, go to God. Bring those burdens because he cares about them. He wants to join you in your time of trial. Go with him when you're excited. He wants to rejoice with you in times of rejoicing. We see this very much in the nature of Christ and in the nature of of God as well. This is kind of a side note, but I was listening on the way down to Indiana with young people some some podcasts on missionaries and going to the mission field. There was one podcast relating to missions and uh and marriage and was listening to this person talk about missions and marriage and some advice from this missionary who had been on the field field for a long time. And he brought up the point about talking to your spouse, spending time with your spouse. And he was obviously as a man, so he's talking about the man side of spending time talking to and listening to your wife, because that again is a little less natural for us. We're not we're not the ones to to to share our souls and the the kind of the joke that men want to always fix the problem and women just want you want you to listen to them when they have a problem And he brought the point, he said, How many times have you had a burden and you have gone to God and done all the talking? And what did God do? He listened. He was never busy. He never had to put it off because he was there to listen to you when you had a need. You did all the talking. He said, we need to do that for our wives. Let us be the one that they can come to when they have a burden and just let them do all the talking. just like God gives us the opportunity to. God was always available to listen to us. Can't we be available to listen to our wives? That's kind of that's kind of a marriage application, but also goes with this point of Christ is there listening. when you have a burden. Can we be there to listen to others when they have a burden as well? So Christ is a great depiction of the gift of mercy. Another example of this is while Jesus was on the cross. His greatest moment of trial, his greatest moment of suffering, and he looks down from the cross seat and he sees somebody who is hurting. He sees his mother. And what did he do? He said Woman, behold thy son, behold thy mother. Hey, meet her emotional needs. You take care of her, because he saw that she was hurting and he wanted to meet her needs during that time. So Christ is the depiction of the gift of mercy. An Old Testament example would be Jeremiah. Jeremiah's nickname was the weeping prophet. He was very empathetic, very compassionate about the needs of others and people's need to hear the Word of God. A New Testament example would be John the Beloved. He was called the Beloved Disciple. We see him in the book of Revelation several times weeping over the judgments that God was giving, weeping that no man was found to open the book. We see the focus of his gospel is on a relationship, our relationship with God and God's relationship with us. He was the disciple that had the closest relationship with Jesus. He was the disciple that John Jesus said, hey, you take care of her when it came to taking care of his mother. He said, this one's going to be able to meet her needs uh in this way. So he was the one assigned by Christ to take care of his mother during that time of need. And we see his three epistles, 1, 2nd, 3rd, John Lots of very personal references to individuals and encouraging hospitality so he is one who very likely had the gift of mercy. Now we'll move on to the gift discussed. What does this gift look like? And these are just again principles that we've seen from people's lives and testimonies and reading. Not necessarily a biblical list, but just what does it look like when someone has the gift of mercy? Those with the gift of mercy will have strong empathy towards the suffering and the plights of others. Some positive characteristics about them, they will be relationship-driven. They're very good at interacting with people. They will exercise strong compassion and empathy, very outgoing personalities as well. They'll be tender-hearted and aware of the suffering of others where some of us that this isn't our gift we wouldn't notice if somebody was crying or we see them crying like I don't want to talk to them. They see the needs of others. They focus on people that are hurting. They care for them So they're a tender heart, they're aware. Some things that can be negative characteristics that they need to be careful about is that they can be very emotional in their decision making in in one regard. They also could have a hard time ending bad relationships because they They want to help people and they want to meet people's needs so somebody could be taking advantage of them. They'll have a hard time ending that relationship. They also tend to be non-confrontational. So this brings us into our cautions. If you have the gift, what should you be cautious about? First caution is that they are very people-oriented and they can compromise to help people. I know this is wrong in their life, but but I don't want to take it away from them because they're hurting right now, and I don't want to tell them it's wrong because I just want to be with them when that when they're hurting it so that non-computational can be an issue in compromise when you're trying to help people. They can also shield people from consequences that are intended to help them. Sometimes we have hard things come into our lives because of what we've done. Those are just consequences. And you can shield somebody from the consequences, either take them on yourself or kind of keep them from experiencing those negative consequences, and then they don't benefit from having to deal with the consequence because you're shielding them from that. So be cautious about that. Also, they can be very protective or over-protective of those they are ministering to. Be careful when you're ministering to someone who's suffering, not to make other people their enemy. And be careful not to stop others from helping them differently than you would. Than you would. For example, if Pastor preaches a convicting message on sin and someone after the service is in tears on con uh with conviction, don't go to them and try to make them feel better and say, hey, no, no, no, it's okay. It's okay, don't worry about it. If that makes you upset, you really don't need to change that right now. Um if you don't try to make them feel better by um villainizing the pastor. Oh no, I can't believe he said that He knew you were dealing with that. He shouldn't have preached the message on that. Don't don't do that with your with your um trying to encourage them. Don't undermine the message. Oh, he didn't really mean that. I don't think it's a problem. I don't think the Bible says that either. And also don't block pastors access to them. Like, haven't you done enough already? Can't you see you've already made them upset? You don't need to no don't don't shield somebody from something that's going to help them just because you're trying to minister to them. So a caution there regarding the gift of mercy. How does one develop this gift? If you have the gift of mercy, how do you strengthen it? Really, a couple simple points. First of all, watch for opportunities to minister when people are rejoicing or weeping Be very attentive to those around you. See when someone comes in and they look upset or they or they look tired and get with them and ask them how things are going and be interested in their lives. So watch for people Not just when they're sad, but also when they're happy. Hey, did you get some good news this week? You look kind of chipper today. Um and just be involved with other people. Obviously there's some wisdom with that not getting too personal with people that you don't have that relationship with, but watch for opportunities to minister that way. Also challenge yourself to minister cheerfully. It is very natural for those with the gift of mercy to to be down there when people are suffering. But again the first two admonitions where do it cheerfully and do it with rejoicing. So be cheerful in your ministering. When you come to someone, make sure you're always bringing them up emotionally, not bringing them down to just kind of have a pity party together. Always do it with cheerfulness. So bring cheer into the situation. But also minister cheerfully. When you have that opportunity to minister to someone who's struggling, be glad that you have the opportunity. Don't look at it like, oh, why can't they call someone else? I've already talked to them fifteen times this week and they're still And it'll come to those opportunities. God's giving you that gift to meet that person's need. So use your gift cheerfully that you have that opportunity. Just as somebody who has the gift of ruling is excited about running a work party, you'd be excited about having an opportunity to talk on the phone with someone who's having a bad day or someone who's having a good day. So be cheerful in your opportunities that you have. Develop your gift that way. This brings us to the gift desired Well, as I started out with, this is not my gift. This is not something I'm very good at at all. It's something that we should be. God's called us to to to grow in our mercy, and the pastor preached a great message on this a couple weeks ago I encourage you to go back and listen to it kind of as a reminder of this idea of showing mercy to other people. But we have to show mercy as believers. So if this isn't your strength, We need to also grow in that of looking for opportunity to peep to minister to people that are sad or that are rejoicing. A couple verses, we'll just look at three of them that teach us some principles on all of us showing mercy. First of all, we need to grow in mercy if we want to experience mercy. Matthew 5, verse number 7 says, Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. If I blow off everyone that comes to me when they're struggling, nobody's going to want me to come to them when I'm struggling. So I need to show mercy if I want to receive mercy myself. Alright, so I need to be looking for opportunities and I need to as much as it pains me to sit down and and to and to go along with someone in their time of struggle and to listen to what they have to say and not just tell them what they need to do as would be my tendency, but to to join them in mercy and to lift them up and and struggle alongside of them. So that is something that we need to grow in if we want that ourselves. Because time will come when you need mercy. The time will arrive when you're struggling and when you're struggling you're going to want somebody to be there. Just like that brother or sister right now is struggling and they need you to be there. You're going to need that yourself. So you need to grow in mercy if you want to experience mercy Secondly, this is an interesting verse. Mercy is considered by Jesus to be a weightier matter of the law. When he was getting on to the Pharisees in Matthew chapter 23, he said, Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites. For ye pay tithe of mint and anas and cumin, and have omitted the weightier matters of the law, judgment, mercy, and faith These ye ought to have done, and not leave the other undone. So we're not going to get all that into what he's talking about here, but he is saying that these Pharisees were so particular about details of the law that when they somebody would give them a bag of herbs, they would measure it out and they would take off a tenth and saying, here, this person gave me these these plants out of their garden, I need to make sure that 10% go to God. And they're completely ignoring major things in the law, which was judgment and mercy and faith. Now Jesus said, hey, you should have done that. Good job. But you shouldn't have left these other things undone. And he called mercy a weightier matter of the law. So very interesting that Jesus would put it that way. So it's something very important to God, very important to Jesus that we learn to grow in mercy. And thirdly, this uh this morning, mercy is the implementation of the second greatest commandment. Several times in Jesus' ministry, people came to him and says, Tell us, what's the greatest commandment in the law? And he says, Well what do you read there? He says, If thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy might, this is the um first and greatest commandment. And the second is like unto it, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. Somebody asks him, Well, how do I do that? Who is my neighbor? And he tells the parable of the Good Samaritan. We're familiar with the story of the man going down from Jerusalem to Judea Might have those backwards. He's going down and he was attacked by robbers. He was beaten. He was left for dead. He was stripped and his things were taken, left for dead, and we had the opportunity where a priest came by and saw him there, but passed by on the other side A Levite came by and saw him there and passed by on the other side. Or somebody was in church on Sunday morning crying on the front pew and Pastor Jericho passed by. on the other side. I don't want to talk to them right now because that uh they they look like they're having problems. Miss Christina, can you go deal with that? Um pass by on the other side. But what happened? The Good Samaritan came by. He saw him, he dressed his wounds, he bandaged him, he put him on his own beasts, he took him to an inn, he paid for him to be taken care of. And Jesus asked the question, which of these was neighbor to him that was that was hurt. And the lawyer responded, He that showed mercy. And Jesus said, Go and do likewise. So how do I love my neighbor as myself? That's the second greatest commandment. I love God first. I love others next. How do I love others? By showing mercy. That's how we fulfill the second greatest commandment, love thy neighbor as thyself. How do I minister to others? How do I love people? How do I Love one another as Christ has loved me. How do people know that you're my disciples if you have loved one for another? How do we do that? How do we love our neighbor? By showing mercy. Jesus said, go and do thou likewise. There's the call for all of us to fulfill the second greatest commandment by showing mercy to others.