This really uh I think as we get down through it, I've got to give you some introduction, I've got to lay some foundation, but then I think that you'll understand uh as we get into the conclusion and towards the end of this, the direction that we're headed, that you'll understand the importance of it and why I'm taking time and a service to deal with it. Although it's a vast topic, I told Pastor Gus, the topic is so large, I could literally take every Sunday night for five, six, seven weeks dealing with it. Uh I said, but uh I don't feel that God would have us dedicate that much time to it. Uh and to try and get it done tonight, but I want us as Christians to be aware of what we're dealing with here. I'm going to try and deal with this in the most academic way possible. I'm going to re do my best to refrain from generalities. To refrain from sarcasm, I just want to present to you the facts and the biblical principles that should guide our hearts as Christians. I want your heart to be open to the truth. The fact is, if you're honest with yourself before God, you have been influenced By public media and public opinion on this matter. There is no way that you could not have been influenced. by public media and public opinion because it is everywhere. I did a quick search to kind of deal with this first point. My first point is the matter of concern. the matters of concern. And I've just a quick search. On one news site, over some 150 articles. From one source, dealing with the end of the world because of climate change in one aspect or another. So if we are interested in a fair open discussion on the matter, then let me say that probably the majority of us uh have really only heard the one side. The side that is purported, reported, and given on almost every major media outlet today. So we want tonight to look at the other side and more importantly, look at what God has to say about this for you and I as Christians. So first of all, the matters of concern. The alarm is sounding. You cannot watch the news, turn on the radio, or pick up a newspaper. today or read an online article without being bombarded with the global warming concern, with the climate change ideology. Just a quick perusal of some recent articles says the Amazon rainforest is burning. Experts say fires could accelerate Fires could accelerate global warming as it travels uh be found in Travel and Leisure magazine August 21st. Uh Florida is up first when global warming killer bugs invade They go on to discuss the flesh-eating bacteria that's been found, the brain-eating amoebas, killer mosquitoes, disease-carrying ticks, all of these, of course, the results of climate change These mosquitoes are going to bring back diseases that once were eradicated. So now these mosquitoes are going to bring back diseases that we at once had defeated. uh because of climate change. The carbon brief on july twenty-ninth. Uh global extent of climate change is unparalleled in the past two thousand years. How the significance and the magnitude of this climate change is unparalleled in human history These are just articles, captions, little phrases out of some of these things. The list goes on and on from the declaration that 314 of our bird species alive today will be extinct because of climate change. Fires all over the world are created and caused because of it. The coral reef is dying because of it. There is a new life found in the coral leaf that shouldn't be there because of it. that hurricanes are caused by it, that the uh winter uh is longer because of it, and summer is hotter because of it. What about these wildfires? This is just uh I mean literally you know you could pick up any media outlet today and in the last week probably there's gonna be at least one article some declaration of doom and gloom. There is it literally is an alarmist, uh it is a outcry that the world is going to end. This is not new. It is a method. It is a means by which they are trying to promote their own ideology. And we're going to get into it a little bit more as we go through this tonight. But what about these wildfires that are raging out of control? According to the founder of the National Spokesman for the Cornwall Alliance, Dr. E. Calvin Beisner, His list of credentials is about three paragraphs long. I'm not going to read it to you. He says he's a he's a climatologist. He works with climatologists, with theologians, with scientists from all over the world for the stewardship of the earth. I was going to preach this morning on stewardship, and it was going to be kind of an introduction to tonight. Understanding that as Christians, we have been given the stewardship of the earth. We have been given the stewardship of many things, and we are to be good stewards. And so please understand, and I don't know exactly how or where we'll be dealing with this through with the notes tonight, through the outline that I have, but uh we do not believe in just carelessly uh destroying what God has given us. We believe that we have been given stewardship of the earth, and it's our responsibility as God's people to take care of it. But we also believe that we've been given dominion over the earth, and it is by God's design that we would rule over it. Not uh not it rule over us They are literally talking about population control as a means to control climate change. What they're saying is we're affecting the earth so much what we need to do is kill people That is worshiping the creation and not the creator. So, what about these raging fires? Well, this Calvin Beisner Said there has not been a real increase in global temperature since 1997. Regardless of what you hear on all the news media outlets today The fact is, according to the satellite global temperature data, available to everybody The satellite global temperature data, which is the most accurate global temperature data we have available to us today, because it it's not like taking one temperature reading in California or one temperature reading in Alaska. global temperature data available today, according to that, there has not been an increase in temperature since 1997. And I could quote uh other many other sources that state the exact same thing. So with regards to these fires that are being caused by what they're claiming is by the increase in temperature around the world First of all, the increase would have happened way back in 1997 or earlier. So the increase for the fires would have happened all the way back then, not in the last year and a half. Second, even if everything that they stated was true, even if everything and it's not, but even if it was, what they're declaring is our effect on climate change Is point five degrees. That is not enough to cause anything to combust. A difference of a half a degree does not cause combustion. A difference of a half a degree does not cause fires to rage out of control. It does not cause fires to burn any hotter. It does not cause them to burn longer. It makes a minuscule, even if it was true, it makes such a minuscule and minute difference, you cannot blame the fires in California on climate change What did affect these fires in California? Over 30 years ago, because of the environmentalist movement, California stopped controlling the forest. They have a mantra, an idea that the earth is best left untouched, that it needs to be natural. We shouldn't do anything to it, we should just let it go. And so they stopped doing what they call controlled burns, which allow them when a fire starts to be able to put a fire out a lot faster. Which allows them to control the undergrowth underneath trees so that when a fire is on fire, it doesn't burn near as hot because all of the undergrowth has been taken out of it already. Well, over 30 years ago, because of the environmentalists, they stopped all that. Now the fires that are raging today have all that extra fuel. And that's what's causing them to burn so much hotter. But you don't hear that side in the news today. Dr. David Gates, a climatologist at the University of Delaware. Says there has been no increase. He's a statistician. He's a world-renowned climatologist And he says, on record, there has been no increase in the wildfires in the U. S. during the time of so-called global warming. I'm just quoting the scientist. I'm just telling you what he said. He goes on to say there has also been no increase in floods, droughts, hurricanes, and tornadoes. You say, how can that be? We're hearing almost every day about some great fire, some tornado, some hurricane, some I mean it seems like they're happening all the time Do you realize how small our world is today? Thirty years ago and more Things happened around the world or even on the other side of the US and you hardly have heard about it. You didn't know about it. But now in a matter of minutes, if something happens or something takes place, the whole world knows Because of modern technology. So it's not that there is a greater number of these things happening. We are hearing about more of them because of modern technology. What about these temperatures that we're seeing today? Man, it's the hottest July on record, followed by the high the preceded by the hottest June on record, preceded by the hottest May on record. It's the hottest ye Turn the world ever Uh that's what they're saying. Okay. According to climate data available to everyone It was substantially hotter in the nineteen thirties than it is today. If we are experiencing the hottest time ever in history and uh this global warming trend that's supposed to end the world Then why was it warmer specifically in 1934 than any temperatures we're seeing in the world today? These are substantiated records, not just suggestions or ideas or what people are just saying. According to a study done by Dr. John Christie, a climatologist at the University of Alabama, Dr. Joe DeLeo, a co-founder of the Weather Channel. And Dr. James Wallace, a climatologist and statistician, shows that if you input into the computers, you know most of what they portray as climate change today and the they they say the world's gonna end by a certain date or that the the sea levels are gonna rise and we're all gonna be flooded out of our homes They use that by modeling. Do you understand that? They use modeling to project that. Well, you understand that they put into these models, and if they enter the data into these models, Dealing with solar flares, sunspots, volcanic activity, oceanic current activities then all of today's temperature change can be explained with just those things. And there is no room for CO2 or carbon gas or greenhouse gases. All of the temperature changes, they say, okay, this temperature rose by this much, and it's because of the CO2 gases. But if you input the data that we know that happened, we know that this creates this much increase. Once you input those things, the increase is already accounted for. And there is no room left for the CO2 gases, the carbon gases, the problems with regards to this. Now, by changing the cry from global cooling, as it was in the 1970s. As stated in the article by Reed Bronson in a Global Echiological Reading Toward the Rational Strategy for Mankind in 1971. He said, the continued rapid cooling of the earth since World War II is in accord with the increase in global air pollution. associated with industrialization, mechanicalization, urbanization, and our exploding population. So he says the p the the pollutions and all these things uh is what caused what they at that time in the nineteen seventies and if you were here during that time, I was born in seventy-four, so these were pre-Caleb Battrell. But you probably remember the coming ice age alarms. The coming ice age, it's gonna, it's gonna, the whole world's gonna freeze An article by Nigel Kleider, an International Wildlife, in the International Wildlife magazine in June 1975. The threat of a new ice age must now Stand alongside nuclear war as the likely source of wholesale death and misery for mankind. As late as 1992, scientists were predicting a guaranteed Guaranteed global ice age. In nineteen ninety two they were declaring that. I could give you article after article declaring the threat of global cooling as the alarm of the day. They've changed their alarm, their cry from global cooling to global warming. Then they realized that the contradictory uh aspect of that, and so now it has become climate change, which was quite smart because now they can stick anything they want. inside climate change. If it's hot, it's climate change. If it's cold, it's climate change. You're right. Exactly. It is clim it has changed. It is cooler here. And I'm trying not to be sarcastic. I want to be With the points, with the facts. What I'm saying is as as Christians, we do not deny climate change. We don't say that climate's not changing. It is changing. The climate does change But what causes it to change? Is it man-made climate change? When you look at the facts, it's mind boggling. You know this this uh accord that uh President Obama went to to try and sign America up into and was gonna the Parish Accord he was gonna try and get us into this and all of the Western civilizations were going to gather together to change and reduce all their carbon output output by thirty percent. I don't know how many of you remember that. But do you know if the rest of the if every one of us did it, if the entire westernized world Changed by 30% our carbon output, it would have changed the difference of how much carbon is in the air By about four hundred thousandths of a percent. But do you realize how great of an economic impact that would have had on the world? There is literally people starving and starving to death today in our poorest nations. And they are the kind of places that are going to be hit the greatest by these uh predictions Because of the monies wasted on trying to make this very insignificant change at such an astronomical cost Lord Christopher, let me get his name here. Lord Christopher uh Moncton, I don't know how I forgot that. Uh but Lord Christopher Moncton, he was a special advisor to Margaret Thatcher, has a website and a blog that he keeps up with regards to this. And and he uh goes into detail talking about how it's it's paramount to criminal. He said that the Greenpeace has a larger uh number of ships, a larger shipping fleet than the British Navy This much money is being spent on this. So they've changed their cry, allows them to put anything. What I want you to remember as we've talked about these things is that this is there's an agenda behind this There is a goal. And we're going to get to the Word of God. I'm going to give you a lot of scripture. Don't worry. We're here to look at the Word of God. We want to see what God has to say about this. I'm laying the foundation. foundation. But what I want you to understand is why this is so important. Is because there's a goal behind this. They want to use these alarm task tactics. President Al Gore, not President, sorry, Al Gore, when he got up one time, you know he was a big uh Greenpeace guy, when he got up one time, he said, I believe That, and I can't remember the exact terminology, but he said, I believe that an exaggeration of the facts is necessary to show the importance of the issue. So basically what he was saying is, I believe it's okay for us to lie to you so that you see how important this is. And that's what we're getting on a day-to-day basis. And what it boils down to is the agenda that they want. And there's two things that they want: they want control. They want larger government, they want control, and they want to deny God Do you understand that these men and women that are proponents of this, they deny the occurrence Of the first global climate change that took place, they deny that the flood ever happened. And yet somehow they are are going to be able to predict something that's going to happen in the future. And we are supposed to take their word for it. Spurgeon said this about science. He said science is the means by which men hide their ignorance. He said they they tell us that we do not have the right to be and I'm paraphrasing, this is you know Spurgeon's a lot more eloquent than this, but he said we do not have the right to be dogmatic in matters of theology. However, they stand in unsubstantiated science without fact and state it dogmatically. What I want you to remember is that every prediction that the alarmists have made thus far have been wrong. Every single prediction that every single uh climatologist that has from from the fifties and beyond has stood up and said there's gonna be an ice age, it didn't happen. The ozone is is is just gonna disappear and we're all gonna burst into flames. It didn't happen. I have a list here of eighteen. Predictions of the coming end of the world, I mean global impact type predictions that are stated by different scientists in bygone days. And every one of them proved to be false. What I'm saying is they're not saying these things. They have an agenda. The agenda is to create fear And I want you to know, here we'll throw out some Bible to you right now, God has not given us the spirit of fear. He does not want us to live in a spirit of fear. I'm not even gonna take time to read these. I got eighteen of these. But here let me just give you I have more than eighteen. But you know, Alexandra Cortez, uh you know that in twelve years the world's gonna end. Listen, it's not gonna happen. I'll go on record right now saying it's not gonna happen. And if it happens, I'll resign as pastor at Horn Valley Baptist Church. It's not gonna happen. Why this is so important for us as Christians and why really we should not be silent, but we should stand up for the truth on this, is because there is a fundamental difference in our view of the origin of man. And the role of government in man's life. These are the two things that are fundamentally different. When you look at a short earth, like we believe the earth was created by God, The the life of the earth is not that old. When you understand that, it completely changes the data that they're looking at. But when they arbitrarily determine the earth to be 250 billion years old, or if that's not quite enough, let's go ahead and make it 350 billion, why not? Why not make it five hundred billion? I mean if I can just throw some more time at it, I can make my equation come out however I want. And the reason is there is a they want to deny the existence of God. They want to remove God out of the picture. That is the purpose. As I studied this, I kind of wondered. If evolution is true, then why are they worried? Aren't we just going to evolve and adapt? I mean if that's if evolution happens, we're just going to adapt anyway, the survival of the fittest and natural selection, you know this is all going to take place and we're all going to be fine. But it's a fundamental fundamental difference of view. and how the origin of man and the role of government. When you say that man came from evolution, you remove the creator out of his life And you state that all of what happens to him is up to him. No longer is there a God in control or exercising any influence on what we do This is the foundational truth. It is the heart of this matter, and it's why we're taking this time and this service to look at it. Man has tried to create environments. I don't know how many of you know about the Biosphere II project that took place many years ago in the desert of Arizona. They took three acres of land and tried to create a a actual atmosphere. They spent a hundred and fifty fifty million dollars building this place and it has a twenty five foot deep ocean, it has a desert, it has a tropical island, it has it has everything that the scientists believe that they could do to sustain life, to actually build their own environment. And they locked 10 scientists in there or something like that for two years. And they were going to try and see if life could be stained, sustained in a man-made environment. Do you know that with all of our scientific technology, all of our learning, and a working pattern showing us how it's done, that man could not It was a complete and utter failure. Man could not create a sustainable environment, even with the example. Not only that. They they were trying to do this and it was supposed to be this greatest scientific thing in who how many ever years, but they forgot to mention the fact that they were using the gravity that God created. And they were using the sun that shined down on the place every single day that allowed the plants to grow. How are they going to create this environment without the sun? They want to remove God. Time magazine reported, this two-year experiment in self-sufficiency it started to look less and like like a less like a science experiment and more like a million dollar a $150 million stunt. Now they're trying to increase the role of government in in the life of men, and we know that the role of government according to Romans chapter number thirteen is to restrain evil and to reward good. Many believe that the government should have a much greater control in the lives of of men. Doctor Fred Zinger, in an article in Hillsdale College website, states that the increased concern about climate change is part of the media's and the politicians and the public ambition to move government to take corrective action. They're trying to get the government to do something. It's such a massive problem. There's no way we can do something about it. I mean, we're just little people. We don't have the funds and the means. But the government could do something if they take more money from the people and they demand or they legislate this change. The problem is not the environment, but it's political, because of the mistaken idea that government could possibly do something about the climate. It motivates harmful policies that are established on faulty information. The misdirection of resources will adversely affect human health and welfare. And listen, I can there's so much stuff I want to give you So much stuff I want to give you, but according to uh Joe Martin in his book, The Evolution of Creationists, he says global warming is a political strategy of the Marxist, socialist, and liberal politicians. To create life, this is their agenda, and he spelled it out, to create a life-threatening global crisis, advertise the crisis repeatedly. gain critical mass of people, pass laws and restrict industry, private property and freedom, decrease local citizens' control and increase government control, confiscate people's personal property abolish the free market and the economic system. Under the last administration, you say that they wouldn't want to do that. They wouldn't want to take away all of our freedoms. That's not what they're trying to do. Well, listen, under the last administration, Attorney General L Loretta Lynch confirmed that she had referred the matter, in quotes of whether climate change deniers should be brought to court on racketeering charges by the FBI. Now, scientists that are renowned, world-renowned scientists that say climate change is not true, now they could go to jail Now it hasn't gone that far, but what I'm saying is that's what they want. That's what they're after, and it does boil down to Urani's freedom. But what I want you to consider tonight is that these are matters of concern, yes, but let's look at the master of the creation. The master of the creation. Now we're going to give you a lot of scripture. Look at Psalms 47 and verse number 9. Psalms 47 and verse number 9. I want you to know that God is in control. Psalms 47, verse number 9 says, The prince of the people are gathered together, even the people of God of Abraham, for the shields of the earth belong unto God. He is greatly exalted. The shields of the earth belong unto God. Why don't you turn your Bibles to Job chapter 37? Job thirty seven. And while you're turning there, I'm going to read for you Jeremiah chapter ten in verse number ten through thirteen. He says, But the Lord is true God. He is the living God, the everlasting King. In his uh wrath, the earth shall tremble, and the nations shall be able to abide in his indignation. Thus shall ye say unto them, the gods that have not made the heavens and the earth, and they shall perish from the earth, and from unto the heavens. And he hath made the earth by his power. He hath established the world by his wisdom. He hath stretched out the heavens by his discretion. When he uttereth, you hear this, when he uttereth his voice, there is a multitude of waters in the heavens And he causeth the vapors to ascend from the ends of the earth. He maketh lightnings with rain. He bringeth forth wind out of his treasures. What I'm saying is that God is in control. God controls the climate with his voice. God determines, you say, well, do we believe in climate change? Yes, we do. Do we believe that man is doing it? No, we don't. We believe that God is in control of the climate. Now either you're going to live as an atheist and say you're a Christian, or you're going to believe the Word of God. God created the world and God gave man dominion over the world and God is in control. And if we are Christians and we believe what the Word of God says, I'm going to give you some more scriptures If you're in Job chapter 37, I'm not there yet, but I'm in Job 11. Give me just a minute, Job 37. Let's look at these verses. This is this this is blow you away. Job chapter 37. Look at uh Just to start here in verse number two. He attentively the noise of his voice and the sound that goeth out of his mouth, he directeth it under the whole heaven, and he And his light, lightning unto the ends of the earth, after it a voice roareth, his thunder with his voice of his excellency, and he will not uh stay them with his voice is heard. God thundereth marvellously with his voice, great things doth he, which cannot be comprehended, for he saith to the snow Be thou on the earth. Who sends the snow? God. What about a coming ice age? Not unless God wants it. God says, He saith to the snow, be thou on the earth, likewise to the small rain. And to the great rain of his strength. Who sends the rain? God. He saith up, he sealeth up the hand of every man, that all men may know his work. Then the beast go into the dens and remain in their places. Out of the south cometh the whirlwind, and the cold out of the north By the breath of God, frost is given, and the breath of the waters is straightened. Also, by watering He worrieth the thick cloud, he scattereth his bright cloud, and is turned round about by his counsel, that they may do whatsoever he commandeth them upon the face of the world in the earth. You understand? Every rain cloud does what he says. Goes wherever he commands it to go. You need to circle these three words in this next verse right here, verse number 13. He causes it to come or to come whither. uh for weather for uh three things god directs the the the weather for mankind for three reasons these three reasons are given to us right here for correction Do you understand God sins weather for correction? We read this morning in in uh chapter seven of Samuel. How God's people were in trouble and they needed something. And what did God send to deliver them? Thunder and lightning. God sent weather to deliver them. So he sendeth it for correction, he sendeth it for his land Sometimes God knows what the land needs. The land needs some water. The land needs to dry out a little bit. The land this is what the land needs, and he sendeth it for his mercy. Three reasons that God directs and sends weather into our lives. We have a promise from the master of the universe. Turn to Genesis chapter eight. Genesis chapter number eight God has not given us the spirit of fear, and all those these alarmists would like to declare that the end of the world is coming, and we listen to it, and we think, oh my goodness Uh I've I've got to stop drinking out of plastic bottles. Now listen, I don't wanna I don't wanna be careless about the earth and I you know one of my pet peeves is these people that throw their trash out on the ground. I I mean that just drives me nuts. If I was a police officer I'd be Mm arresting people for that. I mean I don't know what I'd be allowed to, but but I'm just saying I can't believe people's disregard for the earth and we ought to take care of the earth But is the earth gonna, you know, they're talking about the polar ice caps are gonna melt and the water is gonna rise and we're all gonna be buried Climate change is changing everything? What does God say in Genesis chapter 8, verses 21 and 22? And the Lord smelled a sweet savor, and the Lord said in his heart, I will not again curse the ground anymore for man's sake For the imagination of man hearts is evil from his youth, neither will I again smite any more everything living as I have done. While the earth remaineth Seed time and harvest and cold and heat and summer and winter and day and night shall not cease. Amen. We've got a promise from God at the conclusion of the last global climate change. That these things are gonna be. You and I don't have to be afraid about global climate change. We need to understand the agenda behind it. And is that it is that they want to remove God from man. God is in control of the weather Do you know it's mind-boggling when you think about the fact that man is so arrogant that he thinks that he could change the weather I mean what happens when a hurricane rolls in? You know, the the problem with the hurricanes is is not that they're greater hurricanes. The problem is where they happen to hit. You see, if a hurricane hits out on some island somewhere where seven people live, it doesn't do that much damage. I mean it devastates the island and those seven people. People are quite upset about their huts or whatever. I I don't want to belittle that, but what I'm saying is if it hits there or hits in New Orleans, there's a big difference in the economic impact. And so where some of the uh hurricanes have come, where some of the bad weather has hit, uh it does a huge economic impact and that's what we really feel. And that's why we think, man, these are greater storms than they've ever been. No, it's just that the big storms didn't happen to hit where they are. And what was the first reason God sent storms? For correction. Now I'm not one of these that could that declare that I know dogmatically God's judging this place or God brought this place. for that reason. I I don't really get into that too much. I I let God be the in control of that, but I want you to know that it's biblical. God sends w uh weather for correction. Scientists have calculated that the average thunderstorm, just the average thunderstorm that we have in our skies today That if we were going to try and reproduce the energy that's in that thunderstorm, it would take 40,000 atomic bombs the size of Little Boy. The average thunderstorm has so much power and energy that we would have to detonate forty thousand atomic bombs like we dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki in uh in order to in order to learn in order to have that much energy released. And that's what God sends with his voice. God's in control. So what are the motives of a Christian? What should our response be? What should what what should we be concerned about? What should we believe? I believe that Christians should take a stand against this falsehood. The reason some Christian schools and some churches and others do not take a stand against this is because of the political correctness of it. Because of grants that they receive. There are teachers who would be fired if they did not teach. Global warming is a fact, even though it is not fact. It is unsettled science. Do you know any that they have to have more than 30 years of calculations to s to quantify any type of climate change? They can't just take this year and say that's climate. I mean that's that's weather. The weather changes. But to actually quantify something as a global change, they have to have more than 30 years of data. It's only been in recent years that they've been maintaining this data. The fact is that we should be lovers of God, not lovers of men. We should not be worried about what men think, but worried about what God thinks. John 5, verse number 44 says, How can ye believe which receive honor one of another, and seek not honor that cometh from God alone? Seek honor from God only. That's where we're supposed to seek honor from. We shouldn't worry about the political community. I believe we should be good stewards of the earth I believe we should remember that God has made us given us dominion. Turn to 2 Peter chapter number 3. In Genesis, you're turning to 2 Peter, you're going to the right place, chapter number 3. In 2 Peter, chapter number 3, but in Genesis chapter 1, we see where God gave us dominion over the earth. We are supposed to use the earth, not the earth use us. We are supposed to use the resources of the earth for our benefit. And there's nothing morally wrong with that. That is what God wants. He has given us dominion, Genesis 1. 26. And let them have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the fowl of the air and over the cattle and over all the earth. We have dominion over all of the earth. Now you're in second Peter chapter number three, you're probably there already reading reading those verses. Um this is why I put the stuff in my notes to help me get there faster. So chapter three, verse number nine and verse number ten. There's a lot more you could read here, but we're going to skip down to verse number nine. Um I'm seven. I'm sorry, verse number seven. In verse number seven, he says, But the heavens and the earth, which are now by the same word, are kept in store, reserved unto fire against that day of judgment and perdition. of ungodly men. Skip down to verse number 10. But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night. In that which the heavens shall pass away with a great noise, and the elements shall melt with a fervent heat, and the earth also, and the works that are therein shall be burned up. What I'm saying right now, the earth, their verse number seven says that at the same power which God controls the earth with the same strength, God has kept the earth. He is the keeper of the earth, and he is keeping it right now until the day of judgment. And man should be less concerned about the war on climate change. then he is that he should be more concerned about the war against God. For the Bible says that man is at enmity with God. That our sins have separated us. And there is coming another global climate change. But again, demand's not going to cause it. My and man's not going to do it. God's going to do it. But he says there that until that day God has kept it in store. God is controlling the earth. It is with his voice. God in Matthew chapter 8, he quieted the storm. At his voice, there is doesn't matter how much wind there is. It doesn't matter how strong the fire rages. It doesn't matter how strong the hurricane is, God could say that hurricane is going to turn out to sea. It's not going to touch the coast God could say there's not going to be any hurricanes. God, what I'm saying is, Christian, we know that God is in control. And when we continually allow our minds to be affected by the public media and this bombardment of these these ongoing news stories, we get to think somehow that, oh man, we've got a You need to spend a little bit of time and learn the facts, but go back to the scripture and live like a biblicist. Live like you believe the Bible. Let people know that are alarmed about this. Say, hey, you don't have to worry. What? The world's going to end. I mean these diseases are going to come. You don't have to worry. God's in control. God's in control. And either you believe it or you don't. There is no halfway. The scripture is pretty clear tonight in everything that I gave you that God controls this earth. He created it, and he keeps it until that day of judgment. And if you believe that, then he has not given us the spirit of fear. And we can trust him. And know that these alarmist stories that are being portrayed, I'm not saying that we can't do some damage. By our careless activity, and we do need to be good stewards of what God has given us. And, you know, God God's going to keep me until I get to heaven, but that doesn't mean I won't stub my toe. Okay, we can we can do some unwise things, and as people we need to be wise steward of what God's given us, and I'm not not saying we disregard all that and just just you know let the earth burn up. But we need to get back to the Bible and know that we trust God because He's in control. Amen? Alright, let's stand to our feet with our heads bowed and their eyes closed. Dear Lord, I pray that we would live like we believe that you're in control. That God, we would not be so influenced by the continual uh stories that come and this These ongoing media news outlets that Lord, we just hear on and on and on. But I pray we would spend enough time in the Word of God that we would have that foundation. We'd be settled in our faith and we would be able to trust you and know that you're in control. What if there's one here that maybe's been living in a spirit of fear because of this that afraid they might turn back to you and trust you? Live like they believe the word of God is true. May ask this in Jesus' name. Amen