Well, we have been talking the last few weeks about sharing your faith, about having uh, you know, the tools and the skills to uh be able to share your faith with your loved ones and your friends and those that you come across. And as the Lord gives opportunity, hopefully you have the confidence. to give your faith, to share your faith in some measure at least. And our goal in teaching on that, there are many who are very confident in sharing their faith. And there are some who maybe are a little weak in that and uh the classes uh are designed, I hope the time that we've spent together have been a blessing to you and helped in in giving you some direction in that area. Maybe just to encourage you to keep going. Maybe give you a little uh illustration to go with a verse, maybe an explanation that would help you to be able to share your faith more effectively. And uh, you know, just that's what we're supposed to be doing as believers. And so we want to be actively involved in that. And uh as we closed up last week, um Miss Banda asked a question about uh what do you do or how do you talk to somebody who believes that you could lose your salvation. How do you address that? And I gave a couple of thoughts which were you know, surface explanation and not very uh detailed, uh not a lot of information. And so I thought this morning I would dig a little bit deeper into that idea and talk about the security of your salvation, the security of your salvation, or what we call as Baptist, the security of the believer. We believe in the security of the believer, and that is that once you're saved, you're always saved. There is a lot of discussion. There is a lot of debate with regards to this topic, and people fall on a lot of different lines in a lot of different places. And uh hopefully we go to the Bible. Now there'll be people that will use the Bible and uh try and defend their position in every position. uh you know imaginable with regards to this idea of the security of the believer. But hopefully this morning as we go over this Not only do I want you to have some tools to help in your discussions with others with regards to the security of the believer, but If you're not positive in your heart and in your mind about your position, I hope that today you will be, that by the end of today that you'll have confidence. And understand and be assured of the fact that you're secure in Jesus Christ and that once you're saved, you're always saved This is something that we have that God gives us without question. And I'm going to give you a lot of scripture this morning and you You can write these references down and and maybe just uh put a quick thought next to the reference or something that you can use as it whether to reinforce in your own mind your position or to help somebody else, but it's definitely something that we believe as Baptists. Every believer should be fully persuaded in his own mind. That's what it tells us in Romans chapter 4, verse number 21, and be fully persuaded that what he hath promised, he was able also to We need to be fully persuaded that what he promised he is able to perform. And you're going to see through the lesson today and the time that we have together that it's continually uh addressed to him that it's what he promised and what he is able to perform, that it's God and what God has done, what Jesus Christ has done what they are going to do, what God the Father has done, is continually in the lap or in the responsibility of God, not in all not on us. And if it was on us, we wouldn't be very secure. But because it's not on us, we can be and we should be fully persuaded in our mind. And there are a lot that would want to uh try and dissuade uh to take away that assurance and that confidence that you have that you are always that you are saved The security of the believers are Baptist distinctive. It's one of the things that through all the ages has set Baptists apart from the many other denominations or groups of people who teach uh and preach different philosophies or ideas uh or doctrine really is what this is uh and they teach it differently And so that's one of the characteristics of Baptist that has made us distinctive in uh in that we believe in the security of the believer. Um the assemblies of God Church believes that you can fall from grace. that you can you can get saved, but that you can fall from grace. Uh should you commit a sin that would warrant that? Um and the the Lutherans uh believe that salvation can be lost if you do not persist in the faith. That you don't persist in the faith. So if you uh If at some point you determine that you want to do something else, you don't persist in the faith, then that salvation that was granted to you by Jesus Christ will be removed. Now as I talk about these different uh groups of people, the denominations, and what they're teaching. Understand I'm not by any way insinuating that every single Lutheran that ever lived believed that. Just like there are a lot of Baptists That don't necessarily believe exactly like we believe here. There are some that might teach something slightly different, but as a whole, as an organization, that is, if you went to the organization's website and looked up this doctrine underneath. that then that's what you would find out that they ascribe to. And so like the the Methodists, the Methodists believe that you can be saved and and years ago were very strong uh salvation preaching churches, uh really missions-minded and all. But they believed that you can lose it by choice That you could choose to not be saved. That God will honor your choice. That if you don't want to be saved, if you at some point decide I don't want to be saved, then God would honor your choice, have you having free will, you can choose not to be saved, as in shun the grace of God or disregard the grace of God. And so you can lose that. Hopefully we can give you some Bible today that will give you some assurance in these areas and understand that it is God that does it, not us. Consider the damage that comes about from the idea of of doubt, uh, from having from having doubt. and not being assured of your salvation. You see that they believe that the idea that and you'll see it in their arguments if you do any study in this area, they'll talk about, well If if you had security of the believer and once you're saved, always saved, then I could get saved. And uh they always like to list like the most vile and debased things possible. You know, they're like, I could get saved and I could go out and molest little children I could go burn burn down orphanages and and I could go murder somebody if I wanted to. And they they talk about all this and they they they try and say that in in practice They could if you truly believe the word of God. But they try and you in our minds as we think about that we're like, man, you know They wouldn't do that. But they try and give you this outlandish crazy argument and say, if I believe that, then I could just get saved. There's nothing to stop me from doing it. And somehow they believe that that cheapens the grace of God or or uh shows a deficiency uh in uh God in that, you know, he's not as pure and as holy and as separated as we say he is, if I could just go do whatever I want after I after I'm saved and still be saved. Um But that's not what it that's not what it shows, and we're going to talk a little bit more about that. If if I was never assured of my salvation, can you imagine what kind of a wreck I'd be Take take a little boy that uh you know, he gets up each and every day and he's in his house and he doesn't know if he's actually gonna be in the family today. He doesn't know if he's, you know, a battrell today. Depends on how well he performs throughout the day. If he does real good, yeah, he can stay in the battrell family, but if he doesn't, you know, you're you're out. And uh then the next day y you know, you could, you know, through through a series of events maybe get back into family. I mean, what kind of an emotional and psychological uh wreck would a young boy be in without the security of knowing that he was secure in his home. And uh, you know, that is what we have in Jesus Christ, the blessing of assurance, the blessing of security in Jesus Christ A well-known illustration with regards to the security of the believer and the benefit that it has is the Golden Gate Bridge. The Golden Gate Bridge was being constructed and I don't remember all the details but uh the time frames and all that. But I know in the first few months of the Golden Gate Bridge being constructed, 23 people fell to their death. Construction was way behind in as far as progress. And everybody in the fear of falling was being very, very careful and not getting much work done. uh and yet still twenty-three people fell to the death. So finally, at an exorbitant expense The city of San Francisco put huge nets up underneath the area where the men were working. And uh construction started to can to move at record pace. And over the next year that the bridge was being constructed, only a very few people actually slipped and fell into the net. I mean the first few months, 23 people fell to their death, and then just three or four over the next year actually slipped and fell into the net. And work continued at an exponential rate because the fear of falling, of losing their life, had been removed. And so they had confidence and they could work without that fear. They were secure and they knew that And so they can work at a great pace. And you think about the work of Christ and what we have uh in our security and the benefit of that as believers, being secure in Jesus Christ and not having to worry uh about uh falling to eternal damnation to an eternity in hell because we didn't perform uh good enough today or yesterday. We are secure in Christ and is provided by God. God has given us that kind of security. If someone was to slip, God is there. God is there always. And I want everybody to be confident of their salvation in Jesus Christ. Philippians 1 verse number 6 says, being confident of this very thing. That he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it unto the day of Jesus Christ. Again, we see the responsibility placed on Jesus Christ, on God. Being confident of this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it unto the day of Jesus Christ. He has begun a good work in you. You know, um That God draws men unto himself. If we lift high the cross, he will draw men unto himself And God does the drawing. God does the convicting. From the very beginning, it is God does it. God does the convicting. And he convicts the heart of this lost condition and its need of a savior. And then we respond to that. And we respond to that conviction by recognizing the fact that we're a sinner and we need a savior. Do what the Bible says that we need to do by confessing and turning to Jesus Christ and forgive for forgiveness and for salvation. And when we do that, God converts the soul. We don't convert the soul. God converts the soul. God converts the soul. An eternity in hell to an eternity and eternity in heaven, from standing in judgment to being forgiven, God converts the soul. And then God completes that it in the end of time or when we when we pass away. It's all on God. God convicts, God converts, and God completes. God does it all. We respond to Him and it's on Him. Always. So let's I just have a couple of points this morning, but we're going to look at the principle of security, and under this I'm going to give you a lot of scripture with regards to the security of the believer. and uh you know some things that you can use uh with regards to this to support it. And then secondly we're going to look at um Some of the verses, uh, passages that deal with security, but we're going to look at it from the other side. I'm giving you the passages that teach eternal security. Right now in this section when we talk about the principle of security. The next section on we're talking about the passages, what I'm talking about there is I'm going to give you a few of the passages that people use to teach that you can lose your salvation. Just a few of them, and some explanation behind them. And uh typically when somebody's using a passage to teach that, you can very quickly look at the context of the passage. and figure out that it's not dealing with salvation at all, um, that it's not dealing with somebody being secure, uh that it might be talking about the you know the the Christian life and how that we can we can fall. But it's not talking about falling from grace. It's talking about you know, falling on our walk with God and and we don't lose our salvation because we fell. We just lose our fellowship and that can be restored. And so it's very easy to look at many of the passages that they would use. to teach that and uh you know again all scriptures got to be taken together uh not just individual verses one at a one at a time picking out here or there but First of all, our position is secure in Christ Jesus. Our position is secure in Christ Jesus. 2 Corinthians 5. 17 says, Therefore if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. We use that verse and we we um quote it so many times and deal with it in the context of old things are passed away, behold all things are become new, and uh we use it like that and it that is The truth of that verse, yes, but the beginning of that teaches a very strong truth in that it is uh it declares our position in Christ Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. We are in Christ. Again, the responsibility is on God. We have been given a secure position in Christ. 2 Corinthians 1. 21 says, Now he which established us with you in Christ, he hath anointed us, is God. Now he which established us, that word established is to be established. He that has established us in Christ, he has given us a firm position in Christ, he has given us a secure position. in Christ. And our position is secure in Christ. You know, the prodigal son lost it all. But he knew his position in his family was secure I mean the prodigal son messed up. And he went out and he ended up losing all of his friends and he lost all of his wealth and He lost all of his praise and his accolades and all those that wanted to be around him. He he lost everything everything that he had and he found himself in the pig style and all that this life had to offer was gone But what does he declare when he comes to himself? He says, Hey, the servants in my father's house. He knew his position in the family. His position in the family was still there. He said, I'll go and ask to be a servant in my father's house. But he knew it was still his father. And he didn't feel worthy to be a son, but he knew he was still a son. Although he lost everything else, the position that he had in his family was secure. You've been given a position in Christ, in the family of God John 1, 12 and 13. John 1, verses 12 and 13. It says, But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God. even to them that believe on his name. Now, they would like to look at this verse and even those that would teach that you can lose your salvation or that it's a progress, uh, that it's a path of life, that you get secure, and they they look at this and they would say that you have the power to become the sons of God like it's a task. Like it's a process. You can become over time if you extend enough effort or whatever, but read the very next verse. And the very next verse number 13 says, which were born not of blood. Nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. It's not something that we can accomplish by our own will. It's not something that we can accomplish by the the strength of our flesh. We can't become the sons of God. We can't be born again in the family of God because We we just want to desire it so much or because we're willing to work so hard for it or because we extend enough uh energy in our flesh. No, it's God that does it. He gives us the power to become the sons of God, to even them that believe on his name. It's God that makes you a member of his family and gives you that position. Once you're born into your into your physical family, uh you're born into that family and nothing can change that. And the the one of the most powerful illustrations with regards to this is that illustration right there. And uh, you know, John 3 talking about being born again. Once you're born again by the power of God into God's family, nothing's gonna change that. You have a birth certificate and and they could go and they can deny you, they can throw you out, they can never talk to you again, they can Do whatever they want to disown you, but you were still were born in that family and nothing can change that. Your your fellowship might be broken, but the fact that you were born into that family, that you were born a Batrell or a Banda or a Wilson or a Glover uh You know, that fact can never be changed. And once you're born into the family of God by the power of God, it can't be changed. You you can't lose that security, that position. In the Old Testament, Noah uh is an example. Uh the Noah and um Uh the ark was an example of God's salvation. Was a picture of God's judgment on sin and his providing salvation for mankind. And all the way through the story of their uh of the ark, we have that picture of salvation And Noah proclaiming the truth and asking men to come and get into the ark to to be secure that judgment was coming, and the same thing we have today declaring that judgment is coming and people need to get in Christ Jesus They have that position secure in Christ Jesus because that day is coming and uh then they had a certain time frame and they had to get in before. The door was closed before death's door is closed, before we pass off into eternity. Once we pass off, it's too late. Once it started raining, it was too late. After the tribulation, it's too late. Once the tribulation starts, people will say, oh, and they may want to cry out. Now the Bible says they'll be blinded, but they may want to cry out, but it'll be too late. Because their opportunity, the window that they had, they had 120 years. But the window they had to come to Christ is gone. But Noah and those that got into the ark, they were secure. in the Ark. They were not secure. I mean Noah probably slept in one day or two And he probably forgot to feed the animals or Noah's sons and those boys, you know, boys, you gotta go feel feed all them animals on deck too, you know. And uh they went down there and got distracted and started playing handball or something and And uh they forgot to feed a whole level of animals or something. Man, they failed. But they were still secure in the ark Right? They never they never did uh get tossed out. Uh they didn't get tossed out, and you know what? God said that he won't cast you out either In John 6. 37. John 6. 37, he says, all that the Father giveth me shall come to me. And him that cometh to me, I will in no wise cast out. Anybody that cometh to God, he says, I will in no wise cast out. I mean, how much clearer does it get than that? He says, hey, you've been born into the family of God Under no circumstances am I going to cast you out. And we could say, well, if you if you aren't good enough, if you don't persist in the faith. If you choose to fall from grace, if you want to deny God, then you lose your salvation. But I can deny God, and God says what? I will not cast thee out. I will not cast you out. I will in no wise cast thee out. And Noah was secure in the ark, and they weren't cast out for maybe failing to feed the animals one day, or uh maybe the waters got rough and they slipped. The waters of this life, you know, the storms of this life get rough, and as a Christian, we slip and don't perform as we should. But God says He will not cast you out. The possession that we have of salvation, the possession of salvation is secure forever. John 5. 24 He says, Verily, verily I say unto you, he that heareth my word and believeth on him that sent me hath everlasting life And shall not come into condemnation, but is passed from death unto life. Here's you hath everlasting life. This is not temporary life. John 5. 24, eternal life, hath everlasting life. This is not life until I sin. You have everlasting life until I sin. Now another principle that a lot of people teach with regards to salvation Catholics believe this: that you are being saved, that salvation doesn't actually come until you die. At death If you've done right, you can be saved. Well, what does this verse say? He hath Everlasting life. It's a present tense. We have it right now. It's not coming later. It's presently. We have everlasting life. It's a gift that God gives us at the moment of salvation. We have it now Not something we're going to achieve later, not something that's going to be awarded at the end of our life as we pass off into eternity. We have it and can be secure and sure of it today. He has given us eternal life. Another verse, first John five, eleven to thirteen. And this is the record that God hath given to us eternal life. And this life is in His Son. Again, talking about the position that we have in Jesus Christ. He that hath the Son hath life. Present tense. If you have the Son, you have life. And he that hath not the Son of God hath not life. What are the defining characteristics in those verses? Whether you have the Son or not, not whether I've performed effectively or not, not whether I have can persisted in the faith or not Not whether I have continued in the doctrine that I've been taught or not. Those are all things that we should do. But when we're talking about everlasting life, he says, he that hath the Son hath life. That's the defining characteristic. Do you have the Son? And if you do, you have eternal life. He that hath the Son hath eternal life, and this life is in his son. He that Hath the Son, hath life, and he that hath not the Son of God hath not life. Verse number 13. First John 5, 11, 12, and 13. Verse number 13 says, These things that are written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God that ye may know that ye have eternal life, and that ye may believe on the name of the Son of God. God wants us to know it. That you may know that you have eternal life. He's not wanting Christians, believers, to be wondering, to be uh concerned. Well I hope so. Well I hope that I got eternal life. Well I hope that if I you know do good and love my neighbor as myself uh you know Uh one of the things to ask them when they talk to you about this is, how bad do I have to be to lose my salvation? Where is the where is the defining line? What do I have to do? I mean, if I just fail to acknowledge God today, or if I uh you know don't pray today? Or maybe if I tell a lie. Or a little little lie is not that big a deal. I might still be secure, but what if I tell a real big lie? Or do I have to just kill somebody? I mean, where's the line where I lose my salvation. That's very hard to define and and and they can't point you to any scripture that would show you that. And you see, it's not on us. God wants us to know. And as we've seen and will continue to see, that it's God that does it, not us. All works-based salvation and all those that can that believe you can lose your salvation are going back to works. And if works, for by grace are you saved through faith, and not of yourselves, it is a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. If we are not saved by works, You cannot lose your salvation by works. Not saved through works, not sustained through works And so the work that I do is not going to make a difference on my salvation. And we we you know we look at that, but the fact of the matter is God's power is sufficient. God's power is sufficient. 1 Peter 1, verses 3 through 5. 1 Peter 1, 3 through 5. He says, Blessed be the God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which according to his abundant mercy hath begotten us again unto a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. to an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled that fadeth not away, reserved in heaven for you. Verse number five is the key thing here. It says, who are kept by the power of God. We are kept secure in salvation by the power of God, not by our power, but by God's power. And those that would want to say we could lose our salvation are saying God's power is not sufficient to keep us. Because it's through him, not through us. Another verse you can use, John 10, 27 through 29 My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me, and I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. So to say that I will perish is to call God a liar. Because he said there they shall never perish. To say that I'll perish is to say that somehow I have the power to get out of God's hand. Neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. God says we're secure in the hand of God. We'll never perish. We have eternal life. But to say I could lose my salvation is to say that somehow I have the means to overpower God and get out of His hand. We know that in Ephesians 1, verse number 3, that familiar verse, he says In whom ye also trusted after that ye had heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, in whom also after ye believed, ye were Sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise. We are sealed unto the day of redemption. We are sealed in the hand of God and sealed unto the day of redemption. Even though your own heart may condemn you. You are sealed and you can't undo the seal. On your birth certificate, where you were born, the hospital or the doctor has his seal, has his signature. And that can't be undone. And when you're saved, God Almighty, the Holy Spirit, seals you in your position. Because greater Is he that is in you. Even though your own heart might condemn you. Sometimes in your own heart it might condemn you. And say, man, I'm not saved. Look at what I've done. But 1 John 3. 20 says, For if our heart condemn us, God is greater than our heart. Even though your own heart might condemn you. God's greater than your own heart. Now let me give you a couple of we only got a few minutes here left, but Let me give you a couple of verses that they would use to teach that you can lose your salvation. I have uh actually one from about every book of the New Testament. Um We don't have time to look at those, but I'll just give you a few of them as they're talking about it. The idea of losing your salvation. They like to use Matthew 5. 13. Matthew 5. 13 and I didn't re I didn't put any of these in my notes, I just put these references down. So Matthew chapter five, verse six is where is the salt hath lost its savor is what it is, but I want to actually read So Matthew 5, verse number 13 says, Ye are the salt of the earth, but if the salt has lost its savor, wherewith shall it be salted? It is thence for good for nothing to be cast out and to be trodden under the foot of men. So they would take that verse and say, hey, if the salt's lost its savor, it can be casted out. It can be cast out and trodden under the foot of men. Okay, well, you know there's no contradictions in the Bible. So there's something if if you see something that is perceived as a contradiction, then you're not looking at it correctly You need to re-evaluate. So we read a verse earlier that very clearly says he will in no wise cast you out, right? So that means this verse here that uh somehow I'm looking at it and I'm I'm perceiving it incorrectly. If you think of the idea that a salt has lost his savor, that it becomes good for nothing and can be cast out. Okay, they'll say that you can lose your salvation. If you've lost your savior, if you're not salty like you should be, you can be cast out. What this is dealing with is what this is talking about. As a Christian, I'm supposed to be salty That means I'm supposed to be different. That means I'm supposed to be impacting the world around me. And if I'm not, then I'm no good as a Christian. And let's say that I was serving here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church and became that way. I became so much like the world, I had lost all my saltiness. God says he would cast you out. That means your usefulness, your ability to impact people for the kingdom of God has become of no effect. And therefore, God will remove you from the position. God will cast you out from being used in that regard. You're not going to be able to continue. You'll lose your effectiveness to serve, and maybe uh you know God will remove the influence that you have over people. But he's not going to cast you out from from heaven. He's not going to cast you out from your salvation. What it means is that he's going to put you on the shelf as a Christian. He's no longer going to use you So that's what it's talking about. Not talking about losing your salvation. Another one that they like to use is Mark 13, 13. I'm going to give you three references here because they all say the same thing. Mark 13, 13, Matthew 10, 22, and Matthew 24, 13. So let's just look at the one in Matthew, because I'm right there. Matthew 10, 22. He says here in Matthew 10, 22, And ye shall be hated of all men for my name's sake. But he that endureth to the end shall be saved. So he says, hey, you're going to be hated for not my name's sake, but he that endureth to the end shall be saved. So they take that verse and they say, hey, we've got to endure. You've got to endure. If you want to be saved, you've got to endure to the end. And if you just look at it like that, that makes sense, doesn't it? Now we're almost done. You guys wait? We gotta endure to the end. And you just look at that verse like that, take it at face value, and you say, okay. But you've got to realize In light of all the rest of the scripture, when you see something that contradicts a truth that's very clearly taught, okay, what are we talking about here? Look at the context of this passage of scripture. And what it's dealing with in all three passages that I gave you, it's dealing with the trials of life. All three of them are dealing with the trials of life. And if you endure not to the end of life, not to the end of Christianity, what it's saying is if you endure to the end of that trial, God's going to save you out of it. There is going to be salvation from it. God is still in control. He's still on the throne. And you might be in a trial. You might be in a hard time of life. But if you endure God will save you out of it. Just trust God, rely on God, and let Him carry you through. It's dealing with endurance through a trial, not enduring in the Christian life for salvation. So they like to use that one though, and when you just read it, just like they come and talk to you about it and say, hey, so if you don't endure, that means you won't be saved. Okay, but it's talking about enduring in a trial, not in the in the context of salvation. The passage is not dealing with salvation. Warren Wordsby said this about this passage of scripture. Okay. It is not a condition for salvation. It applies to the believer during tribulations. The end refers to the end of an age or to the end of one's trial or, at worst, the end of one's life. Hey, some of you may feel like it has been nothing but a trial. The whole life has been just in one long trial. But hey, the joy that we have in Jesus Christ is that if we endure, we know that in the end, we're going to heaven. Not hoping so, not enduring that that maybe I might attain heaven. No, I am gonna go to heaven and I'm assured of heaven and I can endure through to trial And at the worst, I mean at the very least, I mean if my life ends, I know I'm going to be in glory. And at that point I'll be saved for sure. All this trial and all of this mess to be over and I'll be in heaven I don't endure in order to get to heaven. I can endure because I'm going to heaven. That's what that verse is teaching. Spurgeon said some stuff about this verse and whatever as well. I have a bunch more verses here. Romans 13, verse number two. Let's look at that. What time is it? Is that clock back there correct? Well, it is correct. We gotta go. We're out of time. Um so lots more verses that they like to use. Uh and but most of them, if you look at them, they're not talking about salvation. Many times they're dealing with uh personal life situations or tr or trials or different things like that. Uh certainly not dealing with the con the context of salvation. Let me close this in prayer and we'll be dismissed. Lord, we thank you for your love for us. We thank you that we are secure. We thank you, God, that if we endure, that we We don't endure that we might get to heaven, but that we can endure because we're on our way to heaven, because we have salvation guaranteed by Jesus Christ and not by our performance. Lord, we strive to perform correctly because of the love of Christ and because of what He's done for us, not that we might get there. And Lord, we just pray that you would give us a wonderful time in your house today. Thank you for these truths. And we ask you. Just in Jesus' name, Amen.