I've got to get in the practice of calling your pastor Pastor Batrell. I'm used to calling him Caleb because we're related and so uh and we're both aging, so he looks like a pastor Betrell now. And uh so we should be okay as far as that. Hey, it's good to be here tonight. I'm sorry I didn't get a chance to shake everybody's hand tonight, but if you're glad you're in church, say amen. That's not bad. If you're uh glad about the person you're sitting next to, say amen. A little bit weaker, but that's okay, alrighty. But uh anyway, well I'm glad that you're here and uh looking forward to the conference and my wife and I are already excited about being here. And the trip went really good. So it was really uh actually it was nice. My wife and I don't get up get to be together alone for that many hours. And so uh the marriage conference is gonna be good for both of us now that we've been together for seventeen hours uh in a car. But uh anyway, praise the Lord. You know, I was getting ready for the conference and I heard this uh little bit of humor that I thought you would enjoy. Uh but this fellow was about to die and he took to his wife and he said, Now listen I I want all my money to go with me. I don't want to leave it for you. I'm not going to leave it for anybody else. I want I want all my money, I want to put it in the casket when I pass away. And you know, the wife looked at him and said, Oh come on. He says, I mean it. I want all my money put in the casket. And she said, Alright. So she promised him that when he died, she put all the money all his money in the casket. Sure enough, time came he passed away And uh they were about to close the casket lid and the widow is over here and she gets up and takes that shoe box and puts it inside the casket and then the usher closed the casket and but her best friend, the widower's best friend, look and she said, You didn't You didn't keep that promise. She said, hey, I'm a Christian. I keep my promises. She said that the friend said, why in the world would you put all that money in there? Hey, I put it all in the bank and wrote them a check Okay, some of you will get that tomorrow, alrighty? But anyway, I thought that was kind of cute myself. Hey, let's look right in the Word of God tonight. Acts 27, if you've got your Bible tonight. Acts chapter number 27. Acts chapter number 27. And uh look at a quick thought from here. Acts 27 is the story of Paul on his way to Rome. Many of you know the storm that took place, your Euroclidon that's mentioned here. And uh while he's on there, and I just want to get pinpoint. I know a lot of messages have been preached from this and some really good messages. Stay in the boat. That's always a good message and things of that sort. But I want to deal with something else tonight. out of Acts chapter number uh twenty seven. All right, got your Bible, look down your Bible, let's pick it up in verse number twenty. Acts twenty seven, verse number twenty The Bible says, and when neither sun or nor stars in many days appeared and no small tempest lay on us, all hope that we should be saved was then taken away. Now, Trick Family, let's stop for just a second here. Let's just read let me kind of let me review just a little bit what took place here. We understand that the first twelve chapters of the book of Acts is really the primary person is Peter. The primary church is the church of Jerusalem. Chapter 13 to the end of the book of Acts. Primary person is Paul. The primary church is Antioch. Of course, several churches were started by Paul. Paul had his first missionary journey, his second missionary journey, his third missionary journey. Now he's on his way to Jerusalem. He gets there. He's arrested. And now he is gonna he appeals to Caesar, so he's on his way to Italy, to Rome. He's on his way to Rome So they can stand before Caesar. So here this chapter is they're on a boat. There's a storm that takes place. We just got done reading. All hope that they would live is gone. Alright, let's look what happens next now. In verse number twenty one, the Bible says, But after long abstinence Paul stood forth in the midst of them and said, Sirs, ye should have hearkened unto me, and not have loosed from Crete, and to have gained all this harm and loss, and now I exhort you to be of good cheer For there should be no loss of any man's life among you but of the ship, for there stood by me this night the angel of God whose I am and whom I serve, saying, Fear not, Paul Thou must be brought before Caesar, and lo God hath given thee all them that sail with thee. Wherefore, sirs, be of good cheer, for I believe God that it shall be even as it was told me, howbeit we must be cast upon a certain island. Verse 27, for when the fourteenth night was come, as we were driven up and down in Adria, about midnight, the shipmen deemed that they drew near to some country. And sounded and found it twenty fathoms. And when they had gone a little farther they sounded again and be found it fifteen fathoms. Then fearing lest we should have fallen upon rocks, they cast four anchors out of the stern and wished for the day Verse 30 says, And as the shipmen were about to flee out of the ship, when they had let down the boat into the sea under color as though they would have cast anchors out of the ship foreship, what they mean they were they were going to put down the lifeboats Verse thirty one, Paul says, Paul said to the centurion and to the soldiers, Except these abide in the ship, ye cannot be saved. Then the soldiers cut off the ropes of the boat and let her fall off, and While the day was coming on, Paul besought them all to take meat, saying this day is the fourteenth day, that ye have tarried and continued fasting, having taken nothing Wherefore I pray you to take some meat, for this is your is for your is your health, for there shall not an hair fall from the head of any of you. And when he had thus spoken he took bread and gave thanks to God in the presence of them all And when he had broken it he began to eat. Then they were all of good cheer, and they also took some meat verse thirty seven, last verse, and we were in all in the ship, two hundred Three score and 16 souls. 276 people are in this boat. All right. Now think for just a moment here. Paul's in the ship. There's 276 people in this particular boat. And they're in a storm for 14 days. They can there uh you can imagine no sun, no stars. It was just the rain, the boat being cast back and forth. And Paul finally comes to them and says, Hey, listen, God told me no one's gonna die. But you've got to stay in the ship. And of course he encourages them. But here's the phrase I want to look at tonight. If you look back at your Bible and then we'll pray. Look at your Bible down to verse number 24. Verse 24 says, saying, Fear not, Paul, thou must be brought before Caesar. And lo, God hath given thee, look what God says here. God hath given thee all them That sail would be. Let me tell you what it didn't say. What it didn't say, I'm going to spare all these people that are in the ship. He didn't say, I'm going to spare all the people that are under Lucius the centurion. The phrase that God uses here is God says, I'm going to save, I'm going to give all them That sail with thee. Who's the thee? Talk me Apostle Paul, right? Now, Church Remember, all I want you to think about tonight is this When God looked at the ship, he didn't look at the captain of the ship. He didn't look at the maker of the ship. He didn't look at the soldiers on the ship. He did Look at the prisoners on the ship, he looked at Apostle Paul on that ship. And I want you to notice tonight that what God said about the ship was, you're not sailing with them, they're sailing with you. And I want to talk to you tonight. You might want to say, well, you might call the message tonight who's in your boat. Or you might call the message tonight, you know, who's sailing with you. But I want to take the phrase that's mentioned here in verse number 24, and it says, them that sail with thee. Listen to me, I'm going to run tonight and we're going to pray and we're going to ask the Lord's blessing. But I want to tell you something. You are in a boat And there are people in your boat, whether you think about it or not. You say, Pastor, I my kids are all grown and they're gone. Or you might say, Pastor, you know, I'm I'm a single woman or I'm a single man. You might say I'm a teenager tonight Hey, listen, I just want you to understand that as a Christian, we have a circle of influence in our life. It might be if it might be a family with children. It might be a Sunday school teacher with a class. It might be a school teacher with a class. It could be a church member. But all of us influence other people, just like Paul influenced 275 other people on this boat. So I want you to think about that tonight. I want you to think about yourself tonight and folks the folks that might be in your boat tonight. And I want to just look at tonight what Paul did to help the people that were in his boat. And it's the same things we're supposed to be doing to help the people in our boat. All right. Let's ask the Lord's blessing on his word. Heavenly Father, Lord, thank you again for, Lord, the opportunity to be uh at the church tonight. I ask you to please bless uh the church uh service and Lord again speak to our hearts. Lord, I know there's probably people listening in, and Lord, whether they're listening or here tonight, may we not miss what you have for us tonight. Lord, I ask again for the power of the Holy Spirit as far as what needs to be said tonight. And may you be honored and glorified. And Lord, as this church embarks upon this conference, I ask you to please help be life-changing for each individual that will be able to come and Lord we just ask for your help and may you be praised. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Now listen church family I want to if I can just illustrate just a little bit I I'm not at home, so I can't have a full boat, alright? I had to put this in my car. Otherwise I'd have a boat or something tonight. But I just want you to pretend for just a moment That this is your boat. Alrighty? I'm just going to set it here on the front. I know it's can't all of you can't see it. I'll tell you, I'll put it up here and mix that we at least some of you can see it. I just want you to think tonight that there are people in your boat. Alright? Now I want to tell you something. You affect every person in your boat. Alright? Paul affected every 275 people. Every one of those folks made it to the shoreline. And the reason they made it to the shoreline was only because Paul was in the boat. You say, you say, Pastor, come on. How is that the case? Church family, you know your Bible. This is the Wednesday night crowd. Think about all the different people in the Bible that were influenced because of one person Think about Job and Job's hedges. The Bible says God put a hedge around Job, around his household, and around all that he had. That means all the animals were blessed because of Job. You think about think about another person. How about Joseph? Remember Joseph, the Bible says that Potiphar was blessed because of Joseph's sake. You know, you think about King David. You know, King David, we think about David and we think about him, how he must have blessed so many people. Can I listen to me tonight? Can I remind you tonight that the Bible tells us that the reason David was blessed was for Israel's sake? Hey, can I tell you Hunt Valley Baptist Church? I'm going to try to say your name of the church right. Am I saying that correct? Hunt Valley Baptist Church? Okay. Make sure I said it correctly. I've been places before where I said the church's name wrong the entire time. And boy, that really grates on a church family, I tell you that much. Hey, can I just tell you some of you tonight, you're blessed because you're in this boat. You're in the Hunt Valley Baptist Church. By the way, I want to tell you something. Sometimes we overlook what God's doing. I want to tell you God lets me pastor the Heritage Baptist Church. And I'm going to tell you something when I get to heaven, I'm going to find out I wasn't blessed because of me. I was blessed because of the people that were in that church. Are you all with me tonight? Now I'm just trying to tell you tonight that just like God told Paul, hey, listen, them that sail with thee. Now I want to tell you tonight. I want to walk through the passage and just point out just a couple things tonight. What Paul did for those people that were in his boat. And I want to tell you it doesn't matter. You say, Pastor, I only have one or two children at home. Then you're in there in your boat You say, Pastor, I teach a study school class, then you're they're in your boat. I run a bus route, then they're in your boat. And by the way, I think you can even go a step farther. The people you work with. Did you know on this particular boat when Paul was in, these were not saved people. They were lost people. Can I tell you people on your boat? You go to work on a regular basis and those people look at you and they know that you're a Christian. But what they don't realize is they're blessed because of you. Now, tonight, I want you to think about the people that are in your boat and what are you doing for those people in your boat? I want you to look at what Paul did for the ones in his boat. Look at your Bible quickly tonight. And let's just point these these. There's four of them I want you to notice tonight. And there might be more you might see, but look at verse number twenty one and twenty verse number twenty-two. I'm for time's sake. Look at verse twenty-two it says this And now I exhort you, Paul speaking to those in the boat. Now I exhort you to be of good. What's the word? Now, Church, because of time, let's just look at them quickly tonight. Look at verse number 25. Wherefore, sirs, Paul speaking, be of good what? Be of good cheer. Look down at verse number 36. Then were they all of good what? Cheer and they also took some meat. All I'm trying to get you to see tonight is that Paul Paul, the people that were in his boat, he cheered them up. Hey, why do independent Baptists have to act like they're always going to a funeral when they come to church? Why can't we come to church and smile? Why can't we come to church? Yeah, well we don't laugh in church. You know, it's gotta be it's gotta be solemn. Can I just tell you something? The Bible says the fruit of the Spirit is love. What's the second one? In Roman Philippians 4, 4, rejoice in the Lord always, and again I say what? You know, there ought to be something inside of a Christian that's happy. Happy. You ought to be happy that you're saved and happy you know where you're going when you die. And I want to just tell you, there's people in your boat, they don't need to have a crab in the boat. You know. By the way, if we're saved, we're the ones that should be happy. What's the lost world have, church family? What does the lost world have? They don't even know where they're gonna go when they die. They're trying to live their life and trying to do good works and trying to do good things in hopes of getting to heaven. These things are written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God that ye may what? Know that ye have a church. We know Nobody likes death and nobody likes losing a loved one. But what what is what how does he say it in 1 Thessalonians 4? He says, comfort one another with these words. What's the words? Because we know where we're going. I'm just saying that as a Christian there ought to be something different in our life. It's not that you're not going to have heavy times. Heaviness in the heart of man maketh it stupid. There are times in our life that we go through struggles in our life, but can I just tell you something? What helps us through those struggles? Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil. Why? For thou art with me. I want to tell you something. Young people ought to be happy. Old people ought to be happy. You ought to have joy. Why? Because there's people in your boat. We've got young people that when they get done with high school and they get and they they grow up in independent Baptist churches, that as soon as they get done with high school and they now have freedom They want to go they don't want to go to church or they want to go to some non-denominational junk. I'm gonna tell you why. Because they grew up in a church, they grew up in a family where everybody was not happy. Now I understand what the devil does, choosing rather to suffer affliction of the people of God than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a Season. I know what the devil does. He's trying to make young people look like you're so unhappy is because there's so many rules. Rules is what makes the person happy. You two two boys, how old are you? Did I meet you already? What's your name? Do you know what your name is? Taylor? Caleb. Am I related to him? Man, it's been a long time. You look different. Alright, what's your name? Stephen Stephen Holdy, Stephen. Fifteen, Caleb Holiday. Seventeen. You guys like to play basketball? Volleyball. I like volleyball. Volleyball? Alright, so Caleb and Stephen, they're gonna play a game of volleyball, alrighty? And Caleb he decides that he's gonna serve first. You know the volleyball court is 15 foot wide, it's 30 foot long, 15 foot by 15 foot on both sides, so it's 30 foot long, 15 foot wide, and Caleb gets This rate is serve the ball And instead of serving behind the line, he comes all the way up to the net, throws it up, and pounds it right into Stephen's face. Stephen says, you can't do that. And he says, I can, no rules. I want to tell you something that wouldn't be a very good happy game, would it? Because Stephen's gonna get to serve sometime. Church, I mean don't understand rules is what makes us happy in life. This thing of trying to the devil keeps trying to put in our young people that you know the reason there there's no joy and no happiness is because there's rules. No, the reason there's no joy and there's no happiness It's because you're not filled with the Spirit of God. You're not in the book. You're not rejoicing in the Lord. And because of that, the devil wants to make it look like the Christian life's not a happy life. The Christian life's not going to be a happy life if you're not walking with God, if you're not putting Him first in your life I'm just trying to say every one of us have a boat and there's people that are in the boat with us and they oughta have somebody in the boat that can cheer them up. Look at the next thing I want you to notice as far as the people in his boat, not only were they cheerling them up. Look at verse number twenty-three For there stood by me, Paul speaking again, for there stood by me this night the angel of God whose I am and whom I serve, saying, Fear not, Paul, thou must be brought before Caesar And lo, God hath given me all them that sail with me. Verse 25, wherefore, sir, be of good cheer, for I believe God, that it shall be even as it was told me. Church I mean, what was Paul doing Paul was telling the 275 other people in the boat, hey listen, God talked to me. Let me tell you what he said. I want to tell you something. All of us have a boat, an influence, a circle of influence, people that we influence in our life Moms and dads, brothers and sisters, friends, acquaintances, lost people, people co-workers. And they're all in the boat with us. And I'm gonna tell you the first thing that Paul did, he cheered people up in his boat. And the second thing he did is he gave them a word from God. Jimmy, when's the last time God spoke to you and you spoke to them? Hey, when Pastor Patrell gets up to preach Do you understand that and I say this and I say this because this is what it's supposed to be, okay? And I know it's this way here. Preachers do not do not preach sermons. Preachers preach messages. Are you all with me tonight? Yeah, you know, a sermon, I can get informational facts and preach a sermon. But before I came tonight, and I've known for a long time that was coming Before I came, I've been asking Lord, Lord, I don't know these people. You know these people. What do they need tonight? Give me the message for them. Every time your pastor gets behind the pulpit, he does not preach a sermon He preaches a message. God, what do you want me to tell somebody else? A message is when you hear something and you give it to somebody else. Can I tell you what Paul did to the people in his boat? He gave them a message. Hey, this is what God said. Hey, by the way, you can't get a message for the people in your boat unless you're talking to God. Pastor, I don't really have anybody in my boat. Joseph wasn't married, and he had all of Potiphar's house, both in the field and in the house. He had everybody in Joseph's boat. And they thought they were in Potiphar's boat. You know, remember what Laban said about Jacob? Laban said, I have learned by experience that God has blessed me for your sake. This isn't a matter of being a parent. This is a matter of being a being a teacher or a preacher. This is a matter of being a Christian. Paul's in a boat. Lost people with him in that boat. First thing he did is he cheered him up. Second thing he did is he gave him a word from God. I like 1 Peter 3. 15, but sanctify the Lord God in your hearts and be ready always to give an answer to every man. That asketh you the reason of the hope that is within you with meekness and fear. You know, Chashim, I want to tell you something. You ought to have your devotions every day of your life, and as God speaks to you, you ought to speak to somebody else. Do we believe in women preachers? Uh I'm sorry. We do actually believe in women preachers. We don't believe in women pastors, okay? Wh where do you get that at? Mark sixteen, fifteen And he said unto them, go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. That's the disciples of Christ. That's every Christian, okay? So the word preach just means to cry aloud. If you're married, you know what that means No? Okay. But we don't believe in women pastors, but can I just tell you something? Every woman and every man that gets a word from God can share it with somebody else. Hey listen, there's people in your boat. You need to you need to cheer them up. There's people in your boat. You need to give them a word for g word from God. Look at the next thing. Look at verse number 30. Look what else he did to the people in his boat. And as the shipmen were about to flee out of the ship, when they had let them let down the boat into the into the sea under color, as though they would have cast anchors out of the foreship. So in verse number 30, it uses the word shipmen. In other words, the the people who were the shipmen were the sailors. They were about to cast down the lifeboats. Because they thought they they saw land and they thought they could get over there. Look what Paul says in verse 31. Paul said to the centurion and to the soldiers, not to the shipmen, to the soldiers, Except these abide in the ship, ye cannot be saved. Then the soldiers cut off the ropes of the boat. And let her fall off. In other words, those lifeboats, they cut the ropes and said, hey, no one's leaving this boat. You're not getting the lifeboat. You're gonna stay in this boat. You know why? Because God was gonna save all them that were with Apostle Paul in the boat. Can I just tell you that Paul not only cheered them up and gave them a word for God, but Paul warned them of harm. If you get out of the boat, you can't be saved. Hey, how many of you are saved tonight? Say amen. For whosoever shall call on the name of the Lord shall be saved. That if thou shalt call the name of the Lord, God says that listen, our believe and receive, and we put our faith in Jesus Christ, that's what saves us for eternity, right? How many people in your boat that don't know that? How many people you work with you've never given a gospel tract to? How many people in your boat you've never given your testimony to? You say, Pastor, I'm just kind of shy and I'm just kind of timid. I want to tell you something. We get over that shy and tippiness if we truly believed that there's a real heaven, there's a real hell. Years and years ago I was probably twenty, twenty-one years old, and I had a bus route in Salt Village, Illinois. I grew up in my dad's church there and and uh on this particular Saturday I was in my car visiting the bus route and I pulled up and sure enough the house that I was coming to There was a fire and the fire was going on in the house and it was at my bus kid's house. The smoke was coming out from underneath the eaves of the of the house and the house was on fire I re as soon as I jumped out of the car, I told my worker, you you go down, go to the next next door neighbor, and you call the fire department immediately. But to be honest with you, I didn't know if they were still in the house. I ran up to the house and did everything I could to try to get in the house. It was locked shut. I couldn't get inside the house. I want to tell you something. If we really believed people were dying, we'd do whatever was necessary to tell them about Jesus Christ. I'm just saying there's people that you know. Church of man, I want to tell you something. If your pastor was to talk to your neighbor or to talk to the employee that you work with, they probably wouldn't even give him the time of day But they will you, you know why? Because they're in your boat. You know, I know some of you thinking, Pastor, I'm just I'm just not that kind of person, you know, to open my Bible. Do you know for sure you're on your way to heaven? You know, we knock doors, I'm sure you do similar here. We knock Hello, my name's Scott. This is John. We're from the Heritage Baptist Church or Hunt Valley Baptist Church. Just like to give you an invite. It's got the address of your church on it, a little gospel track. Just want to give you an invite. More important than going to church, you get a chance to go to heaven. You know for sure you're on your way to heaven Can I take five minutes and just show you what the scripture says about going to heaven? We talk about going through the Romans road, Romans 3. 10, as it is written, there's none righteous. We're all sinners. We talk about how there's a punishment for sin, for the wages of sin is what? And death and hell were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death. The punishments, the dying go to hell. But don't you like the good news? But God commendeth his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, what happened? Christ died for us. The bad news is I'm a sinner and I deserve to go to hell. The good news is that Jesus died for me, and all I've got to do is believe and receive him as my own. That if thou shalt call upon the Lord, thou shalt be saved. You say, Pastor, I'm just not that kind of person. But here's what you could do to the people in your boat. I was 11 years old. I was sitting in a church service four rows back. I was sitting on this fourth row here during the church service. The preacher was preaching on hell During that service he scared me half to death. I came forward at the end of the service and I sat on this side of the pew and a person opened up a Bible and showed me that I was a sinner bound for hell and that Jesus loved me and died for me and I prayed and asked Jesus to save me Now church, I'll tell you something. My testimony is never going to change. I was eleven years old. I was sitting on the fourth row back. The preacher was preaching on hell, scared me half to death. I came forward. Someone opened the Bible showed me that I was a sinner, bound for hell, needing to get saved, and I asked Jesus Christ to Savior Can I just tell you, your testimony is not the fourth row back, and it's not an 11-year-old boy, but there was a time in your life that you saw yourself as a sinner and you got saved. You were in church, you were at home, you were at a camp, you were in school. There was somewhere, somehow, that you the first time you understood that. Tell the people in your boat. Paul warned them, you get out of this boat, you're not going to be saved. We need to warn the people in our boat. Last but not least, I want you to see, and that's this. Not only did those that were in his boat, he cheered them up, he gave them a word from the Lord, he warned them of harm. Look at verse number 33. It says, And while the day was coming on, Paul besought them all to take meat, saying, This day is the fourteenth day that ye have tarried and continued fasting, having taken nothing. Wherefore I pray you to take some meat. For this is for your health For there shall not a hair fall from the head of any of you. And when he had thus spoken he took bread and gave thanks to God in the presence of them all, and when he had broken it he breathed he began to eat. Then they were all of good cheer, and they also took some meat. Church, I don't know if you think of it this way or not. But Paul, he had a relationship with God and he and he already knew God was going to save him. Alright? Are you all with me so far? Paul looks at now remember the combination of people that are on the boat, okay? You've got the captain, Lucius, you've got the soldiers, you've got the prisoners, you've got the sailors, and you've got Paul. Be honest with you, Sir Chairman, I don't know for sure that there were I don't know for sure that there was anybody on that boat that was saved except for Paul. I don't know. But I'm just telling you that if I'm Paul, why should I even care? They went 14 days without eating. And Paul says, I know how this thing's going to end. You need to eat for your health's sake. Tonight I got in at 4. 45 or so, and your pastor took me out to eat, to be honest with you. Uh he took me to a barbecue place and it was good. Um what did I end up eating? What was the meat kind? Brisket. Oh I had brisket. And it was a kind of brisket that was moist, that was thick, that melted in your mouth. Anybody hungry yet? I'm just telling you, it was good And I probably shouldn't have eaten as much as I did, but I'm just telling you, it was good. And I feel pretty good now because I got to eat some meat tonight. Can you imagine going 14 days without eating? Can you imagine a storm where all hope is gone and you're gonna die? And then there comes this Baptist preacher and says, hey, it's gonna be okay. You need to eat something. You know when I see what Paul did for those in his boat? He cared about them. He cared about them. He cared about the people in his boat. I mean he was the good Samaritan. That's what that's what Paul did. He saw that person that was bruised and battered and he said he went over to him and he he gave him something to drink and he he kind of uh helped uh with his wounds and he put him on his own donkey and he took him to an end and he paid the price to take care what the good samaritan do picture of Jesus Christ he took care of somebody Hey, I'll tell you something, it's not about age. It's about concern. Eli, do you know what the difference between sympathy and empathy is? Do you have any any idea the word sympathy and empathy? What's the difference, you know? Smart kid. That's exactly what it is. He's not really a kid, in your 20, right? Nice old man over there. You know what sympathy is? Sympathy is feeling sorry. Empathy is putting yourself in somebody else's place. My wife and I couldn't have children for the first uh well we we adopted after first after seven and a half years, but we couldn't have children until twelve years Okay, so seven and a half years we finally adopted after being married for seven and a half years. Five years later we adopted our second one, and then at twelve years of marriage my wife got pregnant, and then we had one and and had one and and had one and had one and had one and had one. So we had eight. Alrighty. So but it was several years in that period of time that my wife would cry herself to sleep at night every night Well, not every night, but most a lot of nights he would come to bed and she would cry and I I just reminded her, Hey, listen, God's got a perfect plan. We gotta trust his will. Even back then, what what's a husband gonna say? I I honestly could not empathize with my my my wife. I couldn't emb I could not empathize with a woman wanting to have a child. This last week at Heritage, I should say two, three, maybe three weeks ago, a couple of our church have been married ten years. Am I correct on that? Came to me and said, hey, for ten years they haven't had a child. And they said, listen, we don't want to tell the church family yet, but my wife's pregnant. Now I'm gonna tell you something, I remember those days. When my wife went through those fa those times of not having a child. She'd be the run one running all the baby showers and not being able to have a child, but maybe doing all the planning for these other people who were having children. When that couple came to me I I was so excited for them they said well I want we want to wait before telling this about three weeks ago we want to wait before telling the church family because obviously the church family knew that they haven't had children in these ten years I said, well I'm not gonna tell anybody. I'm not gonna tell my wife I will tell I will I'm not gonna tell anybody. I want you to say when because the people are gonna be excited for you One week later, which is two weeks ago now, she lost the baby. I want to tell you something. It was a killer for them. You know the average church member looks at that couple. What's wrong with them? How come they don't have any kids? You know what the problem is? Zero empathy. Hey church, I want to tell you something. We're supposed to be like Christ, and some have Compassion. And if you do that, what happens? Making a difference. Now, how old are you? How old are you? Listen, I know you sure aren't you don't think you're that old until you're 15, 16 years old? There's people in your boat, you ought to care about them Can I tell you caring about people is not an old person thing? It's a Christian thing. You know, we're gonna have this marriage conference. The truth of the matter is the biggest problem in marriages, it's usually the husband, but the biggest problem in marriages, they don't care. How come you don't tell your wife you love her? I told her I loved her 20 years ago when I married. If I change my mind, I'll tell her. That's words from an idiot. That's stupid. That is stupid. You know what the problem is? That man has a woman in his in his boat and he don't care about her. Now listen tonight, church family, I'm just telling you something. I know it's an unusual message for Wednesday night, but I'm just telling you you've got somebody in your boat tonight You ought to be the happy person on the boat. You ought to be the person that gets a word from God that you can share something, what God does in your life that you can share with somebody else You ought to be the person that's concerned about somebody dying and going to hell and be the voice to be able to warn them about Jesus Christ. And you ought to be the one because you're the Christian that actually cares about somebody. You know, we live in a world, it's all about us. Everybody's self-centered. We have very few people that actually just simply care about what's going on in somebody else's life. But I see Apostle Paul, where everybody else thought they were going to die in that boat. But Paul knew, hey, you're going to be okay. You know why? Because God put me in this boat. Church family, the storm is the problems of life. Jesus spoke about that in the last part of the Sermon on the Mount. The two houses, one was set on a rock, one was set on a sand, in both places the storm came. Church, I mean all of us have storms. That's why we have valleys of life. There are good times, good days and bad days. There's mountains and valleys. You know what the boat represents? The boat represents all the people that you influence. And you know what Paul represents? You. So how is everybody else affected by you? You know, I'm done, but I want to say this last thing. I had a fellow one time when I w I was twenty about twenty twenty-one years old and I coached basketball. A troubled boy came to live with my father. My dad was my pastor as well. A troubled boy came to live with my father And he went to the Christian school there. And the boy was very strong, very athletic, but he just was not um he's not a good Christian. But but he was strong and athletic. And he was playing basketball, but he had a temper. Every time we'd play on the court, if somebody just pushed him or knocked him the wrong way, I mean he was ready to fight. That was the kind of demeanor he had. We were playing a game one time of basketball against another school, and sure enough, the other team knew exactly what to do. Knock him just a little bit, and he'll lose his temper. And that's what happened. Well, I'm the coach in a Christian school, and I'd rather lose than have bad attitudes on the court, so I pulled him out of the game. And he was one of the he was the best player I'll never forget the day that he came and sat down on the bench and I walked over to him and I said, his name was Matt. I said, Matt, everybody else on this team is looking at you. And every time you lose your temper, you're affecting everybody else. I'll never forget what he said. I never asked them to look to me. Now I'm just telling you, church family, everybody's in your boat. You didn't ask for them to be in that boat. Paul didn't ask for those 275 people to be in his boat, but they were. So it's not a matter of I didn't ask for people to be in my boat. God let them be in your boat. So since God let them be in your boat Cheer them up. Since God let them be in their boat, give them a word from God. Since God let them be in the boat, make sure they're saved. And since God let them be in your boat, care about them. That's what we should do. Them that sail with thee. Would you bow your head and close your eyes? I'm going to pray and then turn it over to your pastor. As you sit there tonight, would you just ponder for a moment people you influence? Is it family that you influence? Is it friends? Is it co-workers? Would you just take a moment and think about those that are in your boat Have you cared about them? Have you made sure that they're on their way to heaven? Are you living a spirit-filled life where you could give them a word from God? Are you the happy Christian? Would you just ponder for just a moment those in your boat? You say it's just one or two. You say it's just five or six. If they're in your boat, it matters to God. Heavenly Father, Lord, I ask you to please help us tonight. Lord, I ask you to please forgive us for taking for granted the people you've placed in our boat. Lord, help us to make a difference in their life as you've made a difference in ours. Father again bless this church, these people, in Jesus' name I pray, Amen