It really is just a continuous continuous uh declaration of the mercy of God over and over and over. O give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy endureth forever. O give thanks unto the Lord, the God of gods, for his mercy endureth forever. O give thanks unto the Lords of Lords for His mercy endureth forever and ever. To him whom only doth great wonders, for his mercy endureth forever. You can continue down through this passage and just a continual declaration of the mercy of God and how that mercy is ever before us and blesses us. The song that we just sang says there's a wideness in God's mercy. like the wideness of the sea. There's kindness in his justice, which is more than liberty. Beloved, there's not enough Uh there's not enough words in the English language to adequately describe, define, or explain uh the mercy of God to try and expound upon that, that endless mercy of God, His mercies that are renewed every morning. This is the matchless mercy of God. But the Bible does give us some insight into that mercy and gives us some admonition, some teaching for us to consider when we Think about that. First of all, I like you to think about the fact that God's mercy is wider than my sin. God's worst mercy is wider than my sin. This declaration uh that we hear that we just read in Psalms 136 over and over again uh seeing how his mercy endureth forever. Um but in Psalms one oh three uh we have that familiar verse describing uh how far how wide uh God has cast our sins. Psalms 103, verse number 12, he has, as far as the east is from the west, so far hath he removed our transgressions from us. How wide is the mercy of God? As far as the east is from the west, which never touches, which never connects. You head east, you're always going to be heading east. And uh that is the wideness of God's mercy That mercy that's wider than our sin. I'm thankful today for the mercy of God. The mercy of God in my life. I'm often amazed at God's mercy. Now, I don't stand here before you tonight as a you know like the Pharisees and saying, well, I'm thankful that I'm not as the publican. But if I'm just honest with you, uh I mean I understand that I'm a sinner and that I need God's mercy continually. But if I'm honest with you, there has been times even just this week, uh one day when Stephen and Pastor Gus and I were chatting That I I told them, I said, you know, I don't understand God's mercy and long suffering with some people I mean there's sometimes I look at it and I I I do understand God's mercy and long suffering with the lost who haven't come to salvation yet, that don't know, that haven't had the chance to repent, that, you know, still aren't in the fold, but uh really what boggles my mind sometimes is these bitter Christians that are working in today's world using social media and YouTube and these other things to do all they can to undermine the cause of Christ They're doing what they can to hurt churches. They're trying to post these videos and and just destroy people all because they're bitter about something that happened to them some some time ago, so many years ago or whatever And I, you know, just being honest, being transparent with you, I I looked at the gentleman and I said, I don't understand God's mercy with them. I don't know why God doesn't just take them out. Why does God let them do that? I mean, but Again, I'm thankful for God's mercy in my life. And so we need to remember that His mercy is wider than our sin. We are always under the mercy of God. Even when we don't think we are, we are experiencing the mercy of God. Even in the midst of our judgment, David was going to be punished for his sin, and he could have chosen his own punishment, but what he chose was God's mercy He could have decided, well, this is what I want, but he says, no, it's going to be far better for me just to fall at the mercy of God. Because even getting to choose my own punishment is not going to be near as well or as good for me as just falling on the mercy of God, understanding God's mercy. You know, beloved, it's really only when we're faced with the reality of the horrificness of our own sin that we fall on the mercy of God. You see, we don't think about the mercy of God or ponder or request his mercy or maybe even really appreciate his mercy until we come to the place where we realize that we are a sinner and we need his mercy. Right. When you're driving down the road and you see those nice red and blue lights behind you. And you pull over to the side of the road. Now, all of a sudden, you are in need of mercy And you're like, okay, what am I gonna do? One one uh I think it was a Sunday morning 'cause it was a lot of y lot of years ago. I don't know when this happened, but I was coming down uh Cuba Road and uh I was going a little bit quick. And uh there was an officer in somebody's driveway And I drove past him and immediately I put my brakes on and pulled over because I knew uh he pulled out. He didn't even come all the way out of the driveway, he just pulled out and kind of turned In part. That's how quickly I pulled over. I knew that that I'm like, that he got me. And uh he walked up to the car and he says to me, He says, uh, do you know how fast you're going? I'm like, Well When you got me probably about forty I said, probably forty. He said, Yeah, forty one. And uh I see he's like, Yeah, that's a little quick for this road and I said, I I understand, officer. I apologize. I understand, you know, I I was speeding so Okay. So he goes back to his car, takes my information, he comes back in a minute, he hands me back my license and he says, I appreciate your candidness, your honesty. Uh you know, thank you for that. I'm gonna let you go with a warning, you know. Just a verbal warning, not even written a warning, just hey, slow it down. And I'm like, thank you. Appreciate it, right? I mean we appreciate that mercy when we're in need of it, right? When we know we have transgressed the law. We know that we've sinned and and we're in that place and we're like, oh please don't give me a ticket. Please don't give me a ticket. You know, I want some I want some mercy right now. Because we know we're in need of it. But beloved, even when we don't know we're in need of it, we need it And so that is where we think about David in Psalms 51, where he says, Have mercy upon me, O God, according to thy loving kindness. According unto the multitude of thy tender mercies, blot out my transgression, wash me thoroughly from my iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin. For I acknowledge my transgression and my sin is ever before me. Beloved, what I'm saying is that when we are put face to face with the fact that we are a sinner and that we are in need of God's mercy That's when we're thankful for it. That's when we realize how valuable and how important it is when we fall at the feet of Jesus and say, Oh, have mercy upon me. Cleanse me, wash me, make me clean, whiter, whiter than snow, because we know we're in need of God's mercy And God's mercy is wider than our sin. There's a kindness in his justice, which is more than liberty. God is a just God. Justice must be upheld, but there's a kindness in his justice. So great is his kindness and his love towards us that he paid our sins penalty for us. And we talked about that this morning, but listen, it's God's mercy that does that for us. The story of David so clearly illustrates God's mercy and the inexhaustible nature of it. We think about the sin of what David did with Bathsheba and then murder and one sin upon another, and then there was a year where God allowed him to go without Acknowledging that without fessing up or confessing it and God's mercy just each extended every day that God didn't judge him during that time Until he was confronted with his own sin, and that's when he acknowledged it and said, Oh, have mercy upon me, O God. And God's mercy in his life. Paul tells us that God is rich in mercy. Ephesians 2, verse number 4 says, But God who is rich in mercy, for his great love wherewith he loved us. He's rich in mercy, and his mercies are renewed every morning in our life. Do you acknowledge and understand and are grateful tonight for the mercy of God. The wideness of God's mercy. Because we need it. Oh, I know sometimes we think more highly of ourselves than we ought to think. Sometimes we feel like we're we're doing pretty good. But we're still just sinners saved by grace. And living on the mercy of God each and every day. See, God's mercy is not like yours and mine. It's not going to run out. Our mercy runs out pretty quick along with our patience. You know, as soon as our patience runs out, then the mercy runs out. And uh we we have come to the end of our rope and and we're ready to string somebody up. Uh we're we're we're ready. Uh uh we're we're done. There's no more grace. It is amazing though how we always want people to have grace and mercy with us. People should understand our shortcomings. People should have patience with us when we fall short. People should understand our excuses. People should have grace and mercy with us when we don't measure up, but with other people, oh That's different. We tend to human nature tends to lose that uh expression of mercy that we should have. We see not only that God's mercy is wider than our sin, but that God's love is wider than ourselves. For the love of God is broader than the measure of my mind, of our mind, and the heart of the eternal is most wonderfully kind. There is no limit to the love of God, to the breadth of God's love in our lives that is expressed in His mercy towards us. His kindness and his goodness to us is experienced every day in very powerful ways. I just wonder if we behold the work of God, if we see it, if we realize it. I can't help but think about the prodigal son as we consider this. Both the son and the brother in that story. You have the brother who did not understand or appreciate the mercy that the father had. He had a problem with the father showing that that kind of mercy to the prodigal and willingly having him back and killing the fatted calf and celebrating uh the son that had returned But then you have the son, the prodigal son, who went out, and he, realizing what he had done, knew he needed the mercy of his father. He thought, he wondered, I could see him in the pigsty there, eating the husk of the pigs, and the you know the Bible talks about how he came to himself and he thought, man, the servants in my father's house are better off than I am. And he thought, well, uh his mindset is, I wonder if I could just go back and i if dad would have enough mercy that I could be a servant in his house. Maybe I could just do that. I know I don't deserve to be a son, but I wonder if I could just go back and be a servant. And he fell at the mercy of his father, returning He probably felt like Charles Wesley, who wrote The Depth of Mercy The depth of mercy, can there be mercy enough reserved for me? Can my God his wrath forbear, Me the chiefest of sinners, spare I have long withstood his grace, long provoked him face to face, would not hearken to his call, grieved him by a thousand falls I have split his precious blood, trampled upon the Son of God, filled with pain, unspeakable. I who yet am not in hell. He said, I just wonder As wretched and as wicked of a man as I am, is there sufficient mercy in God's love for me? I can see the prodigal thinking that in his mind would wonder if Dad would even take me back. But beloved, the prodigal's father, the picture of our Heavenly Father, there is always mercy. And he is waiting for us to return. And he's willing and ready to restore to any that would want to return. He's pleading for him to come home. The patience of God with his children is truly astounding I read an illustration about the mercy of God in contrast to the discipline of God. It's a very powerful thought as you consider or think of it. The writer said this. Our life is like the dial of a clock. The hands are God's hands, passing over and over and over again. The shorthand, a hand of discipline. The long hand, the hand of mercy. Slowly and surely the hand of discipline must pass And God speaks with each and every strike, but over and over and over again passes the hand of mercy. Showing down, showering down sixty-fold of blessing for each stroke of discipline. Both hands are fastened to the one circuit secure point, the great unchanging heart of our loving God. What an amazing picture. Yes, God's going to chasten whom he loves. Yes, discipline's going to come. But even in that discipline There is mercy that comes around and around and around, and God's mercy just continually passing. And eventually, if we do not repent, then discipline does come. But even in His discipline, it's administered with mercy. Isn't that wonderful? Fantastic. In light of that truth, beloved, you and I are to display that love and mercy of God in our lives. Our life should display the light of God's love for us. Verse number four says of the song we read, if our or we've been singing, if our love were but more simple, we would take him at his word. Just believing God, doing what he says, and our lives would be illumined by the presence of our Lord. Letting God's love show through us. Beloved, we should be practicing and displaying mercy as God has displayed mercy to us. Matthew 5, 7 says, Blessed are the merciful. For they shall obtain mercy. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. I want God to be merciful with me. I want other people to be merciful with me. Because I know that I'm not all that in a bag of chips. I know that I'm not, you know, this person without error, that I fall short. And I want people to be merciful with me when I don't measure up to their expectations. So it would behoove me to be merciful with others. That goes back to the principle of sowing and reaping. But he says it here, blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. When we want God's mercy on our lives, we ought to be merciful to others. People should see that in our lives. As God's judgment must come, I want his judgment to be with mercy. James 2, verse number 13 says, For he shall have judgment without mercy. He that hath showed no mercy. And mercy rejoiceth against judgment. You have that servant who would display and show no mercy that says, okay, you'll be judged without mercy. You'll be held to that standard personally. So it would behoove us to display and to show mercy in our lives. I certainly don't want to be judged without mercy. I want to have mercy, so I need to be displaying mercy. For us to use mercy is an is a display and exercise of wisdom. Wisdom in your life. You guys know that Mary tends to be a little more truth than me. She's the one that's kind of like the leather letter of the law, like This is what's supposed to be. This is what's supposed to be. And uh I I appreciate that. I I tend to lean towards a little bit of mercy. And uh I believe that there needs to be a balance of that. You can go online to the sermon audio webpage and find uh I preached a message on balance. of truth and mercy in our lives. I'm not gonna reteach that, but they're both necessary. So we help balance each other out Sometimes I'm leaning more too too much towards mercy and we need to be drawing a stronger line. Sometimes she's too much ready to kill somebody and I'm like, okay, probably don't need to kill them. Probably let's just talk to them, you know. And we balance each other out in that. But do you see the Bible says in James chapter 3 verse number 17 But wisdom that is from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, easily to be entreated, full of mercy. Full of mercy. Wisdom that's from above is full of mercy. Beloved, we need to have mercy as we're dealing with one another, as we're dealing with our family. As we're dealing with life situations. And that really is the wisdom that comes from God that shines through us into others, understanding that we have been shown mercy continually. And so we ought to be willing and ready and able to show mercy to others as God has shown it to us. This is there's wideness in God's mercy. A wideness that can't be measured. His mercy is endless for us, and I'm thankful tonight for the mercy of God. God. Would you stand to your feet with your head sprout and your eyes closed?