And uh cry of God, there's five cries in the Book of Lamentations. It's a cry of God over his uh n the necessity to judge the children of Israel, to punish them Because of their sin and their self will they were put into captivity, and many times the things that we endure are a result of our own sin. Self-will. God may allow them to come into our life, but it's because of the activity or the direction that we've gone. We've failed to heed his word, failed to respond to his But we want to see here in the book of Lamentations, uh, chapter number three, look down in verse number twenty-one. We're going to read through Verse number twenty-six, where we see in this text our title for the message and our thought for today. Lamentations chapter three and verse number twenty-one. The Bible says, This I recall to mind Therefore have I hope. It is of the Lord's mercies that we are not consumed, because his compassions fail not. Their new every morning great is thy faithfulness. The Lord is my portion, saith my soul, therefore will I hope in him. The Lord is good unto him that wait for him to the soul that seeketh him, it is good that a man should both hope and quietly wait for the salvation of the Lord. I would like to speak to you for a few minutes this morning on the title There Is Hope. There is Hope. The children of Israel were in a rough way. They had found themselves in Calamity. They had found themselves in the midst of great trial, hardship, and testing. And yet in the midst of that, he said, There is hope. We see In verse number 26, it is good that a man should both hope and quietly wait for the salvation. Salvation of the Lord. They said, hey, we're in captivity. Hey, we're in the middle of a problem. Hey, we're in the midst of a storm. But just wait. God Coming. Just wait. The salvation of the Lord is at hand. Beloved, I don't know where you're at or what you're enduring or what you're going through this morning, but my desire is to encourage you today to just wait. Because God's coming. Because there is hope. You can have hope in the midst of whatever challenge you're facing, in the midst of whatever battle you are enduring There's hope because of God, because he is still on the throne. The author here, of course, Jeremiah writing these laments. He says, there is hope. Hope, beloved, is a powerful word. Hope is a confident expectation that something is going to come to pass. He had a confident expectation that God was going to come through for him. Quietly wait and see the salvation of the Lord You know, we can have a confident hope in God. Hope changes everything Just having that, it doesn't change the situation, but in the midst of the situation, when you have hope, it changes everything. I read this week about a young man He was six years old and he had got caught in a fire in his home. He was hospitalized and he was in really, really bad shape. Well there was an older lady that had retired and she thought in order to uh stay busy and kind of invest in my community, I'm going to give back And she signed up at the school to be a tutor and kinda to help the next generation and to give of her time to tutor kids that were falling behind or for one reason or another could not make it to classes and sh Well they called her one day and said, We need you to go by in uh the hospital and we need you to We need you to come to the school and pick up the assignments, and we need you to go to the hospital and see this young boy. Now we've got to warn you that he has been severely burned, but we don't want him to fall behind on his uh assignments and his class schedule and all of this it's not his fault that he's burnt and we don't want him to to miss a grade and and it's really important that If you'd be willing to go to the hospital and just kinda help him stay up with the class and tutor him uh for the next month or two while he recovers and is a before he's able to come back to class and she Of course, was thrilled to do so. Well she went to the hospital and she walked into the room and just at the sight of this young boy and what he was enduring, the pain he was in and how burned his physical appearance was. She she actually had to step out of the room for a minute to get her composure. She went into into the room that first time and she sat down with him and was trying to teach him but just her emotions were so out of control because of what this boy was endured During she didn't feel like she did a very good job at all. She left the room that day and she just her heart so burdened for this boy and felt so bad about how poorly she did her Tutoring assignment, and the next day the hospital called her and said, We just got to find out what in the world did you tell him? And she thought, Oh no What did I did I say? What did I do? She was just so worried about it. She's like, I what in the world? And and the doctor said, No Oh, you don't understand. Before yesterday, he was giving up. Before yesterday His body was like not willing to fight at all, the infection and and not fighting against us at all. But yesterday you you you came and now complete transformation today. I mean it's obvious he's made a turn for the better and uh you know the fever is broken and and just that quick we just want to know what you told him. He's like, I didn't tell them anything. So they went and they asked him, and they said, What did she say? And he says, She didn't say anything, but I just figured they wouldn't be sending a tutor to teach something Somebody how to do English if he was dying. And it just let me know that that the fact of the matter is, is although I you know that they they expect me to be back to class, the whole change That took place was he all of a sudden had hope. He thought he was gonna die. He thought it was over, he thought there was no hope. But in the midst of it When somebody came and offered him, look to tomorrow, you've got to be ready for this test, he said, Whoa, there is hope. Beloved, hope is a powerful thing, and I want you to know that in your life, in the midst of whatever it is you're facing, you can have have hope. Jeremiah says there's a couple things in these verses that he looked at that specifically gave him hope. He says, I know we're in captivity. I know things look bad, but I have hope. There's a couple of reasons. I want you to see them in our text today. First of all, we see in verse number 22 that he has Hope because of God's mercy. In verse number twenty-two he says, It is of the Lord's mercies that we are not consumed. You see, beloved, he says in verse 21, he says, This I recall to my mind, therefore I have hope He said, There's some things that I recall in the midst of the storm. There's some things that I remember when things are looking dark. There's some things I remember when I'm laying on the house Or when I get that phone call that is overwhelming, I remember first of all that God is merciful. That there is a merciful God, beloved, when David faced some trials in his life. He still had hope because he knew God. When David sinned with Bathsheba and his sin was found out, he said, Thou art the man. David was under the judgment of God because of his sin, and you remember the story that his own baby was going to die, and he went and he fell on his knees and he became Began to beg and cry out to God that the baby be spared. And he said in 2 Samuel 12, 20 says, Who can tell whether God will be gracious? unto me. In the midst of that, David understood something about God and his mercy, and he asked God for mercy. God in his judgment had already pronounced judgment and the baby was going to die, but David still And so he cried out to God. You remember when uh David sinned and God says, You know what, you're gonna uh get to Choose your own punishment. You shouldn't have done it, but you numbered the people, and now you're going to be punished. And he said, You get to choose what what would you like? First of all, you could choose three years of famine in a Land. You could choose three months of fleeing before your enemies. You could choose three days of pestilence at the hand of God. And he said without hesitation, he says, Oh, I He said, because I would rather be in the hands of a merciful God than the hands of my enemy, or the hands of famine. He said in second Samuel 24, 14, he said, Let us fall now into the hand of the Lord, for his mercies are great. You see, he understood something about God, that God was merciful. Even in his judgment, even in his punishment, God was merciful to us. Can I tell you that God is full of mercy? We can have hope today because God is merciful. I want to ask you, do you have hope? Do you feel today? Do you have that in your heart? Do you have hope in your heart today? Psalms 33, 18 says, Behold, the eye of the Lord is upon them that fear him, upon them that hope in his mercy. Beloved, do you have hope because of the mercy of God? God is merciful. Every day We're experiencing God's mercy. No matter how bad it gets, you and I are still experiencing God's mercy. You see, God's mercy is God not giving us what we deserve. Just yesterday we were at the police station and uh we went in to find out where we were supposed to to set up and all that. The officer leaves his desk and comes out and Miss Kim says, I just gotta let you know that I'm illegally parked The officer said, Oh, I don't care. And I said, You missed a chance to give her a ticket. Gave her a ticket. I don't even think he heard me because we were all working, but uh he uh he he she did not get what she deserved yesterday. I've been worried about it ever since. She parked I think in the commander's off the commander's parking spot, you know. Uh but he said, Oh, he's not coming today, so you're okay. You know, beloved Have you ever realized that you didn't get what you deserved? You didn't get what you you know. And uh you you didn't get what you deserve. Man, God is so merciful to us. He doesn't give us what we deserve. Boy, in our text, the people of God We're in captivity, and yet they understood they were endure enjoying the mercy of God even in that. Beloved, it's because of God's mercies that we're not consumed. It's God's mercy. That you have health. It's God's mercy that you are blessed today in so many ways. God's God's grace, His goodness, given us more way beyond what we deserve. We're just thinking about the mercy of God. We have hope because of Psalms 130, verse number seven says, Let Israel hope in the Lord, for with the Lord there is mercy. Mercy. We have hope in God. Beloved, if we really were honest before God and uh really said, Okay, I know me, I know what I deserve. And man, God has been so merciful. If you're here today and you're ready to give up, you're ready to quit, you're ready to throw in the towel. Can I implore you to have hope? To hope in God, because His mercy endureth forever. Beloved, if I die tomorrow, I've already been blessed beyond measure God's mercy has been so good to me. I'm experiencing it every day that He allows me to live and to walk this earth. Psalms one hundred forty seven, verse number eleven. The Lord takes me Take pleasure in them that fear him and those that hope in his mercy. Did you hear that? The Lord takes pleasure in In those that hope in his mercy. You know, there were times I think that my kids were hoping for God's mercy They were hoping for dad's mercy, hoping for mercy. They knew what they did and they knew dad was not going to be happy about it, but they had to fess up. By the way, you need to To teach your kids to take ownership. If they threw the rock through the window, they need to come to you. They need to learn how to take responsibility for their actions. And that starts when they're young If they if they dropped a vacuum cleaner down the stairs and it's in five pieces, they don't just put it in the closet and pretend nothing happened. And then mom goes in there and is like, what happened to the vacuum? And nobody in the house knows. It was a ghost came in and busted the vacuum. No kids need to be taught to take responsibility. Responsibility. So there's been numerous times in my life, you know, the kids came and with a little bit of trepidation, a little bit of, you know, not really sure how bad this was going to be. And they've said, hey, Dad, I I broke this. I did this. And uh, you know, that's that's worth something as a parent. Uh Seeing your kids take responsibility. But they were hoping for the mercy of God, hoping for the mercy of their parent, but we get to rest in the mercy We can have hope, first of all, because of the mercy of God. Secondly, he says in verse number 23, he was thinking about some things. He said, I remember this, and when I think about this, I have hope. He says, I have hope first because of God's mercy. Verse number 23, I have hope because of God's faithfulness. He says, they are new every morning. Great is thy faithfulness. Faithfulness. Oh beloved, the faithfulness of God, the trustworthiness of God, the faithfulness of somebody that you know is going to be there That's going to follow through, that's not going to fail you. Beloved, man might fail you, but God is never going to fail you. I desire, as a pastor, to serve the Lord till the end of my days. If God makes today my last day, then I've successfully done so. But I pray that I I'll live many more years, and through those years I'll continue to be faithful But the sad reality is that I'm just a man and short of the mercy and the goodness of God and Him strengthening me to do so, I could fail. I could mess up, and I know that that would hurt and hinder many People spiritually, but beloved, your hope should never be in Pastor Caleb Atrel. Your hope should be in the faithfulness and the goodness of God, because God will not fail you I'm thrilled for the friends and and people that that I know and there there are people in this audience that I count friend and I'm I'm thrilled that I know the relationship that we have and if I'm in a out And there's been times that has happened where I was I mean this is the middle of the day or the middle of the night and something happened and I needed some help and I needed some help now And I called a friend. And I know that when I made that call, if there was any way possible, they would drop what they were doing and they would come and help. That kind of trustworthiness. You see, that gives hope. One time I was stuck on the side of the road about an hour and a half, two hours from here. You talk about inconvenience. It's not like I was halfway between here and Shawan Road. I mean I was two hours from here. Not only that, I was pulling a trailer So I had a truck and a trailer broken down two hours from here and to have some hope on the side of the road, like what am I gonna do? Here I am stuck. I know what I'll do. I'll call a friend. Somebody that I know that if there's any way possible, they'll be there That gives hope. In the midst of a bad situation, well, beloved, we have a friend that's even closer than a brother. We have a friend that we can call on any hour of the day or night. We have Beloved, he is faithful. Great is thy faithfulness, O God my My Father. There is no shadow of turning with thee. Thou changest not, thy compassions they fail not, as thou hast been, thou forever. Will be. Great is thy faithfulness. Great is thy faithfulness. Morning by morning, new mercies I see All I have needed, thy hand hath provided. Great is thy faithfulness, Lord, to me. Or the songwriter put it pretty well, didn't he? God God's faithfulness. Beloved, one of the reasons that His we can rely so consistently on His mercy is because of His faithfulness. He's going to be faithful to be merciful. He's going to be faithful to be a friend. We have such a powerful picture of that in Hosea, God's faithfulness. Cared for his wife, Gomer. Well, she decided she wasn't content and wasn't happy, and she went out and played the whore Her life was ruined and wasted. Her unfaithfulness to him, her life was destroyed. Got to the point where even the world didn't want her, and she was put on an auction block to be sold off as used and wasted material. And beloved, let me tell you that that's what Satan does to you. It'll chew your life up and spit you out on the other side a broken down, ruined vessel. But I'm thrilled today to tell you that even in that situation You have hope because of God. Because God can take a broken vessel and make it again. He can put it back together. He can make you a vessel of honor Honor. As Gomer stood there on the auction block, that picture of Hosea being a picture of God who loved his people, the children of Israel. Who rejected him and went out after other gods and sought after the world and the flesh and he stood there and he bid for her, he loved her, and he paid more than anybody else would pay. Can I tell you, beloved, that we are like that? We are like that when oh our words say that we love the Savior, but our actions say we love sin. When Satan Gets done with us, he spits us out. But beloved, we can at any time come to the Father, and He is there. Like the Father of the Prodigal, just standing waiting, longing for him to come home. And he paid more than anybody else would pay for an old sinner like me. He paid the life and blood of his own son. He bought me back, he redeemed me, made me a vessel unto honor, not because of what I've done, but because of what God did. That is the faithfulness of God in in the face of all of my rejection, in the face of all of my denial, in the face of all my running after other things and leaving Can I ask you this morning: has God been faithful to you? He has. He has Boy, it is in the face of that that we ponder and think of that and we have hope. No matter how hard it is, there's hope because of the faithfulness of God. We also have hope because he is my God. He says, the Lord Is my portion, saith my soul. Therefore will I hope in him You know, there's a lot of other people if one of the kids happened to have damaged something that other people might not have had mercy on them But they had hope. Why? Because they were coming to their father. Can I ask you this morning, is he your father? Do you know without question that That he is your Lord and Savior, that you have put your faith and trust in him and asked him to forgive you of your sin. You see, he is, he said, He is my portion. Therefore, I have hope in him. Him. I have hope in him. Why? Because he is mine and I am his. Do you know the Lord as your Savior today? Beloved, when I got saved, I was adopted into the family of God. And I'm so glad I'm a part of the family of God. You know, one of the amazing pictures uh that's we don't base theology off of uh modern law But it's just interesting that uh if I if I wanted to this morning, I could disown Caleb and the $3,000 I have for them to inherit, they He he is not gonna get any of it. It's all gonna go to the other kids. But do you know if I had an adopted child by law I cannot disown them? I cannot kick them out of the will. They get a portion of my inherit of my estate regardless of what I want. Beloved, we've been born into the family of God. Joint heirs with the Son. We're part of the family of God. And the assurance. I can count on his faithfulness. I can count on his mercy. Why? Because he's my God Because I have him as a father. Boy. I have hope. Because Because when everything in this life comes to an end, I'm going to be with him. I'm going to wake up with the Father. Proverbs fourteen, thirty-two says, The wicked is driven away in his wickedness, but the righteous hope in his death. We have hope even in In the face of death. Even in that which, from a world standpoint, is the most hopeless situation ever, and yet we have hope. Oh, beloved, that most familiar verses, 1 Thessalonians 4:13. But I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning them which are asleep. Ye sorrow not, even as others Which have no hope. That's the difference between a child of God and somebody from the biblical standpoint. point that has not put their faith and trust in God, they have no hope because they don't have the Father. Is he your Father today? Do you have hope? I hope that whatever happens, whatever's going on in your life, whatever however bad things get, and if it's not today, tomorrow, next Next week, two years from now, I hope that in your mind's eye you'll remember Lamentations, and he said, Boy, yes, I'm in captivity, but when I recall a couple of things, I I know that I have hope, when I recall that I have hope. Beloved, my desire for you today Is that no matter how hard or how bad it gets, there's nobody telling you this morning that life does not get hard. Life can and is hard at times, but even in the midst of the hardest situations, we have hope Because we have a Father, amen. We have a Father, and He is faithful, and He is merciful. Psalm 71:14 says, But I will Hope continually and will yet praise thee more and more. Why when we have hope you can praise Him. You can praise him. Maybe you're not in a place today that you need this thought. But I know the chorus of Life will take every one of us to that place. And in that hour I ask God to bring to your mind lamentations. And Jeremiah's cry Don't let Satan steal your hope this morning. You know, the Bible tells us we can have hope.