Galina and Sophia back. They were out on vacation as well. Good they had a safe trip. That's wonderful. And Greg and Martha, good to have them back. And good. I'm glad that you had safe travels and uh enjoyed your time, but it's wonderful to see you this evening. Uh I want you to turn your Bibles to the book of Revelation tonight, the book of Revelation We're going to see our text verse for this evening and our topic as we are in the middle of a study entitled They Were Called, looking at the different names that Christians have been called. in the New Testament and uh the root of that theme comes from they were called Christians and we see the other titles and names given to us throughout the scriptures. In Revelation chapter number one In verse number 5 and verse number 6, we find a couple of names given to us. It says, and from Jesus Christ, who is the faithful witness and the first begotten of the dead. And the Prince of the Kings of the earth, unto him that loved us and washed us from our sins in his own blood. And he hath made us kings And priest unto God and his Father, to him be glory and dominion for ever. Amen. What an amazing thing to consider or think about the fact that we get to share this title This name of recognition with Jesus Christ Himself. Jesus was a prophet, a priest, and a king the one to hold all three of those offices. And God for some reasons he's fit. We are joint heirs with Christ. We are born into the family of God as children of God. And he says uh he has made us to be Kings and priests. And what an amazing title that is given to us. What a privilege that is to share that name with Jesus Himself. But with the privilege also comes some responsibility. If we are indeed priests and kings, are we fulfilling those offices very well? Are we holding or living up to the expectations that those offices hold? So there's going to be some teaching tonight. You're going to want to get your pins out, and we're going to, in order to get done, I'm going to have to give you a lot of references quickly, read through these without taking time myself or you probably to get to turn to them. So you might want to just note these down to have for later reference. But first of all, we want to look at the believer as a priest. The believer as a priest. We believe in the pr the priesthood of the believer, that we, each and every one of us, are indeed priests. We saw that in the book of Revelation right there. That's a title given to us by God that we he has made us to be priests and kings. And so this formation of this was found, first of all, in the Old Testament. When God gave the law at Mount Sinai, he gave the children of Israel an opportunity to become a group of people. A kingdom of priests to be a holy nation. Let me read for you Exodus chapter 19 and verses 5 through 8 Now therefore, if ye will obey my voice indeed, and keep my covenant, then ye shall be a peculiar treasure unto me above all people, for all the earth is mine. And ye shall be unto me a kingdom of priests. And holy nation, these are the words which thou shalt speak unto the children of Israel. And Moses came and called for the elders of the people, and laid before their faces all the words of the Lord commanded him. And all the people answered together and said, All the Lord has spoken, we will do. Now, how many of you know that Oftentimes, just like the children of Israel here, our desire is present, but the fulfillment of that is not necessarily always happen. And that's what happened with the children of Israel. You know the story. They said, Well, all that he said, we will do. And we, of course, know it's a very short time, and uh they get themselves into deep trouble. God instead decides to appoint a particular tribe to fulfill this role of being priest. What tribe was that? the tribe of Levi. That they were going to fulfill this role. They were going to be the caretakers of the tabernacle and in the temple. They were going to uh from the house of Aaron was going to be the high priest. And uh this is how God uh chose to fill that office. In Exodus chapter twenty-eight and verse number one, he says, And take thou unto thee Aaron, thy brother, and his sons with him, from among the children of Israel, that he may minister unto me in the priest office. So he was going to fulfill the office of the priest. By God's plan, he chose him. Said, This is the one that's going to do that Now, the Old Testament priests, we know several things about them, which are applicable to us as we hold this office today. First of all, they were chosen, just like we saw Aaron was chosen. Hebrews chapter 5 and verse number 4 says, And no man taketh this honor unto himself, but he that is called of God, as was Aaron. As was Aaron. So just like Aaron was chosen, those who hold the office of priest are chosen. Can I tell you that you were chosen? You were chosen. Every single person that has the privilege of putting their faith and trust in Christ and repenting of their sin and believing on the shed blood of Jesus to forgive their sin and to take them to heaven when they die. They have been chosen to fulfill the office of the priest. Because we have been made priest in Jesus Christ. They were chosen. Not only that, they were cleansed. We don't have time to turn to these passages, but Exodus chapter 9, 29, verse number 4 tells us how they were cleansed. In order to fulfill this office, there was a process they had to go through to be cleansed. Then they were clothed. There was some very specific clothing that they had to wear. Exodus 29, 4 through 9 describes that. 29, 4 through 9, that they had particular clothing that they had to wear as they fulfilled this office. Very detailed specific clothing that they were supposed to wear. They were clothed. In the clothing that God had for them, then they were consecrated in Exodus 29, verse number 7. That is, they were anointed with oil, they were set aside, they were put into the office of the priest. This was practiced until Jesus, beloved, was crucified, and then the veil was rent in two. It was rent from the top down, signifying that indeed God had opened up the Holy of Holies. That place where there used to be only one man, Aaron is the high priest, or those that fulfilled and held that office, only the high priest could go into that holy of holies. But at the death of Jesus Christ He was going to assume the office of the high priest, which we're going to see as we go on here a little bit, and then every one of us would function in a role of pre of priest and have privilege to go into the holiest of holies go into the very presence of God. Amen? That's a privilege that we have because we hold the office of priest. In the New Testament, that old office of the priesthood, the offering of blood sacrifices, was done as we move into the New Testament. That was done. Why? Because Jesus, the Lamb who came to take away the sin of the world That Lamb who was the sacrifice once and for all, fulfilled all of the requirements of the Old Testament. No longer does there have to be blood sacrifice because Jesus' blood washed away all men's sin. So we know indeed that, as I said, that we in the New Testament, we've been chosen. God has chosen those who Determined to believe on his son and the shed blood of Jesus Christ. We've been cleansed. You're washed Ye are washed. Amen. We've been cleansed by the blood of Jesus Christ. It's not a cleansing that we could do ourselves, but we have been washed. Titus 3. 5. We have been clothed. We've been clothed in the righteousness of Jesus Christ. Not a righteousness of our own, but a righteousness of Jesus Christ. We've been clothed as we fulfill that office of the priest, and we've been consecrated, we've been set apart. We are to be holy people. Jesus, beloved, is that living stone. 1 Peter 2, 4, says, to whom coming as unto the living stone, disallowed indeed of men. but chosen of God and precious. He is the living stone. He is the cornerstone. He is the foundation through which all the rest of our life, our practice, our service is all rooted and f and found in him. We are without him we have no salvation. Without him we are not in the office of the priest. But we he is the living stone. And uh 1 Peter 2, verse number 5 goes on and says, He also, as lively stones, are built up a spiritual house, a holy priesthood. So these lively stones, each one of us underneath him, the living stone, the foundation, the high priest, We now are given the office of the priest. We are indeed a spiritual house, a holy priesthood, to offer spiritual sacrifices that are acceptable unto Jesus Christ. Beloved, all of us are partakers of the victory through Jesus Christ. And he says, ye are priest. It's not that ye will be, not that one day when we get to heaven ye will be, which is slightly different from when we think about or talk about the office of a king here in a few minutes. But we are presently, currently fulfilling and holding that office of priest. Ye are a royal priesthood. All believers have the same standing and the same access to God. Every one of us, we all fulfill that office. Every man, every woman, everyone that has put their faith and trust in Christ fulfills that office and has the same access to God. All can come to God and pray for themselves and pray for others. All of us are given access to the holiest of holies. And beloved, this is a birthright, not an earned or purchased position. It's a position given to us because we have uh been born again. We've been born into the family of God. So let me talk to you about the not just the formation of the office. That took place in the Old Testament there that we looked at, but I want to Think about the function of the priesthood. Beloved, in the function of the priesthood, we are all under the high priest. Hebrews 9 verse number 11 says, But Christ being come a high priest of good things to come, he is the high priest. Our priesthood is based on Christ's priesthood. Our priesthood is rooted in the fact that He is the high priest. In Hebrews chapter 4, verses 14, 15, and 16. He says, see then that we have a great high priest that is passed unto the heavens, Jesus the Son of God. He is the high priest, and he is holding that office. He's holding that office from then until now. He goes on and says, Let us hold fast our profession, for we have not a high priest which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities, but was in all points tempted, like as we are yet without sin. Let us therefore come boldly into the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. That admonition there to come boldly into the throne of grace. That admonition is rooted in or found in the fact that we are each priest. There was a time when in the Old Testament, in order for you to get your prayers answered, you had to go to the priest. And the priest had to carry your petition to the Father. But now we've all been made priests and we all have access to God ourselves. You can pray to God anytime, anywhere. You can get a hold of heaven. There is there that you all have access to that because you all are holding, provided you know Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior tonight then you are holding the office of a priest and you have access to talk to your Heavenly Father. Have you been talking to him? Have you been taking advantage of coming into the throne boldly to seek and to pray? We have that privilege and boy we should take advantage of it. We should. He is the high priest, and he is touched with the feeling of our infirmities. He knows what we are going through. And because he's the high priest, we are given access to God. Hebrews chapter 10, verses 19 through 22. He says, having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the holiest By the blood of Jesus. So that holiest there is in reference to the Holy of Holies, that is, into the very presence of God. And he says, we have access to the presence of God, to the holiness. Into that place, why? By the blood of Jesus. By a new and living way which he hath consecrated for us. Though the veil through the veil that is to say his flesh. So that veil that used to separate the holy and the holy holiest of holies, that veil was rent in two, but now he's saying that the veil is only Jesus Christ. And if you come by the way of the cross, if you come through Jesus Christ, you have access to the Father. You have access to prayer, to be and pray in God's presence. Verse number twenty one, Hebrews ten, verse number twenty one says having a high priest over the house of God, let us draw near with a true heart, in full assurance of our faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed. with pure water. Boy, beloved, uh as priest, we are to be offering sacrifices But not sacrifices in the manner of the Old Testament, where they offered sacrifices of blood, but we're to offer sacrifices that are acceptable. unto God. 1 Peter 2, verse number 5 says, ye also, lively stones, are built up a spiritual house, a holy priesthood, to offer spiritual sacrifices. acceptable to God by Jesus Christ. So we know by the testimony of Cain and Abel that there are some sacrifices that are brought, and they may be brought with good intentions. But they're not acceptable. Amen? That's by there's some that are not acceptable. They may be brought in all sincerity But it's not acceptable. They may be brought with uh with a with a heart that that wants to express and show love, but they're not acceptable. There there are some things that God demands specifically And we're to bring sacrifices, spiritual sacrifices, and those sacrifices are to be acceptable unto God. They're to be acceptable. We know, of course, the Bible tells us very clearly that we are to offer ourselves as a living sacrifice. That's an acceptable sacrifice. Be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind. You may present your bodies. This old flesh. We're supposed to say, Lord, it isn't much. Not sure what you can do with it, but here I am. Use me. I want to be used of God to share the gospel. Used of God to impact other people for the truth and for righteousness' sake. And Lord, here am I, send me. We're to offer our bodies as a living sacrifice. Lord, here am I, do what you have with me. The Bible tells us we're to offer the sacrifice of praise in Hebrews 13, 15. He says, By him therefore let us offer the sacrifice of praise unto God. Continually. That is the fruit of our lips giving thanks to His name. So that's an acceptable sacrifice. If we would offer the sacrifice of praise, just praising Him. Praising Him in the morning, noon, and night, praising Him, that brings honor and glory to God. It's an acceptable sacrifice. Have you been praising him like you should? Have you been acknowledging his blessings, acknowledging his goodness in your life? Why God is so good to us on every hand. And uh we we need to be offering the sacrifice of praise. It'll change your perspective on life If you offer the sacrifice of praise. We need to offer the sacrifice of good works. Hebrews 13, verse number 16 says, but to do good And to communicate, forget not, for with such sacrifice, God is well pleased. God is well pleased. God is pleased when you and I do good. You know, the Bible says that The verse is that they may see your good works and glorify your father which is in heaven. What is that? Matthew 5. 16, thank you. The first part I didn't didn't hear because I'm part deaf, but um Matthew 5. You know, that we're supposed to do good works. Why? Because it men see that. And it glorifies God. And this is an offering that we can give to God is to do good things. Boy, we ought to seize the opportunity to do good things. We ought to look for those opportunities and just say, boy, I want to do that. Why? Because it glorifies God. Whatever opportunities might come our way that He could do something good. What's some opportunities? Let's put you uh on on uh trials and that like what would be an opportunity, just something that might come up randomly out while you're about, what would be something that you might be able to do that that would be Good that you could do. Jacob? Help someone stuck on the stuff on the road. Stop and help somebody stuck on the road. It's a good thing you can do. That's an opportunity, brother Greg. Witness. Point them to Jesus Christ. An opportunity to tell them, change their eternal destiny, man. Tell them about Jesus. Just communicate. Yeah, say hello. Say good morning. Say praise the Lord. Say you know, just talk to people. Uh you'll find out most people are pretty friendly. Some aren't. I mean I mean yeah that's right. Yeah well that's me. My my family used to give me a hard time as a kid. They would say, don't talk to Caleb till after ten o'clock. Uh I didn't have my own uh source of Mountain Dew back then and so I didn't have a way to wake up, I guess. Uh I don't know. You know what I'm finding I'm really disappointed that I can't sleep in anymore This whole body doesn't want to let me sleep. I'm like, I miss the days when I could just sleep in. Like 6 15 and my my I'm a I'm like, why am I awake? I don't have to be up till seven. I'm just laying there for forty minutes. Like, come on. It's very frustrating. I know some of you I've heard the stories about that. The older you get, the worse it gets. Like Brother Lee? Yeah. So how do we get off on that? Any other ideas about how what we can do? Good things. It's just seizing the opportunity to do good things. That that as they come up. Any opportunities, just look for those. You know Sandy has one. Open the door for somebody? I like doing that when they're automatic. I I step in in front of ladies at the store and I'll say, Hey, let me get the door for you and I'll step on the mat and they're like oh thank you. I said, No problem, don't mention it at all, you know Uh that that's always fun. Uh but you know, yeah, get the door for somebody, you know, uh what about picking up some trash? Man, people throw their trash out on the road. That's the one of the only times I wish I was a police officer. Because that just irritates me. These guys that throw their bait their whole trash in the parking lot. They open their door and drop their whole bag of McDonald's or whatever right there. Man, those guys would be paying such big fines. Why do you want to destroy your community like that and throw your trash out and all that? There's trash cans everywhere Yeah, this it's a mess. But do good. Just look for opportunities to do good. That glorifies God. It honors God. And that's what we're supposed to do. That's a sacrifice we can offer. You know that we're also supposed to offer uh intercede for others. As priests we're to intercede for others. First Timothy chapter two and verse number one says, I exhort therefore, that first of all supplications, prayers, intercession, and the giving of thanks be made for all men. Part of the new unique attire of the high priest, of the priest, was the jewels and the The names that he bore on him, the names of the tribes were on his shoulders, signifying that he carried the weight of these of the tribes of Israel They the the jewels on his chest, uh representing each of the tribes, keeping the tribes of Israel close to his heart, and just the idea of carrying that burden all the time on his shoulders and near his heart. R. Tori said this. Talking to men for God is a great thing, but talking to God for men is greater still. One will never talk well or with any real success to men for God who has not first learned how to talk to God for men I know that was very wordy, then from today's we we we shorten everything, abbreviate it all. We're a texting generation. But basically he's saying until you learn how to talk to God about others, you're not going to be real good about talking to others about God. And that's the truth. We need to be interceders. That's part of the privilege that we have as priests. We're going to do that here in a few minutes. We're going to spend a few minutes praying for one another, carrying our burdens. And our fellow sisters and brothers burdens to the throne for them. Because we have that privilege as priests. Now, I want to try and briefly just touch on this idea, the fallacy of the priesthood. And this listen, we need to reject completely the teaching that is rooted in Roman Catholic dogma that appoints particular men into a particular office called the priesthood. I want you to know that there is no biblical authority in the New Testament for a special office. None. Zero. It is not there in any significant at all. Not significant way at all. It's not present. There's not one single reference in the New Testament concerning a special human priesthood Where somebody holds a special human. No, all men and women who come to Jesus Christ are given by birthright They're made priest following after the high priest Jesus Christ. And so there's no reference to this. Now, this is especially notable in light of the fact that. New Testament writers, I mean think about this. I didn't realize this till I was reading Lightfoot, uh an old Bible scholar, but Lightfoot He he described it this way. He said, I need to find my notes here, it is the eloquent silence of the apostolic writings that make this truth so powerful. The idea is that every single one of the New Testament writers, save Luke, was of Jewish origin. Which you understand from the time they were born, they would have been part of the priestly uh family, they would have been part of offering sacrifice, they would have been part of this would have been central to their life and to their worship. And so the very fact, actually, one Bible translator said, if there was nothing else, this truth alone. Quantifies or signifies or gives credit to inspiration of the scriptures because of the fact that not one New Testament writer who his entire life would have been wrapped around the priesthood Is now completely 100% silent on it. There is no reference to anybody fulfilling or serving in that office And that is a powerful truth because it's not there. What I'm saying is that we need to reject it There is no mention of the subject, he goes on to say, in the New Testament, because there is no place for it and no need of it. In the Jewish economy, a priesthood was necessary because man's alienation from God because sin was not yet put away, and because the way to God was not yet open. So the office of the priesthood was necessary. But as we come into the New Testament, when we have the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ, the veil was rent into, the sin had been dealt with. And the way to God had been opened by Jesus Christ. And so that office is no longer necessary. They do not have the power to forgive sin. The priests, those that hold that office, they say, Well, you're absolved of your sin. That's not biblical They do not have the power to do that. Now they will use a verse, and I'll read it to you here, in verse John chapter 20, and verse number 22 and 23. He says, And when he said thus, he breathed on them, and he said unto them, Receive ye the Holy Ghost, Whosoever sins ye remit, they are remitted unto them, and whosoever sins ye retain, they are retained So they like to use that verse and say, you see here, they were filled with the Spirit of God, and they were given power to remit sins, or to say, nope, your sins are not forgiven. You're going to retain that. But they don't take this into context, and they don't take it in the entirety of the scriptures. This is in a theological sense, it's in a broad sense. That they, as ministers of the gospel, filled with the Spirit of God, were to point people to Jesus Christ. And any who repent and turn to Jesus Christ, their sins would be forgiven Let me illustrate it like this. Let's say there was a pharmaceutical company that came to Stephen and they said, Stephen, we have this great drug that will cure diabetes. And anybody you give this drug to will be cured. And anybody you don't give the drug to will not be cured. The idea is if Stephen goes and shares that with somebody, did Stephen forgive them or heal them? No. And the idea is the same that what Jesus was saying to the disciples is you go and carry the message of the gospel and people turn to Jesus Christ and ask for forgiveness, their sins will be forgiven. But they do not in any way have uh you look through the whole of the New Testament. All of the apostolic writings, and you will not see any man saying, Your sins are forgiven you, or I forgive you of your sins. That idea is not in any other place And so you need to if you look at something like this and you say, well, what does that mean that they could remit sins or not remit sins, you need to dig a little deeper because it doesn't line up with something else. You need to The Bible doesn't contradict itself. We just don't understand sometimes. And so I want you to know that it's not only that office is not mentioned in the New Testament. They do not have the power to forgive sins. Christ tells us very clearly in Matthew 23 verse 9, call no man father. You're not to refer to other men as father. There's only one Father, our heavenly Father. Christ is our high priest and our only high priest. The Bible is very clear in 1 Timothy 2, verse number 5, there's only one mediator. Between God and man, the man Christ Jesus. He is the only mediator. So you don't need somebody to fulfill that office of the priest anymore And so we need to reject that teaching to make sure you understand it. Christ is the only high priest. We're not going to turn to these references, but I want you to know that he is a merciful and faithful high priest. Hebrews 2, these are all in Hebrews. Hebrews 2. 17. He's a sympathetic high priest, Hebrews 4. 15. He's an eternal high priest, Hebrews chapter 6, verse number 20. He's a powerful high priest, Hebrews 7. 25, and he is ever-present high priest, Hebrews 9. 24. We see these truths carried over and over again as the Bible talks about him being our high priest. And he holds that office where there's no other priest need to do it. So we see that idea of the priesthood of the believer. Then we want to see the believer as a king. This is much shorter. But I want you to see the believer is a king. First of all, he has this royalty given to him. First Peter 2, verse number 9, but ye are chosen generation, a royal priesthood. There is a level of royalty that's given to us, bestowed upon us. And beloved, that means that we should act like it. Amen. I have a message I have never preached it here. I preached it to the Christian school at It's been a long twenty something heritage at uh heritage uh there in Lawrence, Kansas, but the the the title comes directly from the text, but it says the the question is asked, is there not a king in thee? Is there not a king in thee? And the fact of the matter is, is we have been made kings, and the question is put to a young man and a young lady, is there not a king in thee? There was one professor in a school in England that every day when he came into class, he would don his hat and bow to the young kids he was teaching. They asked of him, why do you do that? He says, because I do not know what magnificence I have the privilege of teaching today You see, we have no idea what the young people will grow up to ultimately be. And I tried to inspire them that there is indeed a king in thee. And so that means right now you need to start acting like it. You need to start going that way. You need to start living that way. And there indeed is a king in us. We have that royalty, that position. And like a king, we should live like one, and dress like one, and talk like one, and act like one. Herbert Lockyer says: the notion of a divine right gave rise to proverbs like the king cannot deceive or be deceived, which we know is not true. The king cannot do wrong Tennyson expressed it this way, by blood a king, by heart a clown. And the idea is that, well, okay, so you you you hold the office of a king, but are you living like one? You've been given that royal position. So by blood you're a king, but by heart you're a clown. Is that indeed what you are? Or are you a king? Are you living up to the royalty that we should be living up to? We see that we have this position of royalty. We have a promise that will reign with him. In 2 Timothy 2 and verse number 12 says, if we suffer, we shall also reign with him. If we deny him, he will deny us. Revelation chapter 5 and verse number 10, he says, And hast made us unto our God kings and priests, and we shall reign on the earth. Revelation 20, verse number 6: Blessed and holy is he that hath part in the first resurrection, on such the second death hath no power. But they shall be priest of God and of Christ, and shall reign with him a thousand years. Revelation twenty-two, verse number five, and they shall be and there shall be no night there And they need no candle, neither light of sun, for the Lord God giveth them light, and they shall reign Over and over again we see the principle that if we are going to hold this position, we've been given the title of king, and God tells us that one day we will reign with him. We are going to be given positions of leadership. We're going to be reigning with him. This is a situation where we currently have been given the title, but don't presently hold the position. We get to be called a king, but we're not reigning yet, but that that will come. We see that this is part of the king's reward. The reward that we will receive is based on faithfulness. Matthew chapter 25, verses 21-23. His Lord said unto him, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Thou hast been faithful over a few things. I will Make thee ruler over many things. Enter thou into the joy of the Lord. You see, faithfulness is what dictates the measure of your rule, the reward that you've been given We know one day we'll be given crowns. Crowns, which the Bible seems to allude to the fact that we will have the opportunity or the privilege of laying those at Jesus' feet. That we will have these crowns that are given to us. And we've taught on the crowns before, but 1 Corinthians 3. 8 says, every man shall receive his reward according to his own labor. So it's something that is dependent upon how we act now. So are we a clown or are we a king? Are we behaving like kings? Are we effectively filling the office of priest? We know certainly that salvation was free. There's nothing we can do for that. That is a free gift. But these rewards and the privilege of service is ours. But it is dependent upon how we live and how we act. Do you strive to be the kind of priest that brings honor and glory to God? A priest that is indeed a holy priesthood? Leviticus chapter 10, we're told about Nadab and Abayu, those priests who were judged for their sinful acts. Are we fulfilling the office of priest, bringing honor and glory to God, or is the opposite true? You know, there was a sculptor who was carving on a large piece of stone Every day the cleaners would come in and clean up the mess from his carving, and day after day they would see him pounding away on it. One day after the stone began to take some shape, one of the cleaners looked at him and said, Sir, how did you know that Mr. Lincoln was in that piece of stone. You see, beloved, God is carving away on us. He's given us the office of a priest. He's made us kings. He sees what we can be. A lot of times we can't even see ourselves what we can be. I think we certainly are limited to be able to see what others can be. But God sees. And he's carving away. He's chipping off some of those rough edges and taking off some of that things that aren't supposed to be there, shaping us ultimately into the image of his son Allowing us to work with him until that happens. Are you living up to the office the titles that God has given Given us a priest and king. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed? We want to have a moment of invitation before we have our prayer time tonight. I wonder, God chipping away at you God cutting off some rough edges that you need to yield to who and let him let him do that, shape you into what you need to be. Are you honoring him? Living in the as an o as a priest with the expectation, understanding that you're a king. As the pianist plays, if God spoke to you, you come.