Again in Matthew chapter sixteen in Matthew chapter sixteen beginning in verse number well looking at verse number twenty four is going to be our text this evening The Bible says in Matthew 16, 24, then said Jesus unto his disciples, If any man will come after me, let him deny himself, take up his cross, and follow me. You know that we are in the middle of a study on Thursday nights here where we're discussing what they were called. They were called Christians. They were called soldiers. They were called saints. Tonight we want to look at this idea that they were called disciples. They were called disciples. Then said Jesus unto his disciples: The title disciple only appears in the Word of God 29 times in our Bible. Just talking to somebody right before church, you know, there's a lot of different versions out there and uh uh you know a lot of times when you do a particular word study, it's gonna depend on what translation of the word of God you're looking at Whether it has that word in it or not, and in what quantity. Uh but in our Bible it appears twenty-nine times in twenty-seven different verses. Although that is not a lot of times in the grand scheme of things, there is a lot of meaning in that title, in that name given to the followers of Christ. What is the basic definition of the word disciple? According to Webster's 1828 dictionary, it's a learner, a scholar, a follower. An adherent to the doctrines of another. Hence, the consistent attendance of Christ were called his disciples. That's directly out of the 1828 dictionaries. Those that were consistent attendant those that were strict adherents to what Christ taught. They were the ones who were called His disciples. It is one who systematically follows another until they begin to act. and react as the teacher, as the master would. Now you can be a disciple of another, you can be a disciple of many other people, not just Christ. We think about that idea when we talk about the title of a disciple, we think about those that were followers of Christ. But the fact of the matter is, is you can be a disciple of any individual. any other faith. You can be a disciple of many, many different things if you think about it today in today's world with social media and the influencers that are out there, they have many people that they might not consider or call themselves disciples of that individual, but they are followers of them. I was just Did a little bit of research, you know, uh there's different influencers. There's people that follow uh some millionaires, some billionaires. They they follow them. Why? Because their desire is that they would hopefully gain a little bit of insight and maybe start to be able to act and react like that person so that they might be as successful as them. That is their goal, their ambition. Uh some of the leading female influencers have in excess of 50 million followers. Fifty million people that uh watch and consume and and take in, you know, their comments on any particular type of topic, whether that be you know, beauty products or uh whatever things that people might use or whatever, that's that's what they're looking at. And they're following them. What? They're disciples of them. They're trying to learn of them. And this is not anything new. As a matter of fact, in John chapter 9, when Jesus heals the blind man, it's a powerful story that I love so much and have referred to often because of how clear it is. There's a big debate there about, you know, well what happened and why was this man born blind and why did Jesus heal him? And they they kind of going back and forth in this big discussion and then they ask the blind man himself and You know his response in John 9 25. He answered and he said, Whether he be a sinner or not, I know not. One thing I know, that where I I was blind, and now I see. His testimony is listen I can't explain all the ramifications of it. I don't really know what has happened or transgressed to get me to this point, but what I do know is that once I was lying, but now I see, and that is the testimony of anybody that's experience true salvation. They might not be able to explain doctrinally or theologically all of the steps or what happened, but they'll be able to explain the fact that once they had the weight of sin on their heart and their in their world And now that weight has been removed. They'll understand that they were once under condemnation, but now they've been forgiven. And that true salvation, they begin to see it, they can at least explain it in their testimony that way. But the fact of the matter is, is in that passage of Scripture, in verses 27 and 28, you see they didn't let it go. Asking him specifically wasn't good enough They wanted a better response. And they said again unto him, What did he to thee? How he opened thy eyes? He says, What what what what happened? In verse number 27, he answered them, I have told you already, and ye did not hear. He says, I already said this, you weren't listening. Then he asked him a question. He says, Wherefore would you hear it again? Will you also be his disciples? He says, if I was to tell you one more time, is this going to change your heart? Are you going to then be a follower of Christ? Are you then going to do what Christ wants? Is my explaining this one more time going to help? And I think it was a kind of a rhetorical question, a little bit facetious. He was kind of saying You don't really want to know the truth anyway. All you're looking for is a way to accuse the Messiah. He understood his heart. But listen to their response in verse number 28. They reviled him. And said, Thou art his disciple. But we are Moses' disciple. So they said, No, no, no. You're a follower of Jesus. You're Jesus' disciple. We are followers of Moses. We are Moses' disciple. And so the fact of the matter is, is you can, even today, be a disciple of many other things, a follower of many other people, but the fact that what we want to do is be followers, disciples of Christ. So let me give you tonight the passion of the disciple. And these are not going to be up there because I didn't give my outline to Pastor Gus. He texted me and I forgot to do it. So the passion of the disciple, of a disciple, first of all, your passion of a disciple is to learn all you can about the Master and his ways. It's to learn all you can. You want that's your passion, that's your desire. You'll see these people that are maybe going after Grant Cardone and they want to learn about how to be a uh real estate mogul and they want to invest in a particular way and they're gonna they're gonna consume everything they can that Grant Cardone puts out because they want to know about how to do this successfully. They they're they're longing to learn all that they can to be successful as you can. We need to be longing to learn about the master. Beloved, if all you're getting is Sunday morning, you're not learning that much. The fact of the matter is a Sunday morning message, although I try and uh apply it or include a message to the saved many, many times, the salvation on Sunday morning uh if you listen to them has a strong message for the lost. And if all you're getting is a Sunday morning message, you're you're essentially getting the gospel packaged a hundred and fifty different ways. The gospel of Jesus Christ, that death, burial, resurrection, that's you know put presented in different ways that that might reach the heart of those that are present that are lost. Now I do apply it and try and have a message for the saved in there as well. But beloved, if you want to grow, you've got to go beyond that. That's why the discipleship ministry of our church is so important. It is so important that we be pursuing Christ and learning more about Him beyond just Sunday morning Christianity. Galena is right now learning uh the flute and I expected her to be in here tonight. She might be in the nursery or something. She's here, I know she's on site because I saw her earlier. Uh but she's learning the flute. And you know that I have seen her practicing all over the building? I have seen her practicing like in all these different classrooms. I mean she's on the on-site somewhere here. She's practicing. Why? Because she wants to learn the flute And so she's talking to people about it and she's saying, how do I do this? What is this for? And how does that happen? And what book should I try and pursue? And and she's been asking different people that have been here, hey, can you show me something about the flute? And and She's just trying to learn and get as much as she can, and she's practicing and pursuing that. Why? Because she has that desire. Let me ask you, what's your passion? Are you pursuing the knowledge of Jesus Christ? Knowing what he is, learning all that you can. A true disciple longs to be present anytime the words of the Master are shared. That means you want to be in God's house. If at all possible, you want to be present. You want to be where the Word of God is shared. I did some reading today on Amway. And you guys know the foolishness with all this, you know, the multi-level marketing things out there and all of that. But you know, those people that are going after that, I mean they they travel And they go to these conferences and and and one guy I read after, he said, you know, the the the bigwig wouldn't even come onto the stage till after midnight. at these conferences. He said by then your brain is so frazzled you don't even really know what it is he's saying and he would give you a bunch of mumbo jumbo it's all hype it's all you know just you know basically live your best life now through through Amway and and that multi-level marketing. But they they pursue I read several stories and they're like, we drove all the way from Colorado to the other side of Texas to attend a meeting. And and On the way, we were doing this and selling Amway. And everywhere we went, we were trying to sell Amway. Why? They were pursuing after that. But I wonder how consumed we are, how passionate we are about learning about God. Are you listening to and soaking up all you can? Listen, just Sunday we had uh Anthony Trust Jesus Christ, and you need to be praying for him because you know the devil's gonna try and pull him away and keep him from pursuing and following Christ. But the fact of the matter is, is if he does not get into the Word of God and get under the preaching of the Word of God and begin to start to grow that that Satan is going to come in and steal the possibility, not of salvation, that that's secure, but he's going to steal away the work of God in his heart and life. We have got to get underneath the preaching and teaching of the Word of God. I love the excitement of new believers. It's new. They're passionate. They want to soak it up. You know, the the hunger that they have. It's just kind of, it's just, it's contagious. It kind of makes you feel uh like what's wrong with me You all remember when Connor first started coming. His hunger. Man, he just was eating up anything and everything. But what happens to us after a little bit of time is we get used to it. Oh, I've been there, I've heard all that, I've heard every message there is to hear. I've you know I've been preached from every passage of scripture, and man, it takes a a a extreme evangelist uh preaching a message that he's developed over twenty-five years to almost impact us anymore. And and and I'm not preaching that you I'm preaching it myself. I'm telling you, you know, we sit in church and we're around the Word of God so much, but I wonder Do we really are we disciples of Christ? Are we trying to learn? It's far more than just m knowledge, more than head knowledge. I recall in college Mrs. Wright was teaching us college algebra as a hopeless endeavor. But I remember in class she being so excited, she's doing these college algebra She's like, look at this. Look, look, look how this look at how this carries down here and just oh that look at how that came out. Perfect. That's exactly I mean, isn't that neat I was like, no. Not at all. I you lost me ten minutes ago. I mean that I'm still looking at it and saying when am I ever gonna use that? Like nope, not interested in that at all. But she was passionate about it. She loved it and she just thought it was the most amazing thing that these math problems work themselves out this way and that you could count on it every time it's gonna be like that. And I I just nope, not interested in me. Didn't I mean the fact of the matter is, is I learned what I had to learn to take a test. And then I forgot it. That's the difference between head knowledge and heart knowledge I learned what I had to learn to take a test, and as soon as it as soon as I passed that test, as soon as I could say, okay, I'm no longer responsible for that information, it was gone. I had no interest in keeping it. Beloved, it's more than just head knowledge. It's heart knowledge. As a disciple of Jesus Christ, it's something that we pursue passionately and we love and we go after. And beloved, the fact of the matter is, is when it becomes heart knowledge, not only do we learn all we can, but we begin to live what we learned. As a disciple of Jesus Christ. James chapter 1, verses 22 to 24. Again, you guys know these verses. Most of you probably here could quote them. But be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only. That's what we're supposed to be. For if any man be a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is likened unto a man that beholdeth his natural face in a glass. For he beholdeth himself and goeth his way, and straightway forgetteth what manner of man he was. There is the rub. The fact of the matter is it's it's not just head knowledge, it's not just, oh, we hear about these things, but when we are a disciple of Christ, we are learning all we can and we are beginning to live what we learn. You know, one of the reasons that most people, probably ninety five percent of those that get involved in Amway or any other multi-level marketing system is are not successful is because they go to the conferences and in the conference uh they tell you all about what's possible. You could, you know, they show this guy has a boat and he just got a new Cadillac and he just bought a five hundred thousand dollar house and uh all of this or uh two hours a day or or six hours a week or whatever they want to say and very little investment of time. But uh what they don't tell you is that when you start out you have to hit the streets for for for everything. You have to be you have to sell and you have to sell And you have to sell until you build a network, and that network builds a network, and that network builds a network. And once you get to that point, then you become a diamond seller. And it's an entire culture. People live their lives around that. The reason most people basically what they are is anway inventory holders. Instead of sellers because they've collected all this anime inventory, it's all setting in their house and and they're not selling any of it. You know, they sold a little of it to a couple of friends they have, but They're not successful. Why? Because it ha it has not consumed them like it did for the one that was successful. There are people that have made a lot of money through Mway. But most people don't. The fact of the matter is, is a relationship with Jesus Christ is life-changing. And it is the greatest life that you can have. There is no exception. But you have to be a disciple of Christ. You can't just take it and leave it. You can't just uh say, oh yeah, that's interesting, that's good. uh, but I want to do this instead. You will be you will begin to wonder what's wrong with these Christians. Why why do they have the joy of the Lord and you think it's all made up? You think it's all they're just phonies. Because you've lived as a phony so long, you think everybody else is a phony, and nobody's life has been transformed by Christ because you haven't been a true disciple. You've just been a hearer of the word and not a doer. This is the true test of discipleship. You can say anything you want, but in the end, what do you do? Oh, I'm a follower of Christ. But in the end, what do you do? You just do what you want to do? Or do you do what God's Word says and let it change your life? I would not only the passion of the disciple, but can I give you the price of discipleship? Luke chapter 9, verse number 23. Luke 9, 23. All, sorry, I stopped early, and he said unto them all, If any man will come after me, let him deny himself, take up his cross daily, and follow me. Take up his cross daily and follow me. Now I want you to turn to Luke chapter 14 and verse number 27. And whosoever doth not bear his cross and come after me cannot be my disciple. The cost is denying yourself. There is a vast difference, beloved, between coming to Jesus for salvation And coming after Jesus to know him. Jesus will accept all who come to him He will freely provide and give salvation because there is nothing we can do to earn salvation. Salvation is a free gift. But when he calls us to be a disciple, that means we're going to pick up our cross and we're going to be a follower of Jesus. Coming to Christ makes one a believer. Coming after Christ makes one a disciple. And there are many people in our churches today that have come to Christ for salvation. And they're pleased with their salvation, and they're glad to be at the feeding of the five thousand, they're thrilled to be at the healing of the blind man or To see laymen walk, they're excited to be in the presence of Christian things, but they have never personally gone after Christ. They have never personally become a disciple It's gonna cost the title disciple in and of itself implies a discipline of character. Forgive me for this illustration, but it's what popped into my head when I was writing these notes. Wax on, wax off. Okay. Karate Kid thought that he was gonna learn lots of cool stuff But he spent weeks and weeks and weeks learning discipline of character to be a follower of Mr. Miyagi. Have my wife tell me who it was. You see, he thought, oh I'm gonna learn all this cool stuff, I'm gonna be able to defend myself, I'm gonna know all these cool moves But beloved, to be a follower of him was he needed to learn discipline of character. Just the idea of discipleship means there's going to be a level of discipline involved. There's going to be A pursuit, there's going to be time invested, there's going to be sacrifice given. You're going to pick up your cross and carry it for Jesus Christ. Beloved, right, doing right is almost always the most difficult thing to do. I don't know why it is. I don't know why doing right is necess almost always the harder path. I wish it wasn't. But that's a fact of the matter is when God calls us to be a disciple, he's calling us to what the Bible calls the narrow way. There th it is an e it's an it's not a way that's broad. Why? Because it's easy. Everybody can do the easy thing, everybody can do the lazy thing, everybody can do the casual thing But beloved, there's going to be some who want to be a disciple of Christ and they're going to pursue with a passion. They're going to have some discipline about them. They're going to do what's right because it's right to do You see, excitement of the new believer will only carry them so far. And I think we ought to have excitement. I'm thrilled about the joy that comes in the heart when God begins to do a work in in a church and you maybe we have a revival and we see God stir people and there's an excitement in the air and people are getting saved, but you know that that excitement is only going to last so long. Then duty and discipline has to carry you through. Then you have to continue to do what's right because it's right to do, not because it's fun. Not because it's exciting. Not because everybody is doing it. If it's right to do, it's right to do whether everybody's doing it or not. That's what a disciple does. He does what is right. Consistency and faithfulness is not easy. A true disciple is going to die to self and doing right because it's right. What does the Bible say a disciple is? Let me give you just a couple of things. In John 13 You what you're in Luke right now, right? Let's look at those first. We just read this first of all, and he said unto them, If any man will come after me, let me deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. So first of all, a disciple is somebody who is willing to deny it himself. And we know the verse I read in 1427, whosoever doth not bear his cross and come after me cannot be my disciple. But now let's turn over to John. Let's turn to John chapter eight in John chapter eight verses thirty one and thirty two He says, then said Jesus to those Jews which believed on him, okay, so you have believers. This is people have come to Christ for salvation. He says, if ye continue in my word, Then ye are my disciples indeed. They were believers, they had come to Christ, but then they said, If you continue in my word, then ye are my disciples indeed, and ye shall know the truth, and the truth Shall make you free. Beloved, a disciple is one who continues in the Word, who continues to follow Christ. Turn to John chapter thirteen. This is a familiar verse, John thirteen thirty-five. By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples. Do you know what it says? If ye love one another. If you love one another. We're going to be a disciple. That means we're going to continue in the Word. That means we're going to deny ourselves. That means we're going to love the brethren. Turn to John fifteen and verse number eight. You know John fifteen is about fruitfulness. So he says, Herein is my Father glorified, that ye bear much fruit, so shall ye be my disciples. In John 15, 8. This not only glorifies God, but it's a distinct distinctive characteristic of a true disciple, is that we bear fruit. We're not going to take time to chase the rabbit of what fruit is. We have the fruit of the Spirit. I believe that we're talking about fruit of souls. Of reaching people with Jesus with the gospel of Jesus Christ, carrying that message to a lost world. This is what the Bible says disciples were. But you know, sometimes there are men and women who have become disciples for a period. And then cease to be disciples. And this is what we have to guard against. We need to know up front that it's going to cost. We need to sign up having counted the cost and know that there's going to be a cost and we are determining and purposing with God's help and by his grace that we will be a disciple. Turn to John chapter number six Here's some that were disciples, but chose not to be. And Jesus asked of his own disciples, he says, Will you also go away? Let's begin reading in verse number 60. He says, many therefore of his disciples, when they had heard thus, said, This is a hard saying Who can hear it? When Jesus knew in himself that the disciples murmured at it, he said unto them, Doth this offend you? What? And if ye shall see the Son of Man ascend up where he was before, it is in the spirit that quickeneth, the flesh that profiteth nothing. The words that I speak unto you, they are spirit and they are life. But there are some of you that believe not, for Jesus knew from the beginning who they were that believed not, and who should betray him. And he said, Therefore said I unto you, that no man cometh unto me except it were given unto him of my Father. From that time, many of his disciples went back and walked with him no more. Then said Jesus unto the twelve, Will you also go away? Will you also go away? I wonder if Jesus asked God of us. For we see it all the time in the church. Men and women who come and There is that activity of discipleship. There is that pursuit of God and that discussion and conversation around boy the love of God and how good He's been and the life-changing things that have taken place and and and there is that level of discipleship there that seems to be present but then for some reason one thing or another is too hard for them to hear. This is a hard saying. And in that hard saying, they end up drifting or going away. And they no longer are followers. And the fact of the matter is, that's discouraging to anybody. To see people that were followers of Christ that just quit. And you're like, why? How? How can you do that? But I wonder if Jesus looked at us and said, Will you also go away? There are so many that were disciples that gave up, that quit, that no longer walk in the narrow way, and I wonder, beloved, is God's people if we are going to be true disciples and continue to be faithful until the end You see, so many enjoyed the blessings of being in the presence of Christ, but when the burden of carrying the cross It became too much, they left. To be a disciple, there's going to be a cost to pay. It's not all uh bed of roses There may be some persecution. There may be some sacrifice. There's certainly going to be some self-denial. You can't do some of the things that in your flesh you want to do. But we know that our flesh is no good. And anything that God asks us to give up is for our good to do so. But this old flesh is a hard taskmaster. It really pushes us. These that were followers of Christ that loved being around the blessing but weren't ready to carry the burden. are what I have come to call casual Christians. And I'm afraid there are so many churches filled with casual Christians today. There is no real pursuit of discipleship. They're neither hot nor cold. And you know what the Bible says about a Christian like that? God despises it. He's going to spew them out of his mouth. How committed are we as disciples of Jesus Christ? True disciples. If you're there in John, look at verse numbers 68 and 69. Then Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go? Thou hast the words of eternal life. And we believe and are sure that thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. You see, beloved, he was fully convinced who it was he was following. And he said, who are we gonna who who else are we gonna go to? There is nothing else that can do this. There's nobody else that we could follow. We know that thou art the Son of the Living God. And a true disciple has that settled in his heart. And he's going to be a follower of Christ. And that's the only thing that will give you the strength to go through the hard times and to carry the burden. So his conclusion here, the Christian becomes a disciple when he begins to learn. Grow and mature as a believer when you begin to follow after Christ, the price of real discipleship is really very small. compared to what Christ did for us. Yes, it's gonna cost us. But only fractionally what it cost him Christians who continue to be babes in Christ after multiple years have never taken the step to discipleship They could not be called a disciple, a follower, a learner, somebody attentive. to the things of the master. Why? Because they are still a babe in Christ. They're still just enjoying the blessing and never decided to pick up the burden. And I tell you, it's only when you begin to pick up the burden that you truly get to know Christ and see him work in you. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?