You can uh turn your Bibles tonight to 1 John chapter number 3. 1 John chapter number 3. We've been studying the importance of the names by looking at the different names of God on Sunday morning over some 15 weeks or so. We've concluded that study, and now here on Thursday nights for a little bio, we've been looking at some of the names, the titles given to the Christian. The names, each name defines for us a relationship and a responsibility. And kind of teaches us what it is we are and what we're supposed to be doing and how uh God expects us to be living I suppose there's not any other name that more clearly defines a relationship than the name under consideration tonight, and that is that they were called the sons of God. In 1 John chapter 3, right there in verse number 1, he says, Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us that we should be called the sons of God. I mean, you can think about that. What a privilege to be called the sons of God. Now, this is a neutral name. This name, Sons of God, is uh literally to be like a child of God. It's not defining or distinguishing a male or female. It is a child of God. To be called a son of God, to be in the family of God. I mean, what a privilege that is. Ponder and consider and think about that. I don't know if you've ever in your life uh considered another family. I mean, maybe not so much the older you get because you have your own family and all of that, but Especially when I was younger, you you look at some families and you think, man, it would be nice to be in that family. Or boy, that would be fun to be part of that family. Or I I I would see them go on these vacations or something and I would think, wow that that would be awesome to be in that family and get to go do that or uh you know you can just watching from a distance and you know on occasion as a young person I I would Think think about that. Boy, that would be neat to be able to do that. Well, just think about the privilege of being part of the family of God. It is truly a blessing. Well if we're going to just this week I was uh watching uh a little short on uh somebody giving a tour of their yacht. The yacht was a hundred million dollars. It cost two hundred and fifty thousand dollars to fill it with diesel. It holds a hundred and twenty-three thousand gallons of diesel. And uh you know, it's just Uh man, uh you look at that and you're like, wow, that that's I mean that's on a whole nother level. That's like not I mean just unbelievable the size of this yacht and what they I mean you have to hire just to staff it, you know. Uh can be anywhere from a million to three million dollars a year just to staff it 'cause you gotta have you know, galley men and and you gotta have shoremen and you gotta have your pilot and and so many things like that. I was looking up the cost of it, but just that kind of stuff. I mean just people look and say, Wow, to be in a family like that Well, we're in a part of uh a family that's got more than that. We're in the family of God A couple things for us to consider if we're going to be part of the family of God. The first is very rudimentary or elementary, and that is a birth is required. A birth is required. If you're going to be part of any family, whether you look at that family and say, Wow, it'd be nice to be part of that family, or you want to be a part of the family of God, beloved a birth is required. We know John 112 tells us, But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God. And we've talked about this before, but not everybody is a child of God. Not everybody is in the family of God. People in the world have that misconstrued. They think about it, well, we're all God's children, but we know, of course, according to the Word of God, that's not true. When Nicodemus was talking to Jesus, wanting to know what he must do to be saved, Nicodemus uh Jesus looked at him and said, Hey, ye must be born again. You've got to be born into the family of God. A birth is required. You know, some may be put into a family via adoption, but God covers that base as well. Because we've been born into the family of God, we've been given a new birth, but we've also been adopted, we've been chosen by the Lord. Galatians 4 4 through 7 says, But when the fullness of time was come, God sent forth his son, made of a woman, made under the law, to redeem them that were under the law, that we might receive the adoption of sons. And because you are sons, God has sent forth the Spirit of His Son into your hearts, crying, Abba, Father. We've been adopted into the family of God, chosen. to be part of God's family and because of the love of God, we've been put into the family of God. Adoption is mentioned as well in Romans 8. 1 and Romans 8 23 and Ephesians 1. 5, that we've been adopted into the family of God. Beloved, I want you to know that a birth, that birth that is required, the birth shares the nature of the parent. It's inescapable. The nature of the parent is shared. It's bestowed upon the child. Before their new birth, we had the human nature. We had the natural man. We had the nature of our father the devil. That was our nature. But the new birth has given us the nature of God. He tells us in 1 Peter 1. 23, being born again not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible. That birth, it imparts the nature of God. I'm glad that I have not just that natural, I mean I wish we could get rid of it completely, but we still have the natural man. We still have that carnal man that we must fight and battle with, but at least we have the nature of God, the Spirit of God imparted unto us via the new birth. It's amazing how so many parents, uh uh kids, how they look and act so much like their parents. Uh even if they in their mind are like, Man, this is the last person in the world I want to be like is my father but but it happens. Nothing you can do about it. It it ends up happening. We we end up being why? Because that nature, that uh personality, that character trait, those things are passed down. It's it's part of what comes through the blood and there's nothing you can do about it. Well, we have been given the nature of God. Birth shares the nature of the parent. Jesus speaking to the religious Jews who claim to be of their father Abraham, Christ says unto them, You have no idea that you're of your father the devil. That's the nature that you have, but that nature can be overcome by being born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible. The Bible tells us that we have a new nature in Christ, 2 Corinthians 5. 17. We've got a new spirit, God's Spirit, has been imparted unto us in Ezekiel 36. 26 We are to put on the new man in Ephesians chapter 4, the put-off and put-on chapter, or you walk through that and you see the things that as believers we're supposed to put off and the things that we're supposed to put on. And it's the nature of God, that new man. Only that, beloved, that that new that birth that's required, it supplies a fresh start. I praise the Lord for a fresh start. That that to have your sins forgiven, to have all my yesterdays under the blood of Jesus Christ. To know that a child doesn't have to try and overcome his past. A baby, a new birth. They don't have a past that they have to try and you know overcome or or live beyond. Beloved, when you have a new birth, your past is under the blood. Your past has been forgiven, and you have a new life in Jesus Christ. It supplies a fresh start for you. Babes are born with a clean record. And we're born again and given a clean record. What a what a privilege that is. And it would behoove us or or it should challenge us to strive to keep it as clean as possible. We've got a clean record. Let's keep it that way. Hebrews 10, 17 says, And their sins and iniquities will I remember no more He chooses to forget, to to not remember those sins because they're under the blood. Lastly, this new birth secures the relationship. It secures the relationship. I am thankful that my relationship with the Heavenly Father is not in question tonight. That I don't have to wonder. Very much just basically by the definition of a new birth. You can't lose that. There are many children who, through the years, have disappointed their parents to the point where their parents have wanted to disown them. And there's been some children whose parents have disappointed them so much the parent the children want to disown the parents. Like I I don't want that name, I don't want to be associated, I mean what's some But I no I don't want to say the wrong. Just some wacko guy out there that did, you know, what's somebody that killed a lot of people? Ted Bundy. Ted Bundy? Ah, I mean you think the Bundy children want to change their name? I mean, you know, you think about these people that are like, oh, I don't want to have that name for the rest of my life. Uh Uh, you know, there's several names coming to mind, but I'm worried about what they did, so I don't even want to men I don't know what they did, so I don't want to mention them. But you got well, I've got that name. I don't want that name. But you know what? A DNA test is gonna prove it It doesn't matter if they change their name, it doesn't matter what they do, they can d disown it or not claim it or never bring it up, but the fact of the matter is that the time came and it needed to be proven There's nothing they could do about it. The DNA is going to show that they are that person's child or that person's parent. And beloved, you've been born into the family of God. It secures the relationship. You've been born into the family of God. A birth is required. We are the sons of God. And as a child of God, what a privilege that is. I want you to know there are blessings that are released. The number of blessings that are released upon us are innumerable. We could just walk around the room tonight and have each of you define for yourself or or expound upon what God has meant to you and how He has blessed you or your family or your home and the blessings that God is to you In John 3. 21, our text verse, our theme verse for tonight, or whatever, beloved, now are we the sons of God. And it doth not yet appear what we shall be, but we know that we shall, when we shall appear, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. Beloved, we don't know all the blessings. We don't know all of what's going to happen. We can't even heaven and all that's beyond our ability even to comprehend or understand. The blessings that are for us as the children of God are beyond measure or the ability of man to expound upon. Out of the 21 billion years that are in the world today that are under the age of 30 Nineteen of them have received their billions via inheritance. The wealthiest teenager Is Johann von Bonnmackmann. He and his three siblings inherited just over five billion dollars each As his parents were the owners of the largest privately owned pharmaceutical company. As of this year, they are the wealthiest teenagers in the world. But you know the blessings that they have, the the wealth that they have. It does not compare. What shall it profit a man if he gained the whole world and lose his own soul? The the the amount of money that somebody might might have, you look at that and say, wow, they got that via inheritance. From their father. The blessings that we get as the children of God because of our Heavenly Father are innumerable. Count your blessings. Name them one by one. Just count your blessings. Just be a Christian that that counts his blessings. thinks about and considers what God has done for us. And I could surely couldn't begin to name them all, but we know that we have a friend that's closer than a brother We've got a, there has never been a more faithful father. He will never leave thee nor forsake thee That verse that we love to quote just the conclusion of comes from Hebrews 13, verse number 5, which is in the middle of a passage that's dealing with contentment. Why is it that the believer can be content? Because no matter what happens on earth here, we know that we have a Heavenly Father who cares for us, who is with us, who can meet every need and answer every prayer. He's there. We know that love is bestowed upon us. Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us. We were called the sons of God. What manner of love? This love that He has for us. There's never been a more loving Father than our Heavenly Father. We know, beloved, that our that our needs I was going to supply your knees, and we we could go on just through the pages of scripture and list and name off things that are blessings because we are the sons of God The goal tonight is to get us to just ponder and think about the the the privilege that's ours to be a son of God. To be born into that family and have a fresh start, to be able to live with that right relationship with our Heavenly Father, and we know the blessings that are given to us. And because of that There is a behavior that should be reformed. We know John 14, 15, if you love me, keep my commandments. As we ponder and think about all that God has done for us, there is the most basic and the smallest thing that we could do for our Heavenly Father is just what He asks of us. I mean that that is the entry-level of Christianity. That's the beginning of what God would have us do, is just what He asks. Let's just, if you love me, keep my commandments. But our behavior should be a testament of our new birth. Love is what motivates the change of behavior. Now beloved, babies aren't babies don't know everything. There's a new birth, but when a child is born, we also don't expect them to stay that size forever. We expect them to grow. And the same is true as a new child of God, as a new son of God, that not everything is, we're not expected to know everything But we are expected to try and learn as much as we can this side of heaven, to be as in obedience to his word and his commands as we can. As newborn babes, desire the sincere milk of the word that ye may grow thereby. Like a newborn babe. I don't eat cereal very often. Some of you guys love cereal. I like I like golden grams. Last night I was up late studying. And there was a I was looking for some snacks or something and there was a box of golden grams. I'm like, that'll work. And I opened up a box of golden grams. I just sat there munching on golden grams Uh, I didn't even get any milk, but just just eating Grollinggrams. I eat about half the buck. You know, but y you just You have that, you're like, oh, hungry for that, or I desire that. Do we ever desire the word? Do we ever desire to just get in the word, to just be fed spiritually? That we can grow thereby as a child of God, as the sons of God. Do we desire to hear from the Father? To have his word impact our lives, to change our behavior? Paul says to the Philippians, In Philippians 2, 12 through 16, he says, Wherefore, my beloved, as ye have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more my absence. Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. For it is God which worketh in you both to will and to do his good pleasure. He's saying find God's will for your life. Find God's plan for your life. Work out the God saves you for a purpose, for a reason. Let's get with God and say, okay, what is my plan? What is my purpose in life? What should I be doing or fulfilling? In honoring to you. And it is God that both willeth and doeth. It's God that's going to work that through you in your life. And then he says, do all things without murmurings and disputings that you may be blameless and harmless, the sons of God. without rebuke in the midst of a crooked and perverse nation among whom ye shine as light in the world. Beloved, when our behavior doesn't line up with this, we're not shining as lights in the world That's what we are supposed to be doing as the sons of God. We're supposed to have a light that shines. And you know what it is? We are like the moon. The moon doesn't have any light of its own. But when the moon is in line with the sun, it refracts or reflects the light from the sun. And beloved, when we are in line with the sun, S-O-N. We, the light of Christ shines through us into this dark world. And beloved, the darker the world, the easier it is to have a light that shines. The smallest little pin light makes a huge difference on a dark, dark night. And man, y you don't even have to be much of a Christian today to be s to have a light that shines. But we ought to desire to have as bright a light and as strong a light. I mean twenty-five million candle power or whatever. I don't know. They've got crazy flashlights now. Some of you guys have them, you know. They you can see the moon from with this light or whatever they say You know, th you know, they're all made in China, but they're they got these huge LEDs, big big things they can they're they're bright. What about your light? How is your light shining? You see anytime we get out of line with the sun, we get anything in between us? We're we're not shining like lights in this world like we should. And then God has to deal with us because we are sons. He tells us in Hebrews chapter 12, verses 5 through 9. And ye have forgotten the exhortation which I speak unto you as unto children, my son, despise not thou the chastening of the Lord, nor faint when thou art rebuked of him For whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth. You know, I was a teenager. And uh you guys know as a teen I had several years where I was really not desirous to follow in my dad's footsteps. I wanted to do my own thing. And for all intents and purposes, I could be qualified or as a rebellious kid During that time, my dad was really trying to work with me He was really trying to invest time and he was trying to talk to me and do things with me. But as a rebellious teen, he was the last person in the world I wanted to do stuff with. I didn't really want to be with him. And looking back at things that I said to him or how I treated him during that time is reprehensible. It's terrible when you think about all that my parents did for me and during that time where I was flexing my muscles as a 15-16-year-old kid who you know didn't know anything, but of course I thought I knew everything. And what I'm saying is my dad was really trying to work with me. And one time He had another pastor from another church in a different city come and take me out to dinner and sit down and just trying to break through that hard shell. And I remember sitting at Burger King with this pastor and he's talking to me. And he's like, your dad is so concerned about you. Your dad loves you. He's trying to spend time with you. And I'm like, I never asked that of him. I didn't ask him to do that. I don't want him to spend time with me. I don't want to do, you know, and and he's like, you don't understand. I said, he has five other kids. Why doesn't he spend time with them? He said, because you're the one hurting right now You're the one running right now, and so he's coming after you. And as a 16-year-old kid, I didn't understand that. But beloved, as a father, I understand that. The one in need is the one that gets the attention. And God says here, For whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth. And he scourgeth every son who he receiveth. If ye endure chastening, God dealeth with you as with sons. For what son is he whom the Father chasteneth not? But if ye be without chastisement, whereof all are partakers, then are ye bastards and not sons. Furthermore, we have had fathers of our flesh which corrected us, and we gave them reverence, shall we not much rather be in subjection unto the Father of the Spirits? and live. They say, man, God is chasing you. Why? Because you are his son. Because you're a son of God. And as his son, there's a behavior that's expected That we should want to do because we've been given a new birth and we've given tremendous blessing. But if we don't do it, God who loves his son is going to chasten us. He's gonna come after us. Why? Because he loves us. You say, oh, I didn't ask him to do that. That doesn't matter. He loves you. He's gonna come, he's gonna find you. He's going to do all he can to try and bring you back to the fold. That you might be restored because he loves you. We are called the sons of God. What a privilege to be a son of God. We'll just stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed.