We're going to turn the Bibles tonight to 2 Corinthians chapter number 5. 2 Corinthians chapter number 5. We have before us tonight another name given to the believer that's found on the pages of Scripture. Not only uh do these names declare for us the relationship that we have and many different aspects with the Father, with one another, with the family of God, but it also defines for us the responsibilities that we have as believers. The Apostle Paul declares to us in several passages of Scripture that he is in fact an ambassador. In Ephesians, he tells us that, and We see also in the passage in 2 Corinthians chapter 5 that we're going to be looking at here That not only is Paul an ambassador, but by application and implication, we too, as God's people, are to be ambassadors. Look with me at our text, 2 Corinthians chapter 5, beginning in verse number 17, and reading down through verse number 21. Therefore, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. We certainly could stop and preach there for some time. on this modern thought that uh you can continue to be the same that you were after you're saved. Don't you know God changes you from the inside out And you are not the same person that you were. You now have a heavenly nature, and it's going to be in conflict with that human nature. You're going to be in conflict with that uh Adamic nature, the nature of Adam that you had, and uh although that flesh is still there, you have the power and freedom Victory over sin, all things are going to become new. Verse number 18. And all things are of God who hath reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ. And hath given to us the ministry of reconciliation, to wit that God was in Christ, reconciling the world unto himself Not imputing their trespass unto them, and having committed unto us the word of reconciliation, now then we are ambassadors for Christ. As though God did beseech you by us, we pray you in Christ's stead. Be ye reconciled to God. For he hath made him to be sin for us, who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. I'm going to speak to you for a few minutes tonight on the thought that they were called ambassadors. We too are ambassadors. And there are lots of ways in which we can take this and imply it, but We need to remember that this position that we've been given and the responsibility that it implies for us, first of all, I want you to know that it is a designation that is appointed by the king. This is a position that has been appointed by the king. The president or the king, the ruler of the land. chooses somebody and makes them an ambassador. It's not somebody that says, oh, I think this would be great. I would love to do this. Next starting next week I'm going to sign up for this. I'm going to be an ambassador. No. It is something that is chosen. It is an appointed position. You have been appointed to this, and I want you to know, beloved, that we have been chosen For second 1 Peter 2, verses 9 and 10, but ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a peculiar people, that ye should show forth the praises of Him who hath called you out of darkness. into his marvelous light, which in time past were not a people, but are now the people of God which had obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy. Listen, we are a chosen people. We have been chosen by God, the King of Kings. We have been appointed to the position of ambassador. God has given that to us. It literally is a privilege to be an ambassador for the king. Anybody that is given an ambassadorship for a country is honored to do so. You go and you represent your country. You go and many times are Given many gifts, you're praise, you have a position of leadership and uh authority, and you you go and you represent your country in a foreign land. He who became sin for us has chosen us to be an ambassador for him. We are a highly favored people because of this. It is understood, beloved, if you're going to be an ambassador, that you are going to be a pilgrim. That you're going to be living in a land as a stranger. One of the hard things for those that serve as ambassadors many times is they do get to take their family with them. But they're living in a very foreign culture. And they're serving in a in a land that they don't understand the dynamics of the situation. They don't know the culture of the people and This can be challenging on the rest of the family as they have to figure out what they're going to do for school and how how are th they they've lost their their friends and uh they they're now living in a strange place. Well beloved The Bible tells us in 1 Peter 2, 11 and 12, dearly beloved, I beseech you, as strangers and pilgrims. Abstain from fleshly lust, which war against the soul, having your conversation honest among the Gentiles That whereas they speak against you as evildoers, that ye may by your good works, which they shall behold, glorify God, in the day of visitation, beloved, we are strangers and pilgrims in a foreign land. We should not feel at home or comfortable in this place. We have been chosen by God to function as an ambassador. We've been allowed to stay here in this world, this strange place. For a time. Why? So that we might adequately and correctly represent the king. We might carry his message. To the world that we live in. We're a pilgrim here, we're a stranger here, and we've got a message. We're not to live like the rest of the world around us. The Old Testament saints understood that they were not at home. Hebrews 11:13 says, they all died in faith, not having received the promise, but having seen them afar off. And were persuaded of them and embraced them and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on earth. They understood, even the Old Testament saints knew that they were looking for a heavenly country. They knew that they were strangers and pilgrims here on this earth, and that although they lived in this society, that what they looked for, what they longed for, was when they would get to go home. Hebrews 11, 16 says, But now they desire a better country, that is unheavenly, wherefore God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he hath prepared for them a city. I wonder, beloved. As has happened at times throughout history where those who have served as an ambassador have disgraced or dishonored their home country. I wonder how many times maybe the King of Kings has been ashamed of his ambassadors for how he they have represented him. We've been chosen ambassadors, and it should be our desire to live up to the position that we've been given. It demands something of us. You don't just get to do whatever you want to do. When you're an ambassador in a foreign country, you represent the home country, you represent the president that appointed you or the king that uh appointed you and so you have that responsibility upon you all the time and you are to carry yourself in such a way that becometh An ambassador. I heard that in Great Britain, when uh Britain they used to say that the sun never sets. uh on Britain because uh the they they they had provinces all over the world and so essentially the the sun was never down and they had ambassadorships and uh The thing is, is you could be court-martialed for dishonoring your country When you served as an ambassador for Great Britain in other parts of the world. Ephesians 4, verse 1 says, I therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you that ye walk worthy of the vocation wherein you are called. We've been given an ambassadorship. It's a position that's been appointed by the king. And God calls us to walk worthy of that. To walk worthy of that. That phrase just rings in my heart and my mind to walk worthy of that. The King of Kings. Has assigned it to us. It ought to be something that we desire to walk worthy of the position that He's given us as a representation of the King of Kings. First Corinthians 10 31, wherefore there whether therefore ye eat or drink, and whatsoever you do, do all to the glory of God. When you're serving as an ambassador, you're not there to represent yourself. You're not there to make yourself look good or to win as many friends as you can or to influence as many people as you can for your own gain or your own good, but you're there to uh establish relations with the uh country and the society there to try and make sure there's a good relationship between you and uh your country and their their leadership and you you help function in that role. You represent, and whatsoever you do do all to the glory of God, not only, beloved, is it a designation that is appointed by the king, but I want you to know that you have duties that have been assigned by the king. As you serve as an ambassador, it's you don't get to just do whatever you want. You have duties that have been assigned by the king. There's things that he expects of those that are fulfilling that position. First of all, I want you to know that he has asked of us that we be faithful. In Proverbs 13, verse number 17, the Bible says, a wicked messenger falleth into mischief. But a faithful ambassador is health. We know, beloved, there is an expectation that as God's people we would be faithful. An ambassador that goes to a foreign country is not judged by how popular he is in that country. He's judged at how faithful he is with the duties he's been given. In 2007, Israel recalled their ambassador to El Salvador because as was stated In the public declaration, when he was recalled, he was found to have behavior that is unbecoming of a diplomat. He was found out in front of the ambassador's home, locked out of his own house Plastered, mostly naked, basically wandering the streets coming home from a party where there was terrible things happening He was drunk, he was unclothed, he was not in his right mind, and he was the ambassador to Israel. And Israel said, You are no longer the ambassador. You are guilty of behavior that is not becoming a diplomat. You see, God calls us to be faithful to fulfill the role and responsibility that He has assigned to us. A diplomat, beloved. Consider this. Think about this. A diplomat, a ambassador is not governed by the rules of the country they live in They are governed by the rules of the country that sent them. They actually, uh uh the ambassador's home in a foreign country is a small piece of land that has been assigned to their sending country. When you have the ambassador's home or uh a a place like that in a foreign country, it's actually, if it was from the United States, would be United States soil, and they are to live and abide by the rules of the sending country. But beloved, this world is not our home. We are to be living and abiding by the rules of our sending king. And it doesn't matter if this world decides that uh it's okay for a man to marry a man, God still says it's not. It doesn't matter if the world wants to try and you know say that society wants to embrace uh every kind of of perversion that's out there, God still says you can't It doesn't matter if there are churches in in the United States or even around the world that want to change the way of worship and say this is okay now. I mean come on, let's be culturally relevant. God is the same yesterday, today, and forever. God, you know, he says, I'm God and I change not. Listen, just because culture changed doesn't mean God's changed. And we need to be careful to try and remember that we are to live by the law that God gave us. Not by the law of society, not what's acceptable in the community, not what might be embraced by others around us, but by the sending nation. We are governed by that law, the law of God. Listen, this world is not my home. I'm just a pass-in-through. And we are governed by a higher law, the law of God. And we ought to obey God rather than man. Amen? We know the Bible tells us that a man ought to be found faithful. An ambassador is asked to be faithful. Not only that, an ambassador is asked to be fruitful. John fifteen verse sixteen says, Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you. We're a chosen people We have been appointed to a position, he says, I have ordained you that you should go forth and bring forth fruit, and that your fruit should remain, and whatsoever you shall ask of the Father in my name, he may give it you. were to be fruitful. In the context of well let me ask you, in the context of the verse that we read tonight, just to get you re-engaged in case you started to put your mind in neutral here. In 2 Corinthians chapter 5, what is the ministry that we are supposed to be involved in? According to what we read, what is the ministry we're supposed to be involved in? Reconciliation. That is The ministry, that is what we've been called to do. We've been called to be an ambassador, and we have been called and asked to be fruitful. We're fruitful in direct proportion to how effective we are in the ministry of reconciliation. Bringing people back. This world stands under the wrath of God, being judged by God for the sin that is in their heart. And they have no means or capacity or way to take care of that sin themselves. But there is a God in heaven who loved them and sent his son to die for them. He who knew no sin became sin for us that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. He has provided a way of reconciliation, but he's called his ambassadors to share that in the world. To let people know that there is a way of reconciliation. Beloved, I have many times in my life gone to visit churches all over the country and as a pastor son you know we we go in and I mean I love visiting new churches and going in and fellowshipping with another group of of like believers and I loved it as a kid. uh being a visitor and answering all the questions in a junior church and that kind of stuff. I mean it was fun for me. But we would sometimes get into a church that my dad was known My dad having preached around the country or at different churches or in conferences or something. And sometimes there would be young people there that, like, oh, your dad is rotten Like, oh wow, uh, you know, uh boy, I would like to meet him. Say, oh well, I can take care of that. To me, it's just my father. And so I could as soon as services were over, I'd say, come on, come on, let's go, let's go talk talk to dad and we'll bring him up and I'd get you know be able to say, Hey Dad, you know, this is Sam and this is and introduce him to them. Beloved, that's our job. You know, this world does not know how to talk to God You know how many times I have been dealing with somebody about their soul and asking them to call on God, to forgive them of their sin, and I've said, Would you be willing to pray and ask God to forgive you? And they're like, I I I don't know how to pray I don't know what to say. I don't know how to call on God. The world does not know how to be reconciled to God, but you and I just need to introduce them to the Father. We're to be fruitful. That's what our ministry is. We've been called to a ministry of reconciliation. We're to be fruitful in this world. Notice, beloved, that we carry not our own message, but the message of the king that sent us. He says here in verse number nine. To wit that God was in Christ reconciling the world unto himself, not imputing their trespass unto them. And hath committed unto us the what's that word? The word. You know, as I read this at first I thought it would be the work. He's committed unto us the work of reconciliation. But he has committed unto us the word of reconciliation. Beloved, it's not our word that we're giving to the world. It's not what we think that we're sharing with men. We're giving them the word of God. And God has told us exactly how men are reconciled to him, and all we have to do is carry that message to them. What a privilege it is ours to be ambassadors for him. John 17, 18, as thou hast sent me into the world, even so have I also sent them into the world. Oh, the God has sent us as ambassadors and expects that we would be fruitful. I think sometimes if we would be less concerned about making conservatives and more concerned about making Christians, We would be more profitable for the work of God. We need to stop not I I mean I love America We need to stop trying to save America and start trying to save Americans. America and any other place is only going to be saved as they are repentant and turn back towards God. So we need to bring people to Jesus. We need to reconcile them with God. That is the work of the believer. We see that He also asked of us that we be fearless In Ephesians chapter 6, 6, verse number 18 and 20 through 20. Ephesians chapter 6, 18 through 20. Again, Paul speaking here, he says, praying always with all prayer and supplication in the spirit And watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all saints, and for me, that utterance may be given unto me. That I may open my mouth boldly to make known the mysteries of the gospel, for which I am an ambassador In bonds, that therein I may speak boldly as I ought to speak. Beloved, you understand that Paul Here declaring this role and responsibility that God has given him in much the same way that he did in Corinthians, except now He's in prison. Now he is in bonds. Do you know sometimes we get the idea that God is only good to us? When things are going good. Instead of realizing that God is good to us all the time And that we have been called to be ambassadors regardless of whether we be free or we be in bonds, regardless of whether things are going really good or if things are going in our perspective really bad. We're still ambassadors. We still have a role to fulfill, a responsibility. And he asks of us that we be fearless. He says, pray that I would be boldly, that I would open my mouth. That I would come before this world and say the things I ought to speak. Paul says, you know what, I'm in prison, but I still have an audience. I just have a different audience and pray that I would preach boldly. I read Today, about a man in a foreign country, and I forgive me, I don't remember if it was India or where it was, but it was a place where persecution was prevalent, and he was imprisoned for preaching the gospel. And at first he was just distraught, destroyed, just downhearted, and he thought, man, all I was doing was trying to do what's right and please the Lord. And look what's happened to me. I've been thrown in jail. And I don't know how long it was, but after a period of time, he began to realize, well, look what God did for me. He's given me a captured audience. And he began to preach the gospel in the jail for four hours every day. Finally, the jail said, get that guy out of here. He's converting everybody in the jail. And so they let him go. Listen, you don't know what God's doing, and sometimes we see the problem and we think, oh no, what's going on? But what miracle might God be want to perform if we would just be bold for Him God has placed us as ambassadors regardless of the situation, regardless of what's going on. But Paul, in the face of these problems, he says, hey, praying always. Praying always. This brings me to another point that is very pertinent for the fact that we're ambassadors. I want you to understand that the ambassador has a direct line. To the king. The ambassador doesn't have to go through a uh a board of directors. He doesn't have to apply to Congress. The ambassador has a direct line to the King. And you and I have direct access to the King of Kings. Hebrews 4. 16 says, Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. As an appointed ambassador of God, we have the privilege of coming boldly and directly to the King in our hour of need. We don't have to wait. We don't have to wait till Sunday to get a hold of God. We can cry out to Him in the midst of our storm. Prayer, beloved, is what moves the hand of the king. Paul said, I couldn't do it. I couldn't do what God has called me to do without prayer. This week, as I talked to Moti and Gracie and had prayer with them numerous times. I described for you the one challenge after another. But I prayed with them and prayed that God would give them grace. They would find grace to help in time of need. That in the face of this storm, in the face of this great hardship, that they would indeed have the peace of God. Because, beloved, contrary to popular belief, peace is not just the absence of problems Peace, beloved, comes when we're in proximity with the King. Like those men on the ship who were in the midst of a storm, but that Jesus was there. And beloved, if we get to the place where we understand and realize that peace is never contingent upon the absence of problems, but it is contingent upon the presence of the King We'll be able to go through the the the bad news, we'll be able to take the call from the doctor, we'll be able to understand that open heart surgery is what's on the table right now, but we still have peace Why? Because we know as we go into that operating room that yes there's a doctor that's prepared and has the skills and is going to do his best But oh we have the great physician, we have the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords, and not one hair is gonna fall off my head except God allows it And as they go into that operating room, Moti can have the peace of God and know that God is in control. Because the King of Kings is with them. And beloved, we can have that peace. We have direct access to the King. And lastly, tonight, I want you to see that we are deliverance is assured by the King. Deliverance is assured by the king. You see, there is a commitment given to the ambassador by the sending nation that should war break out They will be the first to be evacuated. I know that because of modern technology and our access to the world news and and and different uh movies and things that have been made about uh real life situations at places uh at embassies around the world where ambassadors were situated that you know war broke out uh civil war in the country broke out and the marines went in and evacuated the ambassador and all their staff. Beloved, that's the promise that the sending nation gives. Can I tell you that we have a promise from the king that we are going to be delivered? God is going to take us out of here. There's people That believe in mid-trib and post trib and pre wrath different time frames where they believe that we're going to be taken out of here, but beloved, we believe in the pre-tribulation rapture of the church. We believe that God is going to remove his church from this place before that time of great suffering is going to fall upon the earth. In 1 Thessalonians chapter 4, and verse numbers 16 and 17, he says, For the Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, with the trump of God, and the dead in Christ shall rise first. That we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with him in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so shall we ever be with the Lord. We believe that that is the next thing on God's calendar. The rapture of the church that we're going to be taken out of here. And beloved, we are going to endure. You can see it. All the signs are all around us. The the the the turmoil is in the world and and the the stress is in the world and and the heartache and and the the storms and and the the famines and there's so many things in every part of the world that And and you can even see in with technology how the entire world can believe a lie and how the whole world can know the news of anything in just a moment of time. how all the things that the Scripture said were going to happen are seem as though they're falling into place. And we know, beloved, that the time is not nigh. The Lord is coming. And as things wax worse and worse, we're going to go through some hardship as well. But we believe that before the tribulation actually falls upon this earth, that we will be taken out of it. First Thessalonians chapter 5, verse 9 says, For God hath not appointed us to wrath. God hath not appointed us to wrath. We believe that the Bible is teaching that, listen, the wrath of God that falls during the tribulation is not appointed unto the believer. You're not going to have to endure that. You're not going to have to go through that. Just before church tonight, whether Armando and I were chatting about this. And and he he brought it up. And I said, wow. That's actually my last point tonight. It's the final point. We're going to be talking about the tribulation, because he was talking about how we're not going to be here for the tribulation. I say, you're exactly right. That's what the Bible teaches. We're not appointed unto wrath. Revelation 3. 10 says, because thou hast kept the word of my patience also I also will keep thee from the hour of temptation. That hour of temptation, we believe, is God saying, hey, He's going to take us out. We're not going to have to go through that hour of trial. We're not going to have to go through that time of hardship as it is dealing with the tribulation there. Luke 21, 36 tells us that we've been accounted worthy to escape all these things that shall come to pass. We're going to escape these things that shall come to pass. What I'm saying to you, beloved, we have the promise from the king that when that great tribulation comes We're going to be taken out. Deliverance is assured. That ought to be good news for you As the world waxes worse and worse, sometimes you know you think, man, how could it get any worse? How can the Lord tarry any longer And y you think, boy, this is this is getting bad. I'm not sure how much more maybe that I I want to endure or live through, but beloved, uh it's going to get bad to a point we we don't really even understand, but before that happens, we're gonna be taken out of here. Deliverance is assured. What a privilege that is There's other things that we could give you on that, but we just praise God tonight that we are ambassadors. We've been given this role, this responsibility. How are you living up to it? Are you walking worthy of the vocation whereon you have been called? To be an ambassador for Christ? I wonder, beloved, how would it impact you throughout the day? If you thought of yourself as an ambassador Do you know in the Bible the term Christian was not something that people called themselves People looked at them and said, they act like Christ. They are Christians. But that's not something people call themselves. But Paul called himself an ambassador. I just wonder if we thought of ourselves as ambassadors. You know, when you're in a foreign land and you're serving in that position, you understand the job that you have to do. You're there and you realize I'm here to build a good relationship with these people. I wonder, would it change our activity? Would it impact how we respond to other people? Would it change what we say? Would we take time to introduce them to the Father to be actively involved in the ministry of reconciliation as an ambassador? Let us stand to our feet with our heads bowed and our eyes closed.