Turn your Bibles tonight to the book of Acts. To the book of Acts. Acts chapter number eleven. I'm gonna start a series tonight. I don't know if how long I'll go. I may only do a few and then add to it in future years like I do with some of the other series that I've been teaching on. But this is a series I've been contemplating or thinking about for a while. The title of it is They Were Called. I pray that this would be helpful for the believers, not just here in church, but those that listen and online or even in years to come as many people utilize our our sermon audio uh account um last month there was an excess of 7,000 plays on our sermon audio account uh people listening to the messages from twenty-one different countries. And so you never know who's going to be impacted or influenced through the ministry here, but we praise the Lord for that. But we're going to deal with this aspect. We've been looking Sunday mornings at the names of God. and uh studying the idea that we get a glimpse of who God is. No we don't know what his visage is, no we couldn't pick them out, but by his names we are given a description We understand his character. We know who his person is. We begin to get a grasp and a glimpse of the essence of God and who he is as a person by the titles that God has given himself. And well there are found on the pages of Scripture a number of names for the believer, for you and I, uh, that also give us a picture of who we are or who we're supposed to be. And so tonight I want to look at these names that paint for us a picture of what the believer is called. The text we'll look at this evening is the first place that we see this described for us. Look in Acts chapter 11, verse number 25 and 26. Then departed Barnabas to Tarshis for to seek Saul, and when he had found him, he brought him to Antioch. And it came to pass that a whole year they assembled themselves with the church and taught much people. And the disciples were called Christians first at Antioch. They were called Christians. This title that is probably the most prevalent title in society today, with regards to the description of the believer the Christian. Wouldn't it be wonderful if every person who claimed the name of Christ lived and acted like a Christian? And that is going to be the admonition or the uh admonishment tonight, the encouragement that as Christians that claim the name of Christ and we're going to hold that title Christian that we should indeed be What is expected not by society but by Christ, someone who bears his name? It is a label, beloved, that we should cherish Even though initially it was not a name of any positive meaning, it was actually a derogatory name. It was a name that was assigned to believers because they had chosen to have faith in Christ, because they chose to be followers of Christ. And because of that, they were called Christians. They were Christians because they were followers of Christ, because they had faith in Christ. The sad reality is that Christian today has been blurred. That title. For most of the world, Christian has come to mean anyone who is not Muslim or Hindu. The average person today would assign the name Christian to Jehovah's Witness, Mormons, Catholicism. Even though Pope Leo, what is he, the fourteenth, I think, he called for a renewed devotion to Mary in his one of his first addresses to the public after being given his position. You see, beloved, the world looks at it even. I just looked up if you look up national statistics, global statistics regarding religion For instance, they say Mexico is 91. 3% Christian. However, Catholicism is the largest denomination representing 78% of that population. But they go on to describe and say that Catholicism is in decline due to other Christian denominations who are growing, such as Protestant churches, Jehovah's Witness, and Mormonism. Beloved, Christian doesn't fit those other titles. Although society and the world wants to look at that, there's some definitive things that in order to be a Christian To truly be called a Christian, you must meet. I know it's very popular today. You even have a lot of movie stars and a lot of even uh What do you what do you rock artists, you got pop artists, you got you know singers in society today that want to claim to be Christian? A lot of ball players, sports, sports, sports, you know, uh enthusiasts or or athletes claiming to be Christian. They don't ever go to church, but they want to claim the name of a Christian. We want to talk about that tonight, first of all. I want you to see the assurance of a Christian. This, beloved, is who you are. Who you are. We see in our text here, and initially I had planned just to give you the three references in the scripture where we're called Christians. But then my outline grew, and so we'll we'll see how far I get. But we'll see the first one here that we just read. And when they had found him, he brought him unto Antioch, and it came to pass that the whole year they assembled themselves with the church and taught much people, and the disciples were called Christians first in Antioch. You see, beloved Barnabas has taken Paul to the church at Antioch. They labored together there for an entire year, witnessing and reaching people with the gospel of Jesus Christ. Those people had made a commitment to be followers of Christ Change in their life was evident. Something happened where they put away what they used to believe and they became a follower of Jesus and they were called Christians. When people got saved is when their lives changed and they began to be called a Christian. You cannot be a Christian unless you are born into the family of God. This is the defining moment. This is the demarcation line there, you know, beloved. The Bible says in John chapter 3, 36, he that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life, and he that believeth not the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth on him. Beloved, I don't care how much religion you have. I don't care how faithful you are to go to the temple or to the synagogue or to mass. Or whatever else you have that makes you feel spiritual, that is not what makes you a Christian. You are made a Christian when you put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ. That is when you are born into the family of God. That is when you become a Christian. As many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God. You're not just a Christian because you want to claim the name of it You're not just a Christian because you do religious activities or because you've been baptized or because you observe some ritualistic ceremonies in your life. You're a Christian because you put your faith and trust in Jesus. Being a Christian means, beloved, that Christ lives in me. Galatians chapter 2. 20 says, I am crucified with Christ, nevertheless I live, yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. Beloved, this is the essence of the Christian life. That it is now Christ that liveth in you. You have his Spirit in you. The Holy Spirit of God dwells in you. You have been born into the family of God. You are a child of God, and that's what makes you a Christian. They were called Christians because they put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ and in Him alone. John, 1 John 4, verse 13 says, Hereby know we that we dwell in him and he in us. Because he hath given us the Spirit. Beloved, we dwell in Christ, and Christ dwells in us. It is Christ that liveth in me. And this is an assurance. This is a no-so salvation. You know who you are. You know you're a child of God. You have no doubt, there's no question, there's no room for wondering. You don't have to hope so. This is unique to the Christian faith because, beloved, every other uh cult or religious uh movement out there has as its fundamental foundational truth that you hope so. You try and work as hard as you can, but you don't know until you pass off into eternity if you actually made it or not. But for Christianity, you know these things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may know that ye have eternal life It is a no-so salvation, it is a no-so relationship, it is something there is no question about. You should have an assurance tonight that you know that you're a Christian. And if you have that assurance, if you know that to be true, then there's some things that are going to be evident in your life. Everything else we're going to talk about tonight has no bearing if the first one is left off. Because you cannot be a child of God until you've been made a child of God by putting your faith and trust in Him. And I know I'm preaching to a Thursday night crowd, and this crowd uh by for all intents and purposes you I would believe you know for sure you're on your way to heaven, but I don't know who will be listening to this online six months from now or a year from now, and I want you to know that what the rest of the things that we talk about tonight are a mute point. If the first one's not taken care of, you need to know that you know, that you have assurance you know you're a child of God. That's how you become a Christian It is not religious activity. It is a relationship with your Lord and Savior Jesus Christ by putting your faith and trust in Him to forgive you of your rotten, wicked heart, your sin. Trust that He came and He died for you to pay for that sin. And when you do that, you become a child of God, you become a Christian. So we see that assurance of the Christian. Next, I want you to see the actions of the Christian. This is what you do. Turn to Acts chapter 26 the actions of a Christian. This is what you do. And and this just this point right here I had to I had to just stop. I had to quit because you say, well how do you sum up the actions of a Christian? I I I uh was looking at the character traits and a few summers ago I taught on character traits and uh you know I had seventy character traits and I'm like, well I could just copy all of those and put them right here under this point. What does a Christian do? Well, let me just give you a couple of things. We see here that Acts 26, verse 28, then Agrippa said unto Paul, Almost thou persuadest me to be a Christian. What we see here, beloved, is the activity, the action of Paul. When you become a Christian through the new birth in Jesus Christ, you are partakers. Of the divine nature of Jesus Christ. The old man has passed away. Behold, all things are new Yes, we still have that flesh, we still have that old man that we have to battle with, but we also have a divine new nature. Let me give you scripture, 2 Peter 1, verse number 4. Whereby are given unto us exceeding great and precious promises, that by these ye might be partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world through lust. Beloved, there is a divine nature that we partake of. You are going to begin to start to act like your Heavenly Father. Yes, we have the old nature, and when we were lost and on our way to hell, the Bible tells us ye are of your father the devil, and we had the devil's nature and that character trait that was present in our life, and we acted like the devil. even though we don't like to admit it. That's the fact of the matter is. But when we got saved, we have a divine nature. And beloved, if you are truly a child of God, you will begin to take on the character traits of your father. It's not something that you can avoid. It's not something that you can do without. The fact of the matter is, just like you partake on the character traits of your earthly father, whom you uh even if you don't like it you begin to look like him and you talk like him and you act like him. There is no question that John Norman is a Norman I mean he th there's no doubting that. He could change his name and people would know be how he how he carries himself and how he acts and and communicates that that he's a Norman. He he has taken on character traits of his father. And we all do that. Well if we start, if I take on the divine nature of God, we're going to start acting like him. Your nature, this new nature, will make you like Christ. The problem, beloved, is we're not spending enough time with our Heavenly Father. There was a little boy who kept falling out of bed every night. Every n every day he would come in, Mom would come in and find him on the floor wrapped up in his covers and And he kept falling out of bed and she's trying to figure out how to keep him in bed. And and one night it came came to the boy as he was getting in bed. He said, Maybe the reason I'm falling out of bed is because I'm staying too close to the place where I got in it. And a lot of times that's the problems, beloved, when we are staying too close to the place where we got into it. But we got into the family of God and yet we're wanting to stay right there by the world and continue to keep those associations and those relationships and those activities And the reason we're having such a struggle taking on the new nature, the divine nature, is because that's not what we're pursuing. We're pursuing the world. If we indeed follow Christ, we're going to begin to take on his character traits. There was a young pastor who. Son at five years old was diagnosed with cancer. They went through the months and months of treatments Did everything that they could do, and ultimately they came to the boy not many days before his six-year-old birthday The doctors talking to dad said he only has a few days to live. We've done everything that we can do. We can do nothing else Dad went in to his boy and got in bed with him there and was cuddling, holding him. His son knew where they were at. He's talking to his son and just giving him scripture and talking to him about God and talking to him about heaven and He began to say, you know, son, you don't, it won't be long and your body here on this earth is it's gonna stop. But you're not going to die because we know that to be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord. And he said, Son, are you afraid to see Jesus? And his son looked up into his dad's eyes, who eyes were filled with tears. Looked into his dad's face and he said, Dad. I'm not afraid if Jesus is anything like you. But an amazing thing. To have a testimony that a child would say, boy, if Jesus is like my father, then yes, I want to be with him. I want to be close with him I believe that that is what Jesus is like. And Christian, we need to not just bear the name of Christ, but we need to live like Christ wants us to live so that this world would see Jesus in us So that they would look at you in the eye and they would begin to behold the character traits and the attitudes and the actions of a believer who is living like Christ. That's so much better than a young boy who was talking to his mother. And he was asking his mom, he had heard about a Christian in church, and he says, Mom, what is a Christian? And so she began to describe a Christian as best she could, giving him character traits and the description of what a Christian is. And then he looked at his mother and he said, Mom, have I ever seen a Christian? What a sad thing that our own children would wonder if they've seen a Christian, that they don't know what that is, and that we as God's people aren't living in such a way that is evident for them To know that they're a Christian beloved, we should take on the divine nature of Jesus Christ. And we know that Jesus Christ came to seek and to save that which was lost. He came to pursue the duty that his father gave him. And we see right here in our text that Paul was about that. He said, Agrippa said unto Paul, almost thou persuadest me to be a Christian. Paul had just spent the better part of a chapter giving unto Agrippa his own testimony of how Jesus Christ came and and uh reached him and saved his soul and forgave him of his sin and he was trying to persuade Agrippa to be saved If we're going to be Christ-like and we begin taking on the divine nature of our Heavenly Father, we are going to begin to try and persuade men to be Christians. So let me ask you tonight, have you taken on the divine nature of your Heavenly Father? Who is it that you're persuading to be a Christian? Oh, maybe you fall short, maybe they're like Agrippa, and they say, well, you didn't quite convince me, but if you're like Jesus Christ, you're going to be like Paul and you're going to be persuading men about their lost soul who they're bound and on their way to hell. But God is not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance And if we had the heartbeat of God, we would see men in their lost condition and desire to see them reached, and we would be giving them the gospel. That is what a Christian does. Jesus, fulfilling the heartbeat of his father, came to seek and to save that which was lost. Jesus came to minister. He was not just a soul winner, he was a servant. Even as the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister and to give his life a ransom for many Beloved, I ask you tonight, do you have the mind of Christ in which you serve others I can't tell you how many times growing up it seemed it was one of my father's favorite poems Outside of him looking at me and saying, Great peace have they which love thy law, and nothing shall offend them. I got that one a lot. But he would say, Lord, let me live from day to day in such a self-forgetful way. And even when I kneel and pray, my prayers will be for others. Others, Lord, yes, others, let this my motto be: Lord, let me live for others that I may live like thee. Serving others. General Booth, the founder of the Salvation Army, got up in years and he reached a point where he was no longer able to preach and he was scheduled to be at a particular meeting and they they wanted to hear from him and so they asked of him, they said, Would you be able to at least write a message and and we'll just have somebody stand up and read it and General Booth did so at their request, and he sent the message on ahead, and then they got up in front of the crowd, and he pulled the paper out Others, General Booth That was all he wrote. Others. That was the extent of his message, the heartbeat of what he wanted them to begin to do is to stop living for themselves. and start having a heart and the mind of Christ and live for others. Beloved, this is the actions of the Christian, what you do. We're taking the divine nature of God, we begin to act like Christ. I want you to see, thirdly, you can turn to 1 Peter 4 and verse number 16, where we see the attitude. This is how you feel the attitude of the believer He says, Yet if any man suffer as a Christian, let him not be ashamed. But let him glorify God on his behalf. Yet if any man suffer as a Christian, yea, beloved beloved, we know that we're going to suffer. Yea, that all that live godly shall suffer persecution. We know that we are going to suffer, we are going to under endure some things, but there is an expectation that the Christian is going to have a different attitude about it. He says, let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God on his behalf. Beloved, yes, you're going to undergo some hardship and some trials and some some things that uh you don't enjoy in this life. But do you know what? You're not going to take on the victim mentality that is prevalent in society today. You're not going to embrace the woe is me and the depressed feelings that people get today that you're still on the winning side, that no matter what you have to endure, you have the mind of Christ and know that He is still on the throne. You have a different attitude about what you're going through. Jesus Christ in the face of death, in the face of false accusations, in the face of physical abuse He answered not a word. 1 Peter 2, 21-23 says, Even hereunto were ye called. Because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example. You see, Christ gave us an example of how to suffer How to go through some of the things in our lives that weigh us down. He says that ye should follow in his steps, who did no sin. How many people use their suffering as an excuse to give up on God? To go off into sin? To quit following Jesus. Jesus, who suffered for us, he says who did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth. He didn't let his suffering turn this sour. You know, beloved, we need to control this. We need to be careful, even if we've been mistreated, even if we've been talked about, even if we've been falsely accused, even if something in our life has happened, we need to be careful with this. Lord help us control the tongue. There was no guile found in his mouth, who when he was Reviled, reviled not again. When he suffered, he threatened not, but committed himself to him that judges righteously. Basically, he said, God the Father knows He knows. You know what? God knows, you don't have to worry about it. You see, we should have a different attitude about things in this world. If we take on that divine nature, if we are living like Christ, we're going to look at things differently. How do you feel? You know, beloved, as a Christian, we should feel like a fish out of water in this old world. The longer you're saved, the less comfortable you should be in this world. The less enjoyable the world's amusements should be to you. The fact is, if we lived on a higher plane as Christians, much of this world's attitudes would automatically die off. You know, we're supposed to die daily. We die to self. We die to our own appetites. We die to our own uh ambition, our own desires, our own attitudes. But you know, if we lived on a higher plane, Here's what I'm saying in World War II there was a pilot who landed on an airstrip in Arabia and he dropped off his what ammunitions and things that he was supposed to drop off there and he picked up some crates and things from from the airfield there that he was to fly on to another location. He got back up to altitude, his cruising altitude, and settled in, and the engine noise settled down a little bit as he was just cruising along, and when the engine noise settled down, he heard some munching in the back of the plane. And he realized that he must have picked up a big desert rat. And he was concerned that with that desert rat back there chewing on stuff, he might chew through a gas line, a fuel line, he might chew through some controls and he would lose control of the plane or or destroy something else and so he he he thought, well you know what I'm I'm going to just go higher. And he went up above 30,000 feet where there's no oxygen. He wasn't up there very long and uh munchin sounds quit He said when he landed a few hours later in his next strip that he was supposed to land at, they unloaded and they found a large desert rat that had died. What I'm saying, beloved, is if we just lived on a higher plane, some of this stuff that's got a grip on our lives would die off on its own. We would stop battling with it so much. God would just give us the victory. But the problem is, is we're living too low. I'd like you to see the fourth thing here. That is your appearance. Your appearance is how you look. I know we don't like to talk about this so much today, how you look. Beloved, I believe that being called Christian should impact every part of our lives. You see, we as Christians means Christ-like. That means we should be a copy of the original. In 1 Corinthians 15, verse number 49, he says, and as we have borne the image of the earthly, we shall also bear the image of the heavenly. As we have borne the image of the earthly, our earthly father, as that image, you can't help it, you're going to begin to look like your earthly father, I believe that as we Begin to walk with God, we will start to take on the image of our Heavenly Father. Just as Christ bore the image of His Father, we should begin to bear the image of the Son. Romans 8. 29 says, for whom he did foreknow, he also did predestine to be conformed to the image of his son, that he might be The firstborn among many brethren. In Colossians 3:10, he says, And having put on the new man, which is renewed in knowledge, after the image of him that created him You see, there's something about that picture, that image. It goes beyond just attitude and actions. It is a perception, an appearance that the world looks at, that people look at and they Say he's a Christian. She's a Christian. I don't understand somebody Who names the name of Christ, who wants to say, I don't have to look like a Christian to be one. You're saying I don't have to look like Jesus to be called a child of Jesus I don't have to take on that character trait. I don't have to look like a Christian. Why is it we would fight to look like the world instead of fight to look like Christ? It has been said, you are quite possibly the only Bible your neighbor will ever read. But I wonder if we don't even look like Christians, what are they reading? You know, beloved, God didn't save us, and I'm glad he didn't just save us part way. He saved us 100%. Absolutely, completely, without reservation or hesitation. When we called upon him, he forgave us and 100% provided salvation for us. And you know, we we don't know. People will say, well well, you don't know whether I'm saved or not. That's true. We cannot, it's between you and God. Only you and God can know that. But beloved, the Bible tells us. How does that verse start? That that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven. What's the first part? Matthew 5, 16. Let your light so shine before men. That they may the first part I couldn't remember, that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven. You see, beloved, the world looks at us. And we have the opportunity to bring glory to God. Those whose lives portray a partial salvation will soon fall away I've been at this long enough to know that that's the case. This is the reason why I have a problem with these rock stars and pop singers and and ball players and athletes that want to get up on a news broadcast and claim the name of Christ. But there's nothing in their life that says Christian. I wish they wouldn't do that. Well let's go on. Your ambition. Your ambition as a Christian. This is where you're going. Where you're going. You guys know my light verse. Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness And all these things shall be added unto you. Seek first the kingdom of God, your ambition. What is your ambition for life? What is your goal? What is your direction? I know many times young people They have an ambition to get to the next stage of life. They can't wait to be a teenager or they can't wait to hit 16 or can't wait to get their license or they can't Wait to get to college or get done with colleges. There's those beginning stages and lots of those are just going to happen as a matter of just getting older, but they're looking towards that. But I wonder for us adults here, what is our ambition? We say often here, God is not as concerned with where you're at as He is with where you're going. Going means you have a direction, means you have an ambition. Let me ask you: what is your ambition as a believer? What is your goal in life? What is it you desire to accomplish? You know what, we're on the brink of summer here. This is the summer months, and if you're not careful, summer's going to pass, and you'll have done nothing for Christ this summer What is your ambition for the next three months? What are you going to do for God? Who are you going to witness to? What uh passages of scripture are you going to study? What ideas are you going or books are you going to read? What gospel are you going to give out? Who are you going to help? What is your ambition? Do you have a goal, a direction that you want to head? Seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. You know, beloved, it's vitally important that we understand the why we're doing what we do. Those that have come to the place where they just conform Because of peer pressure or pressure in the church to take on a particular image. They didn't learn why They have not adopted that for themselves. What must take place is they must be transformed by the renewing of their mind. That transformation takes place and they learn why. You can teach a dog to jump through a hoop, but he doesn't know why. As Christians, it's important that we understand and we know the why. You see, beloved, when I married this lady over here, I separated myself unto her. I didn't do that because my family or friends would think I was weird if I didn't. I didn't do that because there wasn't any other girls that were interested. Don't ask her about that. I I didn't do that because the church said that that's what I should do. I separated myself unto her because I love her. Because I love her, and that was my motivation. I love her more now than I did then, and the love that I have for her is is so great Sometimes I just am amazed. I sit back in awe of the love that God has given me for her. I text her this morning and said, I don't know what I would do without you It's love that motivates me to do what I do for her. And beloved, our love for Jesus Christ is the why. And when the love is there, there is nothing too hard that God asks of us. There is nothing that we're going to be fighting against him for and holding on to our rights. There's nothing that we're going to be bothered with because it is the love of Christ. It's not conformity to a standard or conformity to some rule or we have to do this or boy the church wants this. No, beloved, it's love for Jesus Christ that motivates us to do what He calls us to do And in that we are excited and thrilled for the opportunity to do it. The why. What is your ambition? I'm not going to preach these last two points. You have your acquaintances. That's who you run with. Beloved, there's a problem if the crowd you run with doesn't change. You've got You can't run with a skunk and smell like a rose. And you have your allegiances. Where are your loyalties? Your loyalty should change as your loyalty to the lost world, to the job, to the workplace, is your loyalty to the Lord. Let me ask you this, is your loyalty to the family of God or is your loyalty to the lost family You've seen it happen many times where people, this the family of God really becomes your family. Because the lost family that they don't understand. What you used to have in common with them, you don't have in common with them anymore. They were called Christians. I believe that as a Christian, what it boils down to, I know you know the verse, but if you have your Bible, you turn to Philippians, Philippians chapter 1. What it boils down to is having the mind of Paul, who we know wanted to have the mind of Christ. But Paul says in Philippians 1:21, for me to live as Christ and to die is gain. They were called Christians. And our ambition and our desire should be to just to live as Christ You see, it goes way beyond just wearing a bracelet that says WWJD comes down to heart that is in tune with God so that our actions are like that of Christ. And those are people that bear the name of Christian And have earned it. Deserve it. Would you stand with me with your heads bowed and eyes closed