It's time to get into the words during your Bibles tonight to John chapter number ten. John chapter number ten. In John chapter number 10, read beginning reading in verse number one down through verse number four. The Bible says, Verily, verily I say unto you, he that entereth not by the door into the sheepfold, but climbeth up some other way, the same as a thief and a robber. But he that entereth in by the door of the shepherd of the sheep is the shepherd of the sheep. To him the porter openeth, and the sheep hear his voice. And he calleth his own sheep by name, and leadeth them out. When he putth forth his own sheep, he goeth before them, and the sheep follow him, for they know his voice. Look down in verse number 26. In verse number 26, 27, and 28, the Bible says, But ye believe not, because ye are not of my sheep. As I said unto you, my sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. We're going to look tonight at the topic of they were called sheep. They were called sheep. The fact of the matter is, is this simple title or name given to The believer is mentioned in the Bible more than any other animal, any other name for the believer, uh, the the the name of an animal here. Sheep is found in 33 of the 66 books of the Bible. beginning from Genesis all the way into the book of Revelation, you'll find it all through the Bible. It is the animal that For w God's infinite wisdom and in his design he chose to describe the believer with the name, with the title, sheep. This name reveals to us much about how we behave, much about who we are. The character and patterns that believers tend towards are very prevalent in that which is seen in the sheep. Out of the 188 times that the word sheep is used in the King James Bible, there are so many notable passages. I think as as we go through this tonight. You know, you there in our minds we know that we're called sheep. We know that you know, we hear the Shepherd's voice and we know that I mean we know that, but I think you'll be shocked again just to be reminded of them when you put them in order or put them in some measure of consistency, uh that it just There's so many and I just barely scratched the surface for those that we will be looking at this evening. Uh but we will be looking at and we're aware, of course, that the shepherd Psalm, Psalms 23, uh very powerful picture of that, Psalms 100, that we're called, we are his people and the sheep of his pasture. At Christ's crucifixion, he says, All ye shall be offended because of me this night, for it is written, I will smite the shepherd, and the sheep shall be scattered. Jesus, of course, is called the Good Shepherd. Peter calls him the chief shepherd. Jesus, when he was calling Peter back to service unto him, he said, Feed my lambs Feed my sheep. Feed my sheep. This title that God has given to us is a descriptive name. I would like to look this evening, first of all, at The character of sheep. Just to think about this title that God has given us. And some of these you might find offensive. You might think, well, that's not very nice, or That is not very kind, but that is a reality. It is the truth about the character of a sheep. And therefore we need to consider and be willing to look at ourselves. Just today I I had somebody call the church just looking for some wisdom, some advice about something, and they asked me some questions, and I said, well, what you need to start with is looking at yourself. You need to acknowledge that the heart is deceitful and desperately wicked and no man can know it. that sometimes in our life we want certain things or our heart wants something specific and we tend to go after it and we need to really get honest with God and say, okay, is this just my heart? Or is this your will? Because sometimes we look at things and we say, This is the will of God, but you need to be willing to look and and pray and ask God, Lord. If this is not your will, uh help me to be be acceptable unto another pattern or another path, because I know in my heart this is what I desire, but if it's not what you want. We need to be sensitive to that and realize that. So as we talk about some of these characteristics with regards to the character of sheep, just think about them in regards to yourself. And say, okay, how does that fit into my life or into the pattern that I have displayed or shown? First of all, we know that sheep are utterly defenseless. Sheep are not given the capacity to defend themselves. By God's design, these animals, they have no claws, they have uh no great strength where they can uh ward off the enemy. They don't even have the stink of a skunk that they can let off to let the people say, Man, that's I'm not going around that Uh they don't have the the quills of a porcupine. I mean they have they have no means of of protection. They really are kind of defenseless as they as they go out there and that means that they're to be dependent upon the shepherd that they need to be dependent upon the shepherd for their protection. They don't even have the ability to run fast. Sheep are not uh What's another word for quick? Mine just went blank. Besides fast. I've been Swift, yes, that's what I was thinking. Like for deer and whatever. You would c you would characterize them as swift. You know, they're swift animals and and uh sheep are not that way I saw a short this last week or two weeks ago. I was telling my boys about it and I said it's really sad, but um uh you know there was a a guy that was one of these road workers and he was holding the stop sign and he was you know stopping traffic and What you saw is this video of him holding the sign, and then all of a sudden he drops the sign and he's he's moving away. But he was a rather large man. And his ability to move was very hindered. And then you see this when when it comes into frame, a semi-truck was coming roiling down or a truck or a car, something was com roiling down through the screen And it literally takes out the sign and takes out the barrier and runs right through. And this guy barely missed it. And the caption was, Imagine running for your life, and this is the best you could do And I mean the guy was just like like moving but you know just like oh boy and and then a truck comes full speed right behind him and you're like Man, it puts it into perspective. Like, whoa, that's the best you could do. But the fact is is the sheep have no they can't outrun their enemy. They g they can't just take off and and get away. Uh they ha they are utterly defenseless That means they are dependent. Because they're defenseless, they're dependent. And that is a good thing, beloved, that we should be dependent upon the shepherd for everything In every area, the sheep really are dependent upon the shepherd. They have uh not even for their own sustenance. They really don't in in and of themselves have the means or capacity to find their own source of water or find their own source of food or even uh you know we as we look at the scripture a little bit more we'll see that they need the shepherd to find a place of rest. That they can find the place of rest. And one of the reasons I think many Christians find the Christian life so difficult is because they are not experiencing the rest of God. the rest that God wants them to have. Come unto me, all ye that are labor and are heavy-laden, and I will give thee rest. The sheep need the shepherd to find that race, rest, that place of rest. And we need that place of rest. We're dependent upon him. 2 Corinthians 3, verse number 5 says Not that we are sufficient of ourselves to think anything as of ourselves, but our sufficiency is of God Our sufficiency is of God. Our abilities, we must be dependent. We are like sheep. We don't have the means to defend ourselves. We are dependent upon the shepherd. You don't see well here's one that my might have thought somebody might not care for much, but really the fact of the matter is is sheep are dumb. They're dumb. You know, you don't see sheep winning any awards, or they're not part of any talent shows. Sheep are not at the fair, you know, being like, oh look at what this sheep can do. I mean they they're they they don't they aren't trained very well. Uh you know they it's not very typical to find that. Yeah. Somebody said what what do you call a sheep that knows karate? Lamb chop. Unlike most other animals, uh sheep wander and they can't find their own way back. Most other animals have some type of homing sense, some type of a capacity to find their way back, even if they didn't go there themselves. If they were just taken away And yet somehow the the animal can find their way home. I mean how many uh you know out on the range the rider is hurt and he's on the horse and he just lets the horse have his head and the horse goes home. Knows where to go, just finds his way home. He knows even through some terrible terrain or whatever, the horse finds his way. But sheep don't really have that capacity because of their limitations They don't have a real sense of direction in and of themselves. They often bump into things. because of bad sight and uh because uh that it build many times the they're wool is growing up over their the top of their eyes and their head is down, look, you know, they're eating grass and all that, not really paying attention where they're going, they'll walk right into stuff. I know some people like that. Occasionally I've done that. Yeah. One time when I was a teenager, uh early teen, we were on vacation and we went to a really big church, fancy church, you know. And the foyer was real large and they had these glass doors and these uh huge glass panels and it was kind of like a cathedral that went all the way up all glass, you know. And after church, uh, you know, dad sent us into the bathroom to change before we left, which was really embarrassing for me. Like I don't wanna go into the bathroom, like let's go to the truck stop and change or something But I went in and I I changed and I had all my clothes in my hands. Didn't have a duffel bag or anything. I had all my clothes in my hands and I thought, well, I'm gonna get out of here quick. So when I get out of the bathroom, like I took off running through the foyer And what I thought was the door was a pane of glass. I ran full steam into this pane of glass and it hit I hit it and it knocked me flat on my back. I was laying on the floor, of course the It rang through the whole foyer. Everybody stopped what they were doing. They all looked at me and they're like, Are you okay? So in my effort to avoid embarrassment, I just I just made it like a hundred times worse, you know And uh I'm still scarred to this day, obviously. I remember that. But sheep often run into things because they're not looking where they're going. He doesn't know his way back. The sense of direction is la la lacking. You know, even a snake will find their way home. It's a a fact that uh you know some of you in recent days have found some small baby snakes uh around the church here And you know that a snake will go back to where they had where they were born to have their babies. And that's one of the reasons why this building was virtually unused for many years. I mean they had Sunday morning services and that's the only thing it got used for. And so a lot of critters had made this their home. And when we took possession of this property over the six weeks of renovation, we found numerous snakes, large, four or five foot snakes in the building. And uh we cleaned all those out. And we went through the building, we tried to seal everything up, but do you know that all of those snakes for how many of those years that was that were born here will come back here to have their babies? And so as much as we try and make sure that there's no way that they can get into the building and whatever, you know, but somehow they find their way in. I don't know how they climb up and go through the roof or what I don't know how they get in, but I I think at some point we gotta be done with those that that were born during those years, you know. Uh but uh that's something we're dealing with still because of that. But sheep don't have that capacity. To find their way back. You know, sheep tend to get dirty. You see, as they travel through this life, their wool picks up the dust and mud and briars and other things. They they're not like a cat. They don't have the capacity to just clean themselves off. You know, we have no means to get ourselves clean. It's the nature of sheep as we travel through life to kind of pick up the dirt we're around. That's why it's so important to be careful where we're at. What we're around, because we're going to pick up those things. And once we do, we don't have the capacity ourselves. I'm glad that if we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness and that we can at any time Be made clean if we come to him, but we're dependent upon the shepherd for that. That's how the sheep are. They're dependent upon the shepherd to keep their wool clean. There are some characteristics that are very positive about sheep as well. That is that sheep are compassionate. They truly love the shepherd and they love each other. They're glad to give of themselves for the shepherd. Sheep give their wool continually for the shepherd. Sheep are compassionate, sheep are communal. They love to be in a fold. By God's design and God's plan, sheep are to be in a fold. We're to come home to the fold. We're not to be out there on our own. They like being around other sheep. They find comfort in that. Sheep are not wild animals. They they they they don't they they're domesticated naturally. They are part of a fold. They're to be with the shepherd. Jeremiah 23, verses 3 and 4 says, And I will gather the remnant of my flock out of all the countries where I have driven them, and will bring them again to their fold. And they shall be fruitful in increase. And I will set up shepherds over them, which shall feed them, and they shall fear no more, nor be dismayed, neither shall they be lacking, saith the Lord. By God's design, sheep are to be in a fold. God speaking about his children, the children of Israel, he's saying, I'm gonna bring them back together. I'm going to bring them back into the fold and I'm going to put shepherds over them that's going to feed them and watch over them and care for them. Sheep tend to be very contented animals. They're very content. You know, we've had some puppies that were not content. It doesn't matter how many two toys you give them. They will chew on anything in sight. Don't leave a pair of shoes out or a box from Amazon or anything anything. They're gonna find something else to chew on. But sheep tend to be Contented animals. Sheep are committed to the shepherd as well. We read it in John 10, 4 and 5, and when he putteth forth his own sheep, he goeth before them, and the sheep follow him. They know his voice. Then a stranger will they not follow, but will flee from him, for they know not the voice of strangers. It's been said that In Israel, in Jerusalem, you know they had the sheep gate. This gate that the shepherds would take their sheep through and bring them back in at different times during the day They said it's an amazing thing to watch when the shepherds would come through the sheepgate. They did not worry at all. about the fact that there was five or six or seven shepherds there and they all had herds and they were all work walking through the gate at the same time and all these sheep are getting intermit intermingled and oh no Well how are we going to tell which sheep is yours and which sheep is mine? Once they got through the gate, the shepherd would begin to talk or begin to sing, and the sheep Would separate themselves. They didn't have to wonder. Those sheep knew the voice of their shepherd. And when he started walking that way and began talking, the sheep that belonged to him would just separate and begin to follow. Do we know the voice of the Master? Are we ready and willing to follow like that? I'd like you to see in the Word of God some classification of sheep. There's three that I'm going to give you. First of all, the Bible tells us that they're shepherdless sheep. They're shepherdless in Psalms one hundred Verses 1 through 5, he says, Make a joyful noise unto the Lord all ye lands. Serve the Lord with gladness. Come before his presence with singing. Know ye that the Lord, He is God. It is He that made us, and not we ourselves. We are His people and sheep of His pasture. Enter into his gates with thanksgiving, into his courts with praise. Be thankful unto him and bless his name, for the Lord is good. His mercy is everlasting, his truth endureth through all generations. We're sheep of his pasture, but there are some who have yet to come into the fold. There are some who are still shepherdless. The prophet in Kings said in 1 Kings 22, 17, and he said, I saw all Israel scattered upon the hills as sheep not having not a shepherd. The Lord said they have no master. In Matthew 9, 36, Christ, the Bible says, was moved with compassion. Do you remember why he was moved with compassion? Because he saw them as sheep without a shepherd. Sheep that were shepherdless. They didn't yet come into the fold. Beloved, this is a dangerous place to be, with the certainty of death and the shortness of life. We should all be seeking a shepherd, the shepherd, the master. And I believe tonight I'm speaking to Sheep, we know that once you're saved, you're always saved, you can't lose that. So if we're talking about somebody the shepherdless, it's somebody that has not come into the fold. He's talking in a broad sense of those that should be part of the family, those that have not yet accepted him as Lord and Savior, they're shepherdless, they're sheep without a shepherd. All men need to turn to the shepherd. Beloved, there's a roaring lion who would love nothing more than to dine on sheep without a shepherd. We need a shepherd. Not only are there shepherdless sheep, but there are strain sheep. There are strain sheep. Isaiah 53, verse number 6 says, All we like sheep have Gone astray. This is the nature of sheep. To begin to wander. Psalms 119-176 says, I have gone astray like a lost sheep. Seeking thy servant, for I do not forget thy commandments. 1 Peter 2. 25 says, For ye were as sheep going astray. But are now returned unto the shepherd and the bishop of your souls. Beloved, the fact of the matter is, is we're prone to wander. There are straying sheep, and it is human nature to stray. I know that we have all observed people that have strayed. Our hearts are broken for them. We look at them and we wonder. Where what are you doing? Where are you going? Boy, you're you're going astray. You're not going the way of the Lord. That's literally what it means to go astray, is to err or to depart from the way. When somebody goes astray and we see them going astray, we think, oh, would you please come back? But beloved, I wonder tonight, instead of pondering and thinking about those who have gone astray, I wonder if we would be honest before God for ourselves. And say that we are prone to wonder. How often has our heart began to go astray How often have we began to let the fire of the Holy Spirit dim in our souls, and the fervency that we should have for the calling of Christ and the work of the Lord in our lives dim? And we began to be enamored with this present world. We let our hearts go astray I know we can point to others, but I wonder if we wouldn't be honest tonight and say, boy, I too am prone to wonder. My heart has gone astray One of the tragedies is amazing as you think, well, how is that even possible? But kids oftentimes in Bible college will go astray. They're in Bible college. How can that happen? Well, because they're so busy doing the work that they have stopped the worship. They are so busy doing that they have ceased to be They're involved in these classes and they're studying the Bible. They're taking Old Testament survey and cults class and they're they're studying the Pauline epistles and maybe doing a deep dive on the book of Romans and all of these things, but then Their own personal walk is gone. It's possible to be a pastor, pastor in a church and go astray. Let your heart go astray. Lose your desire to please and follow God because you're so active. In the day-to-day ministry that you cease to be spiritual. Oh, how we need to think and consider ourselves where we're at personally. Do you know it's possible to be a worker, faithful worker in the church, and let your heart wander It starts slow. Backsliding is a slow, gradual process. Hosea 11. 7 says, and my people are bent to backsliding from me. They're bent to backsliding from me. Beloved, that's God's people from the time of Hosea till today that has not changed as sheep were prone to wander. We're bent towards backsliding. It's something we must guard against. We must pursue after God. Just think about those in the Word of God that we look to and are inspired by who went astray. Probably the greatest example is David. We look at David, a man after God's own heart. And yet we see on the pages of scripture recorded for us where his heart was allowed to go astray His own son Solomon. He was the wisest man who ever lived, and yet later in his life, and for some reason this tends to happen as we get older and get more comfortable. If we're not careful, we begin to put it into neutral. We begin to stop pursuing spiritual things and stop getting in the book and stop searching for God's power in our lives. And like Solomon, his heart got turned away towards other gods. He went astray. We obviously could go down through the list and see so many more, Abraham and Noah. Who at different times in their life went astray, men that were greatly used of God, men that are in the hall of faith That's why, beloved, it is such an admirable thing when a man of God Stays faithful until the end. Not perfect. None of us are perfect. But faithful till the end. I see Justin and Jason. They of course went to Crown College and I just appreciate Dr. Sexton was faithful to the end He's just faithful till the end. Don't know how many years my dad has left. I pray that God will allow him to be faithful till the end It's such an admirable thing when you think about how so many people that we look up to, they went astray. And oh how we need to guard against that. Because Satan would love to be able to get any one of us out of the fold, any one of us astray. I'm glad when we go astray we can come back. But boy, how much better not just not to go astray. How much better to catch it. before we have to bear the scars of having been out in the world in our body. You see, it was never the plan to be so far from God. It was never the plan to to to not be going to church. It was just I wasn't feeling very good at first. I was just missing a service here or there because I was tired. I didn't quite have the energy to go and do the singing and talk to everybody and all that. I'm just going to stay home tonight. No intention of actually getting out of church altogether, but the commitment begins to wane and You've missed one or two here and there, and then five or six, and then twenty, and before long you you wonder how did I get this far from the fold? One excuse leads to another. There you are. Beloved, he has promised to restore us. The good shepherd is going to go after the sheep. Psalms 23, 3 says, He restoreth my soul. That word restoreth literally means to bring back. to bring back. And he wants to bring the strained sheep back to the fold. Because the shepherd knows the Danger that's out there. The enemy that's out there to destroy. The environment that's out there that will destroy. How susceptible to being hurt the sheep are when they're outside the fold. He wants us to respond to his voice and to come home. We know God speaks to us through the scriptures. God speaks to us through his spirit. But you know, beloved, if we don't respond to the scripture in the spirit, the Bible tells us he'll use the staff. And he's going to chasten those whom he loves. And the shepherd will do that. He'll reach out with that staff and grab that sheep and pull them back. In a case of a sheep who will not stop wandering, you know, we've talked about it not too distant past that he'll break the leg of the sheep. Motivated by love, he'll allow that to happen. Hosea 6. 1 says, Come and let us return unto the Lord, for he hath torn And he will heal us. He has smitten and he will bind us up. He has allowed this to come into our lives because he knows we're straying. But if we would come back to him, he'll heal. He'll bind us up. If you're wandering tonight, Would you say with Hosea, let us return unto the Lord? Let us return. Would you say with the songwriter, I've wandered far from God, but now I'm coming home. The paths of sin too long I've trod, but Lord, I'm coming home. We see thirdly that there are satisfied sheep. Satisfied sheep. In Psalms 23, we're going to look at verses 1 through 6 if you want to turn there. We're not going to spend a lot of time here. I'm bringing it to a close here, but He says, the Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. You see, beloved, those who really are resting on the Lord who have not a shepherd, but the shepherd. That God is not a God, but your God. The Lord is my shepherd. Because David could rest assured on the fact that God, the Lord, was his shepherd, he also Said, I shall not want. He was satisfied. You can hear his contentment and satisfaction all through this psalm as you read it He describes for us the rich and fulfilling relationship that he has with the shepherd. God is meeting the deepest needs of his soul and providing the daily needs of his station, because he is his shepherd. You know, beloved, we've seen it. We've heard it. The lost man The sheep without a shepherd, they're searching for something. Aren't they? Aren't they searching? They're just looking for something. They realize there's something missing. There is no satisfaction in their life. They're searching in everywhere in this world that they can, and nothing is really meeting that need in their soul. Why? Because they've yet to know the shepherd. The shepherd will meet those needs. Lastly, tonight, we want to see the care of the sheep, and we see that in Psalms 23, verses 2 through 6. We don't need to spend time here. We've spoken on this passage and you guys are familiar with it. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures. He leadeth me beside the still waters. He restoreth my soul. He leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake. Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for thou art with me Thy rod and thy staff they comfort me, thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies. That anointest my head with oil, my cup runneth over. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life And I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. And beloved, there is no doubt that He cares for the sheep. He cares for you. He cares for us. He is the good shepherd. We just gotta stop straying. We are truly the people, his people, the sheep of his pasture The songwriter said, in shady green pastures, so rich and so sweet, God leads his dear children alone. Where the water is cool, flowing, bathe weary one's feet. God leads his dear children alone. Sometimes in the mountain where the sun shines bright. God leads his dear children along, and sometimes in the valley and the darkest of night. God leads his children along. Though sorrows befall us and Satan oppose Though grace we can conquer and defeat all our foes, God leads his dear children alone. Beloved, he cares for the sheep. In Psalms 100, again, verses 3 and 4, he says, Know ye that the Lord He is God. It is He that hath made us, and not we ourselves, we are His people, and the sheep of His pasture. Enter into his gates with thanksgiving and into his courts with praise. But beloved, when we really realize the sheep we are in his pasture, It will provoke praise because he is the good shepherd. And they were called sheep. Let's stand to our feet with our heads bowed and our eyes closed.