Well, we got a long ways to go and not that much time to do it. So let's get in the word of God here. I want you to turn in your Bibles this evening to uh Second Timothy All righty. Can you tell we're in a hurry? All right, I want you to uh Both my mind and my notes just went blank, so help me out. 2 Timothy is it chapter 2, 4, 4, 2, endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. Two three, that's where we're going, all right. Um, So literally my notes are blank, literally like gone. I don't know what happened to it. It's uh the network's messing me up here. Uh so you're in two, three, hopefully. We're gonna we're gonna be cooking with gas here in a second. I couldn't believe the song the ladies just sang. You know, we've learned about the names of God. We've been talking about that, and understanding that as each name that God gives of Himself, He reveals an attribute, a character trait, something about Himself. So here on Thursday nights for the last couple of weeks we've been talking about and they were called. And they were called. And they were called Christians. We looked at that first. They were called Christians, understanding that we are We we bear the name of Christ, we ought to live up to that name. Being a Christian, we've been made saints. Praise the Lord for that position, but that means we've got to be saintly. Just having been awarded the position of saint does not mean we're necessarily acting or living like a saint. Amen. We need we need to be living up to that name. Well tonight we're going to look at the fact that they were called soldiers. We see in the text that I didn't know where it was, uh in uh 2 Timothy chapter number 3. I'm sorry, two, three, right? We see there thou therefore endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. No man that warreth entangle himself with the affairs of this life, that he may please him who hath chosen him to be A soldier. The fact of the matter is, is God for some reason has decided to call those that are followers of his, those that are followers of Christ. He said Come and follow me, but he has one name that he has chosen to call us is soldiers. We're a soldier, and I'm going to move quickly tonight. I want you to see, first of all, the soldiers training Our training. You know, this is part of the ministry and job of the college. They they prepare and train uh young recruits to go out and serve God and local churches and further the cause of Christ. But Beloved, we all have some training. He tells us here, endure hardness. First of all, I want you to know that our training helps us to learn fortitude. We need fortitude. We need to learn how to endure hardness. You know, beloved, it's only when you stick to a task that you actually learn something. When when you just decide and I don't know what it is uh like at Providence, I'm sure you don't have this problem, but for some reason people Uh young people like to come to college and they're there for a year or uh maybe even a semester and they decide, whoa, this is a lot harder than I thought. And they drop out, they leave, they go home. And many times you'll pick up a task and and it'll be hard. It will be difficult. And and you'll think, man, this is a lot harder than I thought it was going to be, but you know, when you stick it out to the end, you learn something Not just learn how to be faithful and keep on going, but you also learn how to do it. One of the things that I got from my dad that I count uh invaluable is that just get or done kind of attitude It's just that, no, I've never done that before, but it doesn't matter. I'm going to learn how to do it. And I'm just going to find a way to get her done. And we're going to work at it and and maybe I'm going to bust my knuckle changing the brakes. Maybe I'm going to uh have the wrong tool and I'm not going to be able to do it as easily as I should, and there's going to be one problem after the next, but I'm going to stick at it until I get it done And then I'm going to learn how to do it. And you learn how to do it, and the more you do it, the more problems you have. When you work through the problem, you learn something. And beloved, when we work through our problems with Jesus Christ Who's walking with us, you learn how to walk by faith. You learn how to follow the Lord's lead in your life. You learn how to endure hardness And know that God is faithful and he will bring you through. Amen? Listen, Jesus himself learned through what he suffered. Hebrews chapter 5 and verse 8 and 9 says Though he were a son, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered. Even though he was the son of God, he learned through obedience The things learned obedience to the things which he suffered, he being made perfect, he became the author of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him. Listen, it was what Jesus went through that taught him, that he allowed him to learn what he had to learn. Beloved, it's love that gives you the motivation to endure. When you really truly love the Lord like you should What like we say we do, love will help you to endure. That chapter of love, 1 Corinthians 13, verse number 7, tells us Love, charity, beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things. Anybody know? Endureth all things. Endureth all things. When you love like you say you love, when you love like you should love, beloved, you'll be able to endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. Fact of the matter is, is there's too many Christians getting bent out of shape, getting offended over foolishness. We need to be able to endure hardness, and so many times Christians are getting upset and getting bent out of shape. and getting a little bit disgruntled because somebody didn't greet them, because somebody didn't say hello to them, or so because somebody didn't acknowledge them. I mean, come on, we're supposed to endure hardness And when we love Christ like we say we love, we're not going to be getting offended. We're going to endure hardness. Listen, if you loved your wife like If you say you love your wife, you would be able to endure hardness. You would be able to go through some things in hard things in life and not say, Oh, uh, I just don't love her anymore Oh, I I just I I I don't know. This is not really what I signed up for. Listen, love is a decision. It is a choice. You decide that you loved her, and you decided when you stood at the altar and said, I do That means you need to be able to go through the hard things of life, the challenges of life, and stay faithful to her and stay faithful to him. And listen, can I tell you, there's rocky roads everywhere There's up road, uphill, and in the snow and all of that. There's hard times no matter who you're with. There is not some perfect mate somewhere over the rainbow that if you just met that one person you wouldn't have any problems That is a lie of Hollywood. You're still going to have problems. You're still going to have to work through them. And you need to learn how to endure. Part of our training, beloved, is fortitude, learning how to endure. The old songwriter, he said, Am I a soldier of the cross, a follower of the Lamb? And shall I fear to own his cause or blush to speak his name Must I be carried to the skies on flowery buds of ease while others fought to win the prize and sailed through bloody seas? Beloved, there's others going through it and we need to learn how to endure hardness. Yes, it gets hard. There is no question about that. It gets hard, but we need to endure hardness. We also need to are part of our training is going to teach you how to focus. How to focus on what's important. No man that warreth entangleth himself with the things of this life. Listen, if you're in the battlefield, And there's the enemy over there shooting at you, you're going to be focused. I I read it's been some time ago, so I don't remember if it was in uh Iraq or Afghanistan. But you know, they're they're moving towards a much more digital uh uh warfare. And actually one commanding officer said he almost lost his entire squad because the men were looking at their screens Instead of looking at the battlefield, they had lost their focus. And beloved, we are living in a day where young people are more distracted than they've ever been. There is a battle, there is a war going on, there is something that we've enlisted in. We're soldiers for the cause of Christ, and we've got to get focused on what's important. You know what's important? Jesus Christ is important. Peter, he he uh long as he was focused on Jesus, he was walking on water You've got some struggles in life, some hard things in life, some things you're going to have to endure or go through. Beloved, if you're focused on Jesus, you can walk on water. But when you lose your focus, when you get distracted, you start looking at the storms, you start looking at other people, they that compare themselves among themselves are not wise. You start looking at situations You start evaluating your circumstances, you're going to lose focus on what's important. Part of your training is learning how to be focused on what's important. Jesus is important, but thanks be unto God, which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus. Victory is going to come through Him. We see our the soldiers training. Secondly, we want to see the soldiers' task. What is the job? What are we supposed to be doing? The fact of the matter is, is we're to fight. That's what we've enlisted for. That's what a soldier does. A soldier fights. He doesn't sit by the sidelines. But we don't fight our fight We fight the good fight of faith. We fight for the name of Christ, for the cause of Christ. It's a battlefield, brother, not a recreation room. It's a fight and not a game. Run if you want to, run if you will. But I came here to say, it's a battlefield. It's a battlefield and we're we're in a fight, beloved. That's what we're called to do. Listen, when you have a cause You have courage to fight. The problem is there's too many Christians whose Christianity is so casual, they have no cause. David fought Goliath, beloved, and it was not because David was just contentious and couldn't get along with his own shadow, let alone other people. There are some people like that that are just contentious. They just don't get along with people. By the way, you need to be careful about being friends with that kind of person. They're just looking for a fight and some of them are on Facebook. You need to unfriend some people that are on Facebook and all they're doing is out there debating, stirring the pot, throwing stuff in everywhere. Stephen's laughing Yeah. Gotta unfriend you now. It's my son-in-law. Hey, you gotta what I'm saying is that listen, we're not to be contentious, cantankerous people where we just can't get along with one another That's not a problem. David said, is there not a cause? There's a cause. And beloved, it gave David the courage to go out and fight a Goliath. Why? Because the cause was great. I'm sure David was uh had fear and trembling. You guys don't get to see it. I'm sitting up here. And uh it's not uncommon for me to see people singing a special up here And their legs are going like this, but they're singing. What makes them overcome that fear and stand up here and sing? They got a cause. There's a cause. There's something that motivates them. I remember one day, and I've told you before, but the day that uh Andrew got attacked by a dog This dog was coming. This vicious beast of an animal. And I'm like, all I gotta do is outrun you, son. No. No. I saw that dog coming and there was no hesitation I ran between Andrew and the dog immediately and said, get I mean the dog for some reason had his eyes on Andrew. And I I just I ran between him and the and the truck and told Andrew to get into the truck, get into the truck, and I ran towards the dog. What would cause me to run towards a dog who's starling and and just growling and ready to attack somebody? I had a cause I kicked that dog as hard as I could. It turned 360 in the air. As soon as it landed, it still jumped and it grabbed a hold of Andrew's back, bit him in the back. But I had a cause. I kicked it again. I wasn't at all worried about hurting that dog. I wanted to hurt that dog. Why? Because I had a cause When you have a cause, when there's something inside of you that drives you, that's forcing you, that's motivating you, what is it? The love of Christ constraineth me. You have a cause, and the cause, beloved, causes you to get out of your comfort zone. It causes you to say there's something worth fighting for, there's something that I'm supposed to be involved here, and it gives you courage to give out a gospel track It gives you courage to be a witness when you're out there in a world where they're going to mock or laugh or make fun. It gives you courage to fly high, the banner of Jesus Christ, because we have a cause. It teaches us to fight. The soldier's task is to fight. The soldier's task is to be faithful. It is to be faithful. I love it, beloved. When we're talking about the task, all of us have different responsibilities. You're not called to be the pastor. You're not called to maybe play the piano. Maybe you're not called to travel around the country and sing like these ladies this summer get to do Your ministry, your place of service, it varies as as much as there are people in here. But you know what? Every one of us can be faithful. It has nothing to do with capacity, ability, or talent. I love it that what God said is you just gotta be faithful. Just be faithful. You know what? That's just something any one of us can do if we would just determine in our heart, we're going to do it. You guys know I hate school. I'm not a good student. And when I was in school, I knew that I wasn't going to win any Academic Excellence Awards. I wasn't going to be getting the highest GPA. I wasn't going to be recognized for pretty much anything. But here's what I knew. My school gave away a faithfulness award. And I knew that all that took was I had to show up. At least in body. My mind might have been somewhere else and it be honest it was most days. But I would have said, you know what, I can get that award and for three years I never missed a day of school. And that's saying something because I hate school I mean, I'd get out of bed in the morning every morning and I'd be and when I was a principal I hated school. As a principal for three years every day I if you ask my wife, I'd get out of bed and I'd look at her and I'd say, I do not want to go to school today That's how much I dislike school. But you know what? I could be faithful. You can be faithful. That's what the task of the of the soldier is to be faithful, to stand at his post, to fulfill his responsibility. to do his job. And you don't have to be the most talented or the most skilled or the greatest at it, but you can be faithful at it. Every one of us can be faithful I don't know who wrote it. Literally I have author unknown, but he says, I'm a soldier. I'm a soldier in the army of God, the Lord Jesus Christ, is my commanding officer of the Holy Bible. Is my code of conduct fair? Pray Faith, prayer, and the Word of God are my weapons of warfare. I am a soldier. I've been taught by the Holy Spirit. I've been trained by experience. I've been tried by adversity, and I've been tested by fire, but I'm a soldier I'm a volunteer in this army. I've enlisted and I've enlisted for eternity. I will either retire in this army or be raptured out of it, but I'm in. I'm a soldier. I'm faithful. I'm reliable. I'm capable. I'm dependable. If my God needs me, I'm there. If he needs me in Sunday school. out I'm there. If he needs me to teach youth, I'm there. If he needs me to assist adults, I'm there. If he just needs me to learn, I'm there. I'm soldier. I'm not a baby. I don't need to be pampered, petted, primed, pumped up, picked up, or prepped up. I'm a soldier No one has to call me, remind me, write me, visit me, entice me, or lure me because I'm enlisted. I'm a soldier. I'm not a wimp. I'm in my place. I'm saluting my king. I'm obeying his orders. I'm praising his name and building his kingdom. No one has to send me flowers, gifts. Food, cards, candy, or give me handouts. I don't need to be coddled, cradled, cared for, or catered to because I'm a soldier. I'm committed. I cannot have my feelings hurt bad enough to cause me to turn around. I cannot be discouraged enough to call me to turn us cause me to turn aside. I cannot lose Enough to cause me to quit. If I end up with nothing, I'll still come out ahead. Why? Because I'm on the winning side. I'm a soldier My God has and will continue to supply all my needs. I am more than a conqueror through him who loves me. The devil can't defeat me, people can't defeat me. distress me, weather can't weary me, sickness can't stop me, battles can't beat me, and money can't buy me, because I'm a soldier, a soldier in the army of God. Even death cannot destroy me, for I am forevermore his When my commander calls my name or and calls me from this great battlefield, I'll be promoted, and then I will be with him, for I am a soldier, and we are marching on to victory. Are you a soldier? Are you enlisted in the fight? We've been called soldiers. Are we living like it? I would have you see lastly tonight the soldiers triumph. The soldier's triumph. One day, beloved, we're going to stand before our commander in chief. He's going to look at you and he's going to hopefully say, Well done. Thou good and faithful servant. Well done. And the triumph is when we've been faithful until the end, when we've fought and finished our chorus, he'll recognize and say, Well done. Not only will the faithful soldier receive a well done, but we know that the Bible tells us that we're going to receive a crown of righteousness. Here in 2 Timothy, just turn to chapter 4. In 2 Timothy 4, verses 6 through 8, he says, For I am now ready to be offered, and the time of my departure is at hand. I've fought a good fight. I've finished my course. I've kept the faith. Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness. which the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give me in that day. Not to me only, but to all them that love is appearing. This crown has been called the soldier's crown. For the one who's been faithful to fight till the end. This crown is given to the soldier who fought a good fight, like Paul. The soldier who finished his chorus, been faithful to what God has called us to do. Oh, I know we get distracted and we need to get our mind and our eyes and our focus back on what's important. Realizing that we're in a fight, so that we can faithfully finish the course God has for us. I was talking to uh Brother Aiken at dinner tonight and said my dad's mom died at 63 years old and His his his dad died young, but when I was a kid, I looked at grandma and grandpa and when grandpa died To me, I was just a kid. I was about five years old when my grandfather died, and I thought, well, obviously, he's ancient. Like old people die. That's what happens. I didn't realize how young fifty-eight was. Now that I'm fifty, I understand how young fifty-eight is, amen. But listen When you get a little older, you start to realize how quick this life passes. It just passes quick. And you just gotta be faithful today. Faithful today. Faithful tomorrow when you get up. We don't have that many more days. To be faithful, to be a faithful soldier in the army of God. There's a triumph coming There's a victory lap. There's rewards when we get to glory. But only for those that finish their chorus, for those that have been faithful. Are you going to be faithful to the end? It's going to take a purposing of your heart to finish the race. To run well. To do what God wants you to do. You just gotta decide not to quit. Every single Christian that ever lived, that ever did any responsibility, that ever had any ministry, every one of us wanted to quit. You just have to decide I'm not going to. Be faithful through the hard time. And you get to rejoice. the mountaintops. We all have valleys. Just purpose in your heart. I was talking to Larry Brown, he pastored for 40 years. years there in Washington, Iowa, I think 44 years. And I asked him, how do you how do you pastor that long in one place? He said, I just determined I wasn't going to quit in the valley. If I was ever going to quit, if I was ever not going to be the pastor of Marion Avenue Baptist Church in Washington, Iowa, it was going to be on the mountaintop. He said, but when I'm on the mountaintop, I don't feel like quitting. He's like, I'm having the time of my life. I'm enjoying it. He said, I just purpose never to quit in the valley. Because that's when you feel like quitting Don't let Satan take you out when you're in the valley. We're soldiers. And they were called soldiers. Are we living up to that name? Would you stand with your heads bowed and your eyes closed? Massive pianists to come and play a moment of invitation