Um I'm trying to see where I would have you turn tonight. We're gonna look at a lot of different scriptures, many of them very familiar. Uh our text verse comes from 1 Corinthians chapter number 4, though. 1 Corinthians chapter 4, verse number 2. On May 29th this year, I began a series entitled They Were Called, taken directly from Acts chapter 11, verse number 26. Which reads, And when they had found him, he brought him unto Antioch, and it came to pass that a whole year they assembled themselves with the church. and taught much people, and the disciples were called Christians first in Antioch. We look at that title, that name, that description first, the idea of a Christian. Uh each of the names we've looked at thus far, Saint, Soldier, Disciples, and Christians These names give us a picture of our relationship to the Father, as well as the requirements that are upon us as children of God. This principle that we're going to look at tonight is firmly established in the Word of God. We see in 1 Corinthians chapter 4 and verse number 2, moreover, it is required in Stewards. Stewards. That's what we want to look at this evening. This description, this title given to the believer, that we are stewards. And the requirements that are there and what it means to us. First of all, I would have you see this evening the role of a steward. Understanding the biblical principle. What does it mean to be a steward? What is the definition of this word. Well, according to Webster's 1828 dictionary, on a ship, a steward was an officer who was appointed for the distribution of provision to the crew. On other ships that weren't necessarily ships of war, they were superintendents over the provisions and the supplies of the table. Now, in the Scripture, again, according to 1828 Dictionary, in the Scripture and regarding theology, a steward is a minister of Christ whose duty is to dispense the provision of the gospel to preach its doctrines and administrate its ordinances According to Thayer's Greek definition, as a little bit simpler, straightforward. Thayer says, one whose care, one to whose care and honor anything has been entrusted. One to whose care and honor anything has been entrusted. Somebody looked at you and thought you were worthy of being entrusted with their vehicle. And they gave you the keys. They said, okay, you're going to take this and drive it to my house, or you're going to go pick up, run this errand for me. They have looked at you and and and given you that, entrusted you with that. You have become a steward of that, even just for a short time, but they thought you were worthy of it. Well, as we think about Bible times, a steward, the steward of a house, was the most trusted of the servants. He was the one that was given authority over the others. He was the one that was in command or control of the whole house. He was the steward. There may have been others that were Subordinate or became stewards or overseers of different categories or areas. I think about the biggest or best example of this that we see in the scripture is Joseph, who was made the overseer. Of all of Pharaoh's pot of verse house, right? All of it. He tells his wife, hey, the master has kept nothing back from me except you. How could I do this great wickedness against God? He was made overseer of the whole house This is not a foreign thought to you. It's not something that I think as a church you don't understand or already have a grasp on. But beloved, I wonder how long has it been since you really contemplated the fact that all we are and all we have Has been entrusted to us. I mean, everything that we have, everything we own, everything that we are as a person Has been given to us by God. In Deuteronomy 32, verse 18 says, Of the rock that begat thee, thou art unmindful. And hast forgotten the God that formed thee. We know that God formed thee in the womb. God made you who you are. God gave you your strengths and your weaknesses. God gave you your abilities, whatever they might be, whatever it is that you might personally be proud of or have been proud of in the past, understand that was from God. God gave you that skill. Isaiah 43:7 says, Every one that is called by my name, for I have created him for my glory. I have formed him. Yea, I have made him. God formed him. God made us, each one of us, crafted, designed, planned by God for you to be who you are. We know that James 1. 17 tells us that every good gift and every perfect gift cometh from above. Everything we have comes from God. All of the possessions that we've been able to acquire, all the wealth that we've got, our houses and vehicles and toys and different things, they're all from God. The earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof. The world and they that dwell therein. It all belongs to God. You see, beloved, at best we are often very careless in our conversation, and at worst, we're defiant. When we talk about our possessions, our skills, my ability, my this, and my that, I Understand that we're speaking with regards to things that we've been entrusted with But I just want to put it back into our mind, back into our thought processes, that these things are literally a gift from God. They're not things that we have acquired on our own. They're not things that are just ours because we've earned them. None of us have pulled ourselves up by our own bootstraps, as it were. No, God has given us the skill and the ability to go out and to earn, and He has blessed us in whatever capacity He has, and therefore all that we have has been entrusted to us by God. He has made us stewards, managers, caretakers, overseers of all of it. That means whatever we do with it matters. Now this is a true reality of all men, even though many of the world that are not saved and do not know God, they certainly wouldn't admit it and quite possibly have never even contemplated or thought about the fact. That it all belongs to somebody else. This is so foreign to them to even preach a thought like this would be like, what are you talking about? I Uh this is my skill. I developed this by hours of practice. Yeah, but who gave you the ability to get out of bed? Who gave you the ability to go practice Who gave you the coordination to be able to accomplish that in the first place? You see, it's sometimes as far as the world is concerned, those that have not spent any time studying the Word of God and understanding our relationship to him, this would be so foreign. But beloved, it shouldn't be foreign to the believer. It's something that we should understand and I believe we need to be reminded of that it all belongs to God. Not only have we been created by him and gifted by him, but we have been purchased by him. We've been bought with a price. Therefore, it's our responsibility to glorify God in our body, which is His, but that's everything. That we have in this life. We are to be stewards. The role of a steward is an overseer, a caretaker. That's our job, but understanding that we are to oversee and care for it all, what is the requirement of a steward? That's pretty straightforward, not very deep theologically. But what does he say there? Moreover, it is required in stewards that a man be Found faithful. The requirement of a steward, beloved, is that we be found faithful. We have been given a responsibility. financed or we've been entrusted with uh this life that God has given us. And therefore we must use it for His honor and glory. We're required to be faithful in our stewardship of all that God has given us. But beloved, the exciting thing is that we're not required to be popular. You're not required to be talented You're not even necessarily required to be good at something, but you're required to be faithful. The requirement is that we be faithful with whatever God has given to us. Proverbs 20, verse number 6 says, Most men will proclaim everyone his own goodness, but a faithful man who can find? You know, beloved, you can talk about how good you are at something until you're blue in the face or until the cows come home But it really doesn't matter how good you are at it, if when it needs done you're not around, if you're not present. If you're not available, because you you're not faithfully consistent to do that, you may be the best person that can do it out of this whole area, but if you're not available. You're not the best one. What do they say the best uh ability is? Availability. Yeah, being faithful, being present You're not commanded to or required to be the best at it, but you're required to be faithful at it. We know those top three things that we're required to be faithful in. You know we're required to be faithful in our time and our treasure and our talent. You know, time is what life is made of. You can get more money. You can't get any more time. Now, in the grand scheme of things, regards to some of those that are present in the auditorium tonight. I'm still pretty young. And I'm just telling you their words. That's what they've told me. Like, I don't know why you're talking about getting older. You're still young But here's the thing, even at this young age of 50, it's hitting me more and more how valuable time is. One of the things that I enjoyed the most about this few days away, although we did a lot of fun things, it was just the time with family. Just the time to be together. Because why? Because I know how valuable time is, because time is fleeting and we can't get any more of it. I know you guys have heard some of these quotes, but yesterday is a canceled check. Tomorrow is a promissory note. Today is the only cash you have. Spend it wisely. Yesterday's gone. Tomorrow is just possibility. We know the Bible tells us, boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. Many live as though they have an endless list or number of tomorrows. But the fact is, is we don't. What would you do with your time over the next ten days if you knew you only had fifteen to live? What would you do with the time that you have left if you knew it was short? Somebody said if you want to kill time work it to death. My kids think that's my theme. But you know what? The fact is is is we waste so much time. Today I think we are like at the top of time wasters in history. Because so many things that just steal and rob our time. And you know, on Sunday, the the preacher that was we were listening to uh he was preaching and he said, you know what's wrong with us today? is that we feel like if we did a hard job like we, you know, he was talking about grandma and grandpa and how they got up with the sun and worked until the sun went down. And then they got rest and then they got up with the sun and you know they went years without vacation and they're just, you know, that's just life, that's the way it was. He said, but for us We feel like, boy, I did a good job today. I worked for three hours and I accomplished this this this was a hard task, so I need to sit down and watch a two and a half hour movie You know, I I've earned it. I I deserve to waste the rest of the day because I accomplished something. Like we feel like we get to reward ourselves with wasted time because we did something of me of meaningful value. I just wonder how much time we're wasting. Are we being good stewards of the time that God's given us? We only have so much of it. Are you being a good steward of the talent that you have? Are you using your talents for the Master? Are you developing your talents that you may be more beneficial to the Master and accomplish more for God? Are you being faithful with your treasure? He tells us, Beware that thou forget not the Lord thy God, and not keeping his commandments and his judgments and his statutes, which I command thee this day. And thou say in thine heart, my power and my might of my hand hath gotten me this wealth. But thou shalt remember the Lord thy God, for it is he that giveth thee power to get wealth. He's the one that gave us power to get wealth. Are you using what God has given us? Are you being a wise steward, a wise overseer, manager? Are you using your money in a way that honors God? You know, we look at it as our money. And I can use this however I want. I can spend it on whatever I want, but are you spending God's money on wise things? Are you supporting things that are honoring to God? Are you careful where your money goes? Using it to further the cause of Christ? Those are three areas which we are familiar with and we talk about a lot, but you know, a couple that we might not have talked about as much or haven't thought about is are how are you being a good steward of your team? Your team. I would say at first you have an immediate team, that's your family. Those that God has put around you and trusted you with. You're steward of the family. Responsible for each other, support each other, strengthen each other. Have you taken them for granted? I read a meme just yesterday. It said, the person you speak kindest to out of all the world should be your mate. But the truth is, most often, the person we speak the most harshest to is our mate. The one that's closest to us, the one that we love the most. Why? Because we feel like, oh, they're always going to be there. They're going to put up with my bad attitude and my cruel words and my unkind comments. Are you being a good steward of that which God's given you? Are you managing that well? Of your team? You've got your team here at the church. The family of God that we get to be a part of. Are you faithful in that? We're required to be faithful in our task. Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy might. Whatever God's given us to do, whatever task God has given us to do. I think one of the hard things for the the younger generation today is just to stick to a task until it's done. Parents, you gotta build that into your kids. And that starts when you tell them to clean the room. You are sinning against them if you go in there and clean it up for them. You you said clean the room They need to clean the room. And you need to get them to stick to it until it's done and you've approved it and said, okay, you've accomplished the task. You you teach them that when they're little. So that they'll stick to the task until it's done. The other day, Melissa had a problem with her car again. And uh she uh her high pressure power steering line was leaking like a sieve. Like you know how a soaker hose works? This this anytime the power steering was under pressure, you couldn't see it just looking under the engine, but I had Stephen turn the the wheel for me and when it's under pressure like the hose just Just oozing power steering out the high pressure hose. I don't know how it got like thousands of holes in it. So I utubed it, you know, you YouTube university. And uh I looked and this guy had a video. It didn't look that hard. I I ordered I went uh must be something that happens pretty often because I had him in stock over here at AutoZone. I picked up a thing, I came back, this is the night before we're leaving town. And I don't know when I started on it. You know when it was about when when I started on it? You don't know either. Six o'clock, seven o'clock at night. So we started on it and it was proving to be a little difficult. We went in for supper and uh I was reading some of the comments on the on the the video I was watching for how to do this and on the comments the first one was like this guy makes this e look easy I'm a mechanic with 15 years experience and a helper and this took me eight hours And I'm like, oh no. I'm reading through the comments. Seven hour job. This this guy made this look easy. This was easily six, eight hour job. I mean over and over again people were commenting like this is brutal And I bit it off the night before I'm supposed to leave. I'm like, what am I gonna do? We had it up in the air, halfway in the garage. I mean, I either gotta put it all back together and set it on the ground and get it outside to close everything up. I'm like, what am I gonna do? So I said, Caleb I need some help. And uh so we had devotions at whatever, 10, 10. 30, and then Caleb and I went out and we worked till 2. 30 in the morning and got it. put on and finished the job and parked the car outside and got everything put away and then went to bed and got up and I'm like, well we go on vacation tomorrow. I can sleep tomorrow, amen. Let's get the job done But that's just you know how frustrating it was that Stephen was laughing at me because I was under the car. I'm like, I hate working on cars. I text Brother Glover. I says, I wish you were here to do this for me So this is brutal. Uh why why does it have to be so hard? Sometimes you get into jobs and they're not as easy as you thought they were. It's gonna be a little bit difficult and sometimes life gets hard, but you've got to stick to it. We've been called to be faithful to the task. To the task that God has given us, whatever that task is. Beloved, I could tell you that we as a people, as a church, have been given the greatest task known to men 1 Thessalonians 2. 4 says, but as we were all allowed of God to be put in trust with the gospel. I tell you, beloved, that we've been given, we've been entrusted with the blessed gospel of Jesus Christ. That we have all been given the task, go ye therefore? And to all the world and preach the gospel that's not just for the missionaries, but for all of us. We have been entrusted with the gospel, and the task is ours to carry that message to a lost and dying world. And sometimes it's hard. Sometimes they mock. Sometimes they laugh. Sometimes they think you're weird. Sometimes, if we're honest, we really are ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And that keeps you from being the witness that we should be. But the beloved, the fact is, as we've been entrusted with that, we've been given stewardship. Of the gospel, the message that saves lost and dying people from an eternity in hell. And are we being a good steward of that? Are we sharing the gospel? How are you doing on your stewardship? First Peter 4. 10 says, As every man hath received the gift, even so minister the same one to another. as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. We've been made stewards Of the grace that saved us and will save others if we tell them about it. Can I tell you, beloved, that the requirement is a reality, whether we think it's important or not? You know, that's just it's a is another thing that's very prevalent in the world today is people like to establish worth or value in their own mind and determine whether something something important or not. Whether they should bother doing it or not. And they think, well, if in their mind they don't think it's that important, Then they don't have to do it. It doesn't matter if that's their job and that's what they've been told to do and that's what they're getting paid to do. They just, in their mind, they think, well, this is not that important. Doesn't matter if it gets done or not. So I'm not going to do it. I don't have to do it. It's not going to make any difference if I do it. But, beloved, a steward is not the one that determines the value. A steward is the one that does what's required of him in faithful obedience to God. There's an old Persian legend of a king that was looking for a faithful steward for his household. And he found two men that were interested in a job, and he brought them to his house, and he said, okay, here's what I want you to do. He gave them a bucket. And he said, I want you to take these buckets and dip them down into this well here, and then I want you to dump the bucket into these baskets. Keep going until I get back. After a few minutes of working, one of the guys says, this is really stupid These baskets don't hold any water. The water's just running right through them. We're taking this water out of this well and dumping it in these baskets doing no the master, the the owner of the house is not going to know how many baskets full I dumped in here or not. This is just dumb work. This is just busy work. I'm not gonna bother with this. And he ended up leaving. The other guy said, well it doesn't really matter what the motivation is or the reason is, I'm just gonna keep doing what the master said until he comes back. And he kept dipping buckets of water out and dumping it in the in this basket and he kept going The problem is he got to the bottom of the well and there's no more water. But when the master came back, he said, now I want to lower you into the bottom of the well. And he lowered them down to the bottom of the well, and there was his wife's diamond ring. You see, they had to dump the water into the basket because if they inadvertently scooped up the ring. The basket would catch it. They didn't really understand all of what the reasoning was, what the master wanted them to accomplish, but there was a reason, but it wasn't for them to determine the value, it was just for them to obey. And beloved, for you and I, sometimes we think, oh, my responsibility is not that important. It doesn't matter if I miss it. This is not that big of a deal. It doesn't matter if I do it. This is not really uh that important. But beloved, if the master has given us the instruction. If God has told us how to do it, then if we're going to be faithful stewards, we're going to do what God said to do. We've got to stop evaluating our own mind and establishing whether it's worth it or not Ah, this isn't that important. I'm not going to bother with it. Beloved, every job is important if it's something that the Master has given us to accomplish I would have you see the were the reward of a steward as we bring this to a conclusion tonight. Proverbs 2820 It says, a faithful man shall abound with blessings. A faithful man shall abound with blessings. You know, being 50 years old and into ministry since 1999, can I tell you that I've seen this played out in life I've seen people over these many years who have just been faithful and God has done something miraculous with their life and God has blessed them and we see that blessing over and over and over again and and and they continue to to be blessed and their life continues to prosper as it were. And yet at the same time, there are those that have been less than faithful. Those that always have an excuse. Those that always have a reason why they couldn't or can't or won't. And then they are also the ones who are always on the prayer list for this or that or the other. They're the ones also who are consistently having these burdens or these problems or these situations and they're they're wondering why is this so? Why is my life such a mess? Because they haven't learned to be faithful. They haven't been learned to be a good steward of what they have. Beloved, this is so important, especially for the young. I was talking to some of my nephews sitting around the fire the other night. They're all college-age. They're saying, guys, you've got to learn how to use your money. You've got to learn how to be a good steward of that. Right now. You can't imagine the difference that it will make. You think, oh, I want to go out and get a nice truck. And you'll find somebody to loan you the money, but it'll put you years behind in setting up a home and establishing a family and being a good husband or a good father. You need to learn how to manage your funds and be a good steward of what you have right now. And it's so important. The younger you are, the more important it is that you manage it correctly because it affects you for many years. Get some wisdom, talk to some people that know and get some help so that you're managing your funds correctly. You see, you think you're doing good right now, but you don't even you have no idea what life costs. You're gonna get out of the house and it's gonna hit you. You're gonna realize man I wasted all that money on video games and airsoft and paintball and Taco Bell and whatever else. And then it's too late. And so I tried to encourage them, but beloved, we are all in that boat. We need to be good stewards because there's a reward. Why? Because a faithful man shall abound with blessing. God's going to bless you. The master sees and knows how faithful you've been. In Luke chapter 12, verse 42 through 44, he says, And the Lord said, Who then is that faithful and wise steward? Who is the faithful and wise steward, whom his Lord shall make ruler over his household, to give them their portion of meat in due season? Blessed is that servant. Whom the Lord, when he cometh, shall find so doing. Of a truth I say unto you, that he will make him ruler over all that he hath. You see, beloved, God sees your faithfulness. God sees how well you're managing and handling what you've been given stewardship over right now And part of God's reward is noticing that, saying, man, they've been faithful with what I've given them. I'm going to give them some more. I'm going to bless them some more. They're going to handle this wisely. They're going to do this right. I can trust them with more. That's what God says there in Luke 12, 42 to 44. God's going to reward the faithful servant. We know that it directly spoken about with regards to giving, give and it shall be given unto you In good measure, pressed down and shaken together and running over shall mean given to your bosom. For with the same measure that you meet, with all shall be measured to you again. But I believe that that's applicable to more than just financial giving. I believe it's applicable to the rest of our life The Bible tells us you sow what you re you reap what you sow. If you're sowing good deeds and you're correctly managing your time and your using your talent for God and you're being a blessing to others, I believe that that will come again to you by the promises of God. That is the reward because God is a rewarder. Some of you may remember many years ago The terrorist bombing of the marine barracks in Beirut. Hundreds of Americans were killed. Many were wounded It was a brutal, terrible attack at a time when many were resting and not ready for it, obviously. A few days after the tragedy, Marine Corps Commander Paul Kelly visited some of the wounded survivors in Frankfurt, Germany, where they had been life-flighted too. Among them was Corporal Jeffrey Lee Nashton. They said he looked more like a robot than a human. for the number of tubes and IVs and things that he had coming out of his body. He really should have been dead, but he wasn't dead. Commander Paul Kelly came into the room and Nashton, struggling to move, asked for a pen. Barely even able to move his hand. They put a pen in his hand and held a piece of paper, and there on his thigh, as best as he could write, he wrote, Semplify. Which you know is the theme statement for the Marines. Which is forever faithful. Forever faithful. I wonder, what does it take for you and I to quit being faithful? What would we be willing to endure for the cause of Jesus Christ? What would we go through and still look up into the eyes of our Savior and say, forever faithful, by your grace and with your strength I'm going to remain faithful Through it all, I know I've been under attack, I know it's been hard, I know I'm weighted down with burden, I know it seems like nice not fair, but God, my desire is to be a faithful steward until the end Will you be forever faithful? Or will we give in to Satan whose desire is to cause us to throw in the towel, to be unwise stewards? Not faithful with what God has given us. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and eyes closed?