1 Corinthians 15 58 is where our text verse comes this evening, but I'm going to begin reading in verse number 55. O death, where is thy staying? O grave, where is thy victory? The sting of death is sin, and the strength of sin is the law. But thanks be unto God which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Therefore, my beloved brethren. Be steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, for as much as you know that your labor is not in vain. In the Lord. We're going to continue tonight to look at the titles given to us as believers, and they were called brethren. They were called brethren. It makes perfect sense, beloved, when we think about the idea, if we uh consider last night or last week we looked at the fact that we were called the sons of God. If indeed we are all the sons of God, then we would be brethren as well. So it makes perfect uh logical sense. This term, brethren or brother, is something that we use very often. And if we're not careful, it becomes such an active part of our conversation. at least for me, on occasion, I have caught myself calling people brethren or brother that uh are the farthest thing from from a brother. You know, w I I I've just you're just, hey brother, would you grab that or hey brother get this or whatever and Uh, you know, then you realize, well wait a minute, um they don't know the Lord. They they they are the farthest thing from a brother in Christ, and and you just we use it so often in reference to one another, we've got to be careful about that because uh this term really uh does define for us the relationship that we have in Jesus Christ. It's used, brethren, is used 564 times in the Bible, 333 times in the Old Testament alone. Now, sometimes It's used in the context of individual referring to his own brethren. For instance, when Joseph dreamed a dream, it says he told his brethren. So he was literally speaking to his brothers. He was talking to them and you know was telling him his dream. And of course, you know, they didn't like his dream, but he was speaking to them directly. So sometimes that is used in that in that vein, but more often it really is used in relation to the children of Israel in a broad sense, in a general sense, referring to one another as brethren in their overall relationship Such as when God speaking about the curse that he put on Cain, he said, A servant of servants shall he be unto his brethren So that was not speaking about just his own immediate brothers, but to the brethren to uh the Israelites uh when Abraham wanted to separate from Lot. That passage of scripture he said, And Abraham said unto Lot, Let there be no strife, I pray thee, between me and thee, and between my herdmen and thy herdmen, for we are brethren We are brethren. So that is used many, many times in the Old Testament, also prominent in the New Testament, used 231 times, and that's without including references to brother. Just brethren used 231 times, Jesus said on the Sermon on the Mount, if ye salute your brethren only, What do ye more than others? Do not even the publicans so? So this, again, Jesus referring to that relationship, the brethren relationship, that fact that we are brothers in Christ. In Matthew 23, verse number 8, he says, but be not ye called rabbi, for one is your master, even Christ, and all ye are brethren. So he says, hey, you've got to be careful about who you refer to as a master. Understand you're all brothers in Christ. I'm glad that we are all equal at the foot of the cross. that is the every one of us came to Jesus the same way and uh that we all have access to God and I'm thrilled that we understand and have the truth of the scripture with regards to the priesthood of the believer, and that we can all go to Christ and we are all brethren one with another. This term of endearment It is more than a title, but of testimony of our shared relationship in the family of God. And I am glad I'm a part of the family of God. I can't imagine going through this life uh without the support of the family of God, without the the friends and the relationships You just think about how empty uh this world is and how hopeless they are. Just today we recorded the video for the Bible website and I said, you know i i the idea that that um I don't know exactly what I said because it was but the idea was, hey, in this day of so much unknown, so many unknowns in this day of uncertainties Aren't you looking for direction? Don't you want hope? Aren't you looking something? Well, the Word of God is a lamp unto our feet, a light unto our path. And the Word of God has the answer. And the Word of God can guide you. And I'm thankful that we have the Word of God and that we have brothers and sisters in Christ. This tells us this relationship defines for us that we are bound by the same communion. The word communion in the Word of God literally means fellowship. It's fellowship. We have fellowship one with another. I want to talk to you about this idea of the fact that we are called brethren. And what does it mean for us? First of all, as brethren, we have fellowship with the Father. I'm going to give you a lot of different references tonight, but we have fellowship with the Father. In 1 John 1. 3, he says That which we have seen and heard, declare we unto you, and ye also may have fellowship with us, and truly our fellowship is with the Father and with the Son, Jesus Christ. Beloved, it's only after the new birth that you can be called a brother. And it's only after the new birth that you can uh you are given the privilege and the opportunity of fellowship with the Father. That's when fellowship is established with the Father. The disciples asking Jesus, hey, could you teach us to pray? Could you teach us to pray? And what was his response? He said, Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. That re relationship. He's the Jesus was teaching them, listen, you're gonna call him father now. Why? Because you're in the family of God. You have had a new birth. You Have put your faith and trust in Jesus, and now as part of the family of God, just like I call him Father, you're going to call him Father. We have that privilege to have fellowship with the Father. We have fellowship in the family of God. Thus it's long been said that blood is thicker than water. This of course is meant to mean in in uh modern society the fact that, well, the blood relationship, the family family relationship, is thicker than the water relationship. The baptismal waters of the church are not stronger than the family relationship that you have. Blood's thicker than water. But can I tell you Beloved, that we were bought with the precious blood of Jesus Christ. We are literally blood brothers. It is the blood of Jesus Christ that has purchased, has redeemed us, each and every one of us, and we are blood brothers through Jesus Christ. 1 Peter 1, 18 and 19, for as much as you know that you were not redeemed with corruptible things, but with the precious blood of Jesus Christ. So we are blood brothers. We have been born into the family of God, been made brethren, and we've been made so by the blood of Jesus Christ. There's no question that God expects the bond of faith to be stronger than the bond of family. God expects that. Oh, I know in the world many times that's not the case. Sometimes it is, and there are some in this room. You're far closer to the other people in this room, or maybe they're not here tonight, but people that are part of this family of God, you're closer to them than you are to your own family. He says, if you're not willing to leave mother or father, you're not able to be my disciple. God expects that that faith relationship would be stronger than the relationship of family. God called Abraham away from his kindred into a covenant relationship. God expects that relationship to be of utmost importance. Somebody many years ago, I couldn't find out when, I saw as early as the 15th century, they turned that statement on its head and they said, the blood of the covenant is thicker than the water of the womb. So they reversed the modern thinking with regards to that statement and saying the blood of the covenant is thicker than the water of the womb. Beloved, God calls us to love him first. If any man come unto me and hate not his father and his mother and his wife and his children and his brothers and sisters, yea, even his own life also, he cannot be my disciple. But he's saying is that relationship is the strongest relationship, and I'm thankful for our brothers and sisters in Christ. God saw fit to mention in Second Corinthians That he sent man to help. He sent a man to help. And It's in 2 Corinthians 12, 18. But he doesn't name them. He doesn't say anything about them. We don't know really much else about him, but he says, hey, Titus. I desired Titus, and with him I sent a brother. He said, I sent a brother He said, you know, there's many things that are people that I could have sent, but he doesn't tell us his name, he doesn't tell us anything else about him, but just the fact that he's a brother is sufficient. You know, there are some people here, if you were getting into a scrap. If you had a drywall project, you'd say, oh uh uh Pastor Caleb's on his way. Oh, great. He he he can help with that. He knows how to do drywall, you know. Uh there's just the name is associated with somebody that has that skill or that ability. Uh I went out on Monday, I think it was uh the days all run together. It might have been Tuesday morning. I set up a tent for a for another church. Uh and Anyways, uh normally I take one of the guys from here, Stephen or Caleb or whatever, and so I set this tint up. It was only 40 by 60, it wasn't that bad, but I did it with guys from their church. They said they would have some volunteers there But not having people that really know what they're doing, that have never done it before. I mean normally like we could set up a 40 by 80 tent in an hour tops. I mean that's not the it took two hours to set up this tent. And uh I mean I was pulling out of there like man that was two hours. It'd have been i we could have saved an hour if Caleb would have been there. Just because he knows what he's doing, just because he knows what to do next and and You know, he can think in that the idea of just that, somebody that knows, that's reliable, that's present, and I think that's what he's saying. Hey, I'm sending a brother. Oh, okay. It's going to be all right. I got a brother. Why? Because it's a brother in the Lord. I love that family relationship. It doesn't matter where you go in the country or even the world. You walk into a church with like-minded believers. You've got brothers and sisters in Christ. And there's immediate fellowship there. There's a bond there. There's a fellowship with one another that cannot be replaced with anything else. And beloved, our fellowship should not be broken. We should have strong unity in the family of God. Psalms 133, verse number 1 says, Behold, how good and how pleasant it is for the brethren to dwell together in unity. The brethren should dwell together in unity. We should have unity in the family of God. Beloved, why? Because it's proper. Because it's what God expects. We're to have unity. You know, Satan's going to do all he can to disrupt the unity. We ought to be sober, be vigilant because your adversary, the devil, we know the devil, we know his tactics. It ought to be in the forefront of our mind that Satan is going to do all he can to create division, to cause a problem, to stir some schism in the church, because if he can destroy the unity in the church, he destroys the power that the church has We got to have unity because it's more powerful. There's power in unity when a church is moving together. There in Acts chapter 2, they had great power. And they saw great results. Why? Because they can't continue together in one accord. Because they were all together They had unity. This is very important for the church and the family of God. And I praise the Lord that, at least to my knowledge, we have unity in the church tonight. That we have unity in the family of God. And that is a, I've told people ask me, you know, how's the church doing? And I say, well We would love to see, always want to see. It doesn't matter if we were running 300, we would want to see 350. If we were still running 350, we want to see, you know, 380. We just want to see growth and expansion. I said, but for me You know, really, I I would take a church that's unified and has a good spirit that's that's running a hundred over a church that that's full of problems running a thousand any day It doesn't matter because that unity is so vitally important. And we need to be on guard against that because Satan's going to do all he can to disrupt that. And when something happens in your heart or mind, or some problem arises between you or a brother or sister in Christ, hey, listen, brethren, they can disagree, but they still love one another. You know, I got two older brothers, and sometimes they are Problematic. Sometimes they do things, especially as a younger little brother, it doesn't matter. I'm fifty years old, I'm the pastor of a church, but my opinion still doesn't count when I'm with my brothers. It's just the way it is. It's just how we roll. And and you know what? That's fine. I can live with that. Why? We still deserve we just decide to love each other. It doesn't matter that there's things that, oh, why did you do this or do that? Listen, you learn to love beyond the disagreement. And in the family of God, we've got to do that. When you spend a lot of time together. You know the nice thing is we can all still love uh Justin because he doesn't spend much time here. You know. He he leaves and goes and goes to uh Canada so that we don't really get to know him. You know, but now Jason now You know, we all gotta ask God to help us love him because uh we're getting to know him pretty good. And you know that the more time you spend with somebody, the more you get to know them I know Chloe doesn't seem like it, but the time's gonna come when Jason's gonna do something that just really irks you. I mean it's just really you're gonna be getting under your skin But th what does that mean? That means you just learn to love 'em through that. You just you just I mean after you hit them real hard, then you No, no, just kidding. A after you work through it, you say, Okay We're going to still love each other even though there's something I don't care for, even though there's something that is is not maybe exactly the way I would like it. You learn to love each other in the family of God. That's what we need to do We need to love each other even though that Satan brings in problems. Why? Because it's proper. Why? Because it's more pleasant. And it's so much more pleasant to be together in unity, isn't it? Oh, there's nothing like nothing so painful as people problems. Nothing that would tear you up like just the struggle of of something between you or a brother and sister in Christ and and it just it just eats at you, doesn't it? Boy, it's so much better when we can dwell together in unity and we can have a common fellowship and uh you know work together to see the cause of Christ move forward. And it's so much more pleasant. 1 Peter 3, verses 8 through 11 says, Finally, be all of one mind, having compassion one of another, love as brethren. Be pitiful, be courteous, not rendering evil for either, railing for railing, or counterwise blessing, knowing that ye are Thereunto called that ye should inherit a blessing. And it's a blessing to dwell together in unity, to be kind one to another, to have that. It's pleasant, it's powerful. Seeing us this what God can accomplish through the unity of the church is is just amazing One of the greatest heartaches, one of the saddest things is when brothers yoke up with the world against the church. I know sometimes conflict happens. I know sometimes there's a there's a hurt that happens in the church. But listen, mark it down in your heart and in your mind, put it down that you are never going to allow yourself to get so far. offended or away from God or whatever it is that you would yoke up with the world, somebody that hates God and doesn't want anything to do with it against a brother or sister in Christ. Against the Church of God. We are to be together. This is what it means to be brethren. We're bound by that same communion, that same fellowship, fellowship that we have with the Father, fellowship that we have in the family of God. We're bound or I should say burdened by the same care. We're burdened by the same care. As brothers and sisters in Christ, we have the same type of care. First Thessalonians 4, verse number 9, he says, But as touching brotherly love Ye need not that I write unto you, for ye yourselves are taught of God to love one another. And indeed Ye do it toward all the brethren, which are in all Macedonia. But we beseech you, brethren, that ye increase more and more. He says, Man, you're to love one another. And you already you love them, but I'm imploring you and I'm asking you, would you increase more and more? That same care and concern, the burden that we have and we regard one another, the brethren in Christ. We could go through the list of things that we are to do for one another. Not going to teach these or preach them, but we're to edify one another, we're to prefer one another, we're to admonish one another, we're to serve one another, we're to forbear one another, we're to forgive one another, we're to comfort one another, and we we could go on. These are things that uh are to be part of our spirit as Christians in the family of God. Because we're brethren. Amen. You guys all awake still? I know you're really intently listening. Amen. That's good. So we Have the burden of regarding one another. We also have the burden to restore the overtaken. Galatians 6. 1. You guys are familiar with these verses, but we are, what does the Bible say, brethren? If a man be overtaken in a fault, ye which are spiritual, restore such in one. In the spirit of meekness, considering thyself, lest thou also be tempted. Many have been overtaken in a fault. The reality is that Satan is powerful and he will cause the Christian to stumble This word here from the best of my study overtaken is is not somebody that has uh completely left God and is rebellious and and blatantly in open sin against God and and that what this idea of being overtaken is being uh almost surprised by or having uh gone into sin inadvertently, realizes his condition, has has taken a step down the wrong road, somebody that has made some dumb choices. And and he needs somebody to help him get restored, to get back on the path. We're to restore the fallen brethren. We're not to kick 'em. We're not to complain about them. We're not to gossip about them. We're not to say, well, I always knew there was something wrong with him. Isn't it amazing how people know everything after the fact? I thought she was pregnant. Come on, ladies, you know that happens. I I I was thinking, now that she's announced it, you know, I thought that there was al there was something always a little off about that guy. after we find out there was something off about them, you know. Uh but that's not what we're supposed to be doing. We're supposed to be restoring. Let's find out how we can help them. Let's find out what hurt them or caused them to stumble or to go that route. And let's see how we can bring them back, restore such in one. Yeah. It takes skill That idea of restoring has the idea of putting back together that which is broken. Almost like setting a broken bone To restore, to set that bone back. It takes some skill. It takes a little bit of care. It might take a little bit of time. But as brethren, that's what we're supposed to do for one another We're to restore. Why? Because we love one another. We regard one another. How do we restore one another? We do so in the spirit of meekness. That's with grace, with concern. Never with piety and Oh, look at you, poor Christian. Let me help you back up. He says, no, in the spirit of meekness. Why? What does he say there? He says, consider thyself lest thou also be tempted. I think a lot of these people that like to get on social media site websites and and degrade uh brothers and sisters in Christ have failed to consider themselves. They failed to consider themselves. But for the grace of God, any one of us would be in that place. And we still could. And we ought to be gracious and meek about that and work to restore those that have been overtaken. And I'm not saying that you overlook sin and And don't deal with it and don't say, hey, we need to get this right. Yes, this needs to get right. But we need to restore one another. We also need to resist the false teachers. The false brethren. In Galatians 2, verse number 4, he says, and that because of false brethren, unawares brought in, who came in privily to spy out our liberty. which we have in Christ Jesus. Listen, there are sometimes false brethren. There are sometimes those that are, maybe they come into the church with an agenda. I don't understand why. It doesn't make sense to me, but it happens. I've been shocked over the years several times. Some people have come and uh they I I hear through the grapevine that they're meeting with people and they're sharing truth about something that's not what we believe The nice thing is is we have a lot of men in our church that know what they believe, and those kind of people haven't had that great of impact in the past. And there's been men that have said, hey, no, this is what the Bible teaches, and then they've made me aware of it, and I've talked to them and said, hey, uh, what about this? And we've discussed that, and usually what happens is that they don't want to come around to what we as a church believe the Bible teaches until they end up leaving. But uh, you know, that's I mean I would love for them to Come around and follow the word of God. I have never said get out. I have never said, don't let the door hit you. I have never said, well, if you don't like it, just leave. That's the farthest thing from my heart is would I would never do that. I want to Plead and beg that they would come to see the scriptures and follow the Lord. And if I could help guide them, but I also am not going to, my job is to protect the flock. And so we're going to preach the truth and strive to do that. But as as believers, we are to resist the false brethren. Sometimes they come in unawares at first, we don't know, but they come in with that agenda to lead the church astray and s Satan sends them. They're being used by Satan. We know that. We're also bound by the same calling or bidden, sorry, by the same calling. We're bidden by the same. God calls us to the same work. Hebrews 11, verse number 1 says, wherefore, holy brethren, that we are partakers of a heavenly calling. We're partakers together of a heavenly calling. This is a privilege to be a partaker of a heavenly calling. Now we know for sure that one day we're all going to be called home. That we're gonna get to go and spend an eternity with our Lord and Savior in heaven. Why? Because we're brethren, because we have been born into the family of God. But this Heavenly calling is not one that's just for here or just for heaven one day. It also requires of us holy living today. The calling to be salt and light in this wicked and perverse world. We all have that calling on our lives. It is not just the calling of the missionaries or the pastors or the full-time Christian servants, and you guys know this, but we are all called to live holy lives, to be salt and light to be preachers of the gospel, to share the truth, to tell the lost and dying world around us. About a God that loves them, died for them, and wishes to forgive them and save them from their sin. We all have the same calling. So as brethren, a privilege to be called brethren. Thank God for the family of God, for our brothers and sisters in Christ. But with that comes a responsibility. A responsibility to love one another and all of the other things that I listed with regards to that. A responsibility to Resist Satan and resist evil thinking and don't allow him to come in and cause division among the brethren. Work to have a right spirit and a right heart with one another, because it's easy. To get bent out of shape. It's easy to get offended. But spiritual You know, we talked about that. Uh it just hit me that the verse there in Galatians. That that word when I said it, it just that verse came back. Brethren, if any man is overtaken in fault, ye which are Spiritual. Restore such a one. You see, the spiritually minded brethren are going to be involved in that work. The carnally minded, the fleshly minded, they're not going to be. We want to be brethren that are spiritually minded. We want to be involved in that work, maintaining unity in the family of God. Carrying that same care and concern for one another, fulfilling the calling that God has put on our lives to be a witness to reach and bring more into the family of God. That's what we're supposed to be doing. Let's stand together with our heads bowed and our eyes closed. Brethren.