Underneath that title looking at what the Bible refers to or calls Christians. And uh we the first week dived into that probably most prominent name of believers, and that is in they were called Christians. They were called Christians first at Antioch, and that's where we began this study. But there are many other names in the Word of God. I had Alicia order me a book uh today, the title of which is Living Up to Your Name, and uh literally is a book on the names that uh have been given to the Christian by God in the Word of God. And so uh I'm going to review that and read it, see if it's a good. We'll might maybe order some, get them in the bookstore, and uh then have that available to you, but living up to our names and that's really the thought behind this series is not only do we want to know how does God refer to us, what does he call us, but that we are living up to those names. And probably one of the second or other most common names for the believer is that of saint. You see here in 1 Corinthians chapter 1, verses 1 or 2. He says, Paul called to be an apostle of Jesus Christ through the will of God, and Sonithus our brother, unto the church of God, which is at Corinth. To them that are sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints, with all that in every place call upon the name of Jesus, Christ our Lord, both theirs and ours. And you'll notice in verse number two there that the words in italics between called and saints, the 2B, is italicized in that letting us know that that wasn't found in the original text, but is added for explanation and understanding for us as you're reading it to understand it So it it literally would read that unto the church of God there that are sanctified in Christ Jesus called saints. If you take those two words out, it's called saints. And all through the New Testament, really, even in the Old Testament, you find this title of saints Over a hundred times throughout the pages of scripture, you will see this title given to the believer, a saint. However, there are many misconceptions with regards to the title saint. uh today is a saint you know some somebody that just does a really good job is a saint somebody that's really really nice and kind and generous is that what a saint is as You hear people say the saying like, man, you're such a saint. You know, like you've just done such an amazing thing, or you're so kind, or you're so generous, you're such a saint. Is that what a saint is? Well, we want to look at the Word of God tonight and see what the Bible describes as a saint and what is our responsibility. So we will see, first of all, the achievement of sainthood. How is the position of sainthood achieved? How do you become a saint? Is it only after years and years of arduous labor in the service of others that you become a saint? Or is it attained another way? Well, contrary to popular opinion today, or what I would maybe say more prevalent opinion, it might not necessarily be popular, but if you were to go out in the world And ask the average person, how do you become a saint? I would venture to say 90% or better would say, well, you have to be good to your neighbor. You have to do unto others as you would have them do unto you. You have to, you know be very kind to other people. They would have various answers which really would ultimately conclude in just giving your life in service to others. That, of course, is rooted in Roman Catholic dogma. That is rooted in the Roman Catholic Church that has set themselves up as the distributors of sainthood, as the overseers of sainthood. They have decided that they are the ones that can appoint sainthood upon people that have achieved certain levels of uh service to their communities or in service to the church Matter of fact, they have awarded sainthood to over 10,000 people. They decided that those people were worthy of having the position of sainthood. In order to become a saint, according to the Catholic Church, you've got to meet five levels of qualifications. You have to, first of all, it's supposed to only take place Five years after your death, they don't want people to determine you're a saint right at the moment of your passing because then you know all the emotions involved and everything, right? Oh, he was such a saint And uh they don't want that to be the case, so it's supposed to be after five years. Now the Pope can decide to waive that and just say, well, we're gonna make them a saint right now, but that's typically what's supposed to happen, supposed to be at least five years. Uh their life then is evaluated by an impartial uh council of cardinals that is set in the Vatican. So the church or the group could say, hey, we believe this person should be a saint and They recommend them, and then this council of cardinals in the Vatican will take up the case and begin to review the life and testimony and habits of the individual. Then, provided they meet all of the qualifications that are necessary, they will present them to the Pope, and the Pope can determine if they are worthy of reverence. The Pope decides if they are venerable. We've talked about what that means to venerate. He literally determines if they're venerable. And he will elevate them to that position where they are reverenced, where they are venerated. And uh it literally is called canonized. They become canonized by the Pope, meaning that they have met all the qualifications And they are raised to the position of sainthood, and then they are venerated by the church. That is worshipped set in awe. And they literally believe that because these people have been raised to sainthood, that because their lives were so special that they have kind of an inroad to God. And so they pray to the saints because they believe that the saints have a closer connection to God than us. And so they can pray to that saint, and the saint would be able to grant their request, or they're more likely to get their answer, just like a child might uh, you know One friend would ask another friend, hey, ask your dad if he can buy us ice cream. You know what? You go ask. Well, no, no, you go ask. He's your dad Like you know he's gonna you're gonna have a better chance than me. You you get it. And uh you know, so that idea there that basically they say, well, these saints have such a close relationship with God Surely they would hear their prayers and so they pray to these saints. Uh in 2016, Mother Teresa uh was canonized into sainthood. Mother Teresa, probably the most well-known, certainly, of modern times of people that were raised to sainthood. Uh and now she's called Saint Mother Teresa of Calquetta. That was her her that's her official title. And uh as part of their qualifications, they have to have had two verifiable miracles attributed to their name. At least two verifiable miracles And the first miracle that was attributed to Mother Teresa is uh somebody uh that was uh had a uh a growth in their stomach and they were taking this medicine to take care of this growth. But because their family w family was so poor They couldn't afford the medicine, just sometimes they would get a little bit, and then they couldn't afford it for a long time, and then they would get a little bit, and then they couldn't afford it. And so ultimately uh they This this story as the story goes, this person was in a chapel and there was a picture of Mother Teresa there and she prayed and asked Mother Teresa to heal her. And then later that day or that week, some somewhere around that time frame, a medallion that was close to Mother Teresa, a medallion that Mother Teresa had either worn or handled somehow touched this person's stomach. And when that medallion touched her stomach, this person was healed of this disease, whatever was causing this growth. And uh so they went through and tried to verify it. They verified it and said this is a verifiable miracle. And she has two, at least two verifiable miracles that people believe that the person's prayers were answered through this individual, through Mother Teresa, and so she's been raised to sainthood. And uh listen As good a person as Mother Teresa was, and she her her hand her humanitarian works have been spread around the world. She has branches in over 90 countries. There's probably not a country in the world that does not know her name. She has done many good things. But outside of Jesus Christ, she died and went to hell. If her belief was in the system of Catholic dogma, she died and went to hell. Because that is not how you get to heaven. She did a lot of good deeds. But can I tell you, as good of a person as she was, she was still not a saint. And the church can award her that position if they want, they can give her that title, but she wasn't a saint. Because you don't become a saint by accomplishing a list of good deeds. You don't be achieved sainthood by living a life after a pattern of submission to the church. You become a saint by putting your faith and trust in the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus. And then you are made a saint We see in our text verse there, he says, unto the church of God which is at Corinth, to them that are sanctified in Christ Jesus. Called to be saints. Sanctified in Christ Jesus. That is how you become a saint, is when you put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ. The whole idea and the premise of sainthood is not found in the Bible as it's presented in the Roman Catholic Church. You don't earn sainthood. Paul, as a matter of fact, it really is the exact opposite of what the church says. Because if you look here, Paul is recognizing and writing this letter to the Church of Corinth, which by all standards You tell me, was the Church of Corinth a fine upstanding body of believers that were known for their stalwart faith and their committed nature? No, the Church of Corinth was a carnal church. That's what the letter is all about. Like they were carnal in their nature, and Paul over and over is getting on to them, and yet right up front he says, Hey, to the saints at Corinth. He's saying, yeah, you guys are saints, but now it's time you need to start acting like it. He said, you have been given the position of sainthood, but you're not acting like saints. Paul recognized them as saints because they had put their faith and trust in Christ. So, according to the Roman Catholic Church, my life is going to be investigated for all of its great virtue And I possibly can become a saint. But according to the scripture, a saint is one who's been sanctified by Jesus alone. That's who is a saint. The title of saint in the scriptures in the Old Testament is found in many places, and that Old Testament Hebrew word means godly. It means holy. Matter of fact, many times the exact same word that in some places is translated saint because of the context. and knowing who it's talking about as an individual, that same Hebrew word is other places is translated holy. We're going to get into this in a few minutes when we begin talking about the application of sainthood, that Christians are to be holy. The saint is to be holy. That's what it means. The New Testament Greek word for saint, hegos, means pure or blameless. It means to be blameless So, beloved, anyone that has come to faith through the cross of Jesus Christ has been made blameless Not because they are blameless, not because they haven't done anything wrong, not because they are not a sinner, but because the shed blood of Jesus Christ has covered their sin and forgiven them of their sin. And therefore we stand blameless before an Almighty God, not because of our good deeds, but because of our great God. In Philippians chapter 1 and verse number 1, Paul and Timothy is the servant of Jesus Christ to all the saints. In Christ Jesus, which are at Philippi. Over and over again in the letters that Paul wrote, he acknowledged the people at the church he was writing to to be saints He says, hey, you guys have come to know Jesus Christ. You put your faith in him. Therefore you are saints. He is recognizing them in Philippians chapter 4, verse number 21. He says, salute every saint. In Christ Jesus. The brethren which are with me greet you. So, beloved, you're not, and you never will be perfect. But praise the Lord, we've been pardoned. That is where sainthood comes from Matter of fact, a group of men could get together and declare me unfit to be a saint. And if I'm honest, I would have to say amen. That's absolutely right. I'm unfit to be a saint. But I'm not a saint because I'm fit to be one. I'm a saint because I'm forgiven. So the achievement of sainthood is not something that I earn or that I can achieve in and of myself. It is simply by putting my faith and trust in Christ. And you are granted the position of sainthood. That's good news. I'm glad it's not dependent upon me. It's not dependent upon my works. But upon Jesus Christ. And I hope you guys at home are not having as much a hard time stay awake as these guys present are. Of course I can't see you, but uh I know it's hot in here. Uh it's nice, nice and toasty. But uh we want to move on to our second point. The advantages of sainthood. The advantages of sainthood. What are the advantages of sainthood? There's lots of things. I'm thrilled today that I am a saint. Not because of anything I've done, but because Jesus Christ did for me. And as a saint, there are some advantages. You know, I have never had the privilege of having the flash pass. at six flags. But there are some advantages and when you go to buy a pass like that, they're like, let me tell you the advantages. Like you could get this Gold Pass, and if you're a Gold Pass member, you get free parking and you get 10% off on all your food purchases and You can save twenty percent on the at at this vendor and whatever these are your van. But if you go to a platinum, if you're a platinum member If you're a Supreme El Primo platinum super, uh, you know, it's amazing with the cars now that like it's this is a limited Platinum premium edition car, you know. It used to just be the limited was the top of the line, but now limited is not good enough. They gotta move them up to the platinum. Limited platinum, limited premium Uh, you know, the suburban is the premium now, but you get advantages when you have that position. Sometimes there are advantages of being uh maybe a worker at some places you get well because I'm advanker, I get to have this uh discount or I get as much food as I want, you know, I get this advantage because I work there I get stock options or whatever else. Well, there's some advantages, beloved, because you're a saint. Let me tell you what they are. We're going to go through them quickly. First of all, you have the advantage of possession. Daniel chapter 7 and verse number 18, he says, But the saints of the Most High shall take the kingdom and possess the kingdom forever, even forever and ever. The saints, you're going to be a possessor, you have possessed eternal life. You you to them, to many that believe on his name, to them gave you power to become the sons of God. You and I, we possess the Spirit of God in our heart. We possess a home in heaven, and that is going to be our eternal home, a place we get to rest. are possessors of these things because you're saints. Ephesians 2. 19 says, now therefore ye are no more strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints. In the household of God. You're fellow citizens. You've got brothers and sisters in Christ and fellow citizens, not citizens of Baltimore or citizens of America or citizens of the United States, but citizens of heaven Because you're a saint. Not only is it an advantage of a possession, but it's an advantage of a perfecting. In Ephesians chapter 4, verses 11 and 12 He says, and he gave some apostles and some prophets and some evangelists and some pastors and teachers, you guys know the verse, for the perfecting of the saints. You see, beloved, there's a process of perfection that's supposed to take place in the heart of the believer, of the saint. And he's given some tools and some instruments to try and help us with that. But I'm thankful that God didn't save us to leave us. He saved us to build us, to make us into the image of His Son, and to perfect us through our lives. And how many of you would say with an agreement that you're glad that God is still working on you? God is still working on me, and I'm not what I should be, but praise the Lord, I'm not what I used to be. And it's a process of perfecting. That's an advantage. To know that the Holy Spirit speaks to your heart and the Holy Spirit wants to do a work in your life and wants to change you little by little, step by step, through the power of the Word and the power of the Holy Spirit. It's a perfecting process. And that is an advantage to be perfected. It's an advantage of promotion. You might not look at this as a promotion, but God does. In Psalms 116, verse number 15, he says, precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of his saints. Beloved, this world is not my home. I'm just a passing through. My treasures are laid up somewhere beyond the blue. The older I get, the less and less there is in this old world that I'm looking at that I have any interest in I don't know about some of the younger men in our church. I can tell you, honestly, when I was that age, I was like, well, I hope the Lord doesn't come back until at least I get married. So at least I ha I could at least get married and then the Lord can come back, you know, whatever I want to at least do that or I want to at least accomplish this or you might have had some things, but can I tell you that there is nothing in my life that I need to or want to accomplish? I'm ready to go. The Lord can come back right now and take me on to heaven. Now Don, he's got a few things he wants to accomplish yet, right? He's got a few more years he wants to gotta I think he wants to jump out of a plane before no I'm just kidding The older you get, the less there is in this old world that you want to hold on to, and you're looking forward to that promotion when we get to go on to heaven, to that place. And that's another advantage. We have a place. That God has prepared for us. John 14, 1 through 3. Let not your heart be troubled. Ye believe in God. Believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions, and if it were not so, I would have told you, I go and prepare a place For you. If I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself that where I am, there ye may be also. Amen. There's a place. He's gone. He's preparing a place for us. And it's not, it's it's a mansion, amen. It's a beautiful place. It's a place that even our own imaginations can't fathom or understand or grasp. But it's a place, the magnitude and the beauty of we will be in awe. And God's preparing that for us. And we get to look forward to that. It's an advantage as a saint to know that we've got a place, and he's preparing that place for us. If you've ever been in a situation in this life where you really didn't have a place. For whatever reason, the the circumstances of life have left you maybe where you're just basically, okay, I got my car and and twenty bucks and that's what I got. And we just Whatever. We'll see what the Lord does. I mean, just on the road waiting to see where the Lord takes you and you don't really have a place to call home. You don't have a place that you're own. You don't have a place that at the end of the day you can say, oh, here's where I'm going to lay my head. And that that kind of upset and that kind of just leaves you kind of lay like in limbo. I'm not really sure Uh but hey beloved as a saint we have a place a place we get to look forward to a place called heaven. Not only that, there it is an advantage of protection. In 2nd, sorry, in 1 Samuel chapter 2, verse number 9, he says, he will keep the feet of his saints. We know that all through the scriptures over and over again we are told about how God looks over and cares for his saints. Not one hair from your head will fall without God knowing about it. You're more precious than the lilies of the field or the birds of the air, and God knows exactly where you're at. In Psalms 37, 28 he says, For the Lord loveth judgment and forsaketh not his saints. They are preserved forever. It's a pr God has a protection for you and I in this whole world. You know, many people I was talking recently with somebody about flying, and I enjoy flying. I I like being high, you know, not gotta be careful. I l I like go going high in planes. Um So I like going high in planes. And uh, you know, I like the elevation when I stopped and saw Mary and I went and saw uh uh John and Stephanie. And uh she's on the eighth floor. And uh so we were in her her room there and checking the baby and saying hi to them and And uh over there on the eighth floor and the first thing I did is walk to the edge of the window and I'm like looking down and like I like I like that. I like m the view and I like being able to look out. And uh but I was talking to several people about flying and the idea some people are just fearful. This one person was saying, man, I I am just like A basket case the whole time I'm flying. Like I cannot settle down. No way I can sleep. I'm very like nervous and anxiety and stress and like it's never I mean you know flying makes me sick. But it doesn't bother me to fly. I'm not nervous. I'm not scared at all. I look at it and say, well, it's gonna if it's the last one, at least it'd be a fun ride. I mean I don't know. It's I I don't I don't worry about it at all. Why? 'Cause god I'm in God's hands I mean literally I feel like if it's my time, I'm gonna go on that plane or I'm gonna go driving down 695. I'm gonna go sitting in my house. Whatever. It's my time. The Lord knows exactly where I'm at And uh, you know, praise the Lord, I don't have to worry about it. There's protection. We have God's protection, and nothing can happen to you outside of God allowing it to happen And anything God's allowed into our life is for our good or his glory. So we can rest assured in that protection. Amen. There's an advantage there. Are you thankful for that tonight? At least one person. Amen. Alright, so we have the advantage of peace In 1 Corinthians 14, 33, for God is not the author of confusion, but of peace in all churches of the saints. God gives peace to the saints. Peace that that peace that passeth all understanding, that peace that gives you assurance in the decisions that you're making, that guides you through your life, that gives you rest at night when you lay your head on the pillow and there may be turmoil all around you and this world is certainly full of turmoil on every hand. It seems as though there is not peace anywhere, but there's peace in the heart of the believer. As a saint, that's an advantage we have. We have peace. Yes, we have the advantage of provision. Psalms 37, 25 says, I have been young and now I'm old, yet I have not seen the righteous forsaken, nor his seed begging bread. My God shall supply all your needs according to his riches and glory. There's an advantage of provision. Should we keep on going? There's some advantages, beloved. There's some advantages to being a saint Sainthood is not something we achieve on our own or by our own means, but I'm praying to praise the Lord that I'm given these advantages when I become a saint, when I trust Jesus Christ. That said, there's an application of sainthood as well. How does me being a saint translate into my daily life We have all heard parents look at their children and say, batterels don't act that way. Or Greenbergs don't act like that. Or Rodriguez's don't talk that way We've all heard parents look at a child and say, this is not the way somebody that bears the name of is going to act. You're not going to do that. And beloved, as a saint There is some application into our daily life that translates not like, oh, hey, praise the Lord, I've been made a saint. Man, that's awesome. Look at everything I get because I'm a saint, man. That's great But with it, there's some responsibility. With it comes an application to our daily life. What do we do with the fact that we've been made a saint? Well, I'll tell you, as I said, the word saint or the name, title saint in the Old Testament, the Hebrew word has also been translated as holy. We are to be holy. As Christians, as saints, we are not to be acting and living like the world We are to be holy people, holy individuals. Ephesians chapter 5, verses 3 and 4, he says, but fornication and uncleanliness and covetousness Let it not be once named among you as becometh saints. These are some things that he said, hey, if you've got the name saint, these are things you shouldn't be doing. These are things that shouldn't even be named among you, let alone be a regular practice of your life. There ought to be some kind of a standard in our lives. We say this is not what I'm going to do. I'm not going to live that way I'm not going to partake of that. I'm not going to practice that. I'm going to do what God wants me to do. Why? Because I'm a saint. I've been made a saint. Beloved, we don't act saintly in order to be saved, but because we're saved, we should act like saints. I think if we rightly fear the Lord, it would motivate us to act right. You know the statistics, and I don't have them in front of me, but the the the statistics of people that would steal If they knew they could get away with it, is unbelievable. It has nothing to do with right or wrong. It only has to do with whether they were going to get caught or not. The people that that's the that's their moral compass is not that it's right or wrong, not something they should or shouldn't do, but whether they were going to get caught or not See, the fear is just whether they get seen, whether anybody's going to know. In Psalms 34, 9, the Bible says, O fear the Lord, ye his saints. Fear the Lord, ye his saints. This is something that we should fear the Lord. We should recognize and realize that He sees it all, He knows it all. And for us it ought to be a fear. And yes, there's a fear of he is an almighty God and He will judge and we will one day stand before the judgment. But I think that there ought to be a greater fear for somebody that has made us a saint, who has provided all of these great uh assets and these things that he's blessed us with. I think it ought to be a fear of disappointing him. There ought to be a fear of making him sad and realizing breaking the heart of Jesus. The Bible says that the Holy Spirit is grieved. He's hurt when we sin. And that is something that we should be guarding against. Oh, fear the Lord, ye his saints. In Revelation 11, 18 he says, And these nations were angry, and their wrath is come, and the time of the dead that they should be judged. And that thou shouldest give reward unto thy servants, the prophets, and to the saints, and them that fear thy name. He says, hey, there's a group of people. They're called saints. There's a group of people that fear you. And God there in Revelation says that they're going to get a reward because they fear God with a holy reverential fear. I know sometimes we want to act like the devil. I know That guy cuts you off in traffic. And it just makes you feel good to lay on a horn. And you're like, that idiot! You know, you you Yeah that you know I mean sometimes we want to just man if it didn't cost so much I would just Ram the car right into him. You're letting your your uh the the little devil show God. But we are to be saints, not devils, and we ought to be acting like saints, not like the devil. Revelation chapter 14, verse number 12, he says, here is the patience of the saints. Here are they that keep the commandments of God, the patience that saints have, and they keep the commandments of God. This is the application of sainthood. This is because I'm a saint, this is what I should be doing. I should be keeping the commandments of God. Let me ask you this: those of you that are tuning in online and those that are present in the auditorium tonight. How are you doing as a saint today? I hope because you put your faith and trust in Christ, you are a saint. But have you acted very saintly? Have you in your actions throughout the day today been somebody that they looked at that and said, Boy, uh that is not very saintly I was listening to a message uh yesterday or last night, I don't know, and I listened to several, but I was listening to a message and uh the the guy was saying, oh hey, uh he was Somebody talking to him, he says, Well, you just broke the fourth commandment. And the guy started laughing at him and said, Man, you're a Christian. You don't even know your commandments. And uh he he paused to think and he's like, wait, what's the the fourth commandment? Honor the Sabbath day and keep it holy. He's like, no, that that's the right one. And and uh The reason that he was laughing at him is because the Catholics have uh taken the second commandment and removed it and they've split up the tenth one to give you ten so that they get rid of the uh one regarding uh graven images Because there's no way around that. Thou shalt not, you know, have any graven images or to bow down to those. And this idea of just keeping the commandments How you doing on keeping the commandments? Well, our theme for the years, love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. uh and love thy neighbor as thyself. These are the two commandments and all the commandments of the law are are hung on those two because if we are fulfilling those two, we're going to fulfill the rest of them. So we'd say again, how are you doing on being a saint today? The application is the saint is called to sainthood. We're called to live like saints. We're called to serve like saints. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your body a living sacrifice Which is holy and acceptable unto God. We're supposed to present your body as and this of course he says is your reasonable service. It's a reasonable service. serve. It's a reasonable thing that God asks of us to serve Him with our lives. It's one thing to be called a saint, it's another thing to serve like one. We've had some young people at our house on occasion. You guys know we've had people live with us and lots of people visit us and things like that. And we've had young people sometimes would say to my children, Boy, I I wish I was part of your family. And my kids are like, no, you don't. They're like, uh, no, don't think you do. Oh, you got to go on vacation. You haven't been here for the work party. You got to do the fun part, but you didn't spend the two weeks getting ready for it. You you no you really don't want to do this. Why? Because it's one thing to be called a battery, another thing to work like one. It's one thing to be called a saint, but another thing to serve like one, to be a servant of Christ, to be like Christ, who came not to be ministered to, but to minister. Hebrews 10, 6 says, For God is not unrighteous to forget your work and labor of love, which ye have shown toward his name, in that ye have ministered. to the saints and do minister. Are you investing in ministering to the saints? Is it part of, is it is something that you are excited about that you love doing? I've been pondering and thinking about our church and asking God, what do we need to do to help the church to grow and how can we build a a a culture in the church of service and a culture of of of uh you know seeing people save that soul winning and and ministering to other people that's just present and you feel it when you come through the doors and and uh you know the Lord's just been impressing upon my heart that you know what every single service Every single time the doors are open, he's talking to me, he's saying, you've got to bring your A-game. You've got to be a hundred percent. You've got to be excited, you've got to be thrilled about meeting the church family and greeting those guests as they come in. You've got to be excited about uh the things of God and and the word of God and and and what people need. That that has to be something that is contagious and it's only contagious if it's part of your heart and life. It can't be, well, oh yeah, I'm excited today because it's anniversary Sunday. But no, I need to be excited every Sunday because it's the Word of God and because it's the Lord's Day And people that come into the church for the first time, they didn't get to experience Anniversary Sunday. They didn't get to be here on Easter when the choir was hitting hitting the number ten on the scoreboard and when the and when the specials were extra special because it's a big day. No, we need to every Sunday, every time the doors are open Every opportunity we get to minister, you know, and that doesn't go just for me. It goes for every nursery worker and every sound worker and every greeter at the front door and every single teacher in the Sunday school downstairs. We can't do it half shod week after week after week and then say, oh, this Sunday we're going to do a really good job. No, it needs to be something that we're on fire about and we're excited about every single Sunday Every dime that we have an opportunity to minister, it needs to be something that we're thrilled for the opportunity, and asking God, by his grace and with his power, to do something real for his church. It's a heart of service. And beloved, a saint is called to speak. We can look through the pages of Scripture and see this over and over again, but it ought to be the heartbeat of the believer to be a witness for God as he goes out into this world. But sanctify the Lord in your hearts, and be ready always to give an answer to every man that asketh of you the reason of the hope that is in you. Beloved, we're called to speak. To tell others about Jesus Christ. And I don't hesitate to tell you this is an area that I'm weak and I need God to help me do better. We need to be a witness. The world's lost and dying. And as a saint, I'm called to spread the word And try and win some other saints. Try and reach some people with the love of Jesus Christ that changed my life For them that he might change their life. They might know the forgiveness of God and the hope that is in Christ Jesus. And yes, they get uh they get a home in heaven. But they get their sins forgiven and get to be restored to a right relationship with Jesus. We're called to speak, and we need to speak when we're out in this world. That's what it means to be a saint. Listen, it's not something we can achieve ourselves. And the advantages, I just gave you a list of them tonight, but the advantages are probably really too numerous to list. And because of all that It behooves me to apply it to my life. To act like a saint. Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday. Saturday, Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, every day of my life. Ask God to use me for His honor and glory. Let's stand to our feet