In your Bibles, Joshua chapter four and verse seven. Joshua chapter four and verse seven. All across America we're in churches, and some churches are headed forward, some are headed backward, and a lot of it depends on the vision that God's given the pastor. And you have a strong pastor here and with bright vision. And I entreat you follow him and encourage him, pray for him in his families. family and hold him up and the the whole staff. Joshua four and verse seven. Then ye shall answer them that the waters of Jordan were cut off before the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord when it passed over Jordan. The waters of Jordan were cut off, and these stones shall be a memorial unto the children of Israel forever. What does Memorial Day mean to you? For some it's a sign the summers here. For others, school is ended, and of course that's all defeated this year. In normal days, others view it only as a day off of work, a long weekend perhaps Still others see it as the time that the trees are budding and outdoor activities are just beginning On the road, campgrounds. I mean I was an R V or campgrounds welcome Memorial Day as the beginning of their season. But Memorial Day should conjure up memories, as your pastor has said, of soldiers that have been lost in wars. Of flags waving in the breeze, of parades, and of flowers placed on the graves of loved ones. Much of that is Not able to be done this year, uh we understand, but uh we can still remember, amen. Did you know that more than a million Americans have given their lives in wartime for our country. All have given some. Some have given all So Decoration Day, as some call it, has been observed for over 150 years to remember our armed forces and especially the fallen soldiers. Memorial Day was officially proclaimed in 1868, shortly after the Civil War. On May 30, 1868, Flowers. were put on the graves of Civil War dead in Arlington Cemetery. In 1890, it was recognized by all the northern states. uh states uh to uh have Memorial Day. The southern states joined in after World War II In 1971, the National Holiday Act Congress secured its celebration on the last Monday in May. Actually, the federal government has no power to enact a national holiday except for the District of Columbia and for federal employees. The right to set holidays is reserved to the states. I don't know if you knew that, but uh however most states uh always follow the lead of the Congress in the setting of holidays. I remember Memorial Day well. I played in the band. And So it was a big deal in our town of 5,000 in Ohio and in every town when I was growing up, uh men always struggled to get into their uniforms that they had long since outgrown in order to march down the the street proudly bearing uh the stars and stripes. We didn't talk about the global community in those days or the New World Order or NATO troops. We were Americans and we were proud of it. Shirley and I were in the marching band for seven years. I was in the front row because I had the slide. and she was right behind me in the front second row on the French horn. And we would march all the way through town, all the way out to the cemetery on the edge of town. And at the cemetery There would always be a service and a preacher and the BFW drill squads uh firing their salutes After prayer, everyone returned home with the sound of taps echoing in their ears, reminding them of the sacrifices that have been made so that they could be a free people. You see, America didn't just happen. We enjoy what we enjoy today, but it didn't just evolve Men and now women have laid down their lives on the line to gain and preserve our freedom And Almighty God has moved mightily in our 244-year history, and we need to remember that this is Memorial Day. Memorial Day. Webster says a memorial is something which serves to preserve remembrance, which brings to mind It is something which helps us to remember. A memorial can be a special day or a building or a statue. Or an object or a song or a bridge or a highway or something else. Today, while we are remembering those who gave the full measure of their lives for America's liberty I want us to also recall six of the Bible memorials. Six Bible memorials. Just as everyone around us should remember our soldiers today and the life that they gave for us. And by the way, they allowed us to purchase our freedom and retain our freedom, and we ought to retain our freedom. But just as they did that, every one of us should recall the Bible memorials that God has set up as well. We'll bow for a word of prayer and we'll get into the first of six Bible memorials. Heavenly Father, in the name of Jesus, now we thank you for our gathering. And Lord, it's not everybody that could be here because of the circumstances, but there are folks that are listening by live stream. and those who are in the parking lot and those who are here. And we pray in Jesus' name that you will work in hearts and lives as we preach the word that we will allow the Word to do a work in us. I pray, Heavenly Father, for your power to say what needs to be said today, and I pray for the Holy Spirit to do his work in Christ's name. Amen. Preacher, what time is this over? All right. One of those memorials is the weekly day of rest. The weekly day of rest, Genesis chapter 2 and verse 3. Genesis 2:3 tells us that God created the earth in six days and rested on the seventh. It says, and God blessed the seventh day and sanctified it, because that in it he had rested from all his work which God created and made. God's pattern for men is work six days and rest the seventh after they've worked Every day of rest ought to be a memorial that God is our Creator. He created and established a day of rest after he created. We did not arrive here, in other words, by accident We are the result of the act of creation by the direct act of God. We should never forget Psalm 103. Or 100 verse 3. 103 says, Know ye that the Lord He is God. It is He that hath made us, and not we ourselves. The first half of the verse. The day of rest also reminds us of Christ's saving work in our behalf. It symbolizes the rest that He has prepared for us in heaven. John Newton wrote the hymn with these words, safely through another week. God has brought us on our way. And later in that hymn, he says, day of all the week, the best. Emblem of eternal rest. Since Christ's time, the day of rest has been Sunday because Jesus Christ arose on the first day of the week And so we celebrate the resurrection not once a year, but every Sunday. Amen. There is no Old Testament Sabbath where we work and earn our rest. It is a New Testament Sabbath where we rest by the grace of God and then we work. Friend, I wonder, are you keeping the Lord's Memorial Day every week? And today is Memorial Day Secondly, we see the rainbow as a memorial that God intended for us to remember. The rainbow is the remembrance of God's wrath on sin. and his covenant with man. In Genesis chapter 9, would you go over there, please? Genesis 9, verse 11. And I will establish my covenant with you. Neither shall all flesh be cut off anymore by the waters of a flood. And God said, This is the token of the covenant which I make between me and you and every living creature that is with you for perpetual generations. This is the token. I do set my bow in the cloud, and it shall be for a token of the covenant between me and the earth. Verse 13. You see, the earth was corrupt. It was evil in that day. It was filled with violence. And God is holy, and God refuses to coexist with sin. He won't do it. Turn back to Genesis chapter six. I want you to see what a holy God saw when he looked on the earth. Chapter six and verse five. And God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually, and it repented the Lord that he had made man on the earth, and it grieved him at his heart. Listen, God can see our wickedness, and God can see our sin, and He can see our evil thoughts today. He still has that ability. In chapter 6 and verse 11, it says the earth also was corrupt before God, and the earth was filled with violence. That's what was going on at that time. But we find that even in those evil days, you can live for God. Listen to me, you can live for God in evil days. You can live for God in evil places of employment or in evil places you can live for God when everything else and everyone else is cussing. They're looking at porn sights and they're sexting and they're cut they're using dirty words and dirty filthy stories and wearing lewd dress and boozing it up and doping it up and trying to be politically correct and listening to their filthy rock music and country western and and mocking God and ignoring God and compromising, you can still live for God. Yes you can Look at chapter 6 and verse 8. Verse 8. But Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. In that wicked day, he found grace. In verse 9, these are the generations of Noah. Noah was a just man and perfect in his generations, and Noah walked with God. You can walk with God in evil days. When others around you aren't, when your family's not. You can still walk with God. Yes, you can Teenagers, you don't have to go along with the crowd. Though they are going in the wrong direction, you can swim upstream. Adults, you don't have to go along with the crowd. You don't have to give in. And you can stand like Noah did, and you can walk with God, and God will remember you like God remembered Noah. But God's patience with man's wickedness ran out. We find in verse 17: God destroyed everyone except Noah and his family of eight. And behold, verse 17, I, even I, do bring a flood of waters upon the earth to destroy all flesh, wherein is the breath of life from under heaven, and everything that is in the earth shall die. Skip a verse, verse 19. And the waters prevailed exceedingly upon the whole, upon the earth And all the high hills that were under the whole heaven were covered. That means under the whole heaven. That doesn't mean a round air rat. That doesn't mean in the Middle East. It means the whole earth. The earth, the flood was a universal flood that was over the whole earth. Verse 21 And all flesh died that moved upon the earth. And it goes on to describe all of that That reminds us of the truth that God is all powerful. He can do anything. He must control nature, we see here, to be able to predict and to cause a worldwide flood. And God can do anything, listen to me, to get our attention. He can do anything to pour out judgment on us when we we won't return to him, when we won't obey him and do what he wants us to do. He can get our attention. He knows what buttons to push. And you see, we serve the same God today. He doesn't like your backslidings any more today than he did then, and he has the power to do whatever is necessary. If you won't return to him voluntarily and humbly, he can get your attention. We're no match for our God. You can't think of a rainbow. You can't see a rainbow without thinking of the flood. And thinking about God's wrath on man. It seems strange to me that the LGBT community Don't understand that the rainbow stands for God's wrath. Interesting. But the rainbow is also a memorial that God will never use a flood to destroy the whole earth again. And that is God's mercy. So we have a memorial, a rainbow. And by the way, there are still floods, aren't there? Yes. And they're destructive Just ask those who live along the Mississippi, or those who are in Michigan this week, or those who are down in Kentucky, Tennessee, and Virginia as they experience terrible flooding. There will be local floods, but no more worldwide floods. This is more evidence that the flood in Noah's day was worldwide. There still are localized floods, but not a worldwide flood. And it shows his mercy to us. The day of rest pointed out God as our Creator and Christ as our Savior. The rainbow reminds us that God is a God of wrath. For sin, but he's also a God of mercy in allowing no more worldwide floods. And today is Memorial Day The third memorial in the Bible is the feast of the Passover. If you'll turn to Exodus 12, Exodus 12. That is, the Feast of Passover was a memorial. It was to be remembered. There was something God wanted to remind us about in the Feast of Passover. In Exodus 12, 14, first half of the verse says, and this day shall be unto you for a what? A memorial for a memorial. In chapter 13 now, just over one chapter, verse 9. And it shall be a sign unto thee. upon thine hand, and for a memorial between thine eyes, that the Lord's law may be in thy mouth, for with a strong hand hath the Lord brought thee out of Egypt. The Jews have celebrated this feast for centuries in the first month of the Jewish calendar. You'll remember that the Passover was the night When the death angel passed upon over all Egypt and killed the firstborn son and the firstborn animals in every household. No Egyptian family was missed. Every one of them lost somebody that night. But in the Jewish camp, God had instructed them that there's a way of escape Thank God that there's a way of escape. Amen. And all anyone had to do was kill a lamb. and place the blood on either side of the door. Exodus twelve and verse thirteen. Verse thirteen. And the blood shall be to you for a token. There's the memorial uh upon the houses where ye are, and when I see the blood, I will pass over you and the plague shall not be upon you to destroy you when I smite the land of Egypt. And so that night God spared all the Jews and smote all the Egyptians So much so that the Egyptian begged the uh Israelites to leave. Then God set up the feast of Passover so that they would not forget that deliverance from bondage that he had accomplished for them. Ooh, too often we forget when God has delivered us from something. But he didn't want them to, so he set a memorial. And the feast of Passover also looked ahead. In the fullness of time There would come a day when God would say to the peoples of the world, here is my Passover capital L Lamb, my only son. I've sent him to the earth to die on the cross and shed his blood for you. Put his blood on the door of your heart. And I will spare you for his sake. God has extended his Passover to all the world, not just the Jews now, because He loved the world. God so loved the world. That he gave his only begotten Son. I ask you today: have you marked the doorway of your heart with the blood of Jesus Christ? Have you let its memorial message speak to you? Have you repented of your sins and trusted only in Jesus Christ to take you to heaven when you die? Today is Memorial Day. Turn to Genesis chapter 28. Genesis 28. The fourth memorial was formed by the stones that Jacob slept on. Genesis 28 verse 11. And he landed upon a certain place and tarried there all night Because the sun was set, and he took of the stones of that place and put them for his pillows and lay down in that place to sleep. That night God promised Jacob great blessings. In verse 18, and Jacob rose up early in the morning. And took the stone that he had put for his pillows, and set it up for a pillar, and poured oil upon the top of it Jacob's stones were a remembrance of God's presence that he saw that night. It was a memorial that he set up. To remind him of God's presence in his life. In this passage, Jacob was away from home for the first time, and he was afraid Maybe you would be too. And the fear uh the future was unclear, and so he was comf uncomfortable, you would be too, if you had pillows made out of stones I like soft pillows. But God appeared to him that night. And God promised him his presence in the future too. Do. And he didn't forget it, and he didn't want to forget it. Listen, God doesn't offer his presence on a one-time basis It's not just that he appears to us once. If you respond to his presence, he wants to be with you forever. He wants to walk and talk with you. He wants to comfort you if you'll let him He wants to lead you if you'll let him. He wants to see you through your trial if you'll let him. God showed his presence to Jacob that day, and Jacob never wanted to forget it. And so he set up a pillar, a memorial, that God had appeared to him. From verse 22, we also learn that God became Jacob's God that day. That was the day of his salvation. Jacob's parents knew God, but he had to know him personally. He couldn't rely on what his parents knew, he needed to know God for himself. Every person must individually find a God through Jesus Christ. You can't say that you know Him because your parents or your friends know God. You must have a personal experience with God whereby you repent and trust Him alone to become your Savior. Do you have a day or a time that you can point back to once And for all that you received Christ as your Savior, you need a Memorial Day in your Christian experience. Physically, I was born in October, October the twenty-seventh, nineteen fifty-one. Now the whole world knows. There's a record of it. I have a copy, a birth certificate. It's a memorial of my birth that day. Is it your second birth that important that there may be a memorial to it? Your second birth. Maybe no one instructed you to write down the date and the time, but you ought to remember the circumstances and the settings. You ought to remember in general where it happened. You might even remember who was preaching or who talked to you about it When God saves a person from sin, he can't forget the day that he was liberated. And he needs a memorial. Jacob's stones were a memorial of salvation and God's abiding presence from that point on. Do you have that in your life? You need to think through that. If you've never received Christ, receive Him today. If you have received Christ, try harder to remember the circumstances. And make a memorial. And today is Memorial Day. We also find Joshua's stones in the Jordan River as the fifth memorial in the Bible. This was a memorial of God's provision, Him providing The children of Israel have wandered for forty years in the wilderness, and what a series of trials they have faced there in the wilderness, fear, hunger, sorrow, thirst, battles, on and on it goes, that they had Have you ever faced a series of trials that was battering you? Do you ever face that where it's one right after another? I hate it when that happens. When you do, life becomes a wilderness journey, like it was for the Israelites It doesn't mean that you'll forever be in the wilderness, not at all, but life isn't much fun in the wilderness And in those days. However, when God finally lifts that trial or series of trials, you don't want to forgive it And so God provided, and you want to remember it. And so for Joshua, he wanted the Israelites to remember, and he set up the stones in the river. God supernaturally brought them out of that 40-year trial in Joshua chapter 3 verses 15 through 17 it says they passed over the Jordan River on dry ground. Well, they crossed over the Red Sea on dry ground to start, and they ended up crossing over the Jordan River on dry ground. God made a way, it was supernatural, and God delivered them. Think back in your life. Can you recall a particular time of trial in your life that was like that? A real long trial or a trial that was really fierce Or a pile of trials all at one time? I can remember. I can remember some in my life. Don't forget that it was God who brought you. Amen. Boy, what a glorious thought on this Lord's Day. God brought us out of the trials. Joshua didn't want anyone to forget God's deliverance that day, so he set up a memorial of twelve stones, one for each tribe, to remind Israel of it in Joshua chapter 4 And verses 4 through 7, I want you to look at Joshua 4-7. Joshua 4-7. Last half of the verse says, And these stones shall be for a memorial. Unto the children of Israel forever. And God has supernaturally delivered us from many trials on numerous occasions. We could all testify to that. And today is Memorial Day. Doesn't he deserve your praise again? Doesn't he deserve your remembrance that it was our God who brought you through? I wonder if you've forgotten. Doesn't he deserve your recalling of his provision for you? And this is Memorial Day The sixth memorial I don't have time to develop, but it's the Lord's Supper. Let me just say this about it. The ordinance of taking the cup and the bread is a reminder of at least two things as we're closing. Christ died for you and shed his blood. and saved you. It was by his giving of his body and his blood that we are saved. The second thing it reminds us of, the Lord's Supper, is that Christ is going to come again for you and me. We are to do this, partake of this, till he come. Till he come. Be assured that our Lord will appear in the clouds one day for us. This is Memorial Day. Today I challenge you to remember the soldiers who bought your freedom and paid the price in their own blood. so that you could be a free person, so that your nation could be free. But we also need to remember the Bible memorials, don't we? The day of rest reminds us that God is our Creator. The rainbow reminds us of God's wrath and also of God's mercy. Mercy. The Passover reminds us that Jesus Christ shed his blood for us and that we need to apply it to our hearts. Jacob's stones remind us that God will never leave us. Joshua's stones reminds us that God will provide. He will deliver and provide. And the Lord's Supper that Christ can save and that Jesus is soon to return. Do you remember? Every head bowed, every eye closed. This is Memorial Day Maybe you'd say, preacher, in the hustle-bustle of life, I need to be reminded of who God is to me. I heard today again and I know it to be true, but I just needed reminder that he is my creator. He's my sustainer, my provider, my protector My deliverer or my savior. He is holy, and yet he's been merciful to me Or maybe you would dare examine yourself more closely today and remember that you used to be very, very close to God. Maybe it was only a few months ago, maybe it was years ago. You used to live for God and please God and walk with God, but then somewhere along the line something happened, an event triggered you And you quit. You became miffed, disappointed, disillusioned, discouraged, bitter, and you backstab And today is Memorial Day. That is, you want to remember those days of dedication and rededicate yourself to serving him. He's worthy. Finally, maybe you heard this morning, from what you heard is what you used to hear as a kid. growing up, but you didn't follow it. But on this Memorial Day, you've been reminded of former days and you'd say, preacher, I need to get right with God. I need to apply his blood to my heart's door. I'm going to pray To close the service here. But as I do, it's a time for you to bow your head. and do business with God wherever you are at home. Maybe you're listening by delay Maybe you're out in the parking lot right now, or maybe in the building, but whatever it is, right now, as I pray, I want you to bow your head and talk to God and acknowledge Him afresh. Rededicate yourself afresh to Him or receive Him as your Savior today. Today is Memorial Day. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, I pray that we'll not forget this is an important day It's an important day because our freedom's been bought and paid for with the blood of a lot of soldiers over the years. Millions, over a million. And also your grace upon our country. Thank you, Lord, for our freedom today. But Lord, it's also Memorial Day to remember who you are and what you've done for us And what you want to do for us. Someone here needs to rededicate, maybe. Maybe somebody need that's listening needs to be saved. Others are saved around them, but they have not received Christ And I pray that the convicting power, the Holy Spirit, will do its work, his work, and I pray right now that somebody will come to you. and receive you as Savior. And they'll let the preacher know that today is their day of salvation. I pray, Lord, right now that decision Would be made, that prayers would be made, that there would be a memorial and a remembrance of our God in Jesus' name