Alrighty, so tonight in Hebrews chapter four verse number twelve we see that the word of God is quick. And powerful, and sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the divided asunder of soul and spirit, and joints and marrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the. Of the heart, a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart. The title of tonight's message is Thoughts and Intents. Thoughts and Intents On Thursday night I brought a message in the Let Us series entitled Let Us Search and Try Our Ways from Lamentations chapter three and verse number forty. I used as a backup text or a secondary text, Psalms 139, verses 23 and twenty-four, familiar verses of scripture where he says, Search me, O God, and know my heart. Try me and know my thoughts. From that, as well as a devotional that I wrote a couple of weeks ago that kind of banned me uh motivated me this direction have been pondering our very thoughts, uh what we think about. Thursday night's message had a lot to do with our ways, with our actions, with what we're doing But tonight I want to really get into and consider our very thoughts The thoughts that are in our minds. You understand that there has never yet been an action taken that first was not born in the heart of man, considered or thought about in their mind Long before something ever becomes an action that we proceed to do, it has become a thought in our mind. And given enough thought, that thought turns into an intention. Something that we may intend to do, or You know, sometimes we've thought about something so much and we didn't necessarily think we intended to do it, we say that was not what I intended to do, but it's what we did. And So I've spent much time pondering and thinking about this idea of our thoughts, and you know this brings a whole new meaning to the phrase it's the thought that counts. That of course, that phrase of course is dealing many times as a consoling phrase for the young that got fruit. instead of the fire truck that they wanted, you know, for for Christmas or for a birthday party. They got a fruit and and mom and dad say, Well, it's the thought that counts. They were thinking of you and of course for a young boy, uh that's does not console. They're looking at that piece of fruit like, what in the world Uh but that's good for 'em, good for them to learn how to be thankful even for something like that. But uh you know, it's the thought that counts. It really is the thought that counts. It is vitally important that we, as God's people, control our thought life. Many times the difference between a successful Christian and a struggling one is what takes place in Their mind is where they're at in their mind. We've said it often, and I believe it to be vitally important for our Christian life because Satan, the accuser of their brother, wants to discourage you But listen, God is not as important. God is not as concerned with where you're at as he is with where you're going. Now that's not an excuse to stay where you're at. That's a heart motivation to say, hey, my heart is headed the right direction. This is what I want. This is where my thoughts are. This is the direction that I want to head. And We all at times find ourselves in a place that we don't want to be. We all at times have uh slipped, we've fallen, we've sinned because of the temptation of Satan, or because we haven't been walking as close to God as we should have. But we kick ourselves and stand back up and ask God to forgive us and move forward for Him. What is it you're thinking about? God clearly taught in the Sermon on the Mount, where we were this morning in Matthew chapter 5, that our relationships with Him That the Christian life that we live should not only affect our actions, but should affect our thoughts. Is it not there in Matthew 5 where he says, He've heard that it once said of them of old time, Thou shalt not kill, and whosoever shall kill shall be in danger of the judgment? But I say unto you that whosoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of judgment. You have heard it said of old them old time, thou shalt not commit adultery, but I say unto you, those who looketh on a woman to lust after her committeth adultery with her already in his God saying, Hey, what you think about matters. It's not just the end of the road, it's not just the actions That are the fruit or the result of our thought life. It's our thoughts that count. It is the thought that counts. And the thoughts that we have, and as God's people this evening, I want you to understand. And if we're going to be a successful Christian, we're going to have to control our thought life. We're going to have to direct and point it in a particular direction. A verse that has long since challenged me is Second Corinthians 10, verse number five, casting down imaginations, and every high thing that exalteth itself against the knowledge of God, and bringing into captivity every thought. To the obedience of Christ. You know, just as one learns about his body, those foods that are not good for him. You know, the ones that don't sit well, the ones that you pay for later, that cause problems, you know, the older I get, the more I understand that. As younger I'd hear people talk about, well I can't eat that. It's after five o'clock or I can't, oh no, I can't eat one of those things. I mean, I had no comprehension. It didn't matter what I ate or what time it was, didn't affect me, you know. I just didn't know what they were talking about. But the more older I get, the more I understand. There's just some things that don't set with me. There's just some things that oh I might enjoy it, but I'm gonna pay for it later. And you know, my mom tells me that when I was young, I was lactose intolerant. And And I actually don't remember this, but she mom would tell me, she's like, Oh, your your kindergarten teacher did not like you. And your kindergartner teacher knew that you were lactose intolerant and she would give you milk for lunch every day. She said, you would spend the rest of the day sick. Now I probably deserved it. I probably would with a a holy terror the whole morning and she's like, I can't take any more, give him milk, he'll go to the nurse and be gone, you know, or whatever. I I don't know. But anyways, to this day Just last night I went to get some milk and pretty much if I don't open the container, I'm not going to drink it I mean I went to get some milk last night. I was gonna have some just a little glass of of of milk with some vanilla Oreos. Mm-hmm. Amen. And I looked in the fridge and it the but the thing of milk was almost empty. And I looked at Mary and I said Do we have any fresh milk? Now that milk in there is probably good, but if we didn't have fresh milk, I wasn't gonna have any. She's like, Yeah, I've got some downstairs. One of the kids ran and got it for me and I had my cookies and milk last night. You know what? I have not been sick on milk in probably 30 years. But to this day, if there's any chance that that milk is not fresh, I won't touch it. Because I know how it affected my body many years ago. And I've just got an aversion to it. You know, we need to learn the same thing about our minds. And start to have an aversion to think that have an adverse effect on our spiritual life when we take them into our mind. We need to learn what thoughts are good for us, and we need to learn what thoughts will harm us. Learn to recognize and bring those thoughts into captivity. Don't let them remain there. Some of us are given to thoughts in particular areas. Maybe you are given to fear. That's something that you battle with. Listen, you need to bring that into captivity. You know and understand that thought is not good for you. It's not helping you, but you for some reason it keeps coming back up You need to have an aversion to that and say, listen, I don't want to go down that road. I don't want to think about those things because it's not helping me. Maybe you're given to jealousy and You've got jealousy things that you deal with, not necessarily between relationships, but between you and other people or other people in the church or other roles or responsibilities people fulfill. You've got a a a jealous nature about you. You've got to bring that into captivity and say, listen, that's not helping me spiritually, that's hurting me, and you've got to bring that into captivity. Hold it. Don't let that thought take root in your life. Maybe you're given to lustful thoughts. You've got to recognize that and see that you're given to that. And don't let those things take root in your life. Maybe you think evil about others. That's something that you're given to. You're kind of jaded and cynical about life and about people. And if that's your case, you've got to recognize it and say, listen, I know this is my nature. This is the way I am, and and if this thought is coming, I need to squash that. I need to cut it down, cut it out. Maybe you've given to to greed or to covetousness We need to find these things in our lives, and when we see them arise in our hearts, we need to put them down. Control those thoughts. You have no doubt heard the statement that you are what you eat. Well, it's just as true that you are what you think. You are what you think. The Bible tells us that. Without any fog That's a foggy way to even say it. To my mind, I'm trying to think of a good way to say it. There's no question. The Bible is very clear in Proverbs 23:7. He says, For as he thinketh in his heart So is he. What our hearts are consumed with, what our minds are being filled with, that's the kind of person we are. That's a fact. You are what you think about. This is why Paul tells the church of Philippi, he tells them clearly and without question, he says, hey, listen, think on these things. In Philippians 4. 8. Think on these things. He tells us there, whatsoever things are True, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are lovely, and I know they're not in order, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are good report. Which one did I miss? Honest Think on these things. If there be any virtue, if there be any praise. That's why he tells us to think to he says, listen, Christian, look and think about these things. This is what you need to be concentrated on. In verse number 9, he tells us that those things which ye have both learned and received and heard and seen in me, do Do. Hey, you're going to end up doing what you're thinking about. That's a fact. That's why Christian living begins with Christian thinking. Melissa, that'd be a good quote for you. Put put that down. Melissa sends out a quote every day. If you want to get it, she'll s you add her to add let her know and she'll add you to the list. Put Philippians 4. 8 with it. Christian living begins with Christian thinking. We've got to think on these things. If you ponder wicked things, you're going to practice wicked things. If you ponder righteous things, you'll practice righteous things Just like the principle of sowing and reaping can be used for good and bad, this message is not all negative You understand this message, this idea is what are we thinking about? Sowing and reaping is a great principle if we've been sowing the right things. Like awesome. I get to reap because I've done something good. Praise God. That's wonderful. And the same thing here When we direct our thoughts and we think upon the right things, we get to reap, we get to do those things in our lives. So we need to control our thoughts. As Christians, that 2 Corinthians 10:5, casting down imaginations and every high thing that exalted itself against the knowledge of God, bringing into captivity every thought. to the obedience of Christ. We need to cast down those imaginations. If you're gonna control your thoughts, if you're gonna have control of your mind and direct it and You've got to cast down those imaginations. And we talked about several different areas, thought life, things that people get a hold of. But listen, you can turn your mind to thinking about good things. You can think about the positive aspects that people have. You can think about the blessings that they are to you. When you think and ponder good things, you reap the benefits of that. You need to refuse to entertain ungodly thoughts. Bring them, casting down those imaginations. As they come up into your mind, cast them down. Say, that's not what I'm going to be thinking about. Avoid ungodly activities or places that put those thoughts in your mind. Avoid those things. You know what they are. You know where they are. There's some places as Christians we just shouldn't go. There are some things that are given towards the wrong type of atmosphere. And they put those kind of thoughts in your mind. Now I have no temptation to drink, no interest in it. I think it stinks Never never appealed to me at all, not a temptation to me at all. But I know that some of you have an appetite for that Because you've told me your testimony. You've told me, oh, you enjoyed it and you could enjoy it again. You've got to be especially careful where you go. You've got to be cautious about the environment that you put yourself in. Because you don't want to be in a place that stirs up that appetite, that brings that back to the forefront of your mind, and you start thinking about, well, I wonder what it would be like to drink that. I can tell you it's not very good, it's just water. Excuse me. Oh my god again. I went down the wrong pipe. Um I'll recover a little bit. Where does it go? After it went After it goes down the wrong pipe, where does it end up after that, you know? Yeah. So you need to avoid ungodly activities, you know. Don't don't go to the bar or to the restaurant that looks more like a bar than a restaurant You ought to be careful about where you are as a Christian. Don't read things that stimulate your thoughts in that direction. Now I know tabloids aren't near as popular as they once were. Praise God. Yeah, amen. But listen, you know, I don't know what they have even it's not doesn't show up in my feed, but you know, maybe you've got an interest in uh you know who who got divorced from who. And who had whose ch child. You know, these these tabloids that talk about, you know, that all of the stars and the life of the rich and fameless and you know, who sold and bought this house or that house and you know, you just enjoy reading about that junk. Listen, what is it what does it do for you? Besides stir up desires and ambition or or or wants in your heart that aren't going to come to fruition. Or if they do, they'll be wrong for you. I I'm saying maybe maybe you desire to have all that money that they have and listen, unless unless God does some miraculous thing, I I don't think that's in anybody's future in here. I mean I I could be wrong. Maybe Stephen will one day fly us all to Hawaii on his jet. You know, I I don't there's no telling what God will do. But yeah, but I'm just saying There's so much foolishness out there. And you watch it on YouTube or you look at it, you know, in in your your feed or you read those tabloid magazines or those types of things, or maybe you like stories, books that give you it stirs up these wrong thoughts. What I'm saying is you ought to recognize that and say, listen, this is not this is hurting me I need to have an aversion to that. If I'm going to be a successful Christian, I've got to control my thoughts, and that starts with casting down the imagination. That's what all these things they stir up our imagination and we begin to think about it. Don't watch things that promote wickedness. I made a covenant with my eyes. Why then should I think upon a maid? You know David's wanton look from the rooftop? That one wanton look Your eye affects your heart. That one thing cost David so much pain. Almost his whole kingdom. We've got to be careful because our eye affects our heart, and if we're going to control what we think about, we've got to control what we take in through our eye gate, through our ear gate. Bring those wrong thoughts into captivity. Don't let them remain there. You know, Saul loved David. Saul lifted David up until he heard ladies singing. About David's success on the battlefield. And then Saul allowed thoughts, wrong thoughts, about David to enter his mind. And he grew to the point where he hated David and wanted to kill him. In 1 Samuel 18, in verses 8 and 9, he says, And Saul was very wroth. And saying the saying displeased him. And he said, They have ascribed unto David ten thousand, and to me they have ascribed but thousands. And what can he have more but the kingdom See, in his mind, he's like David wants the kingdom. What else could he want except to take the kingdom from me? And verse 9 says, And Saul eyed David from that day. Forward. Never again did he bring into captivity those thoughts. And Saul the remainder of his days had that anger. Don't let Satan plant those thoughts in your mind. Don't let them put them there. We've got to condition our thoughts. Condition means to make fit, get ready. You know, all of us are in some physical condition. evening. Some maybe a little better physical condition, maybe some a little less physical condition. Uh but some of us might be in critical physical condition. I I don't know where you're at, but uh we're all in some physical condition this evening, but we Some our mind, what's the condition of our mind? We've got to, by reason of use, by exercise By discipline, condition our mind, that is to bring it in line with God and the way God wants us to think You know, it's not about how old you are. It's not about how much life experience you've had. It's not about who you are as an individual. It's about do we line up with God. And you know, sometimes we have wrong thinking. How we're thinking, how we're looking at a situation is not right. You know, Naaman, that general, that leader of men. When he went to be healed. You know, he went to go and get healed and it's it's pretty amazing because he says in second Kings chapter five, uh verse number eleven He says, but Naaman was wroth, and he went away and said, Behold, I thought And it's amazing the description of what he thought. He says, I thought he will surely come out to me Stand and call upon the name of the Lord his God and strike his hand over the place and recover the leper. I wonder if that's where these guys get their healing services. Hey, be healed. You know, I I I don't even know how to do it, but but I mean there's a description right there of a modern-day healing service. I fought. But we know that that was not how God was going to heal them. Naaman had the wrong thinking. It didn't line up with what God's plan was. And sometimes we just have the wrong thinking and we've got to bring our thinking into a line with God's thinking. You know, the prodigal's older brother had wrong thinking. Yeah, he was faithful. He didn't go out and live a riotous life and waste his inheritance. He just had a wrong heart. He stayed home and stayed faithful, but he allowed jealousy and anger to grow in his heart. And that was there, and it came out and it was evident. When the prodigal came home and dad wanted to kill the fatty calf and honor him because my son that was lost now is found. And the son's the older son's spirit came out. The way he was thinking came out, and it was wrong. If we're going to condition our thinking, the way we do that is by feeding on the Word of God. By feeding on the Word of God. Thy word have I hid in my heart that I might not sin. against thee. The word of God renews our mind, it strengthens our spirit, it cleanses our soul. The word of God, that quick and powerful Word of God. That verse that we began with, that text verse for this evening, is a discerner of the thoughts and the intents of the heart. If we want our thoughts and intents to line up, we've got to get in the Word of God and let the Word of God be the discerner of how we're thinking. What is it that we're planning or doing in our lives? That's what we've got to do. Conditioning our thoughts, feed on the Word of God by thinking on the right things. Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things Of good report, there be any virtue if there be any praise. Think on these things. We need to be selective what we feed our mind. And that takes quite a level of commitment today. Today's world, because our minds are inundated from every side with advertisements, with people that have an agenda, with people that are trying to influence our mind, influence our thoughts. There's not too many places out there that people are trying to point you to the book. The people are trying to point you to God, that people are trying to put the Word of God in front of you. That's why it's vital as a Christian that we do it ourselves on purpose Because we're battling this consumer age that is trying to captivate our minds and pull it away. Most of us consume so much of the world we don't even realize it's making us sick. You know? Oh I could eat that and I'll enjoy it, but I'll pay for it later. Right? So we need to commit our thoughts to God. The Bible tells us in Colossians 3:2, set your affections on things above, not on things of the earth. It's a choice that we make to think about what are we gonna what are we gonna think about. We make the decision. Don't let the the you know the old saying a bird can come and sit down on your head, but if you let 'em make a nest there, it's your fault. And sometimes Satan can implant some thoughts in your in your mind But if you pause and begin to ponder and begin to think about and allow those thoughts to continue to grow, then that's our fault. Satan may tempt you, but you've got to say, get thee behind me, Satan. You've got to make a choice to set your affections on things above. The mind of a truly godly Christian is going to be like the mind of Christ, as we know the Bible says, let this mind be Would you turn to Psalms 119? Familiar verses. Psalms one nineteen and Verse number seven. I'm sorry, I told you wrong. Psalms nineteen, typo in my notes here. Hopefully it's right. Psalms nineteen. The law of the Lord is perfect, is that right? Right. Psalms nineteen he says, the law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul, the testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. The statues of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. The commandments of the Lord are pure, enlightening the eyes. The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever. The judgments of the Lord are true and righteousness. Moreover, by them is thy servant warned, and in the keeping of them is their great reward. Who can understand his errors, cleanse thou me from secret faults. Keep back thy servant also from presumptuous sins. Let them not have dominion over me. Then shall I be upright and shall be innocent from this great transgression, but the word of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord. My strength and my redeemer. The mind of a Christian described here. Let the words of my mouth and the meditations of my heart be acceptable in thy sight, O God. It's not just the word of God, it's having the right music around us, listening to the right things. It's having the right friends that influence us, it's reading the right books, it's having the right internet activities and avoiding the wrong ones. When it comes down to it, we're to bring every thought into captivity to Christ. Does this thought line up with up with Christ. Is this thought acceptable in the sight of my Lord? And if it's not, we put it down, we cast it out It down. For we know that our thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, saith the Lord. Lord. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts. So, beloved, we've got to lift our thoughts up out of this world. And with God's help, allow our thoughts to line up with Him so we can be successful Christians. And when we're thinking right, We'll do right. Lord, we thank you for this time together in your word. We ask you to be with us now. Lord, may you May we purpose in our hearts, determined to control our thoughts, Lord, to commit our thoughts to you, Lord, to allow the Word of God and our meditation on you to condition our mind, to condition our Or thoughts to line up with you, Lord. Lord, I pray you'd be with us as a church. We would allow the Word of God to discern the thoughts and intents of our own hearts. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.