Think about this passage here in Romans chapter 1 and verse number 13. Romans 1 and verse 13, if you have your Bibles tonight. I hope you do. Romans chapter 1, we see this letter from Paul to the Roman Christians. You see here in verse number 13, the Bible says, Now I would not have you ignorant, brethren, that oftentimes I purposed to come unto you, but was let hitherto. You know how many times he purposed to come to Rome? And sometimes we can have our plans and our, you know, our dreams. Uh but God doesn't always fill out exactly or s God doesn't allow us to have everything we dream. But you know the good thing is that Paul says it's okay. Whatever the Lord wants, wherever he puts me, I just want to bear more fruit for him. And so he says it's okay though. There's still fruit. There's still people being saved and people being reached. So verse number thirteen again he says I would not have you ignorant brothers. Oftentimes I purpose come to you, but it was let hitherto, that I might have some fruit among you also, even as among other Gentiles. For verse 14, I am debtor. Vote to the Greeks and to the barbarians, vote to the wise and the unwise. Verse 15, so as much as in me is I am ready. I am ready to preach the gospel to you that are at Rome also. And verse 16, for I am not ashamed. of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation to everyone that believeth, to the Jew first and also to the Greek. Tonight we want to present this simple message. Three credentials of an effective missionary. I believe in a sense all of us are missionaries, are we not? We teach the kids be a missionary. And they sing that song. Be a missionary. Let's all stand and we're all gonna no, I'm not gonna have you sing it tonight. But you think about we teach them to be missionaries The truth is all of us are missionaries. Used to be a sign above the door in my church in Missouri, where I went as a young one, and it said, you are now entering the mission field. The mission field is everywhere. Wherever God has put you, congratulations, you have entered the mission field. And tonight we're going to talk about three credentials of being an effective missionary. Thank you, Lord, for this evening. Thank you, Lord, for your word. I pray you bless this brief time as we look into your word And use it to do that which I cannot do. And Lord, please speak to hearts and please empower us to do your work. Well, we thank you for this good church. Thank you, Lord, for these good people that have taken time out of the middle in the middle of their week to come and to honor God and to worship you and to hear your word. And Lord, we know that we are unworthy of all your blessings, but Lord, help us to avail ourselves, to surrender ourselves. to the greatest work that you've called us to do. Lord that we would be good representatives of the gospel I pray you'd also speak to the young people tonight and use their week in camp, Lord, to be a time of exhorting, a time of motivating them to want to serve the Lord in greater capacity. I pray you speak to our hearts tonight in Jesus name for amen. Think about three credentials of an effective missionary. As someone recently said, every saved person on this side of heaven owes the gospel to every unsaved person on this side of hell. We owe the gospel to them. Spurgeon said, it is the whole duty of the whole church to give the whole gospel to the whole world. It is our duty, is it not? And therefore, we ought to treat evangelism, the propagating of the gospel, being a missionary for the Lord Jesus Christ Being a representative for the gospel ought to be front and center. It's not just something, well, you know, once in a while But you know, God has some divine appointments for each one of us. And he wants us to be busy in his work. Before I get into the message tonight, think about how Christ was not ambiguous in his identity and how he he shows us who he is. He says, I am the bread of life. I am the light of the world. I am the door. I am the good shepherd. I am the resurrection and the life. I am the way, the truth, and the life. I'm thankful for all the I ams of Jesus Christ. But here tonight we see three times. The apostle says, I am, I am, I am Number one, he says in verse number 14, he says, I am debtor. I am debtor, and I believe the key word here is obligation I am a debtor. Therefore, think about maybe tonight God impresses in our hearts that we are debtors. And I don't believe that obligation may be the best word. I believe that in evangelism, uh preaching the gospel, that this is really more than obligation, it's a privilege. Is it not? It's a privilege. It's the greatest thing we could ever do. And I uh I know that Sometimes you think, well, you know, they're giving up so much to go to the mission field and and whatever, you know, and uh maybe a small measure of giving up or maybe sacrifice, but Really, it's a privilege. It is an honor to serve the Lord in a heathen country, and we get to show them who God is and open the way of truth unto them. And they have never seen it. They've never heard of it. They think Jesus was some enlightened one They think uh Jesus was some, you know, charitable guy giving out donations or or giving out um you know bread or rice or or money or teaching English or whatever, helping people They don't understand that he is the only way to God, only way to heaven. All their life, all they've heard is thousands and millions of gods and deities. You can't count all of them. And then we tell them there's only one God, and sometimes they're just looking at you like, where did you come from? Alright? I go jump in the lake, right? Uh but in their world, Buddhism, Hinduism Reincarnation, karma, spirit gods everywhere, all this Chasm of deities and is chaos. No absolutes, no Bible, no savior No way to God. They don't even know about heaven. They don't know about hell. They just think, well, the next life maybe it'll be better or maybe it'll be worse. Because they continue on that wheel of reincarnation. But tonight I think about Paul the debtor. I am debtor. He used this term, it seems to be um a business term, you know, used in the exchange market, uh financial term I am debtor. 1950 they uh there was two guys came together, refused their businesses, and they set up the first credit card. It was called the Dino Club Card. Mr. McNamara and Mr. Schneider, they began what is known today as the modern banking card movement. So many referred uh many used this card, but the businesses that accepted this card were charged seven percent for this thief, right? But they said it was a status symbol, so a lot of times people would use a card and maybe you know flash it a little or wear it as a badge or you know, it was a status symbol But there it began the modern day credit card debt movement. And there is a lot of danger, isn't there? to overspend and to get into debt. And I'm not here tonight as a fan financier, as a financial expert I'm not here to give any um you know financial counsel, but can I remind us tonight we are in spiritual debt. We are in spiritual debt. And let me put a disclaimer on here. We are not in debt, meaning our sin debt. Excuse me, our sin debt for those that are in Jesus Christ, our sin debt has been wiped clean. Amen. Praise the Lord that God doesn't see my account in heaven and see all of my sins anymore. So I'm not speaking of my sin debt tonight. Praise the Lord that He has justified me, and the Bible says that I've been set free. And on my account is Christ's righteousness. Because Jesus Christ received all of my uncountable sins upon himself. Praise the Lord. So I'm not speaking of our sin debt tonight But I will say, although I am debt-free, referring to my sin account, I am still a debtor Referring to the gospel. I am a debtor. When someone receives something of incredible value without paying for it, would you hear me out tonight? Follow the logic If you go into the bank and they they check out your credit history, okay, based on your good name They may give you a line of credit for $5,000 or $10,000, and you walk out of the bank with a line of credit or with a check. Congratulations, now you're in debt. You haven't worked a day in your life for it. Now you are in debt. Can I say tonight that we have received something of immense value? The salvation of Jesus Christ. Can I just say in a thousand lives, I could never, never repay the wonderful plan of redemption in Jesus Christ. Never in my life, never in a thousand lives. No one could ever have enough merit or enough credits to receive everlasting life in heaven. Never Praise the Lord. We have the greatest gift. There's nothing on earth can compare to the wonderful life that has been found in Jesus Christ. The everlasting life and having forgiveness of sins and my name written in the book of life and knowing for sure that if I were to die tonight, I'm gonna wake up in heaven. No one can ever pay for that. But praise the Lord. We have been given a great gift tonight as God's people, and now we are debtors. To the gospel. Would you look at this verse here? It says, verse 14, I am debtor both to the Greeks and to the barbarians. The Greeks were the upper echelon of society, the more educated the intellects The barbarians were those, well, they never studied, they didn't even they couldn't even speak Greek, uneducated, illiterate. And what he's saying is to the wise, to the unwise, all groups of people Can I say this? It doesn't say anything about the choice or about the chosen ones or the elect. The gospel is for all people. I understand that God has foreknowledge of who will be saved and who isn't saved, but you can go tell those reformed theologians that the gospel is for all people. He would have all men to be saved and come to the knowledge of the truth. If you believe reformed theology, you'll have to cut out some verses in the Bible. But praise the Lord. The gospel is for all people. And the gospel is colorblind for all people. God loves everyone. Because God loves all people. He loves 17 million people in Cambodia. that have never heard the gospel, they don't know who Jesus Christ is, they don't know what sin is. One young man, he I'm trying to witness to him and tell him how every one of us are sinners. And he said, No, I I'm not a sinner. I've never never committed any sins. I've been good my whole life. He's twelve years old. He says, I've been good my whole life. And finally he said, No, I've sinned one time. I killed a chicken. Wait, really? I mean I I was ready, I was bracing for, you know, one of these wicked sins He said I killed a chicken. And then I started thinking about it, because in Buddhism they tell 'em you can't kill animals either. Animals and humans are on the same plane. They say you can't kill animals. Alright, so how do they eat? Well, they pay somebody else to do it, you know, they justify their themselves. Get someone else to do it, that's okay But uh understand people don't know what sin is. Oh well God made everything. God created the world and everything You know, in the beginning. Well to the Buddhists, most of them confuse the beginning of all things with, oh, what about the suffering? What about the pain and the grief? And all the evils of this world. Oh, so God created that too. You know, so it takes a long time. Go back to Genesis and talk about Adam and Eve, the original sin. Look about how the devil tempted him them to fall into sin. And therefore mankind is doomed. But you have to talk about all these things. Explain the gospel and Just tell you that leading a Buddhist of the Lord uh takes a lot of sewing and a lot of patience and a lot of prayer. But can I tell you tonight that God can do it? And God has given us some trophies of grace. And not because of us, it's because of the power of the of the gospel and the power of his spirit. We are debtors tonight. We are debtors To preach the gospel. Debtors. And it's easy to think about people that owe us money, right? I mean, if we do somebody a favor, we're not quick to forget about it Just remember, can I tell you a little illustration? In Asia, it's very common for people to owe money to each other. And so when they have a birthday party, a wedding, housewarming party, any kind of open house party, and people come, they keep a ledger at the front door And they keep a ledger so that when whoever whoever comes and make a donation, a contribution, they write it down. And then they keep track of it. So that way if they ever have a party or a housewarming or anything, they're gonna call you up, they're gonna invite you to their party, and you are required to pay back all that they have donated to you. And maybe with some interest too. And so if you meet people on the road, they're quick to remind you. Remember that 75 hours from a year ago, two years ago, five years ago. Alright? And so sometimes You know, it can get kind of sensitive and people just meeting somebody on the street, well I don't want to talk to them, you know, owe them some money It's not about friends, it's not about family, it's not about helping people, it's all about financial dealings. And that's sad. But can I tell you tonight that we are in debt for the gospel's sake? And the Apostle Paul felt this sense of debt in his heart. And that's why some 75 times in the apostle in the epistles, 75 times he mentions the gospel. Thankful for the gospel. And I don't want to ever forget the gospel, the work of Christ in my heart, the work that He has done for me. And if you look in the New Testament, some 99 times the gospel is mentioned. But the apostle Paul praised the Lord seventy-five times in his letters because he's so thankful, he's so enamored with this treasure of the gospel. I ask you tonight, are you passionate about the gospel? Are you passionate about the work that God has done for you and the testimony in your life? Because God has done a great work. And it's to him be the glory. Praise the Lord. The gospel is the good news. And we are debtors. Because we have something that they desperately need. What would you think if an EMT is sitting on a flight sometimes because we we fly long flights overseas? and he's up he's up in the f in the plane and he's sitting on his phone, you know, or doing whatever he's doing on the flight there. And so you know, suddenly there is an emergency Someone passes out, someone has a you know a food reaction, and they get on the intercom and they ask for EMTs, a nurse or a doctor. They ask for someone who can provide health care. And the EMT excuses himself saying, Don't you understand? I'm busy. Don't you understand? I'm tired. Alright, he plays his games on his phone. I don't have time. EMTs, they are trained to provide health care in emergency situations We would say it is his obligation it's a moral obligation, right? Can I say tonight that God's people are spiritual EMTs? We are spiritual EMTs. And so many times we're closed up in our own world and making excuses. And God reminds us that we are in debt. We are debtors. I don't have anyone in particular in mind tonight. I I need to remind myself as much as anybody else. We are debtors. Secondly tonight. Can I bring the second point out here? He says in verse 15 Verse number 15 it says, so as much as in me is, I am ready to preach the gospel to you that are at Rome also. So as much as in me is, secondly, he says, I am ready. I am ready. The key word here is opportunity. I am ready to preach the gospel. Thinking of being ready, I think the reason he was ready, he can say that he's ready, is because in verse 9, look at verse number 9 here. Chapter 1, look at verse 9. For God is my witness, whom I serve with my spirit in the gospel of his son. That without ceasing I make mention of you always in my prayers. You know, I thought missionaries are supposed to ask everybody else to pray for them. But here he is, okay, the example missionary, and he says, just remember, I'm always praying for you. The thing is we all need to pray for one another, don't we? Is there anybody in here that gets too much prayer? Is there anybody in here that wants more prayer? I want people to pray for me. And I desperately want to pray for you. I do want to pray for you. And we try to pray for our churches. That are laboring in the Lord's word, doing the ministry that God has given them. It's a dangerous zone. There are battles to be fought. We need to pray effectively for one another. Pray because that is how the work gets done. It is through prayer. I give you a poem here. As one preacher said that we have many organizers but few agonizers. We have many players but few prayers. We have many interferers but few intercessors. We have many sleepers, but few weepers. Is it any wonder that our ministry Can't see any victories? No power? I believe it comes back to prayer. And the apostle says, because I'm praying. Now God has helped me to be ready. I am ready. Ready because of prayer. I think I'm also ready to propel the gospel. Ready to pray, ready to propel, ready to advance, to grow the gospel. That's why he says, as much as in me is. You know what he's saying? Whatever it takes. Lord, whatever you want, I'm all yours. Whatever it takes. I praise the Lord for Hunt Valley Baptist Church is as a church corporately You're saying whatever it takes, Lord, we're willing to do whatever it is. We want to reach the young people. We want to reach the married people, the families, we're going to reach the older folks. We're going to reach everyone. The wise and the unwise. It doesn't matter. God loves them all. And we don't get to pick and choose who we love in the ministry. So as much as enemy is I'm thankful that you started supporting missionaries in the first year or so, and God has used your efforts, your investment, and they're a soul saved. And there's prayers that have been answered. I can show you time and time again, and I hope to give you some testimonies near the end tonight, how God has worked miracles. In Victory Baptist Church. We need to be ready to propel the gospel and then also ready to proclaim. Ready to proclaim, ready to preach. I don't believe preaching here refers to standing in front of a pulpit. Preaching the gospel can be anywhere and everywhere that God gives us opportunities and God gives us divine appointments. And if we go out searching, God will lead us and God will help us to have some fruit. The sad thing is how many times I'm preaching myself, how many times we excuse the will of God And we excuse these divine appointments because we've got too much to do. Don't you understand? I have my bucket list. I have my schedule. I'm busy I've got this many things to do, and I don't hardly have time to get them all done. Sometimes we can excuse the work God has for us to do. And we come to the end of the week and we haven't even passed out any tracks. And we leave the house and we didn't bring any tracks. We didn't care to speak a word. Try to invite someone out. Oh, let somebody else do it. Let somebody else witness to them. What about being ready? And God wants to stir up our hearts because we ought to be preaching the gospel. In the place where God has us. Sometimes our neighbors they can be a pest, but we ought to see them as a potential. Amen. See them as a potential. Because God has put us next door to them to have an opportunity to hear the gospel. Think of the last one tonight. He says, I am not ashamed. I am not ashamed. The key word would be opposition. We live in a world that hates Christ. We live in a world where people think you're radical You start talking about the Lord. You give them a track and they look at you. Hmm. I had one guy, I'm I'm trying to tell him about the Lord and about our church. He he's afraid of COVID. He took my track and threw it right in the mud right in front of me. And he he walked away and he's like, he probably got COVID or something. You know, people have that you know, they do the crazy things, but we just be patient and God will do the work. And we continue to love people and continue to reach out. And I don't believe we have to stand on tables and yell and scream, but we can be bold for the Lord. We can open our mouths. We can do what God would have us to do and ask God to help us to be bored. You know, naturally, I'm not an outspoken person. I can do my own thing, and you know, I'm okay with that. I don't care to talk to anybody. I can just do my work, leave everybody else alone. But I believe a Christian with the heart of God With the right vision, and that's bold for the gospel. We will look for opportunities to be bold. True. And God wants this shin of lights. I think this lady that died a year ago, very bold for the gospel She died in uh April 2021. And she was one of the most gifted workers we had. Young lady, single, 33 years old Very gifted. No matter what ministry she joined with, it was it was like it was bloom blossoming. It was just she was such a blessing. She would go and disciple young people. Wouldn't even ask me. She would just go, these guys have been saved recently. I want to start having Bible studies with them And she would go to the house every week and Bible studies. She would disciple people and she would also reach out to the widows and help our widows' ministry to grow. But the time came She came down with a viral disease. I think it was meningitis. And within 24 hours, she became delirious and went into A coma. For two weeks, our church lady has stayed with her 24-7. You know, in hospitals overseas, uh most of the time you get a doctor, but you don't get a nurse. And so our church people were a great testimony, our ladies, we give her the feeding tube and watch them the monitors and all that. But she was in a coma And within two weeks, we were preparing for her funeral. And we began to ask questions. Lord, what are you doing? Lord, why? Why would you take one of the best ones? You know there's some backsliders. No, I'm I'm not gonna say we We just ask questions and we say, why Lord, why? There's a huge gap. But can I tell you in a time that was so dark, right in one of the hardest times that we dealt with, she was very close to our family too She would come and eat with us several days days a week, a couple times a week, and she would teach the kids and help with things. Uh she had her own job too. But she's very close to our girls And she was such a blessing. But you know, we begin to ask and and we begin to look back. And sometimes when you look back, it's just it does come together. And God shows us. Three weeks before she died, she got up in a ladies' meeting and she gave a testimony and she said, for some reason God gave me this verse in James 4. 14, says that your life is but a vapor That appeareth for a little while and then vanisheth away. And he said, I don't know why God gave me this verse, but I wanted to share it with you. You know, our lives are short, and you need to prepare for death. Three weeks later, three weeks later her her life is a showcase of James 4. 14. Life is but a vapor. An amazing thing was when they gave her a funeral, they took her out to the province where her parents are from, and they gave her a Christian funeral. Very unheard of. When the family's all Buddhist, they're gonna take the body to the temple and cream it. And they're going to do all their spiritual demonism and all that stuff, demonic things. But no, they gave her a Christian funeral because they knew this is what she lived for. And they on the tombstone, there's a big cross with her picture, and it says, Akra, Sui, a child of God. A testimony that continues to speak out. Even now there are people in our church. That continually remember are reminded of the great work that she had done. And she saw a number of people saved and brought them to our church. And they met in church on Sunday They still go to our church, praise the Lord for that. But you know her testimony for the Lord, she was bold. And she would drive the the motorcycle, the moped down the road, and they said her favorite song was Heaven is a wonderful place. And she would dream about heaven. Praise the Lord. And she before she died, she said that she wished some way that she could witness better to her family. And I tell you, through all of this tragedy, her family has not yet responded to the gospel, but they are listening. Much more coherent to the gospel. And about a month ago, her mom, as we're we're, you know, as we're communicating with people back there, her mom Came to one of the church ladies pastor and she said, Can I study a little more? Not ready to be saved, but can I study? So praise the Lord. God is doing a good work. But you know, all of us need to ask ourselves and ask the Lord: Am I being bold for the gospel? What am I doing with the gospel? It is a sacred trust. It is a wonderful treasure from heaven. And you know, he could have written the gospel in the clouds, the message of salvation. He could have inscribed the words of the gospel in the leaves that fall from the trees. Or etched it in the hillside in the mountains. But instead he uses broken vessels. He uses us. And he uses this right here, the word, and his spirit. And praise the Lord. He employs us in the most wonderful task. And Paul says, I am passionate about the gospel. I am a debtor. I am ready. And he says, I am unashamed. Verse 16, I am unashamed of the gospel of Christ. For it is the power that we're dunamize, that transformation, that revolutionary power of the gospel of Christ. And you can see it. It's not the American that changed our lives. It's the word of God. And they are meeting together on Sunday and they're listening to preaching and they're enjoying the good songs because the power of God has changed their hard hearts. And I can't tell you one more thing and I'm done. I'm going on tonight. There's a story about Bissau, the boy he gave his testimony in the video. Can I give you his story and I'll make it short? Isal is 20 years old now. A year ago his dad. His dad came to him and they are strict Buddhists. They have never a day in their life they have never said you ought to go to church. They will not support church. They don't even want their kids to go to church. But this boy Visa got saved about seven years ago. He started coming to church. He listened, began to take the lessons on salvation. Within about a year, about six months, I think he got saved. Him and his brother both got saved and they work hard at home. They are very regimented. They I mean they they take care of all their work at home, but when they have free time, they'll come to church But the parents, Shri Buddhists, don't have a time a day for Christianity. His dad came to him and he said, Bishaal. I'm gonna make you I'm gonna give you give me automatic. I'm gonna give you a choice and you have either you give up Christianity or you give up the way you've been living here at home. And Bissau was 19 years old at the time, he's trying to finish up twelfth grade, and he said, his dad said, I'm gonna take away the motorcycle, the phone, the living money. And you've got to go out and get a job, and you've got to take care of yourself. I'm done. Or if you give up Christianity, you can have it all back and more. And Bisha, he he went home, he took some time to think about it and pray about it. He came back to his dad. And he said, with tears in his eyes, he looked up at his dad and he said, Dad, I don't hate you, Dad. I've tried to be a good son and I love you. But he said, Dad, I want you to know that you have to take my motorcycle, that's fine. You have to take my phone, which I use for schooling, that's fine. And if you take my living money, I have to go out and get a job and work in the evenings so I can go to school in the mornings. That's fine. But he said, Dad, can I tell you something? I cannot give up Jesus Christ. He said, I have deliberately chosen Jesus Christ. I have believed on Jesus Christ and he is in my heart. I cannot give up Jesus Christ. And you know what his dad was surprised. And he said, okay. You know Visa went out and trusted the Lord. And the men from the church, well, somebody gave him a bicycle. Somebody else let him borrow a phone. And he began to work selling propane gas And continue to go to school and continue to come to church. And God met all of his needs. He didn't go into mountains of debt over it. But praise the Lord. God saw him through that. Within a few months, Pastor, his dad came to him and said, You need anything? I'm willing to help you. But he was gracious, praise the Lord. But can you tell you something even sadder than anything that I've told you already? Two months ago we got a call in the middle of the night, and Bissau is weeping profusely. He said, I I don't know what to do. My dad's dying. 53 years old had a habit of drinking and he ended up having a stroke and the doctors couldn't help him. He's in the ambulance going to Plan Pen six hours away and in the ambulance he died. And he saw and said, I don't know what to do He'd been praying for his dad and his dad was so hard. But you know the best thing Is that now God is using this tragedy of his dad passing away to awaken his mom and give her a chance to hear the gospel? Because she wasn't allowed to go to church. She wasn't allowed to hear the gospel. But now, God has softened her heart. In the last two months, and we're praying, the last two months she's been coming to church every Sunday without missing. And today's Thursday. She even came to church today. Praise the Lord. But you know God and I talked to her a month ago when we we stopped over there a month ago. We went for a few weeks to do a little checkup And and she she came to me and she said, she said, Pastor, I'm not ready to get saved. But she said, I'm listening. I'm listening. And we pray that within a month or two that she will be saved. It's very sad that Dad passed away, but thank God God is opening Bissau's mom's heart. Would you pray the gospel will continue to take root? You know the truth is, all of us need to ask the Lord, am I being bold and using the opportunities? Am I pushing back against the opposition by being bold for the Lord?