Turn to Mark chapter 11. Mark chapter 11, verse number 20 through 26 this morning. Today, men and women everywhere are searching for some measure of closure. They're looking for a way to get past that circumstance, that tragedy, that heartache, that offense. There's something that's happened in their life. Could have been last year or 10 years ago or sometimes 30 or 40 years ago, but they're still searching. Foreclosure for life's tragedies that have befallen them. Some blame that situation, that circumstance, that problem that's in their heart, they blame it. on those closest to them. They blame it on their loved ones. They blame it on their brother or sister or mom or dad or husband or wife. They they they figure that that's their fault and they're holding on to that. Some blame society at large. They would say the circumstances I'm in, the struggle I'm facing is because of the society we live in, and they would blame society at large. Sadly, there are some that would even go as far as to blame God for the situation in their life. For the closure that they seek. And it's a word today that people like. You've got to get closure. Well, I believe that God would want you to have closure, but I want you to understand closure is not found in a courtroom. Closure is not found. In revenge, like this world would like to say. If I just get revenge, I'll have closure. If they could get what's coming to them, I'll be at peace. Closure isn't found in those things. Closure is not found by sweeping it under the proverbial rug. By pretending it didn't happen. By pretending that it it never was, and we're just not going to talk about it, we're just going to act like it's not there. But you know as well as I do is still there in it. That burr is still in the saddle, that that thorn is still in the flesh, and that struggle you're still dealing with in your heart. If you'll allow me to today, I want to talk to you this morning about three essential elements of the Christian life. And it is only through these elements that anybody can truly have closure. Three essential elements of the Christian life found in this passage of scripture, follow along with me in Mark chapter 11, verse 20 through 26. As I read along, you follow in your Bible what the Word of God has to say to us this morning. Starting in verse number 20, he says, And in the morning as they passed by, they saw the fig tree dried up from the roots. And Peter, calling in remembrance, saith unto him, Master, behold, the frig tree which thou cursest is withered away. And Jesus answering, saith unto them, Have faith in God. For verily I say unto you, that whosoever shall say unto this mountain, Be thou removed, and be thou cast into the sea, and shall not doubt in his heart, but shall believe that those things which he saith shall come to pass He shall have whatsoever he saith. Therefore I say unto you, What things soever ye desire when ye pray, believe that ye receive them, and ye shall have them. And when ye stand praying, forgive. If ye have aught against any, that your Father which is in heaven Forgive if ye have aught against any, that your Father also, which is in heaven, may forgive you your trespasses But if ye do not forgive, neither will your Father, which is in heaven, forgive you your trespasses Let's pray. Lord, we come to you this morning. Lord, I know that in a room of this size, there are present this morning. Men and women, boys and girls who are searching for closure, who are dealing with something that's happened this year or sometime in the past in their life, and they Are struggling with how to deal with this. Lord, I pray, God, that through the ministry of your word this morning you would speak to every heart. That these essential elements of the Christian life, we would be reminded are a part of what we are as Christians and should and can indeed allow us to overcome. Even the darkest of days. Lord, I pray you'd use this in every heart. In Jesus' blessed name. Amen. Well, this morning we're going to look at three essential elements, three things that are part of the Christian life that's I think as I say them, you will, of your own volition, be glad to echo a hearty amen, be glad to say, I agree with that. That's true. This is part of the Christian life. The first of those here I want you to see is given to us in verse number 22. He says, And Jesus answering, saith unto them, have faith. In God. Have faith in God. First of all, the first essential element of the Christian life is that we have faith in God. Amen? We are supposed to, as believers, be able to have faith in God. Let us not forget that we are called to a life of faith. Can you trust God this morning? Can you trust God and have faith in God that God knows what's best for you? Can you have faith in God that He knows what it is that you're enduring and what you're going through? Can you have faith in God that although you don't see light at the end of the tunnel, that God knows where the tunnel is leading? And he's going to get you there. You see, believer, we're supposed to have faith in God. Do you have faith in God that he understands what it is that happened to you? Whatever struggle it is, whatever heartache it is, whatever burden you're carrying, do you have faith that your Heavenly Father knows it and that He's with you? Is there anybody that has faith in God? Can we trust him this morning? You know, can you have faith in God that God said, vengeance is mine and I will repay, saith the Lord. Sometimes we're like, boy, I sure would like to see it. God, would you get them, please? Lord, would you just, I mean We want to see vengeance so bad we're consumed with it. Can you just trust God? Just have faith in God that God will take care of it? You don't have to try and find your way or make a solution or provide a way. You don't have to try and muscle your way through it. As Christians, we can have faith in God. He's still on the throne. He's the creator of the universe, the savior of my soul, and he loves me and wants what's best for me. And if I just trust him He'll show me the way. We are called to a life of faith, beloved. We're not to walk by sight, but to walk by faith. It starts when we're justified by faith We're justified by faith. By putting our faith and trust in Jesus Christ, in him alone, you're forgiven of your sins. We're justified by faith. That is our situation where we were on our way to hell standing in judgment of a holy and thrice holy God But now we're saved and on our way to heaven. We're forgiven of our sin because we've been justified by faith. Not only we're justified by faith, but we stand by faith. That's the believer standing Sometimes the principles in the Word of God don't make sense. Sometimes the teaching of the Word of God, we look at it and we think, boy, that just doesn't add up. But you stand by faith. The Bible says, spare the rod, spoil the child. It doesn't make sense how if I Spank him, he's gonna love me more. We we we we buy into the world's philosophy that the child's gonna hate me if I do that. I need to let him do what he wants to do. When you understand and when you've seen it, that that's what causes the child to hate me. Give and it shall be given to you. That doesn't make sense I I get by giving? No, that doesn't matter. How does that work? I give it away and it's gone. Not I give it away and I get it. But anybody that's ever trusted God when God said, Prove me and see if I don't open the windows of heaven. Anybody that's ever done it has stood in awe of God's provision and God's blessing on their life. What I'm saying is the principles of the Word of God, we hear them and sometimes they don't make sense to us, but as believers we're supposed to stand on them by faith. I'll tell you what, that's what God gives us. We also are to live by faith. That's our that's the believer's sustenance. That's how we're sustained. We don't know how we're going to make it through. We don't know how the bill's going to get paid. We don't know what God's doing. We don't see our way down through through this situation. But we're sustained by trusting and living a life of faith And beloved, we're supposed to walk by faith. That's the believer's success. That's how we have success in this Christian life. Life is we just keep on, keeping on, and keeping on by faith in God. And one day we look back and we ourselves are shocked and amazed at what God has done because we just walked by faith. What a privilege. God has called us to a life of faith. Dwight El Moody said: a little faith will bring your soul to heaven. And a lot of faith will bring heaven to your soul. Beloved, it only takes the tiniest little bit of faith to put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ. Christ. That's where the Christian life starts. Have you accepted Jesus as your Savior? Have you put your faith and trust in Him? I hope you have. That's where it all begins. But as you choose to, as a believer, live a life of faith and just trust God, you can experience and know a little bit of heaven even here. What a joy that is. As Christians, we're to have faith in God. This is an essential element of the Christian life. Not only that, we're to have fellowship with God. Look with me in verse number 23. 24. He says, For verily I say unto you that whosoever shall say unto this mountain, be thou removed, and be thou cast into the sea. And shall not doubt in his heart, but shall believe that those things which he saith shall come to pass. He shall have whatsoever he saith. Therefore, I say unto you, what things soever ye desire, when ye pray. Believe that ye receive them. And ye shall have them. When ye pray, believer, we are to be continually fellowshipping with God. We are to be people of prayer. Yes, we're to be people of faith, but the way that you strengthen and maintain and secure your faith is to continue to fellowship with God We are to be praying and talking to God for what is Christianity without prayer? Without that which is our communion with our Heavenly Father Every Christian's walk begins with the prayer for salvation. Trusting Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, you're confessing your sins and realizing that you cannot forgive yourself. That you have no way of paying for your sin yourself, but that forgiveness which is extended to you by the Heavenly Father is there and it's available and all that you need to do is accept it. And you pray what's called the sinner's prayer, putting your faith and trust in Jesus Christ. And ask for forgiveness of your sin. But that's not where we're supposed to stop. We're supposed to continue to be people of prayer. Let me ask you, if I called on you this morning and said, would you stand and lead the congregation in prayer? Would you be Able to do it? Would you be able to bow your head and bring the congregation together before God? Are you comfortable enough talking to God that you would say, oh yeah, I could do that? We should all, every one of us here, be able. Be confident in our relationship with God and how we've talked to God. Listen, he's just a friend. He's he he is your friend that's closer than a brother. He's your father. You ought to be so comfortable talking to him that it should be easy. Do you fellowship with your Father? Our walk is sustained through prayer. Could I ask you this morning, are you a praying Christian? Do you talk to your father? Sometimes jokes are made about uh Easter and Christmas Christianity. You know, those that go to church just on Easter, they just go to church on Christmas. And that's the only Sundays out of the year that they might attend a service of any kind and You know, there's a joke made about that type of Christianity, but I wonder if maybe those who are in church on a regular basis still only talk to God about that often. We're supposed to be fellowshipping with God. Look at verse number 25. He says there in verse number 25, he says, When ye stand praying, You know what? The position of your prayer is not near as important as the practice of your prayer. Listen, Christian, if you if you want to be standing and praying, amen. If you want to get on your knees and pray, amen. If you want to lie prostrate on the ground and pray, amen. If you want to walk down the street and pray, amen. However you want to do it, I'm just saying, Christian, you ought to be doing it. You ought to be praying. You ought to be talking to God and communing with Him, fellowshipping with Him. It ought to be precious and sweet and valuable to you. Do you commune with your Heavenly Father? I know that you know, that I know, that it's hard. Praying is hard. It's hard work. The effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man. That's why we don't just pray so casually. That's why when you begin to pray, the devil brings all kinds of distractions into your mind and you start thinking about everything else under the sun. That's i I mean it's effort. It takes work. If it was easy everybody would be doing it. But we're supposed to be doing it. We're supposed to be endeavoring to commune with our Heavenly Father. Jesus Himself swept drops of blood. Because of the effort of prayer. It is said that David Brainerd prayed with such fervency That he literally prayed himself into an early grave. I was pondering upon that, and I thought, you know, it would be it would be like this. If he had a doctor, his doctor would look at him and say, David, you got to stop praying or you're going to kill yourself. Because of the effort, the fervency, the toil in which he prayed and talked to God for the needs of men. Pulled so hard on his physical body, he literally brought himself to an early grave. Are you communing with your Heavenly Father? He gives us here in this passage of Scripture a visible illustration of the power of prayer. Well, what an amazing thing. He says if you wanted to, you could move that mountain. You could cast a mountain into the sea. He gives a visible illustration, and I I don't believe that what he's saying is that you could, if you had the mind to, you could uh move the Rockies over here to the east coast There is a visible picture that he's given us here saying the size and the magnitude of that. J. Vernon McGee said, even if I could move the mountain. Where would I put it? He says, why why would I move it? If I couldn't move it, how could I put it in a better place than God has already put it? The illustration here is not so that we could be moving mountains around. The illustration is so that we might understand in our heart that whatever mountain we're facing in our life Whatever burden we're carrying, whatever struggle we're dealing with, whatever heartache, it's more than we can bear, God can help. God can see you through. God can give you the strength. You have faith in God and you commune in fellowship with God, and He will carry you through. That's what the illustration is teaching. The mountains that you're facing in your life, God can help with those. God can move it. God can solve it. God can squash it. God can handle it. Whatever the struggle, whatever the burden, whatever the trial, whatever the need. God can do it. Then, beloved, the third thing I want you to see in verse number 25 and 26. He says, And when ye stand praying, Forgive. If ye have aught against any, that your Father also, which is in heaven, may forgive you your trespasses. But if ye do not forgive, neither will your Father which is in heaven forgive your trespasses. Beloved The third essential element of the Christian life, third, sorry, that's four fingers, three fingers. Some of you weren't watching, you didn't even know. The third essential element in the Christian life is we need to forgive. We need to forgive like God forgives. Not forgive how we want to or what we think is sufficient, but forgive like God forgives. No one can ever truly be happy or content in this life until they learn to forgive like God forgives. God forgives in such an amazing way. Let's just ponder how God forgives for a couple of minutes. First of all, He extends forgiveness to everyone. He extends it to everyone. We we look at them and we say, Well, they don't deserve it. They don't deserve my forgiveness. Did you deserve God's? No. Did I deserve God's? No. God extends his forgiveness to everyone, even those that don't deserve it. Today in the world, everyone is trying to convince people that they're not sinners, that there's no right and wrong, that there is no absolutes. And then what they want to say is, if you judge me, then you're wrong. Well, I'm not sure how that can happen because there is no right and wrong. But they're trying to teach the everybody this that there is no right and wrong, but here's the unescapable truth. And the fact is that we are all sinners. And regardless of what someone says in the heat of the moment or in the light of the day, every single person alive today understands in the quiet of the night or the stillness of the morning. their own heart condemns them because we are sinners. And nature itself declareth to the world that there is a God. And everybody knows that, even though they may deny it. Those facts are still true. God extends his forgiveness to everyone. To everyone. Even those that don't deserve it. Even those that haven't earned it. But God commended his love toward us. And that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. We say, well, I'll forgive them when they start to do this That's not well, I'm glad God didn't do that to me. I'm glad God didn't say I had to earn my forgiveness. I'm glad God didn't demand of me a certain thing. You know what? Even this. I'll forgive them when they apologize. I want you to understand God's forgiveness is extended to the whole world and it's already been given. The forgiveness is there. All they have to do is accept it. And how you free yourself as an individual is you forgive like that. You forgive others. Just give that forgiveness and you say, well what if they don't accept it? There's a lot of people in this world that God has extended his forgiveness to that they haven't accepted it. But God has already sent it. He's already offered it. He's given that forgiveness. Extend that forgiveness, even if they don't earn it. Even if they don't accept it. If you demand a price to be paid for the forgiveness that you're going to give, whatever that price may be, even if the price is them asking, you're not forgiving like God. Because God gave his forgiveness in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. They didn't earn it. And be ye kind one to another, tender hearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. The lost man. I think about Jesus on the cross, even there in the heat Of that brutal scene where Jesus was being killed. He lifted up his eyes and he said, Father, forgive them. For they know not what they do. He, even there on the cross, was extending forgiveness from his heart to all mankind. If we're gonna forgive, we've gotta forgive like that. And that's a tall order But if we're going to be like Christ, that's what he asks of us. That we be willing to forgive. I see many lost men like this in this situation. He said, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. You know, much of the lost world doesn't even realize that their sin is what put Jesus on the cross. They don't even know that their sin is what's going to take them to a place called hell. They don't know that that forgiveness has been extended and that Jesus Christ wants to forgive them and He's extended it to them. All they have to do is accept it. If they would only be told the truth of that message, Jesus extends forgiveness to all. He said here, if you have aught against any, forgive. Beloved, if we're going to know true peace, have true closure, We've got to forgive. It's not going to be found in some form of this world's justice or some form of revenge. You say, Pastor Caleb, I'm I'm having a hard time forgiving. You're human But you can talk to your Heavenly Father. Because he was tempted in all points, like as you are, and he understands. And yet he forgave. And you could talk to him and say, I'm having a hard time with this, God. This has been a struggle for me. I I've carried this burden for so long, but God, I understand. Your desire is for me to forgive and to let go. Could you help me take a step in that direction? And God will help you. C. I. Schofield told the story of Pastor Harry Dunham. Pastor Dunham had a man in his church come to him and said, Preacher, I cannot pray that prayer of forgiveness. I cannot. As Pastor Donham listened to this man, he discovered that he had been holding a grudge against this man for over 30 years He says, I cannot forgive him until I pay him back for the hurt he has done unto me. Pastor Dunham looked at him and he said, This is as 30 years ago. The individual you're speaking of is an old man at this point. What happens if he dies? This man said, Then I'll take it out on his son. It's the spirit of unforgiveness that sometimes people grow comfortable with and they hold on to it like a pet. And they feed it, thinking about it and talking about it and mulling it over for so long that it becomes a part of their life and a part of their personality. And it's destroying them. They don't have closure. They don't have peace. They don't know the love of God. If they could stand back and look from a bird's eye view with their life as a whole, they would see the destruction that's being wrought by that unforgiving spirit that they're holding on to. Beloved, if we're going to be like Christ, we've got to live by faith. We've got a fellowship with the Father. Father, and we gotta forgive like God. Can two walk together except they be agreed? No. What fellowship has light with darkness? None. Beloved, you cannot have and know the peace and the love of God in your heart and also be hanging on to this anger and bitterness and unforgiveness. The two can't be together. In order to know the peace and the love of God that He wants to share and give unto you, you've got to come over here and forgive and let go of whatever that is. You won't know the forgiveness of God until you've been able to forgive others. That verse number 25, that's strong language. If you don't forgive, he won't forgive you. Wow. This is important. But it's the way it is. If you want forgiveness in the peace of God, you've got to forgive. It was a game that Bobby liked to play. He loved being a soldier. So he handcrafted a sword out of a stick he found in the yard. He tricked his sister into playing for a little while, but it was a little rough for her. The scrapes and bruises are not what she enjoyed. So she quickly excused herself from his games. But Bobby, needing an opponent to wield his stealthy sword against, soon found his father's favorite goose. And there in the yard they went round and round, sword waving and to and fro as he fought off the evil foes. Until one fateful blow caught the goose in the neck and to the ground he went The boy's heart immediately was struck with fear because his dad's favorite goose lying on the ground wasn't moving, and what have I done? To make matters worse, his sa sister cried, I'm gonna tell Dad you killed his favorite goose. Bobby was, oh no, what am I gonna do? And quickly his mind began to work. He thought I could hide the evidence. Oh, but my sister thought. So he went to his sister and talked her into conniving with him. Let's hide the evidence. Promise he won't tell dad. And she said, okay. And they hid the evidence. They they buried the goose in that night, struck with fear, as Bobby waited for dad to come home and trying to act like everything was normal. He knew as soon as Dad walked in, like dad was gonna look at him and go, did you kill my goose? I mean, he knew dad would see it on his face, but dad didn't notice. Nothing happened. He thought, boy, I got away with it. Dinner happened. It was the clothes of dinner and uh mom stood up and says, Well, Bobby, it's your turn to dry, and uh it's your sister's her turn to wash His sister turned to him and says, You're washing tonight too. He says, No, it's your turn to wash. She says, if you don't wash, I'm telling dad. He's like, oh well, no problem. I'll wash. Don't don't don't don't tell Dad. So Bobby went and gladly washed the dishes. And drive them too. Not a big deal. Except that this went on day after day after day. Every situation was, you're going to share that with me. Or I'm gonna tell Dad. You're gonna do my chores, or I'm gonna tell Dad, and it just went on to the point where Bobby couldn't take it anymore. So one night when dad was coming home from work, Bobby stood in the front yard and just waited for him. He was ready to just be killed. He couldn't do his district tours anymore He stood there in the driveway and dad came home and dad got out of the car and he fell on his face before God. He said, Dad, I'm sorry, I killed your goose And you know what? The world didn't end and his dad didn't kill him. He explained to his dad what he did, and his dad was disappointed, but his dad said, Son I forgive you. They went into house that night, and Bobby was a new boy altogether. Boy, that weight was lifted off of him and he had joy and he loved his dad more than ever and he was excited and he went and sat down at the dinner table and it was time to eat. They ate dinner at the close of dinner. Mom said, Well Tonight, Bobby, it's your turn to wash and your sister's turn to dry, and she goes, you're drying too. Otherwise, I'm telling Dad. And Bobby said, Dad already knows, and he done forgave me. You're doing your own drying. Christian, there's nothing like being forgiven. Having that burden lifted. If you're here this morning you've never known the joy of God forgiving you of your sin, you can have that. You don't have to go to bed in turmoil anymore. You don't have to go to bed wondering what's going to happen and and who's going to pay for these sins. Jesus already paid him and forgiveness is already extended. You can be forgiven. But Christian, if you're here this morning Would you be willing to extend that to somebody else? You've experienced and know the joy of being forgiven by God. Would you be willing to extend that forgiveness to a brother or sister in Christ? to a family member, to a mate, to somebody that offended you a long time ago God wants some people in here to be ready to let it go. Christmas many times brings families together. Amen. This could be a whole new Christmas for you if you could forgive like God Let's stand to our feet with our heads bowed and our eyes closed. Beloved, three essential elements of the Christian life, if you're going to know the joy of the Lord and peace in your heart, we've got to be people of faith. We've got to be people of fellowship with God. And we've got to be people that forgive like God forgives. Dear Lord Jesus, we come to you right now, this morning, this hour. We ask you, Lord, that you'd be with every individual here. We ask you, God, that every person here, if they are not sure that they've been forgiven by Jesus Christ, That they would accept you this morning and the forgiveness that's extended to you, to them, by you. And Lord, we pray that you'll be with every person who has experienced and known the forgiveness of God. God that they would be willing and ready to extend that forgiveness to their brother or sister in Christ. To have that burden lifted, that they might experience that as well. May everyone do what you want them to do in Jesus' name. Amen.