When you think about the early church, it was an amazing time. Just the outpouring and the working of God in the lives of men. The souls that were saved, the uh great change that was wrought. Uh you know, actually Acts chapter 17 tells us that These men turned the world upside down. I mean I mean it's amazing. They literally turned it upside down. Now our world today is upside down. It's a whole different kind of upside down. But wouldn't it be amazing? Wouldn't it be a blessing to see that kind of outpouring, that kind of working of God In the church today. What a powerful moving You know, God did not only work there in the beginning of Acts You can look down through time and you see the working of God. You you look back in different eras and you can read about the great revivals and the things where God came on the scene and and What I want you to understand is that God is still alive today, that we still serve the same God who began the church or the work in the church there in the beginning pages of Acts. And he is still working today. It hasn't been too many years ago that C. H. Spurgeon was preaching and I want to read for you a little bit. I wrote a paper in college about C. H. Spurgeon and read about a 250-page book on his life and just an amazing man that God used in a great way. The writer or author says a young 19-year-old boy became a pastor of a 200-year-old church in the River Flood District, which was a gloomy area in London. The New Park Street Church had a membership of 232 people and gathered A gathered congregation of 80 souls heard the young Charles Haddon's Virgin preach for the first time on Sunday morning. December 18th, 1853. And I thought that was really amazing because the church that we just went and worked on was built in 1850. And uh so that church was being built or was around during the time that Spurgeon, of course, was in London, but London he was preaching. The writer goes on and said the church extended him a call, which he accepted on April 28th in 1854. Within ten months, the congregation, growing rapidly, had to move to Exeter Hall, where the church building was expanded, well the church building was expanded to accommodate the great crowds. However, upon returning to the church location in May of 1855, the renovation was already found to be inadequate the facility too small. The church was once again forced in June of 1856 to return to Exeter Hall. Soon, Exeter Hall was too small as well, and the move was made to the Siren Gardens Music Hall. Where for three years, Virgin preached to an average of 9,000 to 10,000 people every Sunday. The New Park Street Church went from 80 to 10,000 in a matter of two and a half years. Because of the working of God. People look back at it and they they see this man, and boy, he was the Prince of Preachers. He He was the the uh you know Charles Haddenspurgeon, of course. I mean wow, look at look at what he did. But beloved, it was not Charles Haddon Spurgeon, it was God. The God behind Charles Haddon's Burgeon. Soon Spurgeon was accepting invitations to preach all over England, Scotland, and Wales. He is recorded to have preached to An audience of 23,654 at one time in the famous Crystal Palace. And in March of 1861, they moved into the Metropolitan Tabernacle, where for the next 31 years he would preach to over 5,000 every Sunday. Yes, God used Virgin, but it was God that did the work. It was God that did the work then, it was God that did the work in the book of Acts, and it's God that will do the work today. If you look at the book of Acts, there's a few things that are prevalent that the Word of God sees fit to call great things that the early church had. They had these things, and I think if you look through history and you see a great moving of God, you'll also see these three things. So I would encourage the church tonight and challenge us to be sure that these are part of Hunt Valley Baptist Church. If we desire to see God do great things in our midst. Look in Acts chapter number four. Towards our text, we're going to begin reading in verse number 31. The text verse is 33, but we're going to begin in 31. He says, and when he prayed, the place was shaken. Where they were assembled together and they were filled with the Holy Ghost. And they spake the word of God with boldness. And the multitude of them that believed were of one heart and of one soul. Neither said any of them that aught of the things which he possessed was his own, but they had all things common. Notice the beginning here of verse number 3 and with 33, and with great power gave the apostles witness of the resurrection. With great power. I want you to understand that all through history and from the time of the book of Acts until now, any time you see God working mightily in the lives of men, there was behind that movement the great power of God. It was not because of a program, it was not because of something special in the air, or there was nothing in the water, or there was not necessarily an individual that was specifically gifted to be an orator or to carry the message. But it was the fact that God Almighty came on the scene with his great power and made the difference. This is a great power that can only be found from God. It's not from an individual. It is the moving and the shaking of the Holy Spirit in the midst of the hearts of men. It's the kind of power that moves the wicked heart to repentance. It's the kind of power that breaks up the foul ground of the hardened Christian. Ari Tori in his book on the Holy Spirit describes a time in The elders and the deacons of Moody Church who was preaching would get together once a week and they'd talk about the business of the church and the needs of the church and discuss what might need to be addressed or taken care of. Well, at one particular meeting, one of the men said, Brother, and I am not at all satisfied with the way that things are going in our church Yes, we have seen many professed conversions. We have seen some additions to the membership, but I do not see the conviction of sin. That changes the heart of men. I propose, beloved, that instead of discussing business matters any further, That we spend our time in prayer, that we meet not just tonight, but on other nights also, and cry to God to send his Holy Spirit among us and bring his convicting power. They began to meet and they began to pray not just that night but consecutive nights and they continued in prayer Not long after, Dr. Torrey was preaching one Sunday evening, and to his left he saw down front here a man that was a notorious gambler, a professional gambler by trade. He was known in town to be a gambler. And throughout the service, the look on the man's face began to get more and more painful. At the conclusion of the service, the man came forward and talked to Ari Tori and said, Sir I haven't the slightest idea what's wrong with me. I feel so terrible. I feel so undone. I I I don't know what's going on. He says, today I was walking by this building and and and I was drawn to come into here, but I I I rejected it and I walked two and a half blocks away and yet something prodded me and and turned me around and I came back to this building and walked in these doors and I was driven to come and sit down front here but I have no idea what's wrong with me. And Ari Tori looks at him and says, Sir, I do, for you are under the conviction of God. The conviction of God for the sin that you partake of. And that night the notorious gambler right there bowed his head and trusted Jesus as his Lord and Savior. It's the convicting power of God. It is the work of the Holy Spirit. We see back in Acts chapter number one. In verse number 6, he says, When they therefore were come together, they asked of him, saying, Lord, wilt thou at this time restore again the kingdom of Israel? And he said unto them, It is not for you to know the times or the seasons which the Father hath put in his own power. But ye shall receive power after that the Holy Ghost has come upon you And ye shall be witnesses unto me, both in Jerusalem and Judea, in Samaria, in the uttermost parts of the earth. Ye shall receive power. It is the power of God that changes lives. They had to wait on God, wait for the power to come, wait and see God bring this into them But we've gotten to the place today where we rely on our nice buildings and our comfortable pews. We lie rely on on nice uh music productions and the secular or extracurricular programs of the church to draw a crowd. But it's not bringing change in the heart of men. What I'm saying, beloved, is even here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church, we need the power of God. We need the power of God. They continued in one accord in prayer until the power came James Duncan preaching with such great unction and power was asked of men, what is the secret to such powerful preaching The secret, he said, is 13 hours of consecutive prayer before I stepped in the pulpit. C. H. Burgeon, when asked the secret of his spiritual power, said, It is knee work, my friend, knee work. We cannot be content where we're at, but we must get alone with God and seek his power. In Acts chapter 2, verses 1 through 4, he says, And when the day of Pentecost was fully come, they were all with one accord in one place, and suddenly there came a sound from heaven. of a rushing mighty wind, and it filled all the house where they were sitting. And there appeared unto them cloven tongues like as of fire, and it sat upon each of them, and they were filled with the Holy Ghost and began to speak with one another another tongue as the Spirit gave them utterance. God's power was there. You look and say, well, you know, that was Pentecost, and this is today. We live in a wicked day, we live in a terrible society, we live in a day of lukewarmness, that Laocean age. We can't expect to see that today. Would you look down in verse number 17? Acts chapter 2, verse number 17. He says, and it shall come to pass in the last days, saith God, I will pour out my spirit upon all flesh. I think anybody here would say that we're in the last days. The last days are upon us. We certainly are closer than we've ever been. And God said he wants to pour out his spirit to do a mighty work right before he comes again. Because he's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repent. God wants to put his power on you. He wants to put his power on me. But God's not going to empower a dirty vessel. God's not going to empower an unsubmitted Christian. But do you know what, beloved? He will gladly take ignorant and unlearned men that are just yielded to him and fill them with mighty power. In Acts chapter 4, verse number 13, he says, Now, when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, and perceived that they were unlearned and ignorant men, They marveled, and they took knowledge of them that they had been with Jesus. Peter was not an especially gifted orator But he had been with Jesus. John was not necessarily one whose personality demanded the attention of the crowds. But he had been with Jesus. Matter of fact, their personalities and their countenance and the perception of those around them looked at them as unlearned and ignorant. And yet they marveled at the power that they had. Beloved, it's not your skill. It's your Savior. It's not your talent, it's the time that you are willing to spend with God Some look at Spurgeon and the life he lived and what was accomplished during his days, and they think, well, how could this be explained? And the author of the book says it certainly to some measure might be looked at as the talent of a man, for we certainly must admit his brilliance and eloquence. But Spurgeon himself acknowledged it all to be God. He said this. If we had spirit, if we had the spirit sealing our ministry with power, it would signify very little about talent. Men might be poor and uneducated, their words might be broken and undramatic, but if the might of the Spirit attended them, the humblest of evangelists would be more successful. than the most learned and the most eloquent of all preachers. It is extraordinary power from God, not talent, that wins a day It is extraordinary spiritual unction, not extraordinary mental prowess that we need. Mental power may fill a chapel. But spiritual power fills the church with souls in anguish. Mental power may gather a congregation, but spiritual power will draw souls to the Savior. I believe it was J. W. Tozer that said the problem with the church today Is that we have come to believe that we're in the entertainment business. We're not in the entertainment business. We need the working and the power of God, and it's not the individual. It's God Himself. Spurgeon went on to say that death and condemnation to the church that is not yearning after the Spirit, and crying and groaning until the Spirit has wrought mightily in their midst. He is here, he said. He is here, and he has never gone back since he descended at Pentecost He has been here. Oh, he is often grieved. He is vexed For he is peculiarly jealous and sensitive. Therefore, let us be very tender towards him. Walk before him, wait on him very earnestly. and resolved that there should be nothing knowingly continued that would prevent his working He said, Brethren, if we do not have the Spirit of God, we had better shut the church, nail up the doors, hang a blank cross upon them, and say, God, have mercy on us. Beloved, the church has had great power because they had a great working of the Spirit of God. If we want to see God do something mighty in our midst, if we want to see God do something great in Hunt Valley Baptist Church, we need to have great power. And God's power is not going to be poured out upon people that aren't earnestly seeking for it. God's power is not going to be poured out on people that aren't willing to submit to Him and yield their lives. God's power is not going to be poured out. On the casual Laodicean Christian. It's going to be somebody that is fervently praying and seeking for God to pour his power out on us. We need great power. We see secondly that they had great grace. In Acts 4:33, he says, And with great power gave the apostles witness of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus, and great grace was upon them all. My beloved, you know that I believe we should stand. I believe we sh we shouldn't bow, that there are uh lines in the sand that as Christians God has a way in which He would have us live. And that we should stand for truth and righteousness. But we should also have and exercise great grace with men. One of the reasons churches like ours are offensive is not because we preach the truth. The truth can be offensive. But because the truth is preached without love. And because we have taken the grace that God would want to extend to men and rob them of it. I don't know where we how we think of ourselves in such a way that we could Take that grace and not let other men have it. The same grace that was shown to us should be extended to others They had great grace. I could spend time here at this point and preach about grace giving. Through grace giving, God enables you to give above and beyond what you think possible. It's the grace of God, and He just does a miraculous work, and you begin to do and accomplish more in your giving than you ever thought possible. I could talk about grace living. Grace living is not like this new new idea that uh oh we're under grace so we can all do whatever we want, that no longer do we have to abide or follow the laws of God because we're under grace. No. Grace living is holy living. Titus 2, verse 11 and 12 says, For the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared unto all men. That same grace that brought salvation that appeared to all men, it teaches us some things. He says it teaches us that denying ungodliness and worldly lust we should live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world. Grace living, living soberly, righteously, godly in this present world I could talk about grace growing. Beloved, we're to be growing in grace. The grace that was extended to us, that grace that brought salvation to us, we're to be growing in that. We're not supposed to receive the grace of God and discard it. The questions asked by Paul, he says, you know, hey, has that grace been extended to you in vain? No, we're to be growing in that grace continually as Christians. It amazes me how short we can get with people sometimes. Oh, we as individuals, we want to come boldly to the throne of grace. We want to come to that throne of grace and and come boldly, right? That we may obtain mercy. But sometimes if other people don't fit into our mold, they don't fit into our definition or our idea of what a Christian should be. We don't want to extend them any grace. And let God listen, beloved, except for the grace of God, there go I. Right. And how is it I could try and and and demand something of somebody else? When except for the grace of God, that would be me. We've got to have great grace. To see a great moving of God. Yes, it takes great power, but it takes great grace. Beloved, we've got to get off of our high horse and Let go of the holier than thou attitude that tries to put forth a standard that we've established in our heart and mind for other men. And let the grace of God bring people along as God sees fit. We've got to have great grace. God's not going to pour his power out. He's not going to pour his blessing out on a church that has forgotten his grace. We see lastly this evening in Acts chapter number five. We're not going to read all of this passage, but turn to Acts chapter 5, verse number 11. We're not gonna read it all because you guys are familiar with this. We're dealing with a by and large a t a a group of people that I think could recount the story. without any problem. But in verse number 11 he says, and great fear came upon all the church, and upon as many as heard these things. You know the story here of Ananias and Sophia. You know how they had sold their house and gave a portion of it to the church? The sin was not in that they kept something back. The sin is in that they wanted credit for giving all of it. And then kept some back. So they lied to the Holy Spirit. They were dishonest before men and before God. And they quite literally, to put it in today's vernacular, they were hypocritical. But everybody saw what God did, how God judged Ananias and Zephyr, and the Bible says that great fear fell upon them. Great fear fell upon them. They saw the judgment of God on someone else. The Bible says, smart, smite the scorner, and the simple will beware. That's how it's supposed to work. When we see God's judgment come down on someone. Boy, we're supposed to look and say, Man, I better straighten up. Man, I I certainly uh I want to learn from the lesson he had to learn instead of have to go through that myself. But the problem today is the church, by and large, likes to explain away the judgment of God. We see somebody running from God and skipping church and uh uh uh a Jonah as it were. And their car gets totaled Sunday morning when they're on their way to the lake. And we just explain it away that, oh well, you know, that accidents happen and it's just the way things are, and good thing you had insurance. But we don't look at it and say, that's a judgment of God. Well, I'd better I better hear and fear. I better have some fear of an Almighty God who will judge sin. The church saw it and they had great fear. God's judgment on men. We look at it and say, oh, that's just life. Everybody's house catches on fire. You know, oh that's just life. Everybody gets hurt falling down the stairs. Different situations arise and God brings judgment in somebody's life, and we like to explain it away instead of seeing for what it is and fearing God. We ignore the hand of God and continue to do what we want to do. I had somebody just this morning I'm not going to give you the details to protect them, but they gave me a very clearly defined judgment of God on somebody in their family. They said they they just don't understand. They look at it and they see exactly what it is. And they look and they're like, wow. They're almost standing back in awe. That was said this morning at the close of the service. God's judgment. We see those things. It ought to bring fear to our hearts. The great work of God. But sadly, many of us can just continue to live our lives and do what we want to do, and there is no fear. We can participate and be involved in every kind of uh sin that we like to justify. We have our pet sin, the thing that we want to say is okay. And I I can do that and still be a good Christian. You know, beloved, when revival comes, our pet sin goes. When revival comes, our petty differences fade away When revival comes, great power comes. We looked this morning at Noah, talked about him It's in those passages about Noah that it says that the Spirit of God will not always strive with men. God's not going to always strive with you. Sometimes we think, well, I've got away with it this long, I'm okay. God hasn't struck me with lightning or or you know given me a disease or broke my leg or my car is still running. So I I'm alright. I can keep on doing this. There's no fear. Yeah, Ecclesiastes 8. 11 addresses that. He says, because sentence against an evil work is not executed speedily. Therefore, the heart of the sons of man is fully set in them to do evil. He said, because God's grace and mercy on us Because God l is not that picture of, you know, uh Angry God up in heaven with a two by four just ready to beat you to death as soon as you step out of line. His love and his mercy is there calling you back. And because he withholds his judgment. Instead of responding correctly, we say, oh, well, must be okay. I can keep on going in my sin. We've got to have great fear. If you and I are going to see God do great things at Hunt Valley Baptist Church, we've got to have great power, and that comes from God, God alone. We've got to exercise and display great grace. Having experienced the grace of God, we've got to show grace to others And we've got to have great fear. Great fear of an almighty God, a fear that changes our daily behavior. Knowing that He is watching and that He sees all we do. You know, beloved, God wants to pour His power and His blessing out on you more than you want it. But you gotta be ready to receive it. I wonder if tonight there'd be some people who say, you know what, I want to see God do some great things. Now I'm going to earnestly pray and seek God to do a great work at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. to do a great work in my family, to a great work in our home, wherever the need is. These are three things that any time in history, when you look down, you see God moving in a great way, you see great revival. You know what, beloved? Every time you see a great moving of God, you see Souls coming to him. You look back in the book of Acts and you see that great power, and there was three thousand souls saved and out of the church. and then 5,000 souls. And you look through history in every great moving of God, it was for the purpose of bringing souls to Christ. We need to see God do something great. It's not just a social club. It's not just a gathering to get together and pat each other on the back. But to see God do great and mighty things in Hunt Valley.