Now if I do that which I would not that I would not, it is no more that I that do it, but sin that dwelleth in me. I find then a law that when I would do good, evil is present with me For I delight in the law of God after the inward man, but I see another law in my members, warring against the law of my mind, bringing me into captivity of the law of sin which is in my members. O wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from this body of death But I thank God through Jesus Christ our Lord, so then with the mind I myself serve the law of God, but with the flesh is the law of sin. Something we can all emphasize with there. I got stuff that I want to do for God. I got a desire, but when I try to do it, I mess up. I do what I shouldn't do. I don't I do what I don't want to do. I don't do what I do want to do. Where's our people in discipleship? How would you like to memorize these verses Uh we talked yesterday about how some of these words that have phrases that all kind of match can turn things around. This would be a very difficult passage to memorize, but we can all understand what saw uh what um Paul is saying here that There's a battle going on. A battle to do right. That when I want to do right, I do wrong. When I when I don't want to do wrong, I end up doing it anyway. And uh I I want to, but I just don't know how to, and this is a struggle that goes on. This is our flesh Our flesh battling against our spirit. So we see that our flesh, it is our old nature. When you were born, you were born with a sin nature. You are a sin by sinner by nature and you're a sinner by your actions, because you you have a sin nature, but you sin as well, so they're added together. You are a sinner from birth When you get saved, you're given a new nature. First Corinthians five or sorry, second Corinthians five seventeen. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. All things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. You're made new in Christ. You're given new life in Christ. You're given a new nature in Christ. You're given a new Fear it in Christ But that old nature is still there. That old nature is still there, and you have to fight against that old nature. It's a battle, it's a war. It's your enemy. Our flesh is our old nature When we got saved, he gave us a new nature, but he did not eliminate our old nature. Ephesians 4. 22 tells us, put off concerning the conversation of the the former conversation of the old man which is corrupt according to the deceitful lust. He said, hey you're a Christian, what you need to do is quit doing the things of your old nature, the conversation, the lifestyle of your old nature. Put those things off. Because you still have it with you. You're just not supposed to be doing it. We know from Romans chapter 6, 7, and 8. Crucify the flesh. We need we need to put it to death so it it can't rule in our lives, it can't rule in our members, and we can we can have victory in this battle, in this fight, so we see our flesh is our old nature. And we understand that our flesh fights against our spiritual nature. Let's go to Galatians chapter 5. Galatians chapter 5. Get you turning in the Bible a little bit this morning. Galatians chapter 5, we see the battle that takes place between our old and our new nature Galatians five, verses are sixteen to twenty-five. This I say, then walk in the spirit, ye shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. For the flesh lusteth against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh, these are contrary one to the other, so that ye cannot do the things that you would But if ye be led of the Spirit, ye are not under the law. Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness, idolatry, witchcraft, hatred Variants, emulations, wrath, strife, seditions, heresies, envyings, murders, drunkenness, revilings, and such like, of which I tell you before, as I have told you in time past, that they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance. Against such there is no law. And they that are Christ have crucified the flesh with the affections and lusts If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit. Let us not be desirous of vain glory, provoking one another and envying one another. So we see this battle, spirit lust against the flesh. Flesh lusteth lusteth against the spirit. They are contrary one to the other. There's this battle going on in our members. Our flesh fights against our spiritual nature. As we look at this passage, we see the first thing that we understand about our fight with our flesh is that we have a choice. where we're going to walk. We have a choice where we're going to w walk. Verse number 16 said This I say then, walk in the Spirit. And you shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. If you are walking in the spirit, then you're not going to be going into the lust of the flesh If you're walking in the flesh, you're not going to be giving in to the demands of the Spirit. Where you walk, it's going to make a big difference. You have a choice, a choice of where you're going to walk. Notice in these verses that the word spirit is capitalized. This is referring to the Holy Spirit. Because when you got saved, God gave you a new nature, a part of you that desires to do right, your spirit was made alive in Christ. And you had a desire for a relationship with God, but God was going to help you out. He put within you his Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit came to indwell you as a Christian And the Holy Spirit works hand in hand with your new nature to try to help you to do what's right. In fact, this is the illustration given in John chapter 14, where Jesus said, I'll send you another another comforter. This word comforter is the word paraclete. I'm sure you've heard that before. It means one who comes alongside. So God gave you a new nature and said, you know what? You're going to have trouble on your own because you've got this old nature and he's got a lot more experience than the new nature does. What I'm going to do is I'm going to put my spirit in you to walk hand in hand with your new nature so that you can have victory as a believer. So we have the Spirit within us to help us to walk and do what is right. But we have to make a choice on where we're going to walk. We see that we have a choice where we walk. We also understand that the flesh is contrary to the Spirit of God and our new nature. This idea of contrary carries the idea of adversaries, their enemies. Spirit of God is the enemy of your flesh. Your flesh is the enemy of your new nature. And so we have these enemies, these adversaries that are within us. It is the enemy, your flesh is the enemy of God, and it is the enemy of your spiritual growth. We talked about walking. When you walk in the flesh, there's things that happen. There's fruit that it produces. And it's where those are described for us in these verses. We read all of them. The works of the flesh are manifest, which are, and then we got the list. Of all the things that happen. This comes out of you when you're walking in the flesh. But we have another choice. We can then walk in the spirit. And we have the results of that as well, the fruit of the spirit. But contrary, if you walk in the flesh, this happens You walk in the spirit, love, joy, peace, long suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance, those are the fruit that come out of your life. Walking in the flesh produces corrupt fruit. Walking in the Spirit produces spiritual fruit. We have a responsibility to have victory over our flesh as believers. Look at the end of the passage we read. It says in verse number 24, and they that are Christs, that's referring to Christians, they that are Christs have crucified the flesh with the affections and lusts. The things that your flesh loves, the things that your flesh wants, God said, put that to death so that you can walk in the Spirit. Put that to death so you can walk in the Spirit. So that when what when you when we have in the book of Romans, Paul says, to reckon yourselves therefore to be dead unto sin Consider yourself, that's what he's saying, consider yourself to be dead to sin. I gave an example some months ago in master clubs of if you were there and you had come across, you're walking and you found a dead dog And the dog is there and it is dead, and you pick up a stick and you throw it and you say, Fetch, what happens? Nothing. Because it's dead So when it comes to sin and lust, I'm supposed to consider myself dead. So that when sin comes along or my flesh comes along and says, Hey, fetch. No response for me, because I'm dead to sin. Sin has no more control over me, no more authority over me. I don't have to listen to anymore, because I'm dead to sin. That's this picture that he's giving us here. Crucify the flesh and its lusts and its affections The things that you want that are contrary to God, put those to death so that when the temptation comes along, you don't respond. Because I'm dead to those things. I'm alive in Christ. And that's the picture we're given here in Galatians. Chapter number five. So we see that the flesh is the enemy of the Christian. It is the number one enemy we have as believers. Uh 'cause guess what? You drag it around with you every day. It goes to bed with you, it gets up with you, it's at the store with you, it sits in church with you, you have your flesh that goes around with you every day. It is your number one enemy as a Christian And it is responsible for the inner battle to do right. Back in the book of James, we saw that warreth and lusteth within your members. It's this battle going on. Your flesh is trying to pull you away from God and pull you towards sin. That's the direction. That's the tactics of this enemy. He wants to get you to pull away from God and he wants to pull you into sin. That's what this enemy wants to do to you. as a as a Christian. James chapter one describes this for us. How does a Christian end up in sin? How does a saved person end up in sin? James chapter 1 gives us the pattern of how the flesh does this. What's the flesh's tactics? What moves is the flesh going to make? James 1, 14 and 15. There the Bible says, Every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lust and enticed. But when lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin, and sin when it is finished, bringeth forth death. It's important for us to know our enemy. You know a lot of people blame their temptation on the devil. Well the devil devil made me do it. Devil made me do it. Well James chapter one. We're gonna look at the devil in a minute. James chapter one says you get into temptation that results in sin when you're drawn away of your of the devil's lusts. No, of your own lust. It it's your lust that pull you away and pull you towards sin. It's your flesh. He wants us to go into sin, the devil does, but we're tempted. by our own lust. He may orchestrate opportunities for us to sin, but it is our lust that draws into sin. Lust carries the idea of desire. When we look at people who the devil tempted in the Bible We see first of all in Jesus in Matthew chapter 4. And we see that the spirit, Jesus was led by the Spirit to be tempted of the devil in the wilderness. The devil orchestrated an opportunity for Jesus to sin. And he presented it to Jesus, but Jesus didn't go into sin. You know why? He didn't want to. No desire. The lust wasn't there for me to pursue this evil. There was no lust to pull Jesus away into sin. Even though the opportunity was there. Even though the devil was there to give the opportunity to orchestrate that for him, there was no desire that pulled Jesus toward that sin, so he didn't go into sin. What about Eve? Eve was tempted to the devil as well. And yes, the devil gave her the opportunity and he he corrupted the Bible and changed words around in there, but when s before Steve sinned before Eve sinned What happened? She saw the tree was good for food. There's the desire. There's the lust that pulled me towards this opportunity. The devil gave me the opportunity, but it was my lust that pulled me toward that opportunity. She saw that it was good for food. She saw, that looks like that would be really good. I think I would really enjoy that. So this picture is given to us in James chapter 1 of how we as believers go into sin. God wants you to have victory over your enemy, the flesh. So we're going to see what's how does the flesh do this, and then how do we get victory over it? Temptation that results in sin only happens after the flesh has been given Other victories. You give in to your flesh, and that brings you to sin. The temptation that leads to sin. Look at James 1. 14 again. Every man is tempted when he is drawn away. When he's drawn away. Number one, flesh wants to do is to draw you away from God. Pull you away from God. If flesh can create distance between you and God, if it can get you to stop reading your devotions, if it can get you out of a spirit of prayer. If it can keep you out of church, if it can get you away from God, it's got you set up to where you can fall into sin. You know, we just finished up a week of camp. And pretty early in the week, you can tell which can't which kids are likely going to be in trouble by the end of the week. Because by the end of the first day, they've already separated themselves from the group from authority, from activity, and they've been drawn away. And you say, well those guys are gonna get in trouble. Those ladies are gonna get in trouble because what they're doing, they're allowing themselves to be drawn away. from accountability, from authority. And the same thing is true in our lives as Christians. When we allow ourselves to be drawn away, to pull away from God, from God's man, from God's building, from God's church, from God's family From God's word, we're drawn away. And we're setting ourselves up to get in trouble later When we allow ourselves to be drawn away from God, we're giving ground to our flesh, and we are likely to end up in sin. Going back to these two examples, what was Jesus doing when he was tempted to the devil in the wilderness? He spent 40 days fasting and praying. Was he drawn away from God? No, sin wasn't a problem. He wasn't drawn away. He was close to God. Well what about what about Eve? She was uh not walking with God like she did in the cool of the day when this happened. God wasn't right there with her. We know God was God's everywhere, but God wasn't there with her like he was in the cool of the day when he'd walk with them He wasn't there then. That's when she was drawn away and had an opportunity to go into sin, drawn away. So number one. When we give our flesh a victory and allowing ourselves to be drawn away from God, we're setting ourselves up for sin. Number two, we see when he is, every man is tempted, when he is drawn away of his own lust. His own lust. These are the desires of his flesh. What do you want? What do you want? What do you want to make you happy What do you want to give you enjoyment? What do you want to give you pleasure? What do you want to to make yourself feel justified? What are these desires that we have? You know you usually find a way to get what you want. Sometimes uh when ladies are expecting a child, uh they have some strange desires. And I've heard many stories uh of men out in the middle of the night. trying to fulfill the desire because they don't get to sleep if they can't find uh hot Cheetos somewhere. Uh so gas stations and everywhere they're going and looking Uh for a Taco Bell that's still open till 3 a. m. try to find because they're not going to get rest unless this desire is fulfilled. Thankfully my wife didn't have uh very many of those and I didn't go out in the middle of the night looking for food anywhere. But there's I've heard this, that there's desires and that we say, you know what, I need this, and you're not getting your rest until I get it. We find a way to fulfill our desires. Our lustful desires will pull you into sin. Jesus did not go into sin because he did not want what sin was offering. He had no desire. Hey, you can have this. I don't want that. No, it's very, very easy to turn away sin when you don't want it. I don't want that. That's not something that's gonna be that's something not something I want. That's not something I'll be satisfied with What about Eve? We know Eve was tempted by the devil. She went into sin. We saw she was drawn away. And then what did it say about Eve? It says that it was a tree desired to make one wise. Tree desired to make one wise. Yeah, she saw it was good for food, but she said, You know what? I want that. I want that. And that's where sin gets a hold. It says, you know, I'm pulled away from God, but then I see something I want. Something I want that God said no. That's drawn away of our own lust. And then we get to the third point, and that is enticed. Drawn away of his own lust and enticed. This idea of enticed it carries the idea of walking into a trap. That's what happened. You walk into a trap, and this kind of carries the idea of the opportunity to sin. Temptation that results in sin is a combination of desire and opportunity. You've got the distance from God You have the desire for sin and you have the opportunity for sin. You know, if I had a desire for alcohol right now Man, I could really use some right now. And uh but you know there's no opportunity. I'm not going to be able to do it. I have no opportunity. I have to have a desire accompanying with an opportunity. Now what about if I had the opportunity But no desire. That's happened lots of times in my life. I've had the opportunity for alcohol. I don't have any desire for that stuff. I've seen what it does. Um I've seen how it smells. Uh it is it's it's disgusting. No, no desire. So No, the opportunity is there, but there's no desire, I'm not going to go into sin. But when you get this three-legged stool, if you can picture it, we have, I'm drawn away from God. And I have a desire for what's wrong, and I have an opportunity to do wrong, you've set yourself up to fall into sin. And when lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin. When sin is finished, it bringeth forth death. Jesus had the opportunity to sin, but he had no desire. He didn't sin. Eve had the desire, and she had the opportunity. And so she ended up in sin. That's how you give a victory to your flesh. So if we want to have victory over our flesh, we need to kick the legs out of this three-legged stool. Number one, don't be drawn away. Walk in the spirit, ye shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. Don't be drawn away from God. Stay close to God. Walk with God. You know, um we'll use a fleshly example of this. We'll go back to the alcohol thing. If I did have a desire. to drink alcohol. And I did have an opportunity, but Pastor was with me. Not gonna do it, right So you know what? You may have an opportunity to be wrong, you may have a desire to be wrong, but when you're walking with God, you say, No, I don't want to mess this up So don't be drawn away. That's the first leg of the stool to eliminate. Secondly, we need to overcome our desires. God can give you help and victory in this area. What we need to do is start seeing sin the way God does. Instead of seeing sin and saying, wow, that looks good, look at it and say, that's what put Jesus on the cross. Instead of seeing, wow, that would be so much fun, look and say that would destroy my family. Look at that and say, well, I think I would enjoy that, but my kids are gonna hate me later. Look at it and say, wow, that that looks like that would bring bring joy and pleasure, but I would no longer have my fellowship with the Lord. Change the way we view sin, instead of saying that's something I want, saying that's something that's not good for me. I don't want that anymore Change the de change the overcome our desire and then number three eliminate opportunities. We can't do all of these because the devil's going to orchestrate some opportunities for us to do wrong. But if we have areas we know we're going we're prone to fall Get rid of that opportunity. I spoke with someone one time who was who was dealing with a problem with uh with alcohol. Again, that example. Very very terrible sin, uh alcoholism. And he I was on the phone and I was talking to them and they they were saying, I really I'm struggling right now. I really want to drink. Uh what should I do? I said, Well where are you right now? I said I'm in the parking lot of the bar Drive away. Alright? Drive away and you'll have an opportunity. If there's problems, we won't go into a lot of a lot of illustrations. You have opportunities to sin. You can say, you know what, by changing my lifestyle, by changing things in my lives, by providing accountability, I can eliminate some of these opportunities to do what's wrong. And we eliminate the opportunity, we overcome the desire, we stay walking with God, the flesh can't have victory in our lives. Now we spent the most time in Sunday school this morning on our enemy, the flesh, because that's the first and biggest battle for us as Christians. You know, so how important it is to have victory over your flesh is that God's provided an environment here at church where we're supposed to keep the devil out We're supposed to keep the world out just so that four times a week you can just focus on beating down on your flesh and saying, I want this to have victory anymore. This again is why it's so important for us to keep the devil and the world out of the church. Because we've got to give you an opportunity here to say, I want to deal with my flesh, because that's where I have a daily battle. And I don't want to have the world in here appealing to my flesh at church. Um, so I need to have victory over these things. So, number one, our enemy is the Our second enemy that we have as believers is the world. We'll go quickly through these next two. So what is the world? We see this in James chapter 4. Again, verse number four. Ye adulterers and adulteresses, know ye not that friendship of the world is enmity with God? Whosoever therefore will be a friend of the world is the enemy of God. So what is the world? Number one, it's not the in this context, it's not the physical creation. That's not what he's talking about, loving the world. It's not talking about trees and birds and dogs and volcano stuff. Now Step aside there, there is a way where people are loving the world wrong. An idolatry is going on in our world today when it comes to the physical earth, but that's not what he's talking about here in a spiritual sense of loving the world. It's not the physical world. It's also not the people of the world. We do need to be very careful in our alliances with those in the world. We have the command be need not Be not unequally yoked together with unbelievers. We use that passage a lot to teach on marriage, but that's um just one application. We need to be careful about our alliances that we have with unbelievers. We need to have compassion and love for the people of this world that motivates us to reach them with the gospel. So the world here that we're not supposed to love is not the people of the world, it's not the creation. The world here is the system on earth that's contrary to God. First John two five through seven fifteen through seventeen says, Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the world love the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, the pride of life, it is not of the Father, but is of the world. And the world passeth away and the lust thereof, but he that doeth the will of God abideth for ever The world, in this context, is the system and the stuff that desires the affection of Christians. Lust wants, your flesh wants to draw you into sin, the world wants your affection. The world wants your love. And we see this in this verse, we'll talk about it in just a minute. But the idea is it's the things that appeal to our flesh, it's the thing that appeal to our eyes, it's the things that appeal to our pride. It refers to the current world system. Worldly means like the world. Just like godly means like God. Worldly means we're like the world. If something's popular in the world, it should not be popular among Christians. We can go into a lot of illustration about that, but we don't have time this morning. We see the verse, Demoth hath forsaken me, having loved this present world. This present world that carries the idea of age, this current time frame, what's going on right now, he's all excited about and he's not excited about the things of God. He loves the current fads So he forsook Paul, he forsook the gospel because something else had his affection. The illustration given, I say the world wants our affection because the illustration in James chapter 4 is one of adultery. We see it's kind of strong language, but adultery is having a relationship with someone else other than the person you're supposed to have a relationship with. God says there's a relationship you're supposed to have with me, and you're having that relationship with the world instead. Instead of me being able to tell you how to think, how to talk, how to dress, how to act, what to love, what to be involved in. The world has that authority in your life. Instead of the time that I want to spend with you and reading your Bible and praying, you're giving that time to things of the world. Your affections are drawn to the world instead of God. The world is after our affections. The world wants to have a relationship with the believer to define how you can live and act. We have this picture of adultery in the Old Testament, the idea of adultery is compared to idolatry That you're again, you're having a relationship with a different God. And it's the same in the in to in today's world that when we have idols, we have idols in this world. That's that we're giving in a relationship to them that belongs only to God. We're warned here in this verse about a friendship with the world. Know ye not that friendship of the world is enmity with God. This word friendship carries the idea of fondness. Fondness, the things that you like, the things that you enjoy, are they of the world or are they of God? Question you can look ask yourself to determine this is what am I not willing to give up Just pick something. If God said get rid of this, am I willing to do it? My car. God says he wants my car, am I willing to get rid of it? God says he wants my house, am I willing to get rid of it? If God says he wants my children to go to the mission field, am I willing to let them go If God says he wants my wallet, if God says he wants my phone, if God says he wants to ask yourself a question, am I willing to get rid of this? No, no, no, I can't do that. Alright, well there's a fondness there that that's taking a higher place than God And so we need to be uh on guard for this um fondness that develops in our heart against the against the world or for the world against God. Being a friend of the world makes you the enemy of God. Fondness with the world is enmity or hostility toward God. When you have a love or an affection for the world, God takes that as hostility towards Him. I had a funny illustration, but I don't have time for it this morning. So we're going to move on from there. But we understand this hostility towards God. God is a jealous God. You know, jealousy is not a bad thing in the Bible. It means God is protective and possessive of something that belongs to Him. You belong to me, your relationship, your fellowship. I bought you with a price. Don't give that to somebody else. That's the picture of what God looks at and when it comes to comes to our relationship with the Lord. When was the last time you binge read your Bible? When was the last time you had a Friday night sermon night as a family? Went back and listened to a classic. What excites you? What about God excites you as much as the latest whatever you like, the latest phone, the latest gun, the latest car, the latest sports, the latest team? Can God get a hold of you as easy as your notifications can? How many of you, this happens to me probably every other day at least, that I feel a buzz and I pull out my phone and nothing happened. There's no message there. There's no but I that buzz, I'm sensitive to it. I'm sensitive to feeling that buzz so I can check. How when was the other time you had a had a false alarm on God speaking to your heart? God was that you did you Oh no, false alarm That happens all the time right here. How much does it happen right here? We're gonna move we're gonna move on. So we have the world, we're sorry, we have the flesh, we have the world, number three, we have the devil. We won't have time to develop this in great T was Hill this morning. But a the devil is our spiritual enemy. We don't want to ignore his attacks because right here in James we're commanded to resist. The devil. Resist the devil, he will flee from you. Sometimes we can go overboard and say, Well, all my problems are because of the devil. Alright, well, or you can say, Well, all your problems are because of your flesh, so forget about the devil. No, we have both. We have all three enemies So the flesh wants to draw us into sin, the world desires our affection, and Satan wants to disrupt the plan of God. He wants to use you to get it, God And so if he wants he can disrupt the plan of God in your life, he can disrupt our church and what's going to be going on there. If he can disrupt summer camp, he's going to disrupt the plan of God. We see him illustrating the Bible, plucking up the seeds off the hard ground. He fills men's heart to lie to the Holy Spirit. He tried to rebuke Jesus from going to the cross through Peter. He entered into Judas to betray Christ. He hindered the ministry of Paul. He buffeted Paul with a thorn of the flesh. He's behind the spirit of the Antichrist. Satan's goal is to stop what God wants to do in your life. So how do we deal with this enemy? We're told in James chapter 4, verse number 7, Submit yourselves therefore to God, resist the devil, and he will flee from you Submit and resist. Submit. Put yourself under God. God's my authority. And then we have the idea of resist. This is the idea of to oppose or to withstand. Withstand, does that sound familiar? Ephesians chapter 6, you may uh withstand in the evil day, and having done all to stand, stand therefore with the armor of God. Do not move from what you know is right You know how you teach young people, hey he was doing this and I got so mad and this is bothering me. You say, well just ignore him. Ignore him and he'll Go away, leave you alone, right? Um this is the idea of resist just to stand there. I'm not moving. When you look at Job and his life and and and Satan brings comes all this trial into Job's life to disrupt Job's relationship with God, to get Job to curse God. and die and God says you can do whatever you want eventually except kill him. And what was Job's response? Though he slay me, yet will I trust in him. What else can he do? What else can Satan do? Well, I'm gonna go find somebody that will curse God. I'll move on from move on from there You know, uh years ago I learned how to ignore being tickled. You know, if you don't respond to someone tickling you, they only keep trying for about four to seven seconds, and then they're bored. Like they don't have any stamina. Uh when if you just if you just ignore them If the devil knows you're going to oppose and withstand him, he'll find somebody that won't. It's pretty easy to find a Christian as a pushover. If he finds a Christian here and he I can't get him to move and move on to someone else. That's what he says. Submit to God, resist the devil.