Well you can turn your Bibles tonight to Matthew chapter six is where we're going to begin. We're going to start in Matthew chapter five, but Um, I think that's a good thing. uh these uh thoughts that are contained in here because it's a very prevalent passage of scripture in different places um if you're on the missions trip To the Philippines. Uh I gave this particular message in the Philippines and so you'll recognize it. Sorry, Sandy, you've already heard it, but Uh actually many of the seed thoughts are are prevalent or things that I've shared in other messages or used as we've come across this passage. So you're gonna recognize some of this as we go through it for sure, but We see in the book of Matthew here, uh we of course know that this is the Sermon on the Mount. You have Matthew chapter five, six, and seven, the the sermon on the mount. What a powerful and dynamic study it is to look and see the Sermon on the Mount. If we pick up in Matthew chapter five, right at the beginning, he says, and seeing the multitude he went up into the mountain and When he was set, his disciples came unto him, and he opened his mouth, and he taught them saying. So he begins to give the Sermon on the Mount, and I guess no greater message has ever been preached than that of Christ, the Sermon on the Mount that he gave and There's a lot there for us to learn. We see initially he deals with the internal attitude of the believer as he digs into the beatitudes and All of those things I've been considering what would be the next Sunday school series or what the thing we would look at next at a church and Uh that certainly would be a good one to to dive into the Beatitudes and to consider um a blessed life and uh we all want to be blessed, so let's Let's make those as part of our life. They're certainly applicable. Matthew chapter 5, verse 3 through 12 deals with that. Then it deals with the external testimony of the believer as in 13 through 16 as he deals with the fact that we're called to be salt and light. Uh as believers, there's no question that we are to be salt and light in this world, this very dark world, and hey, the light you know shines the brightest in a dark night and so it's an opportunity for us even though it may be not as popular but it's definitely uh can be very effective in inside of a very dark world to be the light that we should be in the salt that we should be in this world. So he deals with our external testimony. Then he deals with that standard as it applies to us inwardly as he goes through the comparisons between murder and anger. uh be angry and sin not and you know that uh you've heard it said, you know, if you murder and but I say, and he tells us there very clearly that uh hey w we're not to be angry, we're to have that under control. And he deals with adultery and lust and the comparison there. He deals with divorce and remarriage. He deals with uh swearing and oaths and he deals with retaliation and revenge and love and hate and And verse five chapter five, verse number forty-eight gives us the fact that Christ is our example. He says there, be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father, which is in heaven, is perfect. So in this admonition here that we've got no excuses. We can't just say, well, that's great for some people, but it doesn't fit me, or it's not applicable to me. It it is applicable to us because We have the admin admonition and we have Christ as the example and we're supposed to be like him. Then we see the standard as is as as it is applied upwardly and Jesus talking to his disciples, to those that would be Christians of the day, to those that were followers of Christ, and he's instructing as he's teaching them. Jesus is giving them what I've titled three intrinsic investments. He's talking to them about three things that are valuable for every believer. Three things that have value in and of themselves. Three things that should be part of our lives. Look at Matthew chapter 6, beginning in verse number 19. The Bible says, lay up for yourselves treasures Sorry, lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt, where thieves break through and steal, but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven. Where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, where thieves do not break through nor steal, for where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. See beloved Jesus is instructing them with regards to this and talking about laying up treasure in heaven. And we certainly ought to desire and look for uh laying up treasure in heaven. I love the song It's not in vain. It's one of my favorites because The service that we do for the Lord is not in vain. We are literally laying up treasure in heaven. We're investing in eternity. We're spending time serving the Lord and what we do for God last forever so much of this world's endeavors are meaningless. They literally uh you know, we've started mowing the lawns again and And that process has started, and so there we go. Here's the rain, here's the sun, and now we've got to mow it again, and you're gonna have to do it again next week, and you're gonna have to do it again the week after. It it it makes the yard look nice and I like a nice nice looking yard and that's that's a blessing, but in eternity it's not going to matter. There's so many things that we invest our time and energy in in this world that have little to no eternal value at all. But he instructs the disciples here and ultimately us to lay up treasure in heaven, to invest in eternity. So how can we lay up treasure in heaven? Well I want you to know the that Jesus talks to them and he gives them three things that they could be involved in that indeed is laying up treasure in heaven And we can all be involved in these things. First of all, we see the fact that we all have the resources to be able to do it. It's something that we all have, every one of us. There's none of us that can say, well That's beyond my capacity. The fact is that it's not. We all have the capacity to be involved in these things, these three things that have intrinsic value, that is, eternal value In and of themselves, just by participating in them, we are investing in eternity. If I had for you tonight and investment that I said, listen, if you if you put whatever you put in, you put in a hundred dollars, uh it's going to double every month. In thirty days it's going to be two hundred. Thirty days after that it's gonna be 400. Every one of you would be scrounging around for whatever hundred whatever hundred bucks you could find, whatever you could stick in. You would want to put in everything you could put in Because it was a guaranteed investment. Now I I can't, and I'm not saying that, but I'm saying it there was that. Well Jesus is telling us here, listen, we need to be laying up treasure in heaven, and then he says, here's how you could do it Here's how you can lay up treasure in heaven. There's three things that we need to do. First of all, is giving. In verses 1 through 4, chapter 6, verses 1 through 4, he says, Take heed that ye Do not your alms before men to be seen of them, otherwise ye have no reward of your Father which is in heaven. Therefore, when thou doest thine alms, do not sound a trumpet before thee, as hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets That they may have the glory of men, verily I say unto you, they have their reward. But when thou doest alms, let thy Let not thy left hand know what thy right hand is doeth, that thine alms may be in secret, and thy father which is seen in secret himself shall reward thee openly. Jesus follows a very clear pattern in his teaching here as he goes over these three aspects. The first thing is that we ought to be participated in giving. And we have a very giving church. There's no doubt about that. I mean it's amazing that our missions giving has exceeded 80,000. We're at 86,000 something for this year, and we praise God for that victory. Uh I can't say that I wasn't a little worried the first couple weeks when we were we were at fifteen, eighteen, twenty, twenty-three. You know, I'm like, okay, where where are we at in today's economy and this struggle and Who knows what's going on, you know, but uh again uh you all have amazed me and then uh as well as the church we've been giving to over and above now. We're coming up on the conclusion of the second year this next week. I was talking to Brother Bob Gamble this morning in the four year after the service just about what God has allowed the church to do through over and above and and paying down the mortgage in such a powerful way that we we're putting so much money on the mortgage the bank was worried. The bank called and said, What's going on? Why why are you guys putting so much money on the mortgage? And we thought, well that isn't that a good thing? I don't think they want it paid off that quick. They they want the interest, you know. They're like, Why why are you guys paying so much on the mortgage? And we said, Well The church is excited about getting it done and we wanna make as big a dentin as we can, we wanna get this thing paid off and it's exciting to see uh what God is doing in that regard and the the progress that has been made here just in the last two years with regards to over and above and paying down our current debt. So we have a giving church, but I want you to understand, beloved, that giving is not just a matter of monetary giving. Not just a it does not have to be something that is just a a giving of your uh monies as it were. We can give in a lot of other ways. We can certainly give of our time and our energy and our talent The joy of giving needs to be understood and expressed and we need to teach our young people about giving. If you listen to Dave Ramsey very much, you've probably heard him discuss this aspect and and although I think he's a little bit off on some of his his teaching and just you know he but ultimately he gets to it in the end where he says, well we want to be uh you know outrageous givers and so You want to save so much and save so much that you can be an outrageous giver. And and it frees you to be able to do that. And then as he's teaching, he'll several times he's uh has some stories where he has a family things that they've done uh just to experience the joy of giving and you know he says You know, like on a on a Thanksgiving morning, he says, you know, you go down to a waffle house and this is Thanksgiving and and everybody else is at home with their family and Then you see this waitress in here been in there for so many hours and she's just trying to make ends meet and probably not even going to be able to be home with her family on Thanksgiving and he says so you go in and you order some eggs and You eat your couple of eggs and then you leave a five hundred dollar tip on the table. And then you walk out and you sit in the car and you say, Hey kids, look look, watch that table right there. And you see this lady come and pick up that tip and just like overjoyed and can't believe it and oh my goodness. He talks about buying gifts and you know he says kids we can do one of two things. Do you want us to take some money and buy you kids gifts for this Christmas? Or do you want to take the money that we were going to get you gifts and do you want to buy gifts for other people? And uh the kids say, well, we wanna we wanna do something for somebody else. He says, so we've we bought a whole truckload of bicycles. and drove to a needy neighborhood and just unloaded the bikes. And man the the gave the bikes to all the kids in the neighborhood and and you know they said the joy on the kids' faces and he said my kids talk about those things years beyond talking about any gift that they got themselves. But being able to give those bikes to those kids and and be a a giver that way to experience the joy of giving. It truly is more blessed to give than to receive. When we understand that biblical principle and put into practice, we get to experience that joy. Beloved, you might not have two dollars to give, but you have two legs. You might not have a whole lot of talent. You might say, you know what, I I can't really, you know, uh play the tuba or I I don't play the piano. Although you could learn some things, amen. It's possible to teach an old dog new tricks. I'm proof of that. Okay, we're working on it. Uh but you can uh you know you say, well I don't have a lot of talent, but you know you do have some time That you can give in different areas. This was evident even yesterday. So many people all over the church. I mean, just about anybody can wash a window, just about anybody can vacuum a floor or Spread some mulch or you know rake up some leaves or blow off the parking lot. I mean there's so there's so many aspects of of giving and investing in God's uh economy and being part of the the work of God in so many different ways and every single Sunday Many of you give of time and energy as you serve in the church in many aspects and capacities and then ministries throughout the week with the discipleship ministry giving time and it's Vesting in others in their lives as you sit down with them and in the prison ministry on Friday night and in John and Roman's distributions on Saturday and given of your time and you say, Well, I don't have a lot of skill, but you know what? I I can do this I can invest in this aspect. There's something that I can do. And we want to desire to do it and long to do it. And beloved, this is giving that is something that has value and it lasts for eternity. Listen everybody likes to talk about what they would give if they had it. I've often thought about, Lord, you give me a couple million dollars. I mean, yeah, I'll be a generous giver, amen. We'll we'll we'll give a whole lot of what we don't have But what about what we do? What are you doing with what you got? What are you doing with the time you got? What are you doing with the talent you do have? They say, boy, I would play an instrument if I could. Okay, well, you can't play an instrument, but you can sing. And there's a choir that needs some people. Everybody except Joe. No, I I'm just kidding. I just g I saw Kim look at him so I was uh uh y you you know y you can just jump in somewhere You say, you know, it's easy to talk about what we do, oh I would do that if I if I had this or had that or whatever. Uh but we don't like to think about what we do have. What we do have, we can Not only do we see here the we all have the capacity or the resources to to give in some level In some way, but also we see secondly, verses 9 through 13, he begins to teach them about prayer, about praying. He says in verse number nine, he says, after this manner, therefore pray ye, our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors, and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil, for thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. Now I've taught on this before. We're not going to go through tonight and teach on this this model prayer, a prayer that you know we're not to just repeat in vain repetition, but it's a spirit of the prayer that we are to be investing in our prayer time and thinking through these things and acknowledging who God is and remembering his return and uh desirous of his rule here on earth and looking forward to uh seeing his will done on earth as it is in heaven and then laying out our request and confessing our sin and asking for deliverance and We we ask of these things and we see this model prayer, but the fact of the matter is, is we're all supposed to be praying. Spending time in prayer. Are you praying? Do you start your day with prayer? Do you finish your day with prayer? Do you pray over your meal when you're well anytime? Out in a restaurant or at home alone. You just have it as a habit of your life to pause and thank God for your daily bread, for the sustenance. Just spend a moment in prayer and acknowledge Him. And you see, this has eternal value. Just spending some time in prayer. Do you pray for your needs? Do you pray for the needs of others? Thursday night's a great opportunity to do that, to come and Hear the needs that people are carrying, the burdens that they're carrying, and sit down with a brother or sister in Christ and pray over those needs. We've seen so many answers to prayer as a church. We really should have over these last ten years been keeping a record because God has answered so many prayers. In such powerful ways, where we've seen victory after victory as victory through the effort of prayer of God's people. Are you a part of it? Are you praying? Then we see the third resource that we all have or we all can do, and that is fasting. In verses 16 through 18, he says, moreover, when ye fast. Be not as the hypocrites of a sad countenance, for they disfigure their faces, that they may appear unto men to fast. Verily I say unto you, they have their reward. But thou, when thou fastest, anoint thine head and wash thy face. That thou appear not to fast unto men to fast, but unto the Father which is in secret, and the Father which is in secret shall reward thee openly. We ought to all participate in fasting. This is something that has eternal value. We mentioned the need for it. In Sunday school, when you don't know what to do, what do you do? One way to really get a hold of God and get direction for your life is to fast. To fast and pray, and that's God will give you direction. God will show you what you should do, but maybe you need to fast in order to do it. The reasons that we see in the scripture that people fast was first to get direction. When we need to know what the will of God is, we see in Ezra chapter 8, verse number 21, he says, Then I proclaim to fast. To seek of him a right way for us. Saying, well, what should I do? Lord, should I take this job? Lord, should we do this? Should I should I make this move? Should I take this step? Lord, what what what should I do, Lord? If you need direction in a serious matter, you ought to fast. You ought to go without some food and show the Lord how serious you are that he might give you direction to seek a right way. We see that there in the scriptures they fast for deliverance. In Judges chapter twenty, verse number twenty six twenty-six he says, Then all the children of Israel and all the people went up and came into the house of God and wept and sat there before the Lord and fasted that day until even And offered a burnt offering, a peace offering before the Lord. They fasted for deliverance. We see that often in the scriptures. Do you have something in your life you need deliverance from? You have something in your life that you can't seem to get through? You need deliverance. An enemy, an attack, a besetting sin. How serious are you about getting deliverance? Something that's truly serious would fast. We fast to get deliverance. They in judges there had lost the battle twice already. Two times they had already lost in battle. They said, you know what? We don't want to do this again. And so they stopped and they fasted so that they could see the victory. And the third time God gave them the victory. It might be a spiritual battle that you have. uh to be loosed of a spiritual burden or a trial like that in Isaiah 58 verse number six says, It is not this the fast that I have chosen to loose the bonds of wickedness. And undo the heavy burdens. They said to loose the bonds of wickedness, there's sometimes you need to fast in order to get loose from the bonds of wickedness. to be freed from that. So that you can really get victory. Some people talk about, boy, I want to get this settled. I need to fix this relationship, I need to solve this problem, I need to make this change. And uh well have you passed it about it? No. You're not very serious about it then. You've talked about it. You want it to happen. If it would happen very easily or all on its own, but if you're serious about it, you'll fast. We fast for the greatest needs of our life, those heaviest burdens. Sometimes it's maybe even a physical thing. You can fast and pray for healing. That God might bring healing in your life in one way or another. We see David fasted, stayed up all night praying for his baby. God chose not to spare the life of his child, but he fasted and prayed for it. So these some examples in the scripture that we see as far as reasons or uh you know purposes for why we fast. The Bible doesn't give us any examples uh or you know standards on how often to fast, it's really kind of as a need arises. And so when you have something that's really a true need, you should fast for it. It has eternal value, it has eternal weight The Bible also doesn't talk to us about how long your fast should be. There are examples in the Bible of different fasts. There's in Judges chapter 20, verse 26, they fast for one day. In Luke 18, 12, they fasted twice a week. In Ezra 4, 16, they fasted for three days. In 1 Samuel 31, they fasted for seven days. In Acts 27, they fasted for 14 days. Of course in Matthew we know that Jesus fasted for 40 days. So your fast could be a set, you know, short time, long time, one meal, whatever, just a time where you're focusing on God. The Bible does talk to us about what to fast. There's several different kinds of fast that you can do. There's a normal fast. The normal fast is just where you don't have any food, any hard food. Uh you still drink. water or juice or Mountain Dew. Uh whatever whatever is your your uh you know, you take in some type of liquids but your a normal fast would just be you're you're not gonna eat any food for whatever the set time is. If that's one day or two days or whatever uh you you choose to fast for that re that would be a normal fast. And there's the absolute fast and And that's where you fast from everything. You don't take any water, you don't take any liquid, you don't take any. Those are very dangerous fasts. You've got to be cautious and careful about that because your body needs water to live, and uh you need to be cautious if you're gonna fast in that regard uh for any length of time uh at all, but there is the absolute fast and uh then You know, in Esther 416, we see that they did not eat or drink for three days So they were doing a absolute fast. They didn't eat or drink for three. And in Deuteronomy 9 9, the Bible says, Neither did he eat bread nor drink water. So he didn't eat bread or drink water. And so you you've got an absolute fast there as an example. Then there's a partial fast. A partial fast would be an abstinence from certain types of foods. or you know particular meals. You know, a partial fast could be anything specific that you choose to not take in. In Daniel 10 verse number 3, he says, I ate no pleasant bread. The idea of you know maybe us would look at pres pleasant bread as a donut. I'm not gonna have any donuts, amen, uh, on Sunday morning. Um I'm not gonna have pleasant bread well basically I mean you could say you know what I'm not gonna eat any desserts if you normally eat dessert after every meal. My brother in law, Scott Hanks, who is here for Marriage Matters Conference. He does not finish a meal without I mean it has to have dessert. Every meal has dessert. Every meal has dessert. That's the way it is If he hasn't had dessert, the meal's not over yet. And uh he'll just stay seated until somebody brings dessert because it's part of it. So he could fast dessert. You know, you maybe you want to fast uh you know coffee Mountains, there's some nose, nope. There's some you know Mountain Dew, whatever there's something that you enjoy that you particularly take part in. You say, you know what, I'm gonna fast that for right now, a partial fast Then there's a practical fast, and the practical fast would be where you fast from particular uh things that you may enjoy. Um, you might enjoy I don't know, going for a drive every night. Something that you might enjoy. You say, you know what, I'm not, I'm gonna give that up. I'm gonna take that time and I'm gonna pray. Um Melissa, when we were there visiting her, it was a week or two ago, whenever that was, um she was telling me about how they were challenged in the college to do a digital fast. And so I think it was three weeks that they were doing a digital fast, no digital intake. And so no social media, uh, no YouTube, no no digital content at all. They were they were We're doing a digital fast. And you know what? In today's world, that's a pretty good thing. Because uh a lot of people can't go a day without getting on Facebook And and you know, feeding, you know, scratching that itch and all that. It could be something I'm gonna take the time I'd normally be s sitting there looking ri reels and I'm gonna I'm gonna talk to the Lord So you could choose something that you enjoy and say, you know what, I'm going to give that up. Not going to do that for this time. And I'm going to take that and talk to the Lord. Those are the different types of fast that we see in the scriptures. We see, beloved, that this is given to us and it ought to be a reality in our lives. Jesus is talking to the disciples, and he has given a clear expectation here that every Christian should be involved in these three things. Even in the good times. Not just when things are so bad you've got no other choice. But even in prosperity, we should be turning to the Lord. We should be giving. We should be fasting. We should be praying. We see over and over again in this passage of Scripture. Look, if you would at verse number two. He says, therefore, what's the next word? When thou doest thy alms. Verse number three. But what's the next word? When thou doest thy alms. We see in verse number four, uh, well, verse number five. And when thou prayest, verse number six. But thou when thou prayest, and enter into thy closet, and when thou hast shut thy door. We see in verse number six sixteen. Moreover When ye fast, verse number 17, but thou when thou fastest, over and over again, you see, beloved, there's an expectation there. It's not a Boy, this would be something that would be good if you could find time to do it. No, Jesus has given us a clear he sa he says, when you do this. He's saying this is going to be part of the life of a believer. This is going to be part of a life of a Christian, somebody that's following. So when you do it, here's what you need to do. When you participate in this meaningful and powerful thing that as Christians should be doing, here's what you should do, here's how you should do it. When you give, we should be doing this. Not laying up treasures here, but laying up treasures in heaven. You know, beloved, it's not it's not about how much you give. I think the Lord really pays attention to how much is left. If you consider or think about the story of the widow with two mites It's not about how much she gave, it's about that she gave everything she had. If if I had a hundred thousand dollars and I gave ten bucks Okay. Great. But if I had ten dollars and I gave five, there's a big difference there. And and so that idea or expectation, I think sometimes we we're looking at it backwards and we think that as God blesses and you start to give You know, if I had a dollar and I gave fifty cents, it's like, okay, well, it's fifty cents. But if I had a hundred thousand dollars and I was gonna give fifty thousand and all of a sudden, wait a minute, that's too much money. Right? I mean we look at it think about it like uh that's too much. I mean that's not really uh you know, because we're looking at that instead of looking at what we have left. Every Christian should spend time praying, should spend time fasting. You know what, while we're here, let me just throw this out. Let me encourage you men in men's prayer meeting. Uh it's been really quiet recently. Let me encourage you to pray in men's prayer meeting. That's why we've gathered together there. You don't have to uh you don't have to pray for everything on the list. You don't y we ought not to be it's not that's not the time to be, you know, uh praying twenty minutes, you know, I mean just a minute, two minutes, just take one of the two requests, pray for 'em. Um but, you know, there ought to be more excitement about us, you know, praying. An opportunity to pray together And and you oughta there oughta be times when I say, Lord, I will come to you, and at the same time, Jacob says Dear Lord, we and the one of us has to quit because we're not in the South and we think everything should be done decently and in order. I don't know if any of you have ever been in these churches in the South, but they all pray at the same time You go into a men's permit in the south and they all uh they bow their heads and everybody starts praying at the same time. Uh it's unusual. Um I know some good churches and some great men that do it, it's just how they do it, but for me I can't even hear myself think when that happens. It's It's it's very different for me. But that's how they do it down there and they're sincere and and but uh what I'm saying occasionally there ought to be some time where we accidentally pray over each other because we both start at the same time And so I just want to encourage you to to jump in there and and pray for one or two things and just let your voice be heard. And I know you're praying in your heart, and we're all praying in our heart in there. Uh but let's participate in the men's prayer meeting. There ought to be more than just one person praying and somebody closing in prayer. I don't know how you ladies do it, but for the men we just bow our heads and say if you if you want to pray, go ahead and pray. And then nobody does. And so one person will and then Anthony will close, you know, or Jacob will close or whatever. But yeah, I think there ought to be some more excitement about that and we ought to be participating in the prayer time. Listen, he says when you fast, we ought to be fasting. Spend some time in fasting. Let me ask you, when's the last time you fasted for something? You say, well, I don't have anything worth, you know, that important that I really feel like I need to fast for. Well then fast for me. Your preacher needs it. Fast for the church. Fast for God to do things at Hunt Valley Baptist Church for the work of God to go forward for us to see victory here For us to see God do things in our midst, to work in the hearts of people and to multiply the the the efforts of the ministry, whether that's John and Romans distribution or the prison ministry or discipleship. uh that we would see people's lives change and growth happen and and souls saved. We need to see God do it. We see that there's a restriction that he gives us in each one of these things as well. In verse number one, he says, take heed that you do not your alms before men to be seen of them. In each of these things we are shown that it's not to be done before men. In verse number five, he says, pray, but he says, don't pray that you'd be seen of men. Verse number 16, you know, fast, but don't do it that you appear unto men to fast. The restriction is, listen, it's not about being seen. You know, our giving is not to be done so that everybody in the world will see it. You know, I know you guys have all seen on social media those really fun reels where people go in and they they maybe They say, oh, I'm gonna pay for everybody's food in the diner tonight. And they pay for everybody's food in the diner. But it's amazing they've got three cameras there and lights and all of that, and it's all recorded. You see what that's about, that is not about giving or helping people. That's about image management. That's about their perception online. What they're hoping for is likes and views. We've seen the the I mean they're really neat. You see those guys they go out and they mow people's lawns for free and they fix the whole this whole lawn that was overgrown and They give the sob story in the background. Here was a lady and she was all by herself and she's had no way to do it and she's, you know, dealing with this struggle and her family's left her and and all of that and we did this lawn for nothing but they video the whole process and you get to see the transformation and that's really cool. But you know what? They didn't do it to help the lady. They did it so that they could get views, so that they could get uh i income from the ad revenue and you know what they make good money out of it and I'm glad that they helped the lady that's fine but here's the thing W w do you do it just so you can get seen? And just so you could get likes, or maybe uh let's take it off the internet, let's put it in in, you know Our circles and say, do you get it so somebody would say, Man, praise God for you and what you did Or do you do it so just God knows There's that restriction there that it's not about others seeing us, but about God. He knows. Praying in secret, fasting in secret, not before men. Now listen, there's nothing wrong if somebody sees or somebody knows, if somebody happens to. It's very clear in the text here. That he says, hey, don't stand there and blow a trumpet and make a great announcement. Look what I'm doing today. Yeah, but if somebody happens to see, it's okay. You haven't lost your reward because somebody happened to notice Matter of fact, if you're fasting, you really should tell your family. You should tell your wife so she doesn't prepare a meal for you. And then you just don't show up or don't eat it, you know. You have to tell her, listen, I'm fasting today for this or this and uh so she's not gonna prepare and Nobody's expecting anything from you in that regard, you know. I mean that's just uh common sense and courtesy for those that are around you. You need to let them know. When you live for God, the fact of the matter is, is sometimes others will notice, and that's okay. What it is, it's a heart matter. Are you doing it just so you can be seen? Listen that the only time that you pray is when you're asked to open the service or to pray for the offering. There's a problem. You probably shouldn't be praying for the offering or opening for service. That's the only time you're praying. You need to be praying in secret. That you have the power of God so that when you're praying for the church, God hears and answers We see lastly tonight that with each of these things following the same pattern, we see that there's a reward. He says in verse number four. Himself shall reward thee openly. There's a reward there. In verse number six. Your father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly. Verse number 18. He which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly. With all three of these things, he gives to us the requirements, but then he also tells us, listen, there's a reward if you'll do these things. And I hope, beloved, that as God's people were participating in these, and I believe to the level, listen, you're gonna reap what you sow. And that's a good thing. Because when you sow good things, you reap good things. And he says, Hey, here. Be involved in giving, be involved in prayer, be involved in fasting, and you'll reap the reward. When you pray in secret, God will answer. And he will Reward the openly. Let me ask you, when's the last time you had a prayer answered? You personally had a prayer answered. You saw God come through and supply or answer a need or or you know A definite, definable answer to prayer. You need to be involved in prayer. You need to be seeing prayers answered. Where was the last time you fasted? Be involved in fasting. Start small. Start with one meal, start with one item. So you know what? I'm just gonna fast and take that time to Pursue God. God says He'll reward you openly. Here's three things that we all can be doing And yes, there's a requirement there, but God has promised a reward. He's promised a reward. These have intrinsic value. They have value as we do them. God's going to bless us for it. As a church, I hope and pray that we're involved in these three things. You stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed. all have the capacity to be involved in and do these three things and I would implore and encourage each and every one of us to be doing so.