But as unto carnal, even as unto babes in Christ. I have fed you with milk and not with meat, for hitherto you were not able to bear it. Neither yet are ye now neither yet now are ye able For ye are yet carnal. For whereas there is among you envying and strife and divisions, are ye not carnal and walk as men. Let's open the word of prayer this morning. Lord, we love you We thank you for today. We thank you for the time we have to uh gather in your house. Lord, we thank you for this uh day we've set aside uh nationally to remember mothers, to be thankful for them. Thank you for Lord, the many ladies in our lives that have had a direct impact on us, starting with our mothers and grandmothers and even ladies in the church, Lord, that have uh have ministered to our needs at different points in our life. Lord, we're just thankful for them Pray you bless our time around your word this morning and the morning service to follow. We ask this all in Christ's name. Amen. So looking here at the three types of men, I don't know if you picked them out in the reading there, but you have the natural man described. You have the spiritual man described, and you have the carnal man described. We're going to look at these three men. These are from a spiritual perspective, how God views man. The first is the natural man. neglect to mention uh we do have notes available should be on the website if you're streaming as well as on the back table if you're here uh with us but we have notes available to go along with the lesson today. So first of all we're going to be looking at the natural man as we look at the different types of men Now we understand when it comes to man's eternal destiny there are only two options. I may have confused some people last week when I said there's three types of spiritual men. You'll say, wait a minute. There's saved and there's lost. Well where's number three? Who's the third group? So we see all there in our in our reading that the third group is carnal and spiritual. The saved man is divided into two categories. But when it comes to man's eternal destiny, there are only two options. Either a person is saved or a person is lost. This is described for us. In Ephesians chapter two, verse number one, where the Bible says, And you hath he quickened who were dead in trespasses and sins The word quick in there means made alive. So God says spiritually, you were dead, I made you alive. It's either dead or it's been made alive Those who teach a works-based salvation are unable to see this distinction because you there's a moment where you go from spiritually dead to spiritually alive. And if you're working towards it, you just you're not going to know when that happened. That's why why the Bible doesn't teach a works-based salvation. Salvation. This is why they treat their salvation as a hope-so instead of something that they can know for sure We do not get to see someone go from death to life, but we're familiar with the other direction. We all know someone who's gone from life to death, at least physically. But what does the doctor have to establish when somebody crosses that line? He has to determine a time of death. It's not, it's not, yes, they may gradually progress towards death. Um from the as their as their life wanes, but there isn't a moment where, well maybe, maybe not. There's a time of death. There's you go from life to death physically. The same thing is true spiritually. Somebody goes from death spiritually to life. That's a moment of salvation. There you can establish a time of life for for a believer. What would you think of a doctor who is about to ship someone off to the morgue and you ask them, is he dead? The doctor says, I hope so You wouldn't really trust that doctor very much. What if this doctor said, well, I'm trying to decide his dead works kind of outweigh his live works? So we're trying to decide and where we're going to ship him, morgue or back to his family, based on how his how his works look. There's only dead and alive physically, and there's only dead and alive spiritually People even in good Bible preaching churches can get a wrong understanding of this. They think there's this extra category called, I think so, I'm pretty sure, or probably. This is somebody who's doubting their salvation, somebody who who, well, I I think I'm saved. I really hope so. Probably because of this, and they're living in this place of doubt. That's not where God wants us to be This category of I think so, I'm pretty sure, or probably, does not exist. I've dealt with a lot of people who've struggled with their salvation and they're dealing with doubt and saying, I'm not sure if I'm saved or not Um and it the first thing I deal with them is that, hey, there's only two options. You're either saved or you're able either lost. This probably category doesn't doesn't exist, so we can we there it's easy for them to assent to that Knowing it scripturally. Yes, I understand. Saved or lost. Okay, let's apply that to your life. You're saved or lost. There's no, I think so. There's no probably It's one or the other. Now we need to go from here to figure out which one it is for you, but you need to get yourself out of this middle category that doesn't exist. Well I'm just kind of just probably hope so and I'll see how it works out. No, biblifully Lost, saved. We all understand that, but when it comes to somebody doubting their salvation, well I I you know I'm still kind of in the middle. Like there is no middle. We need to understand that yes or no. People either saved or lost. You are either saved or lost So start there and and get with God and find out which one you are. Don't give, don't live your life with a probably salvation. You definitely don't want to die with a probably salvation. But you don't want to live your life with probably salvation anyway. It just creates a lot of confusion. You're never going to grow as a believer. Your relationship with God is never going to develop. I use the example before of a marriage, if if I was pretty sure that I was married to my wife, um our relationship wouldn't wouldn't go very far um as far as if I didn't have confidence in that. And if I'm just pretty sure I have a relationship with God, I can't take that relationship very far. And so you need to get that established, saved or lost. We understand that when it comes to mankind's eternal destiny, a man is either saved or a man is lost. So someone who is not saved here in the book of 1 Corinthians is called a natural a natural man. That's where that's man's natural state. That's what man is born into. They are born into the condition of being spiritually dead and apart from God and being unregenerate. A natural man, someone who's spiritually dead. To understand where this comes from, we go back to the beginning. Go to the book of Genesis. We don't have to turn there. I'm just going to describe the story for you. But we know that Adam was told by God not to eat of the fruit of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, because God told him, the day that ye eat thereof, ye shall surely die. That's what God told Adam. Now we go forward a little bit. We see that Satan tempted Eve in the garden, told her she would not surely die if she ate of the tree. So she ate, and the Bible says her husband ate with her So does that make God wrong and Satan right? Um no, it it does not. What happens is that Adam and Eve did die. They just didn't die physically that day. We understand from the Bible, and we don't have a lot of time to get into this idea, but we dealt with it before, that man is three parts. Man is body, man is soul, and man is spirit. They are all equally that person, yet they're all distinct from one another. Your body is your earthly tabernacle, your soul is your eternal being, and your spirit is the part of you that relates to God And the day that Adam sinned, he died spiritually. His relationship with God was cut off. This is why when God came to fellowship with him, Adam went and hidden in the trees of the garden. Uh for he was afraid because that fellowship that he had with God ha had died at that moment of his sin. And since his sin, everyone that has been born from Adam has been born spiritually dead. We took the time last week to see that every person that has ever lived or ever will live is a descendant of Adam. And because we're a descendant of Adam, we have inherited his sin nature. We have inherited the fact that we are born spiritually dead. We are naturally in this position of being unsaved, of not having a relationship with God, something that needs to be brought alive at some point in our life. Romans 5, verse number 12 describes this where it says, Wherefore, as by one man, that would be Adam, sin entered into the world, and death by sin, and so death passed upon all men. for that all have sinned. Sinned. This spiritual death came about because of Adam's sin and is passed on to all of Adam's descendants, for all of us have sinned and all of us inherited that dead spiritual nature which makes um men when they are born uh natural men. A natural man is one who is alive physically but dead spiritually. That's a natural man. What are some of the characteristics we can see of a natural man? There's a lot we could go into with this, but a couple from a different passage of scripture we'll look at this morning. We see, first of all, that a natural man is controlled by the desires of his flesh. A ma natural man is controlled by the desires of his uh flesh. This is where our culture has this idea. If it feels good, do it. Uh that's just A bunch of natural men living according to the desires of their flesh and not having anything to morally curtail them in their sinful desires. Ephesians 2, verses 2 and 3, we saw verse 1, you hath um you hath he quickened which were dead in trespasses and sins, verse number 2, wherein in times past, so this is before you were quickened, before you were made alive, when you were spiritually dead. Ye walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince and power of this air, uh of the air, and the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience There we see in that verse the three enemies of every individual, but especially of the Christian, we see that the course of this world. The world is the enemy of the Christian. The world is how that people were living before they were saved. Then you see according to Prince the power of the air, according to the devil, that's how they're living before they were made alive. And a spirit that now worketh in children of disobedience, the flesh The spirit, the flesh, Satan, the world, that's the way that a man was living prior to being quickened or made alive in Christ. Among whom also we had our conversation, our lifestyle, in times past, according to the lust or f to the lust of our flesh fulfilling the desires of the flesh and mind, and were by nature the children of wrath, even as others. So our conversation before we were saved was just in the lust of our flesh, doing what we wanted to do. Doing what made us happy, following all of our lusts and our desires of the flesh and of our mind. Whatever my body wants, whatever my thoughts wanted to go, I pursued those things. That's the state of a natural man We see that from Ephesians chapter 2. From 1 Corinthians chapter 2, where we were reading this morning, we see that a natural man does not receive the things of God. Look at verse number 14, if you're still there in 1 Corinthians. Chapter two But the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness to him unto him, neither can he know them, because they are spiritually discerned So a natural man, he does not receive the things of God. He's not going to take in the things of God. He's not going to understand certain things about the scriptures because they're foolishness to him. Why would I limit myself? Why would I pursue these this morality when I could just enjoy whatever my flesh would desire? A natural man does not receive the things of God And we see described in 1 Corinthians chapter 2, and we'll see in some other verses as well, a natural man's relationship with the scriptures. How does a natural man approach the Word of God? Somebody who's unregenerate, what relationship do they have with the Word of God? First of all, a natural man is able to understand the simple message of the gospel. Praise the Lord for that. That man is able to understand the simple message of the gospel. 2 Corinthians 11, verse number 3 says, But I fear Lest by any means, as the serpent beguiled Eve through his subtlety, so your mind should be corrupted from the simplicity that is in Christ The message of the gospel is simple, and God put it there for everybody to understand. Even the natural man who looks at it as foolishness, he can understand the message of the gospel. We don't really have time to go down the rabbit trail here, but there is the idea, the false doctrine of Calvinism And one aspect that they teach is the total depravity of man. And there's something in there that we can almost become sympathetic to, like, oh yeah, man is all all men are are sinners there, but in their understanding of total depravity They they teach that a man is so so um depraved in his natural state that he can't even understand the message of the gospel. God has to send the Holy Spirit to Enlighten him so that he can be saved. He has to be saved in order to be saved, and that's the irresistible grace idea in there tied together. But no math natural man can understand the master of the gospel That's why we have the track pack. That's why we had outreach yesterday. So we could go and we could talk to some natural men and we could tell them about the gospel and the simplicity that's in Jesus Christ so that they can go from death unto life. So that they can be quickened who were dead in trespasses and sins. We go out and we share the message of the gospel, the simple message that Christ came uh to die for their sins, shed his blood, and rose again so that they could have uh forgiveness of sins in a home in heaven. Simple message of the gospel that is available to the natural man But when it goes beyond that, we see that a natural man is unable to understand the wisdom of God. We just back up one verse from where we started reading today, verse number thirteen, it says Which things also we speak, not in the words of man's uh which man's wisdom teacheth, but which the Holy Ghost teacheth comparis comparing spiritual things uh with spiritual They do not understand the wisdom of God. The Holy Spirit is the one that teaches us the wisdom of God. Someone who's unsaved does not have the Holy Spirit to teach them those things. They can understand man's wisdom, but to them, God's wisdom is foolishness. We see that in 1 Corinthians chapter 1, just a page over probably for most of us. 1 Corinthians chapter 1, verse number 18. For the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness. But unto us which are saved, it is the power of God. So the first part of the verse there, to them that perish, who is that? That's the natural man. How do they view the preaching? They view the preaching as foolishness. They see that as foolishness until they are saved, until they believe, and then they understand that it is the power of God. So when it comes to the Word of God, the natural man's not going to have any any understanding, no spiritual understanding, no depth of understanding of the Word of God. They can understand the simple message of the gospel, but to the natural man the things of God are foolishness described there in 1 Corinthians chapter 1 and chapter 2 as well. That's a natural man's approach to the Word of God. So Getting into this idea of our overall theme, rightly dividing the word. If you're approaching the word of God as a natural man, are you gonna be able to rightly divide? Are you gonna understand things properly? Be able to compare spiritual things spiritual no, because you don't have the understanding of the Holy Spirit to teach you. So to understand the Word of God, to rightly by the Word of God, we need to start with salvation. And that's where it would start with us. The natural man, once he is saved, will have an understanding of the Word of God beyond his ability to, in his natural state. But this is the natural man described there for us in 1 Corinthians chapter 2. The next man described is actually a spiritual man, but we're going to jump ahead to the carnal man. The carnal man is spoken of primarily in 1 Corinthians chapter 3, verses 1 through 3. We looked at this idea when we started the natural man that there is fundamentally two types of men when it comes to their eternal salvation. There's saved and there's lost. But when we come to this part of 1 Corinthians, we see that God divides the saved man into two categories. He describes them as spiritual and he describes them as carnal. What is a carnal man? A carnal man is a saved individu individual that is living like a natural man. A saved individual living like a natural man. They haven't lost their salvation, but they're living according to the lusts of their flesh, as opposed to walking in the Spirit of God. A carnal man is someone who is saved, but they live their life as if they weren't. That God's not having an influence on them, that they're not submitted to the Word of God. We'll see that described as we look at the characteristics of a natural or of a carnal of a carnal man. First of all, as we see this, I mentioned already, but a carnal man does not lose his salvation. You're still saved even if you're living a worldly life You don't lose uh your salvation. Notice in 1 Corinthians 3 verse 1, he says, brethren And he could not speak unto them but as unto babes in Christ. He describes them as brethren. He says they're in Christ. You're still saved, but you're living carnally. You're living worldly. You're living like a natural man Once you're saved, you never lose your salvation. Your relationship as a son of God is unchanging. However, your fellowship with God can be broken Those were we have Mother's Day today. There's a lot of people here who have children. Once you have a child, that's your child. That doesn't change just because they were disobedient or because they moved out of the house. They're still your child But there's things they can do that can mess that relation that fellowship up. The relationship's still there. Still a child. But there's times when that when that fellowship is broken. It's the same thing with God. Want somebody saved, they're a child of God. They're a son of God, the Bible describes it as But there's things that we can do that can break off that fellowship that we have with the Lord. Doesn't change our relationship. We're still a Christian, but our fellowship is broken. And this is where the carnal man lives. He lives in a state where his fellowship with God is broken because of his sin. The carnal man, in practice, has more in common with a natural man than with a spiritual man. A natural man is ruled by his lusts. Whatever feels good, do it. If I want to do it, I'm going to. Nobody can tell me what to do. A carnal man will also pursue his fleshly lusts. He knows what's right But he's going to choose to do it to do wrong anyway, pursue his own lusts. A natural man is unable to understand the wisdom of God. The car carnal man is unable to be taught the wisdom of God. The natural man comes to the Word of God and they don't understand it because it's it's it's not for them. They need to be saved, but you have a carnal man. Paul said, I tried to teach you some good stuff. I tried to give you the meat, but you just couldn't take it. You weren't ready to be taught because you're living in carnality. So a carnal man cannot be taught the wisdom of God. They have to get the carnality out, and then they can pursue spiritual things. We look at carnality. Carnality in a Christian, this is an important distinction here, it begins in the heart and manifests itself in his actions. We look at people and our tendency is to define carnality by actions. Now, carnality is our symptom. So if there's a lot of carnality in the actions, there's carnality in the heart. But it's it's not because You act worldly that you're carnal. You act worldly because you're carnal. Carnality starts in the heart, and it's a I'm going to pursue my own desires instead of God. I'm not going to submit myself to the Word of God, and then that's going to manifest itself in my actions. So it's not the living worldly makes me carnal. It's being carnal makes me worldly. And that's that's a distinction that we need to understand is because it starts in our heart, because you don't become not carnal by fixing your outward actions. Oh well well the pastor doesn't want me doing this, he preached on that, so I'm going to stop doing that, but in my heart I'm still pursuing whatever I want to do. Well you're still carnal in here, even if you fix the outward actions. You only fix carnality when you fix it in your heart and saying, I'm not pursuing my lusts. I'm pursuing what the Holy Spirit wants me to do. I'm going to walk into the Spirit and not according to the lusts of my flesh. This all starts with a failure of being submitted to God and his word. So what are the characteristics of a carnal man? 1 Corinthians 3 verses 1 through 3, we see that carnality keeps someone spiritually mature. Sorry, spiritually immature and creates disunity. Carnality keeps them spiritually immature, and it creates disunity. Look at the verses again 1 through 3. I, brethren, could not speak unto you as spiritual, but as unto carnal, even as unto babes in Christ You're still a baby. I tried, he says. I tried to teach you as if you were a spiritual person, but you couldn't take it. You were still a baby Christian. So you're still spiritually immature. What's implied here is that he was expecting them to grow beyond this point He was said, I was trying to give you the meat because you should have been ready for it, but you weren't ready to you weren't ready to receive that. And then you see as it keep reading in the this chapter Verse number three, for ye are yet carnal, whereas there is among you envying and strife and divisions, are ye not carnal and walk as men? You see their carnality produced disunity, there's strife, there's there's there's fighting, there's bickering, uh, there's schisms within the church because the people were carnal. They were living according to their own lusts, and they were all heading different directions. And so it created a lot of strife because everybody's pursuing his own desires instead of God's desires. And that's where these wars and fightings come about. James chapter 4. When do you war and fight in your members, even when you have these lusts that you have. You lust you have not, you kill desire to have. This idea of pursuing your own lust puts you at disunity with the people of God. So if there's strife and bickering and fighting there, it comes from this carnality. But comes from the spiritual maturity. Because when you see um my two boys in the foyer trying to tear each other's eyes out They need to grow up. There's bickering and what was it? Well he said my shoe looks funny. And so then you're you're you're on the ground fighting, right? Um now if if me and another gentleman in the church were rolling around in the foyer and somebody came out and said, What's wrong? And I said, Well he said my shoes look funny, um, you would say there's a problem there. There's some There's some immaturity uh there. You need to you need to grow up and and that's where Christians are at. We're fussing and fighting over the we need to grow up. We need to grow up spiritually. We need to get rid of carnality because carnality keeps us spiritually immature. My uh daughter Carolina, she is uh moving from the position of being primarily drinking bottles to primarily eating food. She's kinda in that middle transition. And so we give her food and let her try it, and if you've had a baby, go through the stage, you know, you give them something to eat, and uh they weren't quite ready for it yet So it all comes back onto the tray, uh whatever you try to whatever you try to give them. Or they sit there and start coughing and and looking like you're they're choking on something and then And the parents get all stressed about it because they weren't ready. Paul said, this is what I tried to do. You were there in your high chair as a as a church member and I gave you some meat and you gagged on it. And I had to go back to the bottle again Because you're spiritually not mature, you're not ready to handle it. If you've been saved for any length of time, strong doctrinal teaching and preaching shouldn't cause you to gag spiritually. Strong preaching, strong teaching of the word of God shouldn't uh no, I can't I don't I don't want to hear that. I I don't like to listen to that. That that's not for that's not for me. We're we gagged these things things spiritually because we're spiritually mature And we need to we need to grow beyond that, but we're not going to grow beyond that until we deal with our carnality. Romans chapter 8, verses 5 through 7, we see that carnality, another characteristic, is that it pursues fleshly things. And it refuses to be subject to God. In Romans chapter 8, these verses say, For they that are after the flesh do mind the things of the flesh. But they that are after the Spirit, the things of the Spirit. For to be carnally minded is death, but to be spiritually minded is life and peace, because the carnal mind is at enmity against God. For it is not subject to the law of God, neither can it be. It's not, it refuses to be subject to the Word of God, to the law of God. That is a carnal nature, is I'm not going to listen to what God has to say. I know what I want to do And that's what I'm going to do. I don't care what God says about it. This is where we get this I've heard it before many times. I know that's what the Bible says, but That's carnal. Saying I'm not going to submit myself to what God wants because I have my own desires that are getting in the way. So a carnal man refuses to be subject to God and it pursues fleshly things. It is absorbed with temporal fleshly things, the mind of the things of the flesh. That's all they're thinking about is things that pertain to this life, things that pertain to my flesh. When the sermon's going on at church, we're thinking about lunch, um, we're minding the things of the flesh. We should be minding the things of the Spirit, and we see it refuses to subject itself to the law of God. Another characteristic of the carnal man from Galatians chapter six, verses seven and eight, we see that the carnal man will sow to his flesh, and of his flesh he reaps corruption. Very familiar verses, be not deceived, God is not mocked, for whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. For he that soweth to his flesh shall of the flesh reap corruption But he that soweth to the Spirit shall of the Spirit reap life everlasting. Later on in in First Corinthians we will We will see how when when man's going to stand before the judgment seat of Christ, there will be some people who bring all the works of their life, not for their salvation, but for rewards, and it's going to be tried by fire, and they'll be left with nothing but ashes. because they spent their whole life sowing to the flesh. Oh God, look at how big my house was when I died. Look at how many cars I had. Look at the investments. Look at the things that I accomplished. Look at how big my business grew and when it comes to what matters eternally, that all burns up. It all burns up because you spent st these people have spent their whole life. The Bible says they'll suffer loss. They'll be saved yet as by fire But they won't be rewarded because they spent their whole life sowing to the flesh. They're mining the things of the flesh. They're worried about what's going on in this life. Don't spend your whole life looking for worldly gain and expect to see eternal rewards. Temporal investments yield temporal results. Results. Returns. Eternal investments yield eternal y returns. So don't spend your whole life looking for worldly gain and expect to see eternal rewards. So this is a carnal man. He's immature. He's bickering and fighting amongst themselves. They're pursuing fresh fleshy lust. They won't listen to the word of God and submit themselves to it. And they're focused on this life. instead of focus on the life to come. So what is the carnal man's relationship with the scriptures? We see that the carnal man has a very shallow relationship with the script with the Word of God. Only the things that are right there on milk level, that's what he understands. That's what he gets. Anything deeper than that, and he spiritually gags and says, that's not for me. A carnal man, he has been saved long enough to have grown to a level of maturity, but he has failed to mature. A carnal Christian will struggle to see any truth. when they read the Bible or when they hear it read or hear it taught. Well I I didn't get anything out of it. I didn't get anything out of my uh my devotion this morning. And and as we as we we've gone through the last couple of years reading reading the Bible and writing these devotionals, it's been a challenge for me to go to a chapter in the book of uh of Chronicles and say, What in here is there for us to be profited by? But you have to go deeper in the Word of God and say there's truth in here. All scripture is profitable. Know that there's genealogies included in all scripture? And God said they're profitable. And there's sacrifices and details about the size and the weights of the different things in the tabernacle. Those are profitable. But uh Carnal Christian says I just I get stuck every time I read and I just can't I just I just have to give up because because it doesn't mean anything to me and I I don't learn anything from it. We get stuck at spiritually mature because that's the man's relationship, a carnal man's relationship. with the scriptures. Another thing about the carnal Christian, they will stop in their spiritual development at the place they stop in their obedience. Romans 1. 17 says that we go from faith to faith, and we could take that, and I tell the young people downstairs, you can often in the Bible replace the word faith with obedience. You go from obedience to obedience, like you're walking down a path on stepping stones. But the point where a carnal man says, Oh, nope, I'm not doing that. I'm not submitting to my God right there, he's stuck right here. He's not moving to the next faith. He's not moving to the next place of obedience. He's got himself stuck because he says I'm not going to submit to God. And that's how they get stuck spiritually mature and never grow to the point where they get meat because they said, I'm not obeying God here And when you stop obeying God, you've stopped moving forward as a believer. A carnal man is one who has refused to submit to the word of God, and he's stopped in his Christian development. He's more interested in what pleases him than in what pleases God. More interested in what pleases him instead of what pleases God That's the carnal man. Then we have the spiritual man. A spiritual man is a saved individual that is living his life yielded to the Holy Spirit We see in 1 Corinthians chapter 2 and 3 that the spiritual man is contrasted with both the natural and the carnal man The natural man is unable to understand the wisdom of God. The carnal man is unwilling to submit to the wisdom of God. The spiritual man knows the mind of God because he has maintained a close relationship with the Spirit of God. Look at verses ten through twelve of 1 Corinthians chapter 2. But God hath revealed them unto us by his Spirit. For the Spirit searcheth all things, yea, the deep things of God. For what man knoweth the things of a man, save the spirit of man which is in him? Even so the things of God knoweth no man but the spirit of God. Now we have received Not by the Spirit of the world, but by the Spirit which is of God, that we might know the things which are freely given to us of God. God gave us his Spirit, so we could know the things of God, yea, even the deep things That's a Christian who is saved. They have the Holy Spirit. They're walking in the Spirit, and they get to the point where they're understanding deep things of God, of the wisdom of God, because they're continuing to walk in the Spirit. What are some of the characteristics of a spiritual man? He is saved and he walks with God. We saw that in verse number 10. We see that a spiritual man knows the wisdom of God by comparing spiritual things with spiritual. Look in verse number 13. The end of the verse, but which the Holy Ghost teacheth, comparing spiritual things with spiritual. The spiritual man is able to make spiritual judgments because he has the mind of Christ. Verses 15 and 16. But he that is spiritual judgeth all things, yet he himself is judged of no man. For who hath known the mind of the Lord that he may hand he may instruct him, but we have the mind of Christ A spiritual man has the mind of Christ and is able to make spiritual judgments based on understanding the wisdom of God because they're walking in the spirit. We also see that a spiritual man has spiritual discernment back in verse 14. I skipped over this one We see that talking about the natural man, he receiveth not the things of God. They're foolishness unto him, neither can he know them, because they're spiritually discerned. Spiritual discernment comes along with being a spiritual man. We also see that the spiritual man has humility and concern for others in Galatians chapter 6. This contrasts with the carnal man who is always worried about himself and causes strife because of that. Galatians six one says, Brethren, if a man be overtaken in fault, ye which are spiritual, restore such a one in the spirit of meekness, considering thyself lest thou also be tempted. A spiritual man is not going to be in all the strife and turmoil He's going to be in the ministry of restoration relationships and pointing people back to Savior. So what is a spiritual man's relationship with the scriptures? He knows the scripture, he studies the scripture. We see that where it says he compares spiritual things With spiritual. A spiritual man is taught by the Holy Spirit. A spiritual man lives in submission to the Word of God. And a spiritual man will receive the meat of the Word. So when we see these three different men when it comes to them spiritually, we see that we need to rightly divide in order to come to the scriptures, understand the right division between saved and lost. We talked about that middle category that doesn't exist That's the division that God's made. You're either saved or lost. We need to understand that division. We also need to understand our approach to the Word of God. If someone never gets anything out of the Word of God through reading or hearing the Word of God or hearing the Word of God taught, Let me say the problem's not with the Bible. Problem's not with the Bible if you don't get anything out of it. 'cause it didn't 'cause it didn't do anything for me. I was building a garage one time with a man uh up in Alaska. He wasn't a builder, um so We was there, I was helping him build this garage. He says, now I wouldn't even bother with that whole 16 on center stuff. That doesn't work. Problems not with the 16 on center stuff. Uh the problems with the one swinging the hammer uh and running the saw is what's going on here. And the same thing with the word of God is say, well it just Bible stuff doesn't work for me. Well it's not the not the Bible that has the problem. The natural, the carnal, and the spiritual man all handle the word of God differently. If you want to rightly divide the word, you need to be the right kind of Christian. So we don't have a lot of time, but just kind of a brief talk about the two natures. What causes a man to be spiritual versus carnal? It's this battle we have between our old nature and our new nature. We have an old nature, we have a new nature, these two are in conflict. When we yield to the old nature, we're yielding to the lusts of our flesh, and we're living carnally. When we yield to our new nature, we're living to the yielding to the will of God and we're being spiritual. You understand that yeah I've got this part of me that wants to do wrong. And it's part of me that doesn't like getting up and read my devotions. It still needs to be God's going to redeem it one day and give me a new body, but I have to carry this flesh with me until I die, until Jesus comes back. We see in 1 Corinthians 2 Corinthians 4, 16, which caused me to faint not, though our outward man perish, yet the inward man is renewed. day by day. When God saved you, He made you a new creature. But that new creature lives inside the old one. So in here I've got the Spirit of God and I I want to I have a new spirit. I've been made alive but this whole flesh It's still dying. It's going to die one day. It's still tainted by sin until God gives me a new one. And what a great day that is going to be. The outward man should be perishing, the inward man is supposed to be renewed every day. This doesn't mean we neglect our harm or physical bodies. It's just stating the fact that our flesh is headed towards death because it's corrupted by sin. But at the same time, we have the opportunity to enjoy an abundant spiritual life that is new every day. How unfortunate it is that we allow ourselves to devote so much of our focus to the outward man that's perishing, and we neglect the inward man's renewal What is the origin of these two natures? The origin is we have our old nature from Adam, came from our physical birth, we have our new nature from Christ, and it came at our spiritual birth. We see these two are at odds with one another. Galatians 5. 17, the flesh lusts against the spirit, the spirit against the flesh. These are contrary one to another So you cannot do the things that you would. And we know from Romans 7, Paul's description, I got stuff I want to do and I don't do it. I got stuff that I don't want to do and I do it. We see that battle taking place. What is the future of our two natures? One day God's going to redeem the part of you that's still tied to sin and death. But they, uh not only they, but ourselves also, which have the first fruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves grown within ourselves, waiting for the adoption to wit, the redemption of our body. Some days, don't you get tired of dealing with this flesh? Man, I'm just ready. I'm just groaning, ready to get rid of this flesh so that I can go and get rid of these desires for sin and uh and and and live just in perfect fellowship with the Lord. But until the day that our body is redeemed and our old old nature is is given is taken away, we're given completely at glorification, and we go to heaven, we get our new body at the rapture of Christ. That is when all this is over, but until then God still wants us to live in victory. God still wants us to live as spiritual and not as carnal. Where does this where does this take place? You have the put-off principal put-on principle in Ephesians 4, put off the former conversation, the old man. Whatever you were doing as an unsaved person, quit doing that. Put on the new nature, which is after God created righteousness and holiness. That is described again in Colossians chapter 3. But Galatians chapter 2. 20, we'll end with this verse if you wouldn't mind turning there with me. Galatians chapter 2. Your last thought this morning. Why don't you see Paul living spiritually, even though he deals with his old nature? Galatians 2, verse number 20. I am crucified with Christ. We know from Romans chapter 6, I believe it is, that we're supposed to mortify the deeds of the flesh. Our flesh should be crucified. That's the old man. It said, My old man, I crucified him. Did you get to the next part of the verse? Nevertheless, I live. How is he living? He's living spiritually. That's his new man. Yet not I, he's not doing it by himself, that's his old man. Christ liveth in me, that's his new man. The life which I now live, that's the life he has in Christ, his new man, but I'm living it in the flesh, that's my old man. I live it by the faith of the Son of God, that's my new man So yes, I have an old man, but he's not the one in charge. I've got a new man, I've got a new nature in Christ, and that's where I live, not in my own strength, but in the power of Christ. That's how we live as spiritual and not as carnal.