As well. Take your Bibles this morning to the book of Luke. The book of Luke, chapter four. We are continuing our series this morning on rightly dividing the word, kind of just going Through these different topics of things we need to understand the differences between as we study our Bible, as as we learn more about the Lord and things, just to guide me. Get things in the proper place, rightly dividing, know where to where to make divisions when it comes to things that we understand in the Word of God. And kind of a fun topic today, we're going to be studying the idea of three anointed offices Three anointed offices. Is anybody off the top of their head that hasn't already read through the notes that got passed out on the back table there? Know what the offices in the Bible that somebody was anointed for were. That was a long way to ask that question. Yes, so Johnny. Being a priest. People were anointed to be a priest. There's two other ones. So Johnny again? A king, yep, and a prophet. Prophet, a priest, and a king. That was the three things that people were anointed for. uh in the Bible. They were anointed with oil to fulfill those different uh functions or offices. We actually, if you're following the church's uh reading plan that we passed out, um in his life. We're very familiar with the one in 1 Samuel chapter 16, where he was anointed in the presence of his brothers to be the king, future king one day He was anointed when he was made king of a couple tribes there in Judah and Hebron, and he is anointed again when all the Israel came together, recognized him as their king. when um Saul's sons gave up their their tr attempts to get the throne. So he was anointed three times in his life as a king. And we see these examples of the Bible, people being anointed. One example of a prophet being anointed is this seen in Elisha's anointing in 1 Kings 19. There it says Jehu. the son of Nimshe shalt thou anoint to be king over Israel, and Elisa Elisha the son of Shaphat of Abel Mehoala shalt thou anoint to be a prophet in thy room. So Elisha was going to be anointed to be a prophet. We see that um Aaron was anointed to be a be a priest in Psalm 133 verse 2. It is like the precious ointment upon the head that ran down upon the beard Even Aaron's beard that went down to the skirts of his garments. So when he was brought in as the high priest, he was anointed with oil into that office. We also see we've seen the idea of a king with David. It was mentioned with Jehu there as well. And we see that Jesus was anointed as well. He was anointed to serve these offices. He was anointed three times. The Bible tells us now that with his anointing, it was a spiritual anointing that he was given by God. And also by the woman who anointed him for his burial, we see it was at his uh as a child it was referenced, he was anointed in Hebrews chapter 1 verse 9. He was anointed a reference by God at his baptism in Acts 10, 37, 38, and he was anointed for his burial by the woman who broke the alabaster box in John chapter 12. In fact, it was well known, and he was well known for the fact that he was anointed. He was often called Jesus the anointed one. Does anybody know what that is a reference to? Because we don't remember reading that in our Bible, Jesus the anointed one. The word that is used there is the word Christ. Christ means the anointed one. Anywhere you see Jesus Christ, he was thou art the Christ, thou art the anointed one. It was a reference to the Messiah that Jesus was given in his name. In Matthew 16, 16, we see Simon Peter calling him this, and Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ, that is the anointed one, the Son of the living God. This term Christ appears 571 times in the Bible. It means the anointed or the Messiah. So we see this idea that Jesus was anointed. Well, what was he anointed for? What was the office he was to fill? If you're anointed to be a prophet, was he anointed to be a prophet? You see people were anointed to be priests, was he anointed as a priest? And you see people anointed to be king. Was he anointed to be a king? Well, to get ahead of ourselves a little bit, he was anointed for all three offices, filling those in his ministry. The truth is, he is anointed for all three offices, but he did not fill all three offices simultaneously. There is, of course, overlap between the offices because Jesus is the same yesterday, today, and forever. But he has and he is going to fill these offices predominantly at different times in his ministry. In a broad picture, he served as a prophet during his earthly ministry. He serves as our great high priest interceding for us in heaven right now, and he's going to come again in the future and rule as a king forever. So we see these three offices Jesus was anointed for, and we see these divisions of how he served during his ministry as a prophet, how he's serving right now in heaven as a priest, and how he's going to serve in the future. as a king and kind of seeing that division in how Christ interacted with these different offices uh at different points in his ministry, past, present, and But you've turned with me to Luke chapter 4. Let's read verses 16 through verse number 21. Here the Bible says, and he came to Nazareth. Where he had been brought up, and as his custom was, he went into the synagogue on a Sabbath day and stood up for to read This is at the very beginning of his his ministry here. He's presenting himself in his hometown to Nazareth, and he's going about preaching. Uh it's interesting to note in this verse, uh it's an important point here. It says, as his custom was. Uh he was in the habit before he was in ministry of being in church. And so but don't don't wait to say, well I'll just do that later. Be faithful. Be faithful now and God get will use you. God will use you as you continue to be faithful. Verse number seventeen. There was delivered unto him the book of the prophet Isaiah, and when he had opened the book he found the place where it was written, The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he hath anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor. He hath sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to preach deliverance To the captives and recovering of sight to the blind and to set at liberty them that are bruised, to preach the acceptable year of the Lord and He closed the book and he gave it to the minister and sat down, and the eyes of all them that were in the synagogue fastened upon him, and began to say unto them, This day is this scripture fulfill So Jesus is acknowledging in his public ministry, I've been anointed to preach. I've been anointed in the office of a prophet, and that was where Jesus was going into. his earthly ministry serving in this office that God had anointed him for. Let's open with a word of prayer, and then we're going to look at these three stages of ministry that our Lord has and had and see what we can learn from that today. Lord God, we love you Thank you for this time we have to gather around your word. Pray that you would uh speak to us through the lesson today that we would be thankful uh for the ministry that Christ had, that He has, and that that he uh will one day fulfill in these different offices that you've uh Lord anointed him him for, Lord. I pray that we'd let enjoy our time around your word this morning, be with the morning service as well. We ask this all in Christ's name. Amen. So we see this idea of these three offices that Jesus filled or will be filling in his ministry as we understand them. And there's kind of different places this is hinted at through the Bible. One of my favorite examples is seen in Psalm 22 through Psalm 24. Here you see Psalm 22, Jesus as a prophet suffering for the people. Psalm twenty-two is the Psalm that references the crucifixion on the cross where it talks about how his bo bones were were out of joint, how his tongue claved to the roof of his mouth. They gave him vinegar uh to drink. The the bulls have beset me round about. This these ver All these references to the crucifixion are made in Psalm 22. Psalm 23 pictures him as a priest as he's ministering to the sheep, and he's he's he's working on their behalf. And Psalm 24 depicts him as the king of glory. So you see prophet, priest, and king in Jesus' life prophesied in Psalm 22 through 24 Revelation chapter 1, verse number 5 shows these three stages as well. It says there, and from Jesus Christ, who is the faithful witness. and first begotten of the dead, and the prince of the kings of the earth, unto him that loved us and washed us from our sins in his own blood. You see him called there a faithful witness. That'd be a reference to his ministry as a prophet. The first begotten of the dead, referencing his sacrifice, that would be kind of pointing to him as a priest, and the prince of the kings of the earth, that would be referencing him as a king. Hebrews 9, 24 through 28 describes this in his appearing. In verse 26 it says, He hath up hath he appeared in past tense, referring to his earthly ministry as a prophet. Now to appear, it references in verse 24, and that's referring to his heavenly ministry right now as a priest, and shall he appear, this references to his coming ministry. as a king, these three stages. He hath appeared, he now doth appear, and he shall appear, referencing these three three stages. In Matthew chapter 12, Jesus is described as being greater than three things. In verse 41, he's called greater than Jonas, which was a prophet. Jonah was a prophet. And in verse number six, it says he is greater than the temple. That'd be a reference to the priestly ministry. And verse 42, he is greater than Solomon, who was A king. So Saul is a king. He's greater than the prophet, greater than the temple, greater than the king. And then you look at the wise men when they brought him these gifts. You see these three gifts. You have gold, a gift that was fit for a king You see frankincense, that was an incense that was used by the priest, and you have myrrh, which was used for burial, something that had to happen to the prophets, as Stephen referenced in Acts 7. 52 which of the prophets have not your fathers persecuted. And so these three three gifts represent these three three aspects of Jesus' ministry and these three offices. that he filled. So we'll begin our study this morning looking at the idea of Jesus Christ as a prophet. Jesus Christ as a prophet. Jesus the anointed one, how he was anointed to serve as a prophet. We see first of all that he was it was prophesied that he would be a prophet. More so as we talk about him as a king, but a lot of the Old Testament uh prophecies reference his second coming, not his first coming When he came first, he came as a prophet to suffer for the people. When he comes again, he's going to come as a king, and there's a lot more prophecy in the Old Testament referencing him as a king, so when The Jews saw Jesus and his claim to be the anointed one, they were looking for a king. But they missed the fact that he had been prophesied that he would be a prophet, these two aspects of Christ's coming to earth Deuteronomy eighteen verse number fifteen, here's a prophecy relating to that the Lord, thy God will raise thee up a prophet from the midst of thee So Moses was prophesying there that the Lord would one day raise up a prophet. So how do we know this prophet is Jesus Christ that's being talked about here Acts chapter three tells us about the fulfillment of this prophecy. Repent ye therefore, and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out, when the times of refreshing shall come from the presence of the Lord, and he shall send Jesus Christ. which before was preached unto you, whom the heaven must receive until the times of the restitution of all things, which God hath spoken by the mouth of all his holy prophets since the world began. For Moses truly said unto the fathers, A prophet shall the Lord your God raise up unto you of your brethren, like unto me, and him shall ye hear in whatsoever he shall say unto you So it was prophesied, Jesus would come and he would be a prophet. And it says in Acts chapter three, all the prophets said this that Jesus would come and be a prophet. They just they just missed it in the prophecy. They were looking for what they wanted as opposed to what God said. They wanted a king. They wanted somebody to deliver them from the oppression of the Romans. Jesus was coming first as a prophet to suffer for the people and then he would be coming as a king at his second coming. So it was prophesied that Jesus would fill the office of a prophet We see during his ministry that he was identified as a prophet. In Matthew chapter 13, a parallel passage to what's going on here in Nazareth that we read in Luke chapter 4. It says Jesus said, A prophet is not without honor, save in his own country and in his own house. So he claimed for himself, I'm a prophet, and I'm in my own house, I'm in my own country and I'm not receiving the honor that I'm due as a prophet. We saw the multitudes identified him as a prophet after the fee of the five sa five thousand in John chapter sixteen six, verse number fourteen of a truth, this is of a truth, that prophet that should come into the world. So they knew this prophecy, that they knew that Jesus was coming as a prophet And they identified him as such. What's interesting is a couple verses later, they were going to try to seize him and make him a king, understanding that this is the man who's fulfilling the role of the prophet. Let's go ahead and seize him and make him a king not understanding they were failing to rightly divide the word uh when it came when it came to those prophecies in the Old Testament. So he is identified as a prophet by the multitudes. The woman at the well realized that Jesus was a prophet. In John chapter four, verse number nineteen, she said, Sir, I perceive that thou art a prophet. the blind man after he was healed. They I said, What do you have to say about the one who who gave you this sight? He said, he is a prophet. The Roman soldiers, when they were beating him before his crucifixion, they they asked him, they covered his eyes and asked him to prophesy. Prophesy who Is it that smote thee? The disciples on the road to Emmaus also called Jesus a prophet in Luke chapter 24, 19 concerning Jesus of Nazareth, which was a prophet, mighty indeed and word, before God and all the people. So he has recognized during his ministry that he was a prophet, that he fulfilled this role. So he was identified as a prophet, but not only is he identified that way, he ministered as a prophet. That was what he that was how he served. That's what he did while he was here on earth. We see that he gave prophecy during his ministry, some concerning himself and others concerning the future. He prophesied of his own death and his resurrection Luke John 2, verse number 19, destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. He prophesied that he would establish the church in Matthew 16, 18. And I say also unto thee that thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. He prophesied the end of the sacrificial system in John chapter 4, verse 21. Woman, believe me, the hour cometh when you shall neither in this mountain nor yet at Jerusalem worship the Father. He prophesied of the destruction of the temple in Luke chapter nineteen, and they and shall lay thee even with the ground, and thy children within thee, and they shall not leave in thee one stone upon another, because thou knewest not the time of thy visitation He also prophesied the events of the tribulation and the second coming in Matthew 24 and 25. When you look at Jesus working as a prophet and giving prophecy, there was a test given in the Old Testament. To see if someone was a true prophet. You see, whether what they prophesied came to pass. And then you know they're a true prophet. And we look at these prophecies that Jesus made concerning his death and resurrection. Did it come to pass? Yes. When you look at the prophecies he made concerning the destruction of the temple in 70 AD when the Romans came through, destroyed the temple, did not leave one stone upon another, did it come true? Yes. So when he ha when we look at the other prophecies of Jesus, like the gates of hell shall not prevail against the church, and we as a church are trying to go forward and we're facing opposition, Jesus was a prophet. And if he made a prophecy, is it going to come true? Yes it is. So we have this prophecy or this promise from God that the gates of hell will not prevail against the church. What about the prophecy that uh I if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, that I may receive you unto myself, that where I am That was a prophecy made by a prophet who was a true prophet, because what he prophesied came true. So we know that right now Jesus is preparing a place for us that he's going to come and get us and receive us unto himself We look at his ministry as a prophet, that he gave prophecy, and these prophecies came true. Not only was he ministering as a prophet, bringing God's word uh to God's people, we see that he also suffered as a prophet. If you read the the the read through the prophets of the Old Testament, they they didn't have uh very good ministries, many of them They weren't liked by the people that they were preaching to very often. If you read the book of Ezekiel in particular, he had a rough ministry. I'm glad I'm a New Testament preacher and not an old testament prophet when I read what some of these people um had to go through and and and how God asked them to serve and how God asked them to preach and made them object lessons for the people in their own lives and the things that prophets had to go through and prophets had to suffer in their ministry. You see this, that they were rejected. They were not liked. I used to joke when I was in college that the person I most identified with in the Bible was the prophet uh Prophet Amos. Because Amos was in the godly southern uh the godly southern kingdom, and God called him out of there to to go up into the northern kingdom If you know I'm from South Carolina and God sent me to college in Indiana, and so I had to go up where the heathens were at up north and uh and be a preacher up there, and so could joke about that being kinda uh resembling that ministry. But again, he he wasn't liked when he went to do that. The prophets weren't didn't weren't very popular. And Jesus, when he was a prophet, ministering to the prophet, he was not very popular either. He suffered the despising of a prophet. Isaiah 53, verse number 3 tells us that he is despised and rejected of men. a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. And we hid, as it were, our faces from him. He was despised, and we esteemed him not. Looking at Jesus, the Son of God, coming to his people, prophesied, he told them he was going to come Moses told them, when that prophet comes, you need to listen to him, he comes and what happened? He was despised and rejected He was rejected as a prophet. He was despised in his hometown. You saw there in Nazareth where we read to begin with that Jesus was rejected by the people that he had grown up with as he presented We'll read this companion passage in Matthew 13. It says, And it came to pass that when Jesus had finished these parables, he departed thence. And when he was come into his own country, he taught them in their synagogue. Insomuch they were astonished. And you think, Where where you if you're going to go somewhere and people don't like you, where do you go for comfort? Where do you go for shit? You go home. You go home and these are the people that know me. These are the people that saw Jesus grow up. We often talk about joking about Jesus having brothers and sisters and growing up with the with the perfect child in the home and why can't you be more like Jesus? And the neighbors knew Jesus and the fa the people in town know knew Jesus. This was this was his hometown. But when he got there, it wasn't an open arms welcome that he received. It says, Whence hath this man this wisdom, these mighty works? Is this not the carpenter's son? Is not his mother called Mary? And his brethren James and Joseph and Simon and Judas? And his sisters? Are they not all with us? Whence then hath these man this man all these things? And they were offended in him. And Jesus said unto them, A prophet is not without honor, save in his own country and his own house And he did not many works there because of their own unbelief. When Jesus came to his hometown to minister as a prophet among the people that he grew up with, that he played with as a child, When he got to his hometown, they tried to kill him. Uh right after this they tried to take him to a cliff and throw him off because they didn't like what he was saying He was despised for his education. They ask, When's hath this man's wisdom? Where where who does he think he is? He's not he can went to the same school we did. Where does he have this that he can go off telling us what the Bible says. We go to church too. We understand this. We're in synagogue. It's our habit. It's our custom as well. And they despised him for his education. He was despised for his family. Is not this the carpenter's son? Hey, he's got he's part of the poor family over there. Who does he think he is coming in here? This carpenter's son, Mary, jo his brothers, his sisters. We know we know the family that he came from He was despised for his holiness, it says in the verse, that they were offended in him. And we kind of can understand from that, you look at other places in Jesus' ministry that people didn't like him because he did what was right And men hate uh don't like the light because it reveals the darkness in their own life. We see that the Pharisees and the high priests they delivered Jesus, and Pilate says he understood that they delivered him for envy Because his works were righteous, their works were evil. And so the people in Nazareth, they didn't like having Jesus around because his holiness brought out their corruption. They made it made it um made it obvious to them. So he was despised there in his hometown. He was despised as a prophet, rejected of men. He was also despised of his home because of his hometown. He was asked it was said of him later, Can any good thing come out of Nazareth? Hey, that hometown he's from? That's not where prophets come from That's not where where where good good people come out of is that Nazareth? What's can any good thing come out of Nazareth? We see he was abandoned by his followers in John 6, verse number 66 From that time many of his disciples went back and walked no more with him. He was abandoned by his personal disciples. He was left alone by his inner circle. When he went to pray in the garden, he brought his inner circle. The three closest disciples, Peter, James, and John, said, Come with me a little bit further. And he went, you pray with me. And he came back and they couldn't even for one hour watch and pray with Jesus in his greatest time of trial. He was left by his disciples in the garden. It says in the when he was arrested that all the disciples forsook him and fled. And then you take Peter and Peter his denial of denying Christ with a curse that I didn't know who that man was and just rejected by his closest friends, even those that had walked with him, had ministered with him, had served with him, he was rejected. He suffered the despising of a prophet. We also see that Jesus suffered the distrust of a prophet. They didn't believe his message. In Mark 6, verse number 6, it says he marveled because of their unbelief. He was surprised. He was amazed that they wouldn't believe the truth that he was giving there. When John chapter 6 verse 26, we see that people, the multitudes coming to Jesus, and a prophet who is preaching should be attracting multitudes for the message that he's giving. But we see that Jesus said, Verily, verily I say unto you, ye seek ne me not because you saw the miracles, but because ye did eat of the loaves and were filled You're just here for free food. I've got a message from heaven. He manna sent down from heaven for you, and uh you're just here for the free food. You're not here for the message that I'm giving giving. We also see that Jesus suffered the death of a prophet. In Luke 11, verse number 47, Jesus is speaking to the lawyers and the Pharisees, and he says unto them, Woe unto you, for ye build sepulchres of the prophets, and your fathers killed them. Here he's chiding them for the respect that they gave to the prophets after their death. They would raise it up and like, look at how much we love these prophets. And Jesus says, your fathers were the ones that killed them. And we know you you're just like them. You have the same attitude that they had. You wouldn't have listened to the prophets if you were there. They were just talking about, oh, we would have loved the prophets. We wouldn't have treated them this way. No, they were this they were going to treat them the same way because we saw what they did to Jesus So they wouldn't have treated the other prophecy prophets any different. They were just people just like them, had rejected God's man and God's message, and had killed the messengers. These Pharisees were going to do the same to Jesus, yet they quote, revered these past prophets. Matthew 23 makes a similar point. Woe unto you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, because ye build the tombs of the prophets. and garnish the sepulchres of the righteous and say, if we had been in the days of our fathers, we would not have been partakers with them in the blood of the prophets. Wherefore ye be witnesses unto yourselves, ye are the children of them which killed the prophets. They say, if if we'd have been, if only we'd have been alive, we'd have listened, we'd have we'd have heard the message of these prophets. No. They would have been right along with everybody else that killed the prophets because they weren't going to receive. God's message. And Jesus points this out to them in a parable. Here another parable. There was a certain householder, which planted a vineyard, and hedged it round about, and digged the winepress in it, and built a tower, and led it out to husbandmen and went into a far country. And when the time of the fruit drew near he sent his servants to the husbandmen that they might receive the fruits of it. And the husbandman cut took his servants and beat one and killed another, and stoned another. Again he sent other servants more than the first, and they did unto them likewise. This is a picture that Jesus is uh is painting for the audience thereof Israel and how God did all this Israel to set up set up or all this work to set up Israel as as his nation, as his people. And he sent them messengers. And what did they do to the messengers? They stone them, they killed them, they beat them. And he sent them more messengers, and he stoned them, and they beat them, and they killed them. And last of all, the parable tells us, he sent his son. And said They will reverence my son. But when the husband saw the son, they said among themselves, This is the heir, come, let us kill him, let us seize on his inheritance. And they caught him and cast him out of the vineyard and slew him Jesus pointing out that he was going to suffer death as a prophet at the hands of these people whom he had come to bring this message of God. So Jesus Christ, the anointed one, was anointed as a prophet to come and to preach the gospel, to preach the good news, to bring these people a message from God and he was rejected. He was despised and he was rejected, and he fulfilled this office ultimately as he came to his death as a as a prophet dying for his people. But then we see, secondly, that Jesus was also anointed to be a priest. Jesus Christ as a priest. We see the Bible tells us that Jesus was made a priest, that this was something that happened to him at some point, that he was made a priest. In Hebrews chapter 5, verses 1 through 10. Let's go ahead and go there together. Hebrews 5, verses 1 through 10. This is talking about Jesus when he was made a priest by God. Hebrews. Chapter five Hebrews chapter 5, verses 1 through 10 describes this for us. We won't read all of it, but verses 1 and 2, follow along as I read there. For every high priest taken from among men is ordained for men in things pertaining to God, that he may offer both gifts and sacrifices for sin Who can have compassion on the ignorant and on them that are out of their way, for that he himself is compassed with infirmity You see that God says, I draw from among men men to make as priests, and I anoint them as priests, so that they can serve the people and minister to them in spiritual matters. They may offer gifts and sacrifices for sin. It says, but the reason I'm doing this, the reason I'm pulling someone from among men to anoint as a priest, is that they can have compassion on the ignorant. They can have compassion on the people that they're serving in spiritual matters because they also are compassed with infirmity. They have things that they struggle with. They have things that they deal with. They have sorrow. They have pain. They've encountered temptation. They know what people are going through. So I pull from among men someone to make as a priest over them in order to serve them because They have shared experiences. We see in verse number four that a priest was called by God. It was not something that he exalted himself to. No man taketh this honor unto himself, but he that is called of God, as was Aaron. God says, I put people in this position. I choose who's going to be a priest that ministers for my people. And we see verse number five, So also Christ was glorified, so also Christ glorified not himself to be made a high priest, but he that said unto him, Thou art my son, today have I begotten thee Jesus didn't make himself a priest. God did. God did. And he said, Thou art my son, this day have I begotten thee, pointing to when God spoke to Jesus and told him he was Pleased with his behavior. Happened a couple times in Jesus' ministry. God was the one that elevated Jesus to this position of being a high priest. And we see this taking place in verses 7 through 10. Who in the days of his flesh, talking about Jesus when he was in his earthly ministry, when he had offered up prayers and supplications with strong crying and tears unto him that was able to save him from death. and was heard in that he feared. Reference there to the garden. As Jesus was praying, and offered up with strong crying and with tears, and he he was talking about his his death there. It says he was bringing these prayers to the one who is able to save him from death. These prayers that Jesus offered. If it po be possible that this cut pass from me, nevertheless not my will but thine be done. These prayers that Jesus offered at this point in his life in his ministry And he was hurt. God heard those prayers. God heard what Jesus was asking. But we keep reading. Though he were a son, yet he learned obe yet learned he obedience to the things which he suffered. God heard Jesus' prayer. But the answer was no, you're going to go through with this my will, that you're going to die to suffer as a prophet. And it says there, he learned obedience as a son, going through being submissive to the will of the Father through the things that he suffered, through his crucifixion, everything he suffered there. Verse number nine, and being made perfect, he became the author of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him. Being made perfect. That that carries the idea not of not of sinless perfection. It's the idea of being complete. That there was some things that were completed by Jesus at his death. He was made complete. He was given some experiences through suffering, through being obedient to God, and that was when he became the author of eternal salvation in verse number 10, called of God to be a high priest after the order of Melchizedek. That's when God brought him into this office of a priesthood. What why did why did the writer of Hebrews here give us all this information about Jesus suffering and and praying and this prayer not being answered and him learning obedience and the things that he suffered. Well it goes all the way back to verse number two that we looked at. That God calls a high priest who has ex shared experiences with the people he's ministering to so that he can minister properly. So Jesus went through the sufferings of the cross and the things that he he dealt with and God made him a priest. Because God pulled someone who had shared experiences for him to minister unto us. Jesus didn't have an experience of suffering prior to coming to earth He came and he experienced that, so now he can minister to us the same way that as read in verse number two, who can have compassion on the ignorant and on them that are out of the way, for that he himself is compassed with infirmity Jesus himself experienced life. He experienced loss. He experienced pain. He experienced distrust. He experienced rejection. And God said, now you're ready to be a priest. You're ready to minister to them and for them because you now have this shared experience. We see in chapter 6, verse number 20, that Jesus has gone before us, and he was made a priest for us in Hebrews 6. 20. whether the forerunner is for us entered, even Jesus, made an high priest after the order of Melchizedek. This is something he always fulfilled. He These duties of the priest is something he was made into. He was made into a high priest after his suffering, and he could fulfill these duties. We see that Jesus fulfilled the duties of a priest. When he brought his blood into the heavenly tabernacle and put it on the altar. We won't time take time to look at it, but Hebrews chapter nine, verses eleven through twenty eight is when Jesus brought his own blood and entered once into the holy place, and the tabernacle was not made with hands in the heavens. And he put his blood on the mercy seat that that speaks of of a better sacrifice and how that blood forever doesn't need to be offered again and again like the blood of bulls and goats, but only one time Jesus came into the Holy of Holies and he did the work of a high priest on our behalf to lay this sacrifice before God that could cleanse mankind from his sin forever for those that put their faith and trust in the shed blood of Jesus Christ. Jesus fulfilling these duties as a high priest after his resurrection, going into the heavens, and now ministering this way. So that's it. This was Jesus made as a priest, the timing there as he comes into heaven after a sacrifice. We see the manner of Christ's priesthood as well There's differences between his priesthood and the Aaronic priesthood, and Hebrews chapter 7 deals with this in great detail. We won't go through and read all the passages, but we see that his priesthood is eternal. Priests in the Iranic priesthood had to retire, and they ultimately would die. Aren't you glad that our high priest is never going to retire? He's not going to hit 50 and say, okay, I'm good here. I'm going to go find somewhere to relax. No, our high priest is he's a priesthood that is an eternal priesthood. His priesthood lasts forever His priesthood is of a different order. It tells us in Hebrews chapter 7 that he's not a priest after the manner of Aaron. He's a priest after the order of Melchizedek. His priesthood serves with a different tabernacle. In Vert Hebrews chapter nine, he's um of a greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, not of this building. And we see his priesthood has a different sacrifice. In Hebrews chapter ten, every priest stand daily ministering and offering oftentimes the same sacrifices. Which can never take away sins, but this man, after he had offered one sacrifice for sins forever, sat down at the right hand of God So Jesus is manner of priesthood. And we see thirdly Jesus' ministry as a priest. What did he do? What does Jesus do as a high priest right now Hebrews chapter 4, verse 14-15, seeing then we have a great high priest that is passed into the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God. We see that he has he is he has a glorious priesthood. He also serves as a mediator in 1 Timothy 2 verse number 5. There's one God and one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus In the Old Testament tabernacle, the picture there of the priest going to God on behalf of the people. And coming to the people on behalf of God We no longer have that where we have to go to a place and bring a sacrifice and give it to a man and say, Go to God on my behalf, and go to that man and say, What does God have for me? Can you can you give me God's God's working giving us a message, we now have that direct access to God because we have a different mediator. We have a high priest that we go to when we bow our knees and he comes and hears our requests, and he He's there with us as we read the Word of God, and He's ministering to us and going between us and God. He is our mediator, Christ Jesus. He is our high priest that does that for us. He's also our advocate in 1 John chapter 2. My little children, these things write I unto you that ye sin not. If any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father Jesus Christ the inner Jesus Christ the righteous. He's the one that goes between us and God. He's the advocate. He's the one there that when we do wrong and we deserve judgment, he's there to plead grace. He is there to ask for mercy. Jesus Christ is our advocate as our priest, and he's also our intercessor. Romans chapter 8. It is Christ that died, yea, rather that is risen again, who is even at the right hand of God, who also maketh intercession for us. Did you know that right now in heaven Jesus is praying for you? Wow, what a what a wonderful testimony. We we have these testimonies we share with one another as as we see somebody dealing with with uh with an injury at church and we shake their hand and say, Hey, I'm praying for you. And how much that means Jesus as well in heaven right now can share the message. I'm praying for you. He's our intercessor. He's praying for us. That's his role that he fills as our high priest. So we see Jesus anointed as a prophet. He fulfilled that ministry while he was here on earth. We see Jesus as a priest, he's doing that right now as he is in heaven ministering for us. And we see Jesus Christ as a potentate. or a king, that he is one day coming back to have a kingdom. We'll go through these quickly, but we see that Jesus was wanted as a king. We talked about this already in the Old Testament of the prophecies relating to the second coming. When he came to earth, people wanted him to be a king. Uh there he was qualified at his birth to be a king. The wise men said, Where is he that is born? King of the Jews? Born king. He he had the requirements. He was of the right line, he was of the right family, he he had all that was necessary to be a king, but the time wasn't right yet. He came to be a prophet the first time. He didn't come as a king We see he was offered the kingdom by Satan, Satan tempting him, showed him all the kings of the earth and said, You can have all these if you just bow down and worship me. P we see that he was wanted as a king after he fed the five thousand, John chapter six, when Jesus therefore perceived they would come and take him by force. to make him a king. He departed into a mountain himself alone. We see also that he was recognized as a king in his triumphal entry. They took branches of the palm trees, they went forth to meet him. They cried, Hosanna, Blessed is the king of Israel that cometh in the name of the Lord. He was even labeled as a king in his death, as they put over his head the inscription, This is Jesus, the King of the Jews. But Jesus knew that his kingdom was coming later. Jesus answered and told him, My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, then would my servants fight that I should not be delivered to the Jews, but now is my kingdom not from hence. He knew that he wasn't here the first time to be a king He knew that his kingdom was coming later, and so he is now waiting, number two, he's waiting for his kingdom. He was wanted to be a king, but now he's waiting for his kingdom. We know that he will be a king and he will sit on the throne of his father David, fulfilling the Davidic covenants we talked about some months ago, the idea of these covenants that were made with Israel that are with David that his throne would last forever. Luke chapter 1 is prophesied, Behold, thou shalt conceive in thy womb, bring forth a son, and shalt call his name Jesus. He shall be great and shall be called the Son of the Highest. And the Lord God shall give unto him the throne of his father David. So he is waiting for his kingdom. He will have a throne. He will have a kingdom. He will be seated on the throne of David again one day. But right now he is seated in heaven. Hebrews 1. 13 tells us, but to which of the angels said he at any time, Sit on my right hand until I make thine enemies thy footstool. Jesus is waiting, waiting for the time when the Father says, okay, it's time to claim your kingdom. But he's waiting until God's going to subdue the enemies. So Jesus was wanted to be a king. He's now waiting for his kingdom. But the day is going to come that Jesus will win his kingdom. When he comes again, he will be revealed as king. He came the first time, and he suffered as a prophet He's coming the second time again to be a king. Second first Timothy two, thirteen and fifteen, I give thee charge in the sight of God, who quickeneth all things, and before Jesus Christ, who before Pontius Pilate witnessed a good confession That thou shalt keep this commandment without spot, unrebukable, until the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ, which in his times he shall show, who is the blessed and only potentate, the King of Kings, and the Lord of Lords. So when he comes again, he's revealed as king. He's referencing there the testimony before Pilate, that's where he said, My kingdom is not of this world. My tear uh if my if it were, uh my my servants would fight. So he will be revealed as king when he comes again. When he comes again, he'll be given a kingdom. In Hebrews eleven, the kingdoms of this world are become the kingdoms of our Lord and of His Christ, and He shall reign forever and ever. That Christ is going to receive His kingdom here on earth, and He's going to establish that by conquest at the end of the tribulation period. We understand, looking at future events, timeline, we have the rapture is the next event on God's calendar. That's when Christ comes in the clouds. He's not coming to earth. He's coming in the clouds to receive us unto himself. All those that are saved are going to go with Christ in the clouds, in the air, to meet the Lord and to go to heaven with him. Then here on earth that will be the time of the tribulation period. Three and a half good years, three and a half years of God's wrath being poured out on this earth, and then at the end of the tribulation period, Christ is going to come back, and he's going to come back to earth with us, his saints, to establish his kingdom. And in Revelation 19, verses eleven and six through sixteen, this is described. I saw heaven open, and behold a white horse, and he that sat upon him was called faithful and true. And in righteousness he doth judge and make war. His eyes was a flame of fire, and on his head were many crowns. He had a name written that no man knew but he himself He was clothed with vesture dipped in blood. His name is called the Word of God. And the armies which were in heaven followed him upon white horses, clothed in fine linen, white and clean. out of his mouth goeth a sharp sword, that with it he should smite the nations, and he shall rule them with a rod of iron, and he treadeth the wine press of the fierceness of the wrath of Almighty God, and he hath his vesture and on his thigh name written, King of Kings and Lord of Lords. We look at this idea in the Bible of the anointed one. We see Christ anointed that God anointed him to fill these offices. And we kind of see these stages, and I'm so thankful that Christ came and he ministered in the office of a prophet. That he's he brought God's word to man. And he suffered as a prophet. He ultimately gave his life as a sacrifice for us. But that transition happened. That he took that blood and he went into the tabernacle in heaven and became our high priest. that was ministering and interceding for us. And right now he's functioning in that role as a high priest that he's making intercession for us. He's our advocate, he's our mediator. But I'm also thankful as we look around the world and all that's going on that He's coming back as a king. And all this is going to be dealt with and God's going to establish his throne and we'll get to enjoy living under the reign of King Jesus forever and ever as he takes and establishes that eternal kingdom that eternal throne. Looking forward to that day as well. So we see these three anointings, these three offices that Jesus filled with a beautiful picture we have here in the Word of God.