I'm going to be doing something similar to what Pastor Patrol said he did this morning and uh as he was going along preaching, saying, Okay, we're uh we're not gonna preach this right now. We're gonna move on. Uh there's uh a challenge that I would love to bring to you uh that the Lord spoke to me through his word this week and I hope that uh the Lord will use it in your heart. I believe this past year you've been focusing on prayer. Is that In my and uh I had actually forgotten about that until I heard some of the comments uh that were being spoken and uh really appreciated the song that was sung before the message about coming boldly before the throne. And uh I think uh no I know this is not twenty twenty one twenty twenty two now but uh prayer is still important and uh faith in God is still important It is very important. Okay, and that's what I would like to be preaching to you about this this evening. Uh if you take a look at Romans chapter four. Uh there's a What I like to see would like to show you is the strong faith that is pointed out in the life of Abraham. And uh here's a a phrase that I just want you to uh think about briefly before we read this passage. Uh I heard this uh spoken by somebody else who's not with me, and I I felt that it was a very good phrase. It goes like this. People say what they think, but they do what they believe. People say what they think and they but they do what they believe. And there's a lot of things that are said about faith. God can do this. I I you know and it's all thinking. God can do this, God can do this. But then the our natural tendency is to just go and do what we can do on our own strength. So do we actually have faith if we're not bringing bringing our request before God or really walking by faith? So let's take a look at um let's take a look at Romans chapter 4 and let's start at verse 13. And uh before we start here, let's pray. Dear Heavenly Father, I thank you so much for your word. And I thank you that you have given us everything that we need to be able to have confidence in this life. Lord, I thank you that you are such a great God and there is nothing that is too hard for you. I pray that we would uh increase in our love for you and our confidence in you this evening. Pray this in your name. Amen. In verse thirteen it says, uh this is talking about Abraham for the promise That he should be heir of the world was not to Abraham or to his seed through the law, but through the righteousness of faith. For if they which are of the law be heirs, Faith is made void, and the promise made of none effect, because the law worketh wrath. For where no law is, there is no transgression. Therefore it is a faith that it might be by grace. To the end, the promise might be sure to all the seed Not to that only which is of the law, but to that also which is of the faith of Abraham, who is the father of us all. As it is written, I have made thee a father of many nations. before him whom he believed, even God who quickeneth the dead, and calleth those things which be not as though they were who against hope believed in hope that he might become the father of many nations, according to that which was spoken. So shall thy seed be. And being not weak in faith, he considered not his own body now dead, when he was about a hundred years old, neither yet the deadness of Sarah's womb. He staggered not at the promise of God through unbelief, but was strong in faith, giving glory to God, and being fully persuaded that what he had promised he was able also to perform, and therefore it was imputed to him for righteousness. Now it was not written for his sake alone that it was imputed to him. But for us also, to whom it shall be imputed, if we believe on him that raised up Jesus our Lord from the dead, who is delivered for our offenses and and was raised again for our justification. Amen. So when we are saved, we are saved through faith. And that's not where it ends. It does not end, okay, I am I had faith in Jesus that he would forgive me of my sins as he And now I'm going to continue to live in my own wisdom and understanding. No, that is not the way that we are to be living. We are to continue to grow in our knowledge of who God is And to walk in confidence that who he says he is, he is. And walk and and live according to that. You know, without faith Fears are going to send us running to the experts because God's not able to help us. Without faith, our financial fears will cause us to run to the men with money for help and not see Seek the reason for that trouble from God. Without faith, we don't go to God. We end up going to what we can see with our own eyes. And so we have to remind ourselves of that every day. That's our natural way is to to awa to wake up and go, oh no, okay, so what's the first problem I need to solve? And then not bring it to God who wants us to bring these things things before him and then he can be able to show himself strong. Living by faith is living according to what God says and scripture we see how God says to live and instead of choosing to live life by what makes physical logical sense We choose to live a life by what God says. By what God says. Living by faith is something that is intentional. We default to our own physical eyes. Now it throughout the Bible we are shown different examples of great faith and we are shown examples of And Jesus said, Okay, I'll go over to your house and he and And he stopped Jesus and said, Oh, I don't worry, I understand how this works. I'm a centurion. If I say somebody go and he he goes and he does it. And I say this person come and he comes. I understand how that works. So When I'm asking you to to heal my son, I you just say the word and I know it's gonna be done. And so you you don't need to do anything else. That Jesus pointed out and he said, that is great faith. And how about the woman with the issue of blood? Okay? And she had done to all the doctors before, she had tried everything. And then she decided that she was going to come to Jesus. And you know, in her mind, who knows she was probably wondering, you know, what how do I how do I do this. And she she obviously was thinking and what came to her mind was, I believe that if I simply touch the hem of his garment because of the the power of God He says he is God and I believe that he is God. If I simply touch the hem of his garment, that I'll be healed. And God Jesus went and pointed out that her faith was great faith. You know, there is um there is something that if we understand what God is capable of doing, and putting that, what we understand about God to the test, God is pleased by that. He's pleased to show himself strong in our life. But many times we don't do steps of faith like that because we don't know what God can do. Or we th we it's all hypothetical. We think God is, yes, I know God is God. God is able to do those things, but God wants us to put it to the test. And God says that is great faith. Coincidentally, the people that Jesus pointed out had small faith were his own disciples. Okay? When uh I mean Peter he walked out Like he had asked, Can I come out to the come out to where you are? You know, th that was that was a step of faith, okay? He went out there, but then Apparently the seeing the waves that were splashing around him, seeing the lightning and the everything storming about around him Apparently that caused doubt. I obviously I can't read into Peter's mind, but there was doubt in his mind whether he could be able to stand. I mean he was standing on the water only through the possibility that God allowed him to stand on the water. But then He began to think, God can't continue to do this. And then he began to think We need to live by faith, continuously believing that what we say with our mouth that God can do is what He can do. Okay. Now I'm going to go down here too. The first point which is strong faith is seen and gl giving glory to God. Okay? If you take a look at verse twenty here, it says talking about Abraham He staggered not at the promise of God through unbelief, but with strong in faith, giving glory to God What you will see in somebody who is walking in faith is that they are not patting themselves on the back. You you don't see them going after things that are godly and then saying, Oh, I did that. If it wasn't for me going out and doing this, then the work of God would not have happened No, you see a person who has strong faith in God realizing that they cannot do it on their own. Abraham, through his own ability, was not going to be able to make his wife pregnant, okay? He realized that after, you know, a hundred years, and it's okay Okay? And now how is this going to happen? Only through the power of God. Okay? And so it says here that he gave glory to God. That is something that Someone who is putting their faith in God will do. If you see somebody that's going on God, and I really appreciated all the testimonies that were being shared before the service about uh about the car accident and about how y you were giving glory to God that He brought you out of that. That is an important thing to remember. That if we are attributing glory to ourselves in some way, that it was Because I was smart. I mean j generally we don't talk like that. Okay? Usually we don't. So we we know when we start saying those words it's not a good thing. What's our heart saying? Okay. And the words might be a little bit different that come out of your mouth, but think about that. Are you giving glory to God? Realize that the words that are coming out of your mouth are reflecting where your face is. In yourself or in God. So he was strong in faith, giving glory to God. Um, you know this um If Abraham, okay, you know, this this passage is all about salvation in this here, okay? And it put points out here in in verse two of this chapter, which we did not read, it says, For Abraham were justified by works. He has we're up to glory, but not before God. Okay? Not a single one of us are going to stand before God with our works and say Yes, I made it up to heaven through the things that I did. Okay? Abraham was not saved because of uh because Because of his wife being pregnant, okay? He was not safe through the works of of leaving his family and going into uh into another land where God was leaving him. Okay? It was not those works that saved him. He was saved because God said to do it, and he believed that God would take care of him and would do it. And so he did it. And God says, because of your faith Then you are blessed. Okay? And so we are not justified through our works. And so we need to do things that are going to give glory to God. Do you regularly glorify God? Or do you show off your own wisdom to others? We want to give glory to God. You know, in Hebrews thirteen, thirteen to fifteen it says, Let us go forth therefore unto him without the camp, bearing his reproach. For here we have no continuing city, but we seek one to come. By him, therefore, let us offer the sacrifice of praise to God continually. That is the fruit of our lips. giving thanks to his name. That is what we are to be doing because of what God has done in our lives, because of that faith that we have in him. Let's look at the second point here. Strong faith is seen through being fully persuaded in the words of God. If you look at verse 21 in this chapter, it says, and being fully persuaded that what he had promised, he was able also to perform. Abraham, he was fully persuaded, okay, that God would do what he had promised. There are a couple things that You won't do if unless you are fully persuaded. If you see a sh a sign that's at the beach that says uh sharks are in these waters. Well, unless you're fully persuaded that that's an old sign and that was for another season, you're not just going to go jump into that ocean and have a swim unless you were fully persuaded That's an old sign. That's not good anymore. Okay? You're not going to uh jump out of an airplane unless you're fully persuaded that you actually buckled the f uh the parachute on or that it was actually packed correctly. You're not going to be like, uh I'm pretty sure I did that back then. But anyway, here it goes. Okay. You're not going to do that. You're not going to jump with a bungee cord or something like that unless you make really certain that that thing is attached to your legs. Now for me, even if I was fully persuaded about all of those things, I'm still not going to do any of those things. But those are just some good examples that you're not going to do them unless you're fully persuaded. Okay? Now, for Abraham, he was fully persuaded about that what God said He could do, he would do. Or that he would do that he could do. Okay? And so his faith was completely in God. He didn't it says he didn't consider that his body was now dead. He you know, he was very old. Okay? He didn't consider that. He said the d he didn't consider the deadness of Sarah's womb. That it's been you know, she's a hundred years old. He didn't consider that. That's not a problem with God. And And actually let me just put a quick uh insert on here. When I went back and I was looking at the story of Abraham there, there's some things that uh you see he laughed. She laughed at these different things that God went point at. But obviously we know because we're given here as an in insane For us that at some point they realize God will do what He said And uh I think that that's an encouragement to us because God doesn't use perfect people and say uh that uh your faith will be um uh your faith will be seen because Because you're a perfect type of a person. You're doing what is right. And so um God uses people that make mistakes that are not perfect. But as long as our faith is in what God says and we do those things then God can be able to use us. In fact, faith is very humbling because we have to acknowledge we can't do anything. We can't do anything that pleases God unless God is the one that is working through us. Any of the works that we do that other people are saying, good job. Well that's you get all your praise here on this earth. And that's the end of it. You know, you're not going to get any praise from God because of what you did in the flesh But unless you saw what God says and you did it. What is it? Faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. And so you find out what God says, who he is, what he wants you to do And you say, oh, because God says this is who he is and what he wants us to do, I'm gonna do it and I believe that the result is going to be good. Okay? We're putting God's word to the test. And uh I love George Mueller, you know, he frequently said things to that effect where he put God's word to the test and he saw God to be real. Not that he doubted God, but He saw God in some amazing ways because he put his faith to the test. And lastly, let me just point out to you that strong faith is rewarding. Strong faith is rewarding. If you take a look at verse 22 and 23, it says, and therefore it was imputed to him for righteousness Now it was not written for his sake alone that it was imputed, but for us also to whom it shall be imputed. Okay, this faith that he showed That resulted in his salvation. If he had not had faith in God, if he did not leave the land that he was told to leave. And uh if he did not uh reject Ishmael and continue to wait for the for the one that God said would come. Then his face was dead, he was not putting God to the test, and in fact we would not be reading about him in scripture today Maybe, but in a negative sense, you know, God would have used some other way in order to bring the plan of redemption into this world. But, you know, his faith was rewarded. And in fact, that's something that we are rewarded to when we put our faith, like Abraham, in Christ, it not only results in our salvation at the very beginning. But it continues to result in us growing and becoming more like Christ and growing in ways that please Him. And so it is an incredible thing. It says in Ephesians 2, 8 to 10, For by grace are ye saved through faith, and that not of yourselves, it is a gift of God. Okay? That is the greatest gift. It's that when you put your faith in Christ. Trusting in him, not in yourself, that he gives you the gift of God. And so our faith is going to be rewarded. Um You know, talking about in Hebrews twelve, one and two it says wherefore seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every way in the early. is sat down on the right hand of the throne of God. He did the will of the Father. He is the example for us. He is who we are to follow after. And the result is is set down on the right hand of the throne of God. Okay? Our faith must be in God. And the rewards are going to come when we stand and God judges us for our works If we're trusting in our own goodness, everything is going to be burned up. It's just going to be wood, hay, and stubble that's all going to be burnt with the heat. But if we do what if we look and see what God says and we say this is real, I'm going to put my faith in what God says he is, then we will end up receiving rewards through that. Are you living for the rewards of heaven through doing works to show to others that your faith is in God? Or are you Okay, I think I w worded that incorrectly. Are you we'll just say are you living for Christ or are you doing works in your own flesh? Uh so many different things here that I would love to show you, but You know, just leave you with this thought, but without faith, without faith, it is impossible to believe God. Faith is what causes you to not fear the threats of men. Okay? If you believe that God is in control of all things, and you're walking after what He says, it doesn't matter what man can do it to me. If your uh your faith ca will cause you to not fear the future. There's a lot of people that are fearful of the future right now. Okay? But you don't need to live in fear. And you can be able to tell other people that they don't need to live in fear. But if you're gonna tell other people not to live in fear, then you better not be living in fear yourself. Okay? You know, be living in fear about your finances, your future, and all the other words that you can think of about that. But your faith needs to be to be in Christ. Faith causes you to overlook wrongs from other people because you know that God will repay. Just leave that in God's hands. Okay? Faith causes you not to doubt the promise of salvation to not doubt the promise of salvation. Without the need for extra signs. This is just something that uh uh many people that were around, okay, they're looking for the signs. They want to have the signs, and that shows that you got salvation, okay? Is your faith in the science or your faith is in that God says, Call upon the name of the Lord and you shall be saved? Okay? You do what the w what the Word of God says and you don't need to have a whole bunch of fireworks and and whatever to be able to prove to you you are now saved. Okay? Faith causes you to give. Faith causes you to pray, because you believe that God will answer. Faith causes you to reject sin because you know that if you live holy then you are living for the world to come not for the things of this world. Okay? Faith will totally change your life. Do you know the Word of God well enough that you know what God wants you to do? If you don't know what to do today, then How are you going to have faith that God's going to to do that, to to work through you, to help you accomplish that? You need to know what is the will of God in Christ Jesus and live according to that. And uh one day our faith is going to be made sight. We need to live uh as seeing that which is invisible