The message on contentment just didn't have peace about uh dealing with that right now, so we don't know when down the The Lord will allow me to to bring that. But uh the message this evening, uh this morning's message was challenging. This evening's message should be comforting Should be I think there's some aspect of it where if we would apply it to ourselves and consider our relationships with one another, uh it could be challenging to us to see how good of a friend we might be. I just went down to Kansas and uh Missouri and Iowa and a bunch of other places on my trip here to see Tim, but uh he served for the summer with Pastor Rogerson um there in Kirksville, Missouri. Pastor Rogerson has been in Kirksville, he went there in two thousand and four. And uh so he's been there just celebrated twenty years pastoring a small church there in Kirksville, Missouri. Uh it's a small town. Uh very you know, they do have a Walmart, but I think I think he said there's like five thousand people in town or six thousand people. I mean it's a small it's a small place especially considering where we're at uh and in Baltimore here. You know we passed out fifty thousand John and Romans and didn't even scratch the surface of uh the area what we have to uh to try and reach Uh and for twenty years he's been bi vocational. He he works a job, uh, and that's how he supports his family, and then he still pastors this church and Runs the ministries and things. But uh he's a good man, been faithfully serving the Lord all these years, but I kind of had a privilege to uh call him friend as well We've known each other many years. Actually, Aaron and myself, we served together as young uh college graduates. We were both on staff. at the church in Kansas. Uh and he served for just a couple of years because he knew he was going to go out into the pastorate, so he came on as an assistant. get a little bit of training, a little bit of preparation, and then was planning to go out and pastor. So he was there uh maybe three years and we were there almost eight years. Um so the time we served together was a little while, but he's got a lot of skills and abilities uh similar to mine, a lot of similar interests. We both are in construction and that kind of stuff Uh but I value his friendship even after all these years getting together uh with him and his wife and family and being able to see them. And uh just today on the way out uh actually um Ken was talking to me, uh, Ms. Rebecca, about your husband and uh the relationship that they had and uh how much uh he meant to him and uh just was he's just was thankful to God for their paths crossing and how God brought them together and he said we just began to talk and our hearts were knit. And uh we began we built a friendship that was close and I was asking him about how you guys met and began to know each other and he described and talked about that, the friendship that was there. And as I pondered and thought about that today and that friendship that he said he had, you know, I said, you know, the Bible says that uh Jonathan and David had a friendship like that. Jonathan and David had a friendship that was strong and close. And I would like you to look at that this evening if you would. Turn to 2 Samuel chapter 1 and verse number 26. 2 Samuel chapter 1 and verse number 26. You know this morning we pretty much just finished up in Sunday school, 1 Samuel. Next Sunday we will get into 2 Samuel and begin to look at the life of David, and then we'll be backing up to see where David enters the scene as a young man. But we see uh David's comments here in 2 Samuel chapter 1 and verse number 26. He says, I am distressed for thee My brother Jonathan, very pleasant hast thou been unto me. Thy love to me was wonderful, passing the love of a woman. David is in this verse lamenting the loss of his dear friend Jonathan. It begins in verse number 17. If you back up there to verse number 17, it says, And David lamented with this lamentation over Saul. and over Jonathan, his son. He was crying for the loss of his dear friend, whom he loved and cared for. And he describes that love and he says that love was wonderful. Let me just say that David and Jonathan had a proper and right relationship. They did not have what some wicked, uh, perverted people would like to say in promotion of their false beliefs that David and Jonathan had a homosexual relationship. They like to look at this and say that, oh, see, that their passing was that the passing the love of a woman. And so it is like that. And they try and use that to try and support this thing. I want you to know that God doesn't pull any punches. And God is very clear. And when David was in sin, God looked at him and said, David, you're in sin. You did wrong. And the Bible is very clear, beloved, that homosexuality is a sin. It's an abomination. It's wrong. There is no way to justify it or say it's okay. And What I'm saying is that had David been in a relationship such as that, God would have pointed it out. And God would have said, David, this is sin, just like he did with Bathsheba. This is sin and you you've got to get it right. Their relationship was one of a close friendship, a bond that they have One commentator said regarding this description of passing the love of a woman, if you know uh anything about the life of David and the relationships that he had with several different women you know that he had some pretty poor luck in that field. Uh that the ladies that he ended up being with were not faithful to him or were not faithful to God. Uh in they had many areas of conflict and problems. And The commentator said it quite it could be quite literally him describing the love that he had with Jonathan, that Jonathan was faithful to him as a friend all the way to the end. unlike the ladies that he knew in his life who weren't faithful to him until the end. And so in that description he maybe say he was passing that It could be one explanation for why he described the relationship that way, but I want you to know and be very clear that it was not because the relationship was an ungodly relationship. So David here describing the loss of his dear friend, I can picture him standing in the palace or on a wall there, overlooking the city or the gardens. He may be up there at dusk looking down upon the fields where he and Jonathan once learned how to shoot their bow and arrows. He may have been looking down over at the spot where Jonathan came to him and took off his robe and put it on him and took off his sword and gave it to him and declaring to him his desire to protect him and care for him, even though his own father wanted to kill him. He could have been looking down on the scene and pondering or thinking about the time that David protected him from his father. Jonathan's father who wanted to kill him. David cries and laments the fact that Jonathan was dead. Jonathan, who risked his own life and became an advocate for David, even to his own dad. With all of that said, he said, Hey, thy love to me was wonderful. I said it this morning and One of the times that I spoke, Brother Garland this morning said to me, I don't know how you keep it all straight in your head, uh preaching you know all these different messages on the same day, I said, I don't know either. It's got to be God because it's certainly he's like, yeah, you just went from Sunday school, now you're going to the morning service. So I don't know what service it was, but I was talking about the value of a friendship. Must have been in Sunday school, probably talking about Jonathan here But uh the value of a loyal friend cannot be overstated. A friend that loves you is going to be faithful to you as a friend uh through it all. We are in a very throwaway society today. And people want to just throw away their friends. They just want to write them off and say, uh, I've got friends on online that I can talk to. I don't need to talk to you anymore and and just throw away society where people aren't investing in their relationships. Well, Jonathan David had a powerful friendship. The divide the Bible has a lot to say about friendship. Job 6. 14 says to him that is afflicted, pity should be showed from his friend. This friend should come alongside him. Proverbs 17, 17, a friend loveth at all times. A friend's going to love you when things are going good and when things are going bad. A friend's going to love you when you're up and when you're down and when you're on top and when you're in the dips of And you need somebody to help carry you, a friend loveth at all times. Proverbs 1824 says, A man that hath friends must show himself friendly. There is a friend that sticketh closer. than a brother. We know that Jesus Christ is that friend that's just closer than a brother. There is a lot about the relationship of Jonathan, if you think about the typology here, uh Jonathan would be um that picture of Jesus Christ and the love that he had and David would be the a picture of the saint, the believer And uh we'll see some of those things as we're walking through this tonight, and I draw the correlation or application about Christ's love for us. Proverbs 27:10 says, Thine own friend and thy father's friend forsake not. We shouldn't be so quick to forsake our friends. John 15, 13, greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends. That picture of the sacrificial love of a friend is a picture of Christ's love for us. It truly is wonderful. I hope that you feel the love that Christ has for you is truly wonderful. We see here, first of all, that love will give. Love will give. Jonathan means gift from God. Jonathan was a friend, he was a gift from God. Is it not God's own son that is a gift given out of love for you and I For God so loved the world that he gave. In Galatians 2. 20, he says, the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. Love is going to give. God knew you, and yet God loved you. That's the amazing thing There's nobody in here that knows me any better than this lady over here. And the fact that she still loves me. I mean, how could I not love her? I mean, amen. I mean fact is she knows me that well and she still loves me. But think about this, beloved. God knew you. When he was on the cross, you were on his mind. He knew you, and yet he loved you. He knew exactly what kind of a wretched, worthless sinner we would be, yet he loved us and gave himself for us. I ask you tonight, are you an organ donor? I don't you don't have to answer it doesn't you whether you are or aren't. I'm an organ donor. I I figure I figure if I can give my organs to somebody and and maybe somebody that's not saved yet would have an opportunity to get saved before they die. Or maybe somebody that's saved would have a few more years to hey This old body's gonna just rot away in the grave. It's gonna turn to dust. There's not nothing here that's gonna be of any use to to the to the worms. So if it can be a help to somebody then then I'm all for it. Go ahead and and use it. You know, uh I'm not gonna need it. Amen. Uh God's gonna put me back together in heaven so I'm not worried about it. So I've been an organ donor for for many, many years. And uh but you know something, beloved, to Give my organs away after I'm dead is really not that much of a sacrifice. Well, I'm done with them, I guess. If you can use them, go ahead. You know, it's not that much of a sacrifice to say, well I'm no longer here, so you can go ahead and have it. But what about giving your organs away right now? My father-in-law gave away one of his kidneys You know, in all actuality, you don't have to have both of them. But of course, if one of yours fails, you don't have a backup if you gave it away But he he he he gave it away to a friend that needed it. He's like, well, I've got one good one got to spare, you can have it. And uh so he gave it to a friend. That's the kind of a person he is, very giving person. You know, Jonathan gave And he loved David. We could turn back and see where this all began. Would you turn to 1 Samuel chapter 18? 1 Samuel chapter 18, we see the relationship begin here and how God put them together. The Bible says he knit their hearts one with the other. We say in 1 Samuel chapter 18 and verse number 1. And it came to pass when he had made an end of speaking unto Saul that The soul of Jonathan was knit with the soul of David. And Jonathan loved him as his own soul. That's a pretty high love to love somebody as much as you love yourself. But I want you to know that this love here was initiated by Jonathan. As we think about the typology here between Christ and us, Jonathan loved him. As his own soul. You know, first John tells us that we loved him because why? He first loved us. The love was initiated first from Christ unto us. It was a love that came from him to us. It was undeserved. David wasn't bringing anything to the table. Here you have a prince. An heir to the throne, the child of a king, who had all the rights and privileges of the of the kingdom and and had uh wealth and power and notoriety and and everything that you could look for. He had it all and he was bringing all of that, but here's David A shepherd boy who didn't even have his own sheep. He was caring for his father's sheep. He didn't bring anything to the relationship. Can I remind you, beloved, that you and I didn't bring anything to the relationship for Christ. Here he was, the Son of God Himself, the creator of the universe, and He came to us and loved us even though we didn't deserve it, even though we had nothing to offer Him. But God committed his love toward us. And while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Jesus gave himself in sacrifice for us. We see that kind of sacrificial love from Jonathan unto David as well as we look at verse number four in chapter 18 there, 1 Samuel chapter 18, verse number 4, it says, and Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was upon him, and gave it to David, and his garments, even to his sword, and to his bow and to his girdle. You know, I could think about somebody else that was robed in righteousness. And he took his righteous robe off and gave it to you and I. Philippians two, six through eight says, Who being in the form of God thought it not robbery to be equal to God, but made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of man, and being found in the fashion of his man, he humbled himself, and became obedient unto death even. The death of the cross. Jesus, he who knew no sin, became sin for us that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. Jesus took that robe of righteousness off and clothed us with it. Us who were wicked and undone. Who had nothing to offer him, but he sacrificed it all for us. I wonder, would you sacrifice for a friend? Or what would you sacrifice for a friend? You know, I talked about being an organ donor. You know, 76% of Americans uh believe that it is a good thing. They they did a query and they asked at least ten people. No, I don't know. I don't know how many they asked us you know, Pew Research or somebody like that. They did it, and they they they did it. They found 76% of Americans believe being an organ donor is a good thing and that people ought to do it. But do you know in all actuality less than 20% of Americans actually are organ donors? There's a big difference between saying, oh yeah, I would sacrifice for you. And actually doing it. And actually going out of your way to be a friend that's willing to sacrifice for another friend. Being the kind of friend that is willing to take your own robe off and clothe somebody else. This is the kind of love that Jonathan had in the picture for us tonight. Is the love that Jesus Christ, who had it all and had no cause or reason to love us, but he loved us and he took his robe of his righteousness off and he clothed us with it Not only will love give, but love will commit. We see in 1 Samuel 18 and verse number 3. Then Jonathan and David made a covenant. Because he loved him as his own soul. They made a covenant one with another. They made some promises to each other, and I don't know what kind of pinky swear they agreed to. I don't know what it was they decided they were going to do for one another. They stood there and said, listen, I'm going to be a friend to you till the end, no matter what happens. David probably said, Well you know your your your dad's already thrown a javelin at me once and and he may do it again and Jonathan says don't worry I'm going to stand with you no matter what. I don't know what the covenant was, but they made some promises to one another that they kept all the way till the end by the testimony of David. I wonder how many of us are keeping our promises to our friends. It's sad in today's world there are many who aren't even keeping their promises to their family, to their mates. They stood at an altar once and said, until death doeth part. I'll love you forever. And then it gets hard. Life circumstances come and people get old and bald They they put on some weight. I saw somebody, not Brother Rogerson, trying to think who it was. I saw somebody this week that I hadn't seen in like 20 years. I don't remember who it was. The first thing they walk through the door, the first thing he says is, man, you lost all your hair It's good to see you too, brother. Appreciate that encouragement, amen. Hey, but uh some of us look better bald. It's not saying much, I didn't beforehand, amen. But they made some promises to one another and they kept them all the way till the end. Beloved, what kind of a commitment do we have one to another? Aren't you glad tonight for the promises of God? Not only has he made th there's somewhere I I think it was uh John R. Rice that I was reading that said there's 3,000 promises in the in the book. I think that's what he said. And I'm going for memory off the top of my head, which I shouldn't be doing. So don't quote me on that. But uh You know, the promises, every one of them, God hasn't failed in one of them. In Hebrews 10. 23, he says, let us hold fast our profession of faith without wavering, for he is faithful that promised. He is faithful that promise. In 1 Kings 8:56, he said, Blessed be the Lord that giveth rest unto his people Israel, according to all that he promised. There hath not failed one word of all his good promises. Not one word. Not only has God promised us many, many things, but God has kept his promise. Not one word of his promises has failed. Now let me remind you tonight that many of God's promises are conditional. We we like to talk about the promise, but we forget to mention the condition. And many of them are very conditional. They the the promise just like God said to Saul, if he would be obedient and follow after him, that God would establish his kingdom forever. But Saul didn't do that. You see, he didn't meet the condition And so God said, okay, the kingdom's going to be taken away from you, and I'm going to give it to somebody who's after my own heart. You see, beloved, there's condition, promises. in in the book, many verses. The condition is found, and many promises are found in the same verse with the condition. The condition and the promise are in the same verse. You can look those up, condition, promises, verses, all through the scriptures. God tells us you can ask what you will and it will be done unto you. We like to talk about prayer and say, hey, we can come to God and come boldly to the throne of grace and ask what you will and it will be done unto you. But we forgot to read the condition. He says, if ye abide in me and my words abide in you, then Condition? Promise. Then ye can ask what ye will, and it will be done unto you. You see, we're not going to be asking amiss, we're not going to be asking to consume things upon our own lust if we are walking with God and we're abiding with Him and we're letting Him direct and lead us You know, we'll be asking for the right things. And he says, hey, if you abide in me and my words abide in you, you may ask what you will, and it will be done unto you. So we can't forget about the conditions, although we are are pleased and thrilled of the many, many promises. That God has, the commitments that He's made to us, we need to remember the condition and make sure we're fulfilling it. Thirdly, I want you to see that love will intercede. Love will go to bat for a friend. Love will go do what he can for another. We see in 1 Samuel chapter 19, verses 4 and 5. Jonathan goes to his father. You know his father wanted to kill him. His father wanted him dead. We talked about that this morning in Sunday school. But Jonathan goes before his father, who was known to have violent outbursts. And he says, you know what? I'm not ashamed of my friend David. And he says in 1 Samuel 19, verse number 4, and Jonathan spake good of David unto Saul his father. And he said unto him, Let not the king king sin against his servant, against David, because he hath not sinned against thee, and because his works have been to thee word very good. For he did put his life in his hand and slew the Philistine. And the Lord wrought a great salvation for all Israel. Thou sawest it, and did rejoice. Wherefore then wilt thou sin against innocent blood to slay David without a cause? He went to bat for David. He interceded for him. He was unashamed of David. I tell you something that's truly amazing. God, Jesus, goes to the Father and intercedes for you and I. The fact of the matter is, is that Jesus Christ has every single right and cause to be ashamed of me, Caleb Batrell. But the Bible tells me that he goes before his father, unashamed of me, and declares to his father That I have been justified, why, not because of who or what I am, but because of his shed blood that has covered my sins, that I have Been forgiven, and the Bible says he is the one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus, that he goes, and the Bible says that he is our advocate before the Father. He has every reason to be ashamed and to leave Caleb a trail and to stop arguing on his behalf and stop carrying my needs before the Father. Yet he still loves me and he goes to the Father on my behalf. What an amazing thing that God does that for me. There couldn't be a more unworthy vessel. Yet God, Jesus Christ, carries my needs to the Father. 1 John 2, verse 1 says, My little children, these things have I written unto you that ye sin not. And if any man sin, We have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ Even when you sin and you fail and you let Jesus down, the one who died for you and forgave you of your sin, the one who's doing all he can to help you succeed in your Christian life, when we let him down, he still is our advocate for the Father. Just driving through Kansas late at night. Caleb and I are talking I rented Alexis and uh that was the cheapest one. Cheapest car, literally was the cheapest one. Uh I got it through Toro. But it was a comfortable ride and it cruised along nicely. Speed limit was 65 And I was going 62. We're just talking. We're driving. I see an officer. We're driving. And he flashes his lights. I look back and I keep on driving. And uh he whips his car around and comes up on me like I was running from him. I mean he was coming up hot and fast and his his sirens were on and he came up to the window uh all belligerent and mad And he's like, what are you doing? You know, what what's going on here? Any particular reason you're driving so fast? I said, well speed limit was sixty-five and I looked down at my speedometer and I was under 65 and he says, yeah, I clocked you at 62. I said, okay. And he said, well, why didn't you slow down? You saw I was sitting there, you saw my car blacked out on the side of the road. I said I did, but if I'm under the speed limit, why would I slow down? He's like, no, no. The speed limit changed right in front of my car. There was it went from 65 to 50. You were going 62 and a 50. I said, well, I didn't see that sign. I thought it was 65. I was driving 62. I thought I was under the speed limit. Why would I slow down? He did not understand that. He thought I was arguing with him. I was trying to explain. Finally, I was just like, okay, whatever. He wrote me a ticket for 169 bucks. And uh I went back to the hotel room, or where were we staying? Oh, we were staying in an Airbnb that my sister provided. And uh so we were staying there. And uh I went back there and got online and Tried to look up some advocates in Tonganoxie, Kansas. Somebody that could go to court for me I mean it's going to cost me more to fly there and argue this thing in court, so I'm like, well maybe I could find somebody to go and be my advocate. Somebody that could go and stand in my stead and argue on my behalf and and You know, if the uh maybe the police officer wouldn't show up and they'll throw it out and I won't have to pay that. Uh but the lawyer's probably gonna cost more than than the ticket anyway. I don't but I was just irritated I mean let's be reasonable. I mean come on he knew he was parked right across he said right in front of my car. Well I was looking at him when I was driving by that section. I wasn't looking around. I was looking at him, so I missed a sign, never did see the sign change And uh we notice that those little towns, they change those speed limits a lot, and they do that on purpose to try and get some money out of the tourist, you know. What's crazy is I was taking those back roads so I could avoid seven dollars in tolls. 169 bucks later I'm like, that only adds ten minutes to the trip. I'll take the back roads. Anyways, uh I was looking for an advocate, but you know God is our advocate. Jesus is our advocate, even when we are guilty. Even when we have done wrong and we know that we've done wrong, we come to Jesus and he argues on our behalf. That's the love that Christ has for us. And here's the crux of it. We look at this and we think about the love that Christ has for us, and this is phenomenal. He loved us and we didn't deserve it, and we haven't done anything to earn it. We stand guilty and he still argues on our behalf. He sacrificed for us and he clothed us in his righteousness when we were a sinner. And that's why Paul says, it is the love of Christ that constraineth me. It is the love that Christ has for me that just drives me to do my best for him. My best might not be very good, but I ought to be giving my best to the one who loves me that much. Whatever that is, do our best for that friend that sticketh closer than her brother. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?