Okay, well we're gonna turn to the 63rd Psalm, Psalm 63, and I was looking forward to seeing everybody. We have a uh h history of coming and going in here and I uh actually have uh I'm gonna leave uh prayer cards and uh if you've been collecting these you have quite a collection in And this one's the most nostalgic because I look as old as I am. And um when I first started this mission work and first deputation, we uh we were still in our thirties And uh to to just not uh make my wife embarrassed, I'll just kind of generalize and say we're not in our forties And um anyway, uh I hope you laughed at that. I have no idea. That's the hard part about this. And you know what I was thinking about, I don't have a real vivid imagination, but you never look so good as you do today And um I'm just kidding about that. I have no idea uh if you're sitting there in your pajamas and so forth and uh he's there. Is that better? Okay, thank you, Grandma. And uh this morning we're going to do two things at once. We're going to go through the first eight verses of this chapter. And I love the Psalms, and Psalm 63 is my favorite psalm. And it became so back when I was about 15 years old. And it is the very psalm that really kept me right with the Lord through high school. The Lord called me to preach when I was fourteen. And uh so this means a lot to me. And then at the same time we're going to talk through what the Lord has done in these ministries, um showing some pictures uh uh throughout as I if you want to bring that slide show up and uh on the on the uh TVs there, the monitors. Okay, so let's look at the verses. We're going to read the verses 1 through 8 here. And O God, thou art my God. Early will I seek thee. My soul thirsteth for thee, my flesh longeth for thee, in a dry and thirsty land where no water is, to see thy power and thy glory, so as I have seen thee in the sanctuary Because thy loving kindness is better than life. My lips shall praise thee. Thus will I bless thee while I live. I will lift up my hands in thy name. My soul shall be satisfied as with morrow and fatness. And my mouth shall praise thee with joyful lips. When I remember thee upon my bed and meditate on thee in the night, watches, because thou hast been my uh my help, therefore in the shadow of thy wings will I rejoice. Verse 8, my soul followeth hard after thee. Thy right hand upholdeth me. Let's have a word of prayer. Father, I pray that you bless as we get into this lesson. I pray that it would be a blessing and a help to the people. And uh pray God that uh the distractions uh at home in a different setting would not uh keep the message uh from being heard. And I pray that uh a seriousness would set upon our hearts. concerning this very important topic. We thank you, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. And I appreciate there's a lot of churches. Everybody has to do what the Lord leads them to do. I appreciate keeping things going even in a adjusted situation like this and the reason is is this is the most important thing that's happening in in town, any town, is what happens at our local churches. And uh I mean that with all my heart. It's more important than a heart surgery. If we minister to people's physical bodies and they die without Christ, they die eternally lost. But yet if we can see people come to church and hear the gospel and grow because the demise of a Christian life, those that walk away from the Lord is horrible And it's uh very heartbreaking to watch that happen. All of our ministry we have been uh aware of those types of things. So praise God that your church will still, as we'll say today, plow through this and go on And uh for those that didn't see it yet the Skidster was a real relief to the project outside today. So and what time do you want me to be finished in the rush? I never asked what time We're going to get going here. In verse number one, I this is one of our favorite passages in the whole Bible. Oh God, there's a pastor that told me and I like it. He said you need to put the O back into your prayers. And uh we have a tendency to go to God in a casual way in our culture and say, God, here are the things that I need. You know, we list them. I need this, this, this, and this, and and God I'm in a hurry. So if you'll please answer my request in a hurry. And and it's a very disrespectful way. And rather we should instead of coming to God and telling us telling him what we need We should go to God on our faces before Him and say, Oh God, what do you want from me? A different perspective. He says, Thou art my God, not just the pastor's God, but individual. Christianity can be summarized as a relationship with Christ individually and not a list of things that we do. And if what you're doing doesn't come from that relationship, it's probably got the wrong motive attached to it. Thou art my God. Early will I seek thee, early in life. I mean, remember now thy creator in the days of thy youth. Early in the day we should spend time with the Lord. I hope you have a determination that in this calendar year there wouldn't be one single morning. You wouldn't You'd miss that you would miss your time with the Lord spent with him. It says here, My soul thirsteth for thee. The whole world is thirsting for Jesus. The entire world. They don't know that, but there's nothing in the world that will satisfy the longing in the heart. My soul thirsteth for thee And then he says, My flesh longeth for thee, which is in the Old Testament would have been talking about his body, not his earthly carnal nature. That's a New Testament concept So imagine what David's experienced. He's gone down to the sanctuary and he's seen the glory of God and he says, hey, my soul is thirsting for that, and even my physical body is longing for my prayer closet. And that's a step that is a challenge for us as Christians in our busy lives to come to the place where our closeness to God is similar to this. It's an incredible thought. And uh this whole psalm is full of those that I think we could preach on each one. And it says, uh longeth for thee in a dry and thirsty land uh where no water is. Today there's plenty of snow and our land is blessed with lots of water. But spiritually we're starving and we're thirsty. And uh look at verse number two, and this is really if you had the outline, I have a outline to give you And uh, if you want to write at the top of your page, those that are here have the outline, and they will see that verse number two is really the title of our outline, to see thy power. To see thy power. And to see God at work in our lives. I have a concern in modern, in our day Christianity, where Christians are raising children in homes with the Word of God plastered all over our walls. promises, precious promises from the Lord that He has given to us promises of His actual presence in our life. But to the individual young person growing up, they grow up with a without a reality of that. In an example, we have the promise of God's supply, but my God shall supply all your need. And uh we at least when I grew up that was on the wall of our house. But when the problems come and the and the and the financial crisis hits a home, a lot of times they run to the credit card. and not running to God in prayer and watching God and the opportunity for God to intervene and show Himself in a way where the children could know that that wasn't a coincidence that actually God did keep his promise. And without this kind of reality of God's promises in your home, kids can grow up benign to the actual word of God. They they look at it as platitudes, like those are nice trite statements. But not necessarily promises where I can anchor my soul and a foundation for your life. And uh there's a disconnect that happens to see thy power David said, I went down to the sanctuary. He said, So as I have seen thee in the sanctuary, I've seen the power of God. In this uh we have six points to discuss. Uh those that have an outline, you just fill in the blanks. But At home, you're going to write down point number one is the word the past. Past, P-A-S T. And notice the tense at the end of verse number two I have seen. the in the sanctuary. And this will be our longest point, but we'll draw your attention to things that the Lord did in our ministry. And I'm going to go very quickly to summarize if you go to the next slide you'll see that we started our ministry there at uh Fairhaven Baptist Church and uh working there I went there in ninety two Debbie's dad was the pastor and So Debbie grew up there. If you'll go to that Brother Glover, if you can go to that next slide, and uh you'll see that. And uh but in nineteen ninety-four I joined the church staff and started working in the ministry, making this the middle of our thirty-second year of full-time ministry. Uh and uh we thank God for that. But in the uh th the different things that we've done uh across the years, if you go to the next slide, one of our favorite things is the bus ministry. And we were in Gary, Indiana, those I was 20 years serving the Lord, and um we watched God do some things that can't be explained. And when in a drug culture in a in a serious inner city difficult place uh you can see God bring drug addicts to know the Lord and become clean. to see some prostitutes reclaim their purity through the Spirit of God and and things that are beyond I'm not talking about just filling a bus for numbers, I'm talking about watching God touch people's lives. And then uh after many years of that, uh the Lord took us to Central America. If you go to the next slide there, to Belize, and uh I think you remember this now, that if you were in this church for any length of time Uh and uh you know you'll notice you remember that you supported us. And when I went there I was just scared that God would bless a lot of people, but why would he bless me? I'm just a cops kid from Cleveland, Ohio. I uh remember the first service and it's pictured there uh in that room. That was a picture I took right before the uh first church service on a Sunday night. And I paced out front saying, Lord, I don't think I would come to hear myself preach, but I'm asking you to please send somebody. And uh God gave us five people and um that night and three of them I preached the gospel and three of them trusted the Lord as their Savior. And uh then the next Sunday morning for the next uh picture if you'll go to that And uh we had about twenty-five people on a Sunday morning. And it was in that service preaching the gospel, and we had a family there that had come for the first time. I didn't know their history. But uh the teenager that's thirteen and the green shirt, Gregory uh responded in the invitation and his dad uh after I got to the other room to show Gregory how to get saved, his dad came over And a very shy man, you know, he came in and said, Pastor, I think I belong in here too. And the two of them got saved. In fact, that picture there is just moments after they had prayed and asked the Lord to save them. And they became faithful immediately and uh served the Lord. Uh and uh God can use people if they'll be faithful. Sunday morning, Sunday night, midweek service, and uh we did Thursday night service like you do here and And uh God used all of that, and six years later, that same individual, uh, Pastor Blanco, became the pastor of that church. If you'll go to the next slide, there are things that uh you'll see On the next picture, there you go. And grand opening. I'm going to go fast through some of this. God used this grand opening. We had 78 beletians and 12 of them received the Lord as their Savior that day. Next slide, please. And then we baptized, we baptized there in the the uh the right in the ocean. But right in that city, your your pastor knows he and his wife uh were there for several weeks for us at one time and and uh know that it's a river delta, the entire city is on a swamp and uh so it's the mutt the water is not clear like the rest of the Caribbean, it's very dirty. We baptized right in that spot uh for four years. until they put up a sign right there that said no swimming crocodiles. Right in that very spot. We never saw a crocodile there till after they put it up and Except one time I was baptizing and a dolphin swam by and I thought that was pretty neat, but at least we think it was a dolphin. We're not really sure at this point. Uh but it could have been. And uh but the entire peninsula is crocodile infested. But you'll notice the other picture there with the uh first vacation Bible school that marks the time th uh the you there you are. Uh that we uh hit a hundred people in the service uh first time. Three month church was three months old and then One of the keys is getting them to go soul winning, and we taught a lot on a lot of teaching when you start a church, teaching a lot of new Christians and teaching them to reach their own. If you go to the next picture, you'll see uh We believe in the bus ministry and down there they have a transportation issue and to this day they still run those buses and uh they have um and they run them for all the services because it's an issue with the people they can't afford their own transportation Next picture. This is what the nursing home service. Next picture, and you'll see the Bible Institute. We taught and uh God used that. I thought I was going to be in Belize for all my life. And uh sooner or later the Lord started to move our hearts, and I was glad that I had already been in a Bible institute teaching the people. Go to the next picture Uh music was always a part of the church and we thank God for uh the music and Debbie and uh uh Sharon, my daughter, gave a lot of lessons down there, and as a result, uh we left their six church pianists that could play. And we're thankful for all that God did, but right about that time after six year five years, we left after just the end of our sixth year, uh, but the Lord started working on our heart about starting another church. And uh so far in the ministry it's been the hardest thing we ever did to leave beliefs. Uh much harder to leave than to go. Uh but the Lord led us to go and start another church. And about that time, Pastor Blanco, when I told him, he said, Pastor, how do you know when you're called to preach? I said, my answer was, you know when you're called to preach when you know you have to or you can no longer be right with God. And uh he went and fasted and prayed, and uh he came back and said, Pastor, I know God's called me to preach. He went and fasted and prayed another week about being the pastor of that church, and he came back and said Pastor, I'm afraid of failure. And I appreciate his humble spirit. And he said, I'm afraid of failure. His college degree is in agriculture, not in theology, and he's he's got a big job ahead of him And I said, Well, I know it'll be difficult and he said, I'm afraid of failure, but he followed that with saying, I'm afraid of God even more I believe God's called me to do this. And so he became their pastor in December of 2017. We left right after that, right before we finished the sixth year of their And uh Pastor Blanco now has been the pastor for longer than I have, uh longer than we served there. And next month we'll celebrate our fourteenth anniversary Sunday. We'll go back down for that. And uh but after this, you can go to the next picture. You'll see some pictures of their service. Mrs. Blanco, a very capable lady, pastor serving the Lord And uh they've been doing a great job. Next picture. Then the Lord led us out to the west. And they're in a Mormon community, just two and a half hours north of Salt Lake City. The Lord led us to start the Mountain Valley Baptist Church. It's a valley surrounded by small mountains. The tallest one is just over 10,000 feet. The bottom of the valley is 4,500 feet above sea level And uh but we just did the same thing. If you go to the next picture, you'll see pictures of the area. Uh university is in that town. Next picture. And uh you'll see there are 40 of these Mormon churches in that valley and uh ward buildings they call them, and then they built a temple there while we were there. And next picture. We did the same thing. We had a grand opening and uh we had 1,100 square feet. That's all we had, which is smaller than your platform up here. And we crammed 50 people in there for that grand opening. We later moved to a little bit bigger storefront. But then go to the next picture and you'll see this building. What the Lord did. It's an amazing story. I'll try to summarize it quickly. I was out knocking on doors and uh in an apartment complex and I accidentally knocked on the door to the uh maintenance room And the landlord was in there and uh he was a he's a saved man. I di I thought he was a Mormon gonna run me out, but uh he said, No, I'm a Christian, I wanna know what what you're doing And uh so he said, I used to go to the Presbyterian church before they stopped preaching the gospel, and that's the building you're looking at. And uh he said, I know they're dwindling. This was in 2020 And he said they're um they're probably gonna have to sell their building. And he said, My son in law who was there is a real estate agent. The two of you ought to s get together, see if you can get that building for your church And uh so I was excited. We exchanged information, I drove over to the building and I walked around the building and I was just looking up at all the bricks. I said Good grief, this thing is like uh eighteen eighteen thousand square feet. I don't even know if we could ever afford this. This is crazy. It's worth millions And it is, and we uh we have to uh insure it today for four point three million dollars. It's a big building, it's twenty-two thousand square feet And uh, you know, I I just kind of forgot about it. I said, well that was nice, it was a good thought, I laughed and left and forgot And about a month later the uh real estate agent called me and said, uh the building's on a pocket listing and we want you to come and see it. And uh so Debbie and I went around and looked at the building and on our tour I was just amazed at how beautiful the building was and everything but You know, it's just way out of reach. We had just started a building fund. We had forty five hundred dollars to our name and they wanted half a million, which was a steal for the building. It was crazy price. But w we only had forty five hundred dollars, that w might as well have been millions. And um so but at the end of the tour I ended up in the auditorium and I was sitting in the third row, and the auditorium seat's about three hundred people, and I was sitting there and the Holy Spirit spoke to me and He said, This is where I want you, so you better pursue this. And uh the Holy Spirit does that now and then to a preacher. And uh you may not understand that sometimes, you know, not in everything, but in some every once in a while God will speak to your pastor in a way It doesn't make a lot of sense, but it's the work of God. So I went and told the church. We on Saturday we took the church over there. We were, as far as our membership, we were only about 35 people. We went around the building, went on a tour, and I could hear the men talking and they were saying, Man, we can't afford to even pay the utilities in this building. What are we going to do with all this space? And uh I sort of agreed with them, but I knew the Holy Spirit had spoken to my heart. And we got down to the auditorium and again I really just wanted to say what 35 puny voices would sound in that huge room. We borrowed their piano and in their liberal songbooks we found It Is Well With My Soul. And we sang all four stanzas, and at the end of that fourth stanza, all the ladies were crying, and all the men were pretending not to. And God had spoken to their hearts. The next night we were in church. I asked for a vote. I had a little plan to put together how to raise $150,000 in twelve weeks. I said, I don't know if it'll work, but I believe God's in it. And they voted unanimously to follow their pastor. And the next morning, uh I made some arrangements, made an offer. We had $4,500 to our name, and I I put offered to put $150,000 down. And uh so I did what I said. I put our house for sale. We were going to give the house equity to the church Uh we contacted uh our people and they raised that forty five hundred to thirty-five thousand sacrificial giving. Of course that was none of that was enough to reach the goal. And I went in my office and I wrote five emails to pastors and Said, uh, would you consider taking a love offering? And I came out of there, I told my wife, I said, There's no way I can't keep this up. These pastors all have their own buildings to take care of, buses to run and ministries, and here I am bugging them for a love offering. And my wife was encouraging me, but during that time I had a response from one of those five, and one pastor in Virginia said, uh, Pastor, I have uh $10,000 to give your building And I shouted real loud, and I went in and wrote fifty more emails. And your church was among those that responded and gave uh gave to our ministry there and uh what happened over the next twelve weeks was the most humbling, most touching time of our lives where we can describe God opened up the Red Sea in our church, walked. Clearly on dry ground. And almost every day I got a note from somebody. I've got five thousand. I've got twenty five hundred. I've got one church at thirty-six thousand dollars and On and on and on, and amazing stories. One guy in our nursing home ministry gave a thousand and probably the most touching was that Pastor Blanco found a thousand dollars to give, and that's an enormous amount of money for them And after it was all done in 12 weeks, it just stopped. And instead of $150,000, we had $374,000 in cash. And God had moved. We put $250,000 down, moved in the building, and we had uh a great uh third anniversary Sunday. Why don't you go to the next slide? Here's a picture of the library, our chapel room, that's not the auditorium That's where I teach the Bible Institute. Go to the next picture, and you'll see the kitchen and the lunchroom, and that's a vacation Bible school year before last that they were having. Next picture. There's the auditorium on our third anniversary, had 194 people. Everybody in town knows that building. It's the most beautiful place in the city. And uh so it's been a great draw. I put it on the brochure, I put it everywhere. And uh we went out and knocked on doors and the church went over a hundred and it's never come back. And people have been saved. Turn to the next picture. You'll see I put up there there are 1250 pipes in that pipe organ. It's an amazing building. And uh what God has used that to do, go to the next picture. You'll see it's people. People that God has changed their lives, won them to the Lord. Uh that fall we we uh went independent. We wrote all our churches and said we don't need support anymore. And uh so the church wasn't even four years old and uh we did that with just having a balance of two hundred and fifty thousand dollars. And on the first of December of twenty I guess twenty-one, I was opening the building and I went through uh, you know, pulled the cover off the piano like I always do and clean up and look. And uh I went in the office and I realized I forgot to open the uh mail from Friday. And I opened up one thing and it uh was a was a big envelope and it was an anonymous check for another quarter million dollars to pay off the building And uh so we had ourselves a fun time uh burning the mortgage that month in the coldest day of the year. It was about ten below zero, and we had 170 people at church and had a great time and I'm saying I those people that were there that watched that happen, they're always talking about what God had done. in getting us this far. If you look at your outline, notice what it says, and I'm trying to hurry to see thy power in verse 2. Because I have seen the past. God wants every one of our families, every individual to know God in a way that He is answering the needs of your life, no matter what it is that God has or what your needs are, God has everything that you would ever need. In verse number three, you'll notice point number two. Uh there it says, uh it's because thy loving kindness is better than life. So point number two is the pleasure, the pleasure. What God will do is better than life. And I'll tell you those 35 people that went through that experience. I have sometimes come in the building and they're introducing a new person and the person says, What a beautiful place. And they'll start telling them the story of how we got there, and they'll see me, Pastor, come finish the story and tell them their lives will never be the same. And when you have something to talk about that God has done, whether it be in this church and the way that this building came about and the founding of this church and going forward, but it'll be in your bus ministry or in your family or whatever you need. You'll always look back on that and say, the best things in my life were not times when I had money. Or times when I had fun in this world, but the best things were when I saw God do something. And He wants to. I know He wants to do a great thing. And uh point number three is the word praise. The word praise. So you have the past, the pleasure. Point three is the praise. And notice in verse four It says, thus, because of God's great loving kindness that is better than life, he says, thus will I bless thee while I live. And uh you'll praise the Lord and you'll reflect on it and y you'll say, Hey, I want to tell the world what God has done and the souls that have been saved over these years and it's the um I Debbie neither Debbie nor I wanted to go on deputation again and uh but the joy of being around is reporting to the churches that were part of this. These are People that got saved because of your influence and your help and your giving and your praying. And we praise the Lord for what He's done. In point number four, notice the word plenty, the plenty is uh point four, and we get that from verse number five. My soul shall be satisfied. as with marrow and fatness. So what is it that you need? You need a good marriage? God can give that to you. You need to raise godly children. He can do it. And uh he can reclaim even those that are wayward children. And he can save a soul you think will never get saved. And He can fill your bus route. He can reach your family. He can do anything you need for him to do. Because there is no want of power with God. There is no end to his resources. He said, My soul shall be satisfied, and you'll never be satisfied with anything else like you'll be satisfied with Jesus Christ. Point five is the pondering, the pondering. And uh we get from verse number six, when I remember thee upon my bed. So In your moments that you have idle time and time to think, your mind goes back to those times when Jesus stepped in and uh did something that you thought was impossible. And uh I tell you what, it makes you do. It makes you say, God, I I want to see you do it again. I want to see God do something again. Go to that next slide. You'll see uh the picture of my son and his family, and now they've had another son. I have two grandkids now. Uh so God had worked on his heart. Go to the next picture. You'll see that he finished his schooling at our Bible Institute and we ordained him on the other side there. Uh, you know, my my father in law started a church and my dad, he left the police department and he started a church and I've started a couple of churches, so Elijah was planning, I he was looking, where does God want me to start a church? We thought we were sending him to start something. And uh as the Lord began to work on my heart uh the summer before last uh I knew that he was stirring me. I didn't know where t where God wanted me or what God was going to do. But in the process, God made it clear that I was going to Chicago to start a church. And I went to my son and I said, Son, would you pray about being the next pastor? And uh he went away and fasted and prayed. And uh just like Pastor Blanco did and And he came back and said, Dad, I can't believe this, totally opposite, but I believe I'm supposed to be here long term. And last February, a year, almost a year ago, the church voted in Pogatello to have Elijah and unanimously to have Elijah as their next pastor. And then on the seventh anniversary, which was last May, your pastor came and preached for us. And on that day, Elijah became the senior pastor. We had a transfer. The next day, Debbie and I started full-time deputation. God has been blessing and the church is going forward. They've even broken our attendance records since then and and I think it's because of grandkids. They're just going to have a lot of grandkids. Amen. They're going to fill the church. I'm I'm all for that. But we praise the Lord for what He's done. We we think about it. We're grateful for it. And uh in our outline go to the next point, uh the word protection. In verse number 7, because thou hast been my help, therefore in the shadow of thy wings will I rejoice And a lot of times through these things that have happened in life when along with the blessings we get great trials. I think that God does that to purify us, but He doesn't allow the churches to go on without difficulty, but trials attend our way. And it could be health problems or it could be financial problems or problems with people in the church But I have found the protection that you need during life's difficulties is to draw closer to the Lord. Notice in verse 7, because thou hast been my help. Because of all that God has done, you think you don't need any more help, but that's just when the trials are going to come. And thou hast been my help. Therefore, in the shadow of thy wings will I rejoice. So I found that every trial that comes along, the Lord opens his wings, and he gathers us close, and he hides us there. And it's plenty of protection. It's a lot of fun to be right there. So the best place to be is right where God wants you. People have said, Pastor, you're going to Chicago and uh You know, somebody is shot. They had five hundred h shootings last year where somebody was shot. They said, uh, there have been eighty-three this calendar year, and it's only been a few days of January. It's amazing to me how Chicago can be. But God is the protector and he is the guider. It is safe to be right where God wants you to be. Go to the next picture, you'll see. God is leading us to Chicago. Let's go fast through this. Next picture is uh Dia Moody's town. Remember, this is what the town was known for at one time. Turn to the next picture. Billy Sunday was saved there and uh much of his work done in the city of Chicago and next picture. But today it's not known for that. It's known for crime and it's known for homicide and shootings and gangs and riots and And they think the answer, go to the next picture, they think the answer is wokeness. Here's the former mayor, the first lesbian mayor, uh Lori Lightfoot. She was about the most liberal person I'd ever met or an I'm never ever heard of. I've never met her in person, but uh then uh they finally ran her off and they got this guy, Brandon Johnson. I think he might be the only soul in the entire state of Illinois that is more liberal than she is. And uh he's attacking homeschooling and trying to get rid of Christian schools within the city limits. And uh they think the answer is just become more woke. That's gonna help it, but uh that's not the answer. You know what the answer is. Next picture, the answer is the gospel And while I applaud every family that leaves a dangerous place to go raise their kids in a safe environment, I also believe that if we really believe that this Bible's the answer that uh we need to carry this with maybe a hundred preachers going into those places like Chicago and and in California and into the West Coast and all up and down. We need to start evangelizing. It's the answer to every Problem that we have is to go knock on doors and see people saved. And and that's the plan. You say, how are you going to start a church? Well, we have fifty thousand John Romans waiting for us in Chicago. We renting a building and we're raising the funds and on June the fourteenth we're going to have our first Sunday and our goal is to get to fifty thousand doors. uh from the end of April through the beginning of the church in June. Go to the next picture. God is leading us to uh Maybe you can't see too well on this picture. It might be too small, but the city limits is what's pictured in that diagram. And uh the diagram shows 77 neighborhoods. that represent the actual city limits of Chicago and the red one is Portage Park. It's about halfway is you go from uh O'Hare Airport down to the downtown. Go to the next picture, you'll see The top picture is an aerial picture from Portage Park looking back at the downtown area. And then those bottom pictures represent what you see in Portage Park. And in uh Jefferson Park and Irving Park and Dunning and all the places right there, thousands of bungalows in there and uh doors you can knock on and reach and I believe that's what God would have us to do. And so we've rented a building and we're getting charged up. Churches are coming to help us in those weeks preceding the beginning of the church. And we're going there to see God reach people. and uh to build his kingdom through the building of local independent Baptist churches. If you go to the next picture, we'll finish with that and ask you to pray for our family. Because I know that God blessed in beliefs. I don't know how many got saved, but it was hundreds. And uh God blessed in Pocatello. And I want to see God do something again, but I know it'll come by prayer. And uh by evangelizing, yes, but by prayer. So please pray for us. Look at that last verse in our outline in verse number eight. In conclusion, after everything that you have seen God do in your life, after everything that God has, every need that He has met, every soul that has been saved. Every church that has been planted. Somebody asked me, well how many churches do you think you're gonna plant? Well, I don't know. I I'm done telling God that I'm gonna go somewhere and stay. Uh so we'll plant the but I'm committed to this first church. The Heritage Baptist Church is what we're calling it in Chicago, Illinois, committed and as long as it takes, if the Lord allows us to start more churches, praise God. But the key is that after everything we've seen God do, he says in verse 8, My soul followeth hard after thee. Thy right hand upholdeth me. And why wouldn't we have the spirit that says, God, I've seen you in the past. I've seen you work miracles. I've been through trials that the Lord has protected us. and guided us. Uh I've had some things that whether it be physical trials, Debbie going through cancer surgery and finding it not to be cancer. Uh or trials in Belize like one time a man pulled out a machete and came after me and God delivered us, and uh or storms like uh uh the hurricane we had were You know, three or four feet coming through our house of water. And uh through every trial, uh God has always protected us and for his good molded us to draw closer to him. And to prepare us for something more. Something more to serve. Not greater things, but more things. Things that God still wants to be done in this lifetime. So I asked the question, why wouldn't I follow hard after God? And shame on us if we don't Shame on us if we let our Christian life become mundane or laxadaisical. Shame on us if God wants us to do more for him and we're afraid. And I'll tell you, I'm just like Pastor Blanco still. Uh I'm afraid of failure. All of us are. Uh but I know the Word of God and when He speaks. And I know what God can do and I've tasted of it actually And I've known that the goodness of God, and I hope you do too. And I want you to follow hard after. Determine. I want that testimony. That no matter where God wants me, uh what ministry in this church the Lord wants you to participate in, maybe some young people called to the ministry need to Take that step and commit to the calling and say, I know God's work on my heart. I know God wants me to do things for Him. But whatever it is, wherever God wants, whenever God wants, and really at whatever cost, that we would say, God, my soul followeth hard after thee, and thy right hand upholdeth. Me. I know he will. He'll take care of you. And uh so God is blessed to see his power is our purpose and our hope, and we praise the Lord for what he has done. Pastor, do you want me to just close in prayer Okay, and then we'll have a little break before the morning service. Let's pray. We thank you, Lord, for the blessing and the witness of these things that have happened in our life. And uh I know there are a lot of bigger ministries in this world, but Lord, I report what you have done. And in the walk and the pathway that you've led us. The things that you've done, and I know the miracles that you've worked, and the souls that you've saved, the prayers that you've answered. Lord, the long nights of prayer where you have intervened in impossible situations. And I've seen it. Now Lord, I'm asking that it would be a contagious thing that Christians all around that hear that even in our modern times, God, that you want to be part of our lives and to work miracles and do things that nobody can explain, to see great and mighty things which we don't even know yet, that we know not. That God a contagious response among the people of God, that Lord, you would allow people to want you, to search for you, to seek and pursue after you. to follow hard, that we might, Lord, be everything and everywhere in doing what you want us to do, to give, to go, and to be. And that you might at the end get the glory for our lives, knowing that it's all about you anyway. And uh we thank you for the privilege of coming along and seeing what you've done. Now Lord, please do it again, here and all around and even in Chicago. In your name I pray. Amen.