So I'm going to ask you to turn it to James. The book of James is where we're going to begin. The book of James, chapter four. James chapter four, and a familiar passage that we'll look at in James chapter four. The title of the message this morning is Today and Tomorrow. Today and Tomorrow. If you look at the book of James, and I will point you to verse number 13, and that's where we'll begin, and we'll walk through a couple of those verses there. Through verse sixteen. And as we look at this, I want to take s some time this morning and really look at time and and uh time as a as a as a topic. Uh and we'll look at it obviously this time of year. There's a there's a it's a time of reflecting. We're concluding our year. We're we're thinking about uh what twenty twenty five uh dealt and and how we handled those things and looking ahead at twenty twenty six and perhaps some uh for people that are like my daughter and Andrew engage the anticipation that comes with this upcoming year Andrew's also going to be graduating in May, so there's an anticipation that builds up with that. And maybe there's some event in your life that you that you consider and you're looking forward to in 2026. And again, it also takes time where you reflect back on the year and consider uh what the Lord has done and uh maybe uh what how the Lord has has grown you or what the Lord has done in your life. But as we look at this passage, James gives us this idea of some people that are presuming on the time that they've been given. And so as we look at James chapter 4, well if you look at verse 13, we'll walk through uh verse number 16 together as I read it. Follow along in your Bible. It says this. In James chapter 4, verse 13, go to now, ye that say, Today or tomorrow, we will go into such a city and continue there a year and buy and sell and get gain. Whereas ye know not what shall be on the morrow, for what is your life? It is even a vapor that appeareth for a little time and then vanisheth away. For that ye ought to say, if the Lord will, we shall live and do this or that. But now ye rejoice in your boastings, all such rejoicing is evil. So as we look at this concept and considering the idea of today and tomorrow, I want us to first think that, understand that time is the great equalizer. Whether someone in here is a billionaire or a poor college student, whether you're the the CEO of a large, uh great and thriving company, an entrepreneur Or you're a stay-at-home parent, we all have 24 hours in our day. And time plays no favorites. But understand that the bottom line is not how much time one has, but how we utilize it. Some build with that time while others squander that time. The difference that you will find between these two people are is the difference in priorities. One of the things that uh my boss has mentioned to me is that time is the one resource that you can't buy more of or you can't make more of, no matter how rich you are. It's why it is vitally important to treat time as your most valuable resource Your most valuable resources are not financial assets. They're not your talents or abilities. Your most valuable asset is the time that you have. I hope today to give you some of the truths that will help us to put time and put that into perspective of the time that we have left. As we look at this passage, I want you to understand first that time is transient. Time is transient. And so the idea that that word means is that time is going along and passing. Every moment. We don't have any control of time as it passes. As you look at an hourglass and as you look at perhaps sand. You may try to uh uh grab that sand, but those granules of sand are so small that they're falling through your hands, and you can't really take hold of them and and and cling to them and and stop them We don't know what will happen tomorrow. And as we look at this passage, this b these verses here in James say exactly that. They're talking about the these people who said, Hey Today or tomorrow, we're gonna go into this city and we're gonna spend some time there and we're gonna buy, we're gonna sell, we're gonna make a lot of money. And so they have these plans that they've devised. And they're considering that and they're thinking about what this uh this time that they have and how they'll utilize it and how they'll go somewhere else. And they're presuming upon that, but understand that the the exhortation and the truth that that James is pointing out here is that that time that passes, understand that you don't necessarily know what's going to happen tomorrow. The Bible talks about time and the days of our life. This passage mentions it or refers to it as a vapor And so many times when we're given this illustration of life being a vapor, the illustration that we're given is that we we we think of a a breath, when especially now in the cold weather, we see that There's cold outside and and if we walk outside this, we can see our breath as it goes into the air and then it just dissipates. And many times that illustration is what we consider or what is given when we're talking about life being a vapor. This word here that we see in the scripture gives the idea of a mist. of a mist. And so take a moment and think about that. Other places in the scripture, there's one other place where this word is is used. And the idea there is what you would see as a pillar of smoke. Vapors of smoke is the reference in the scriptures. And so consider that as you think of life and as you think of time, it's those the the days that we have are like that smoke that goes up and there's different conditions where that smoke may be visible. You may be able to see it. But it eventually and over time, sometimes faster, given the the right conditions, will just dissipate and disappear That smoke goes away. You may see it for a little while Another comparison would be the idea of fog. If there is uh a day perhaps that has extreme temperature changes where you have uh uh maybe hot on one day and it cools off a lot at night or the other way around. It's uh cool through throughout the day and perhaps overnight it warms up quite a bit. You're going to go outside and there's going to be conditions that you see fog, but eventually that fog rises and just disappears and dissipates and goes away. And there's not anything that you can uh uh capture or or or take time to to to contain that We can see fog and we can see smoke, but eventually it will just disappear And we're given a biblical instruction and an example of that's how life is. Is that it may appear, we may see it But it'll dissipate faster than we can than than we know it. And so the idea, what does the Bible say about time? We understand that time is transient. But the Bible points out very clearly, if you were to look at Ephesians 5. 16, I'll read it for you. The Bible says that we are to redeem the time because the days are evil. This this word, when we say redeem the time, you know you may read that in the scriptures and say, what does that mean? What is that, you know, what idea is that word giving giving us And the idea there is to make use of it. Redeem means to make use of it. Another thought would be to buy up the opportunity. We redeem a coupon. We make use of it. We take advantage of the opportunity that we have and we redeem that that deal or that uh that discount Buy up the opportunity. And so the same thing is that we're supposed to do that with time. We're supposed to make use of it. We're supposed to buy up the opportunity. Another thought that we get from this word is uh this word redeem is to rescue it from loss. We're supposed to rescue the time from loss. We're supposed to redeem the time. Another thing that the Bible says about time is that we're supposed to learn to number our days. If you were to go to book the book of Psalm and Psalm ninety, why don't we turn there, if you will, Psalm ninety And if you know anything about this psalm, Take a moment to just as a as a sidelight, not every psalm that is in the book of Psalms was written uh by David. This psalm is attributed, Psalm number 90 is attributed to Moses. And so in Psalm 90, as you look at verse 9 through 12, again, we get this idea that time is transient and and and Follow along as we read it in Psalm 90, verse 9. For all our days are passed away in thy wrath. We spend our years as a tale that is told. The days of our years are three-score years and ten, and if by reason of strength they be fourscore years, yet is their strength labor and sorrow, for it is soon cut off, and we fly away. So the idea there is that yes, we're generally uh uh expected to have those 70 years, maybe 80 years because of good health, but as you look at that Time flies away is the the concept and the idea that we get from this passage. Verse 11: Who knoweth the power of thine anger, even according to thy fear, so is thy wrath. Verse 12, so teach us to number our days that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom. And so this idea that we're supposed to learn to number our days. Learn to number your days. Understand uh the the amount of time that we have and to make use of it and let me just take that a step further. We'll explain expound on that a little bit. Turn back to Psalm 39 And it gives a little bit better an idea of what that means to uh to number our days. Help us to number our days. Psalm 39, and if you go to verse 4 This is a Psalm of David, and David says here in Psalm 39, if you're looking at verse 4, it says, Lord, make me to know mine end. and the measure of my days. So help me to understand and to grasp the totality and the wholeness of my life, to understand my days, what it is that I may know how frail I am. And so when we're looking to understand that time is transient, time is just flying away from us and time is going to pass and these days that we have we want to Count them and measure them and understand what they are measuring them. Why? To understand how frail we are It's not to uh boast ourselves. It's not to focus on ourselves. It's not to focus on what we can do or what we can uh do with the time that we have it's to understand that we are frail and that word there means exactly what you think it means It's to mean that we are debilitated, we are incapable, we are frail in comparison to God. And God gives us our days. He gives us the amount of time that we have, but understanding the measure of our days and grasping the totality of that, we need to make sure that from that we understand how frail we truly are. And as we look at these passages, we don't find anywhere in the scripture that tells us or exhorts us to stop time. Time is not something that can be bottled. So many ideas or stories come from this thought that what if we could just stop time and stop things right in that moment. But that's not anything that the that the scripture teaches. But what we can do with our time is as a as we see in the book of James is yield, surrender it to God's will. So if you go back to that that passage there in James, in James 4, he says there, he says Life is even what is your life? It is even a vapor that appeareth for a little time and then vanisheth away. Verse 15, for that ye ought to say, if the Lord will, we shall live and do this or that So the time that we have, the the days that we have, as we understand them and as we understand how frail we are, we want to make sure that we're surrendering that to the will of God. We're to approach life by saying and acknowledging that our ideas and our plans and uh the things that we want to do and the things that we desire for this upcoming year or these upcoming few months or this upcoming week, all those we want to commit them to God's hands. We do this because God knows the outcome. Each moment of time that passes, God knows where that path leads. And we do not. So it behooves us to surrender our will to God. As we look at time and understanding that time is transient, time is passing, it's not something that we can stop. It helps us to understand how uh how frail we are but understanding that we can surrender that and allow God to guide our days surrender our will Our days to God's will. And say, hey, God, this is what I have planned, but you know best. It's up to you. That's the first truth that we see is that time is transient. But the second point to consider that I want us to see is that tomorrow is not guaranteed. Tomorrow is not guaranteed. As we look at this passage, once again, the Bible says there If I could point you to another verse in Proverbs 27, this is a concept that we see over and over in the scripture. And we see Proverbs 27:1, the Bible says, Boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. As you look at this passage in the book of Proverbs, these are just instructions and warnings that a father is giving to his son. And he's telling him and he's giving him this wisdom and he's instructing him and trying to shape his his thinking and shape his understanding. of the world that's around us and saying, hey son, hey, just if I could give you some wisdom, understand that don't boast. Boast not thyself of tomorrow. For thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. And it would be helpful for us to take time and to consider that time may dissipate before we expect. Tomorrow is known to God, but it is not known to us. I would I stop and I think about some of the exceptions where we see this in the Bible. If you look at the book of Acts, and we're looking at that in the New Testament, and Acts uh specifically in Acts 27, I believe is where I looked it up and where it is, is that There was a situation and as Paul was going about in his missionary journeys, he went back to Jerusalem and there were people there in one of the places before he entered into Jerusalem. There was a group of Christians that were like Paul, don't go. This is not where you want to go. And because that's what led to him going back to Jerusalem is what led to that uproar. And led to that riot where they were where they decided they were going to arrest him and try to have uh try to frame him and try to falsely accuse him. And so they but Paul surrendered to God's will. Now, if you follow along that story, what ends up happening is that Paul it appeals to the head of the Roman government and he appeals to Caesar. And so with that, part of that is that he decides, I want to stand before Caesar. And so obviously that's not in Jerusalem, that's in Rome. And so Uh Paul is transported and he's shipped from different locations to different locations and on one time he finds himself uh being shipped on a boat, again still under arrest with soldiers uh on a boat and within this boat they're sailing towards uh that area where Italy is to where they can get to Rome but they run into this huge storm uh this crazy storm that's ex that uh is is uh explained in the scriptures to the point where they're shipwrecked. And there comes a time in this passage where Paul is communicating uh because they started off in Crete And at Crete, Paul was like, we shouldn't go. There's going to be a really bad storm. And the people that were in charge of the boat said, No, we're going to go. And so sure enough, they ran into the storm. And there came a point where The Bible says that the angel of God came to Paul and said, You're going to stand before Caesar. And That's more of an exception than the rule. At that point, Paul knew at the very least, whenever that day was, whether it was going to be in the following week, whether it was going to be in the following month, or whether it was going to be uh uh years from now, which I think as you follow that along, I think it was either months or years later, that he stood before uh Caesar Paul was given that time. He knew that that day would come. He knew that he had tomorrow. But most of us don't. Most of us don't have those days guaranteed. The idea, understand, is communicated. Again, we see this both in the Old Testament and the New Testament. We saw it in James, where it says Whereas ye know not what shall be in the on the morrow. You don't know what's gonna happen tomorrow. Or Proverbs 27:1, as we just read, talks about boast not thyself of tomorrow. Don't count on it. Don't count on tomorrow. And so that's the idea that we're understanding from the scripture that tomorrow is not guaranteed. And so with that, we need to make the most of today. There's an ancient Roman poet whose name was Horace who said this: Happy the man and happy he alone. He who can call today his own, he who secure within can say, Tomorrow do thy worst, for I have lived today. And so many times the consideration that we make is what can we put off until tomorrow? But truly, what we should stop and consider is that what does God want me to do with today? Because tomorrow is not guaranteed. I should do the most with today. Along those same lines, tomorrow is not guaranteed, but I also want to encourage you or let you exhort you that tomorrow is unknown. Tomorrow is unknown. That's what these passages, the idea that that that they're giving off, that they're explaining to us, that they're presenting. that truth to us is that number one, it's not guaranteed that we will have tomorrow and also we don't know what tomorrow holds. There's another passage in Proverbs chapter 16, verse 9, that says, A man's heart deviseth his way, but the Lord directeth his steps. And so I see this as a really good uh example of, hey, you know what? It's not necessarily wrong to plan and plan ahead. I I mentioned a little bit ago about our our calendar that we're putting forward and again as we look out in this day in this year there's some things that we have planned uh but again the Lord is going to guide whether those things are going to come to pass or not And those things are in God's hands and we completely surrender that to him. But again, it's not necessarily wrong to plan out and to kind of put a framework together, but again, understanding that we're we're surrendering that to him. So tomorrow's not guaranteed, but it is also not unknown. And again I see a difference in uh uh in these two things. The Lord, if the Lord gives us tomorrow, if he does that, it's a gift. And if we are gifted tomorrow, we don't know what we will face. But the Lord knows. And you know, we can we can remember not so long ago how disruptive the year 2020 was to our plans. And we took some time and and we had ideas, but that was that was very disruptive and that interrupted just uh plans that we had or calendars that we had or different goals maybe that we had And that that's just how how it took place. But the concept here is to remember and to apply in our life that that we need to trust God for the unknown. And I say this because this is where faith becomes real when you walk into the unknown. But you understand that when you walk into this unknown, this uncertainty, You walk in there with Jesus as you're trusting God. What we need to do is have more trust in God than we do in ourselves And that is a struggle. That is a struggle because that is very different from really American society and I would say American culture. This is something that you see very evident. You know, we we saw a video about uh Uganda and years ago we had a uh uh group of folks go to Zambia and there's been uh one of the things that really stood out to me from from that trip and the things that they mentioned uh from that trip is that You know, you and I, we have an expectation of when we work, we're looking at a, you know, is this a reliable job? Now, in a place that is, you know, a place like Zambia, perhaps a place like Uganda as well, there are many situations where they're looking for work so that they can provide for their family that week. For that month. And they can, you know, have a steady, reliable work for a season so that they can provide for their family. And that's completely antithetical to how we are as Americans. We're looking at as, you know, what is my annual salary going to be How much vacation time am I going to get to count on when I'm looking for a job? What are the benefits that go along with that with that job? It's not a matter of, am I going to have enough money at the end of the day to get paid at the end of the day so that I can make ends meet and feed my family? It's a completely different uh mindset. A and our society and our culture, and again I'm not I'm not disparaging that or trying to say that that's negative, it's just We have a hard time understanding being reliant on God because we're so reliant on ourselves and on the systems around us that have that that we're just so blessed with. But tomorrow is unknown. It could be a matter of health, a matter of trial that we face. We don't know what tomorrow is going to bring. I think of Miss Tiffany, you know. I could say, oh, you know, I can blanket and say a statement like everybody, you know You you know, you should be in church on Sunday. And while that is overall broadly true, you know, there's an exception to that because Miss Tiffany is is is is in the hospital right now recovering And you know that's her her days were unknown. That was something that that came out of nowhere that that uh God allowed. And That she where she's at now is she's healing, she's recovering, that's where God wants her right now. You know, you think of you know Jake and Amanda recently, you know, had a had a baby and you know I can look at it and you say, you know They should have been in church on Sunday. No, they had to take care of that that baby. And that's understandable. That that happens. And uh uh understand that that you know as you as Those things, those unknowns that happen come up. And where I go with that is understanding time is transient, tomorrow's not guaranteed. Tomorrow is unknown. But lastly, today is enough. If you look at Matthew, go to the book of Matthew, Matthew chapter 6. And if you have familiarity with this section of the you know a lot of times as a you know we're in church and many times we don't have a time to look at an entire passage writ large and really get a full understanding as to what's going on uh in the passage. And so we we have to kind of summarize that for you. Uh but you know we can isolate and focus in on a particular verse and we'll we'll we'll look at that in in Matthew chapter six towards the end of the chapter, but understand that these two chapters Matthew five, chapter six, in the greater context, are part of the Sermon on the Mount. And that's what we're seeing here. That's the instruction that's given being given here of The greatest sermon that Jesus ever preached, this is part of that. And in that, we see that there's this consideration that Jesus is getting as You turn to Matthew six, and you go to verse twenty-five. This is where i the the this idea begins. He says, Therefore I say unto you, take no thought for your life what ye shall eat or what ye shall drink, nor yet what For your body what ye shall put on is not the life more than meat and the body than raiment. And so this is this is where this idea is beginning. is that he's explaining like why are you worrying about uh God providing for you because God takes care of the birds in the air, he takes care of the flowers in the field, and of course he's going doesn't he love you more than the birds or the flowers? And the it's a rhetorical question. The answer is of course yes. And so why are we worrying about our provision is the thought. And as you go down to the to the last part of the chapter In verse 34, it says this, take therefore no thought for the morrow. The idea there is don't worry about tomorrow. For the morrow shall take thought for the things of itself. Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof. Today has enough evil. Today has enough trials. Today has enough of the annoyances that we deal with in life. Today is enough of a handful that we have to deal with, and today is enough to worry about without having to worry about tomorrow. And this passage is interesting because it's saying, it's showing us the things that we worry about. We worry about, but what he focuses in on, what Jesus comes back and he focuses in on, and again, this is the greater context in the the Sermon on the Mount. Here's some instruction that Jesus is giving. And if you go to verse 33, right before he's saying, don't worry about tomorrow, right before that, he says in verse 33, but seek ye first the kingdom of God. and his righteousness and all these things shall be added unto you. What does he say that we should what does God want me to do today? He wants me to seek him first. That's really where it comes down to. And the first and foremost thing is about seeking after the things of God. So For those of you that are here, you've done well for that today. You've stopped and you've you've taken time out of your schedule and you've said, all right, I'm gonna be in church. I'm gonna I'm going to honor God. I'm going to go to His to His house. I'm going to learn His learn His Word. I'm going to be with the brethren. You've done well in that today. Again, our Sister Tiffany can't necessarily do that. That's not what God had for her today. But what where I want to encourage us is as we're thinking about this and as we're thinking about the time that we have, I want us to ask ourselves and we need to constantly be asking ourselves What would God have us to do today? The Bible tells us many things about today, but ask yourself that question. What does God want me to do today? And again, many times we relegate things for today and we we put that off until tomorrow. But turn that around a little bit and take that and stop and say, okay, what does God want me to do today? But there's several things that the Bible talks about. About today. The Bible says that today is the day of salvation. There may be someone, and again, as we're thinking about time and time passing, there may be people that are putting off salvation and putting off living a life for God and putting off the the the gospel of Jesus Christ and putting off the gift that has been given by the providing of of Jesus Christ the sacrifice for your sins And there's people that are putting that off and say, maybe I'll take care of that tomorrow. Maybe I'll take care of that next week. Maybe I'll take care of that when I feel like like I deserve it, or when I feel more like like I should. No, the Bible says that today is the day of salvation. 2 Corinthians 6 2 says, I've heard in thee I have heard thee in a time accepted, and in the day of salvation have I succored thee. Behold, now is the accepted time. Behold, now is the day of salvation. There's another passage in the scripture in Hebrews 3 that tells us something about today. It says to exhort one another daily while it is called today. Hebrews 3. 13 says, but exhort one another daily while it is called today, lest any of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin. So again, we have a tendency to put things off. We're to exhort one another. But understand that today has enough to worry about. So when you're looking at that, the things that we're supposed to do today, we ask ourselves that question: what does God want me to do today? Now You may feel that you use up all of God's mercy today That you've just lived in a way where you've just need mercy after mercy and after mercy from God. And as I was thinking about what Brother Anthony was saying, even in Sunday school, what was beautiful about what the scripture says is that even if you were to use up all the mercy that you've been given from God today, That cup of mercy is filled tomorrow morning. But as you take time, I want you to understand that we have to use today wisely. And the resource of time that we have, we have to use it, we have to take advantage of it today. Use it wisely. Many times as we're putting things off for tomorrow, I'll give you a few things. You know, my wife is brilliant. And the question that I ask myself is, have I taken time to communicate that to her today? My wife is beautiful. Have I taken time to communicate that? Or have I put that off for tomorrow? My kids are helpful. Have I taken the time to communicate that to them? And these are the things that I personally have struggled with, is that there's plenty of times where I've talked to, you know, I've been taking care of something or working on something, and I'm like, hey, you know what? You know, the kids are gonna be there and but this is what's in front of me now. And so many times we get so focused if you if you're anything like me You get so focused on the here and now and putting out the fire that's in front of you that I haven't taken a step back to ask, God, is this my fire to put out? Is this what you want me to do? And so many times we we get distracted with different things, or again, we delegate it to another day. My kids are helpful. Have I taken that to communicate have I taken the time to communicate that? My brethren need encouragement. Do I think oh I will just tell them next time I see them? I've thought very much about this over the years. We've had many funerals here at the church. And during the funeral a lot of times what what pastor will communicate with some of the family is like, hey, if you would like to say something about your loved one, you know, let me know so that we can make sure that we incorporate it into the schedule at the time. And one thing that has struck me over the years, and I'm guilty of this myself, is that Why did it why does it take those moments to share that with the deceased? You know, and I think about my my parents are getting up in years. All right. My dad's gonna be seventy five this year. And you know, I I mean He has very good genes, his his family's, you know, has has a lot of longevity. But have I communicated those things to him? Those wonderful things that you're going to stand up and say to about someone at their funeral and say, This person, they were uh they were great in this way, and I have this memory of them, and I have this memory of them, and it was wonderful, and you can stand up in front of everybody, but Why don't you tell them that today? And today has a lot to to to worry about. Today has a lot of struggle. But we have so much available for us today. And very much we're here and there and But is God what does God want us to do today? Could we say that I have lived today as well as I should? I have done the most with the time that I have today. What have you done with today? So as you lie down, I don't know if if if you think uh if you take time to to think at all before you go to bed. As you lie down and as you conclude the day, do you think at all What did God want me to do today? What could I have done better? What could I have improved upon? That I do everything that God led me to do that day. In conclusion, understand that I'm not here to tell you what to prioritize in life. God lays that out in the scriptures. He says what should be the priority. He says here in this passage, seek first the kingdom of God. Seek first the things of God. Especially for the young Christian, I I'm gonna you know, some maybe some that have not been saved for for very long. You may look and say, how can I live years and years and years of life that is well pleasing to God? Well It just starts today. It's just one day at a time. And you say, what does God want me to do today? And as those days compile and pile on one to another, there's going to be some good days, there's going to be some bad days, but again, when you're looking at it, there's a trajectory of consistent yielding to God. Putting first the things of God. Now, understand that we are to walk with God today. There's a song that we hear that really captures how this thought and this concept, and I'll share it with you. It says this. It says, I don't know about tomorrow. I just live from day to day. I don't borrow from its sunshine, for its skies may turn to gray. I don't worry over the future, for I know what Jesus said, and today I'll walk beside him, for he knows what is ahead. Many things about tomorrow I don't seem to understand, but I know who holds tomorrow, and I know who holds my hand. And as we look at that song. That really captures what it is that that we need to understand and what I'm trying to convey is that There's enough today, enough struggle, enough trial for today for us to to worry about. We don't need to worry about the future. The thing that we need to concern ourselves with is to make sure that we are in lockstep with what God wants us to do. with the Savior that as the the Savior has has saved us, has given us those mercies, those given us those mercies every day that are renewed, and we need to make sure that we're doing what he wants That we're walking close to him. Think about that. You may walk down a path that is unknown. It's much better to walk down that path with someone who is familiar with that road. I think of, you know, Bob and Carol. You know, Bob and Carol are our friends and they have been uh blessed with uh with the the blindness that they have and the thing about Bob McCarroll is that they have a lot of faith. Because they rely on other people, they rely on their dogs, they rely on the things around them to help guide their path. And so it's easy for them to translate, I don't know which way I'm going, so I'm going to yield to God or to Christ who knows how to walk this path. And me, who is very self-driven, self you know, independent, able to, you know, navigate. I rely much more on myself. Instead of saying, God, I need your help with this. I need your help with today. I need to trust you through today. And so as we wrap up this year, as we conclude the time that we have, I want you to think about that. I want you to ask the Lord. What do you want me to do today? Today is enough. Today has enough trial. Today has enough worry. What do you want me to do with today, God? Why don't we take a moment and stand together? I'll ask you to bow your heads and close your eyes. We're gonna take some time now and Have a moment of invitation. I'm going to pray. And then once the music begins, I'll go ahead and open it up to see if if anyone wants to come forward. You're welcome to. We'll have our heads bowed and our eyes closed. Let's pray. Father. Lord, I thank you for this time around your word. And Lord, I thank you for today. I thank you for the time that you give us. Lord, I just pray that you would help us to utilize it wisely. Lord, to take the truths from your word. And Lord, not to try to navigate this this world and this our lives independently, but Lord, that it would be a yielding Surrendering to your will to what you want us to do. Lord, you know the path ahead. You know the way we should take. Father, I just pray that you would help us to walk that path. close to you, trusting you, and knowing that you will guide and lead us the right way. And so Lord, I just pray that if you've touched anyone's heart this morning, that they would come and talk to you about it. And we'll thank you in Jesus' name. Amen.