Amen. Definitely very uh energetic singing tonight. That's uh exciting, praise the Lord. Uh you guys must have got some coffee or something, right? Uh ready to go. That's good wonderful. You can turn your Bibles to First Peter this evening. First Peter chapter number four is uh really where we're going to uh spend our time and look through chapter number four uh to see what the Lord has for us tonight. I'm sure that many of you already know the motivation for why Peter was writing to the believers. But we're going to kind of have a a little bit of overlap or maybe take this into the next level because I just dealt with the aspect of you need to control your commitments. uh the looking at it from the standpoint of, you know, if you if you're gonna make a commitment, it it ought to be a commitment that lasts. And if y if you're not, you shouldn't make a promise. You shouldn't say you're gonna do something and and not do it But as I was studying this week for Sunday school, because we are currently in the book of James in Sunday school, we're going to wrap that up and move into 1 and 2 Peter. Uh I just was challenged here because Peter is writing to the Saints in uh AD sixty-four, July of AD sixty-four. Uh there was a great fire in the city of Rome, and this fire burned much of the city. Well, Nero was taking a lot of heat for that. Nero was being accused of having started or had part in in this fire that burned up the city, and like any uh politician Who is conniving in his method and who is less worried about the truth than he is his own image, Nero tries to deflect any suspicion from him by publicly accusing the Christians Of having started the fire. So in A. D. 64, the first government-supported persecution of the church began. And for the next year, it was open rain on Christians. They literally, you've heard the stories about Nero, the mass uh arrests that were made the public executions of large groups of Christians. You know the horrific things about Nero, how he would take Christians and cover them in pitch and stick them on stakes in his garden and light them on fire so that the they say his garden was lined with the body of the saints that literally were like torches for Him to be able to see his gardens. They would take Christians and throw them into arenas without any means of protect of protecting themselves with giant beasts And for the entertainment of the crowd, the Christians would be torn asunder by the beast. It was in the midst of this type of persecution. And Peter is writing to the believers. And Peter doesn't write to them and say, hey, listen, you guys just need to huddle down in the background. You guys need to try and blend in. You know, don't don't stand out and don't cause a ruckus uh listen, what you need to do is just try and you know don't make yourselves know no Peter doesn't write to them and tell them that. Peter doesn't tell them that they should be reserved or step back or try and go unnoticed in this culture that had turned hostile against them. Peter writes to them and he calls them to a total commitment to Christ. I want to speak for a couple minutes tonight on total commitment. Total commitment. What is it going to take? For you to be totally committed, 100% committed to God, to fulfill and do the will of God in your life, beloved. Peter tells them to live totally committed. Why? Because half-hearted faith will not see you through in a hostile world. We have got to be totally committed. I don't remember who it was, but it seems like in the four-year last Sunday somebody was telling me that maybe it was Connor. I may if not whoever it was, I apologize because I don't remember who was telling me, but they were talking about the fact that it's probably going to be in our lifetime that we're going to see open season on Christians. And I wonder, beloved, would we stand as Peter is challenging the church here to stand to remain committed in the face of this? I'm not talking about it just wasn't comfortable I'm not talking about one of his neighbors, you know, left their trash on their lawn because they didn't like him. I'm talking about literally being killed, being burned at the stake, being thrown in with the lions where they were torn asunder. We're talking about Full onset persecution against the church, and Peter says, you've got to stand and stay committed to Jesus Christ. Remain committed. And beloved, how? How are we going to remain committed when it seems like the pattern of today is many people are throwing in the towel? Many people are deciding to stop following Christ and go their own way, and they're just giving up on God and they're just going to do their own thing. How are you going to stay committed? I want to show you what Peter tells him here in chapter number four. First of all, we need to be armed. With an Christ-like attitude. Look at chapter 4 and verse number 1. He says, For as much then as Christ hath suffered for us. In the flesh, arm yourselves likewise with the same mind. He said, you remember that Jesus went to the cross for us. You remember that he suffered in the flesh just like you're suffering in the flesh. And he says, I'm encouraging you, I'm exhorting you, believer, to arm yourselves. To arm yourself literally means to pick up and and to put on, like put on the whole armor of God. He says, arm yourselves with the mind of Christ. Beloved, we could spend much time here as we consider this settled reflection. pondering and thinking about the mind of Christ. What kind of Christ what kind of mind did Christ have that we are supposed to put on? And we've taught on the mind of Christ and we've taught several weeks on it so we could take tremendous amount of time here and let this mind be in you, which is also in Christ Jesus, who being in the form of God, thought it not Robert to be equal to God, but made himself of no rec reputation, and took upon him the form of servant, and was made in the likeness of men We could go on and talk about the things that that God had or Jesus had in his mind, but I think if we were to sum it up, you could say that he was totally committed The mind of Christ was one that was totally committed. He knew that as he went to Jerusalem, all that waited for him there was a cross. And yet the Bible says he set his face like a flint. He knew that's where he was going, but he still purposed in his heart to fulfill and to do that the will of his father. He was totally committed. There is. There was no hesitation in his not mind. There was no half-heartedness in his life. I read a quote from a Japanese statesman From World War II, that said, we did not worship our emperor, we simply loved him completely, so much so that total regiments of volunteers Signed up for certain death. If you Christians loved God as we Japanese love our Emperor, you would have long ago taken the world for him. It's talking about a group of people that were totally committed to following the emperor to try and accomplish the goal, even though it meant certain death for them. And for some Christians, if it's uncomfortable, they're not interested. I wonder, beloved, if we could have a settled mind if we would be resolved in our hearts here. We see a surrendered resolve in verse number two. He says, no longer should live the rest of his time in the flesh to the lust of men. But to the will of God. He's saying, look, you you should have a surrendered resolve in your heart that you're no longer going to live the rest of your time in the flesh. Fulfilling this lust in the lust of men, but you are surrendered and willing to do the will of God. Totally committed He's saying here, you've decided, you've made up your mind, that you are not going to allow sin to have dominion in your life. That you're going to live surrendered to the will of God. Not partial obedience, but complete obedience. Committed to God. In the Old Testament, they would put the sacrifices down on the altar. And the sacrifice was consumed. All of it was consumed. The whole idea and aspect of Putting it on the altar is that it's all there. Is your all on the altar of sacrifice laid? Are you totally committed to fulfilling the will of God for your life? It's a sad reality that many believers are not, they have yet to make up their mind to be totally committed. They enjoy Christianity. They like popping in for church now and again. They enjoy the fellowship and on occasion they get encouraged. uh by the brethren or they get helped uh by somebody in the church or God somehow meets their need. But a beloved, I wonder if they didn't get those things, would they still be a follower of Christ God has a will for you. You are fearfully and wonderfully made God fashioned you in the womb and has prepared you for who you are. Individually, there is nobody in the world like you That said, God saved your soul, gave you a home in heaven, and has begun to expose and teach you the words of God. So he has prepared you for something. Are you prepared to do it? Realizing that God has a plan for you? To be totally committed to it? We just read it, but he says that he no longer should live the rest of his time. The rest of his time. What are you gonna do with the rest of your time? Just yesterday, Steve and I drove up to Pennsylvania and we sat down with Nick and his mother who's gone into hospice. They don't know how much time she has left. Could be a few days, a few weeks, a couple months. Really not sure. But certainly she's been faced With an end date, with the reality that it's not going to be long. We saw it and sat and talked to her about this. She's ready to meet Jesus. She's looking forward to going home, and her husband John has gone on before her and She has a son who's already in heaven as well, and she's looking forward to being there, and she's she she's ready. But what I'm saying is the time that she has left is very short, and we don't know how much time we have left. But whether you are as young as some of the teens that are that are here over here or I don't know for sure, but I would suppose maybe Brother Crane w would be the oldest gentleman with us tonight. But whatever time you have left, what are you gonna do with it? What what would you do with your time if you knew that sometime between now and next Thursday you were going to heaven? What would you do with your time? He says he purposed in his heart with the time that he had left, with whatever time it is, I I I'm not gonna live in the lust of the flesh. I'm not going to live satisfying this old man. I'm going to do the will of God. This is what the mind of Christ is. One that is In total surrender to God's will, I would hope for the rest of your time that you have left that you would aim for Christ's acceptance. Aim to be pleasing to him, we see in verses three and four a stark reminder. He tells us here. For the time past of our life may suffice us to have wrought the will of the Gentiles. So he's saying that there was a time in the past where I did the will of the Gentiles when we walked in lasciviousness. Lust, excess of wine, rivalings, banquetings, abominable idolatries Wherein they think it strange that ye run not with them to the same excess of writing, speaking evil of you. There's a contrast given here between the way he used to live and the way he has purposed to live now. First of all, he's Mentioning or describing those that live for the world, for the flesh. It's all about satisfying this body. involved in in lust and and banquetings and and you know liciviousness and and uh abominable idolatries and just fulfilling whatever this body wants to uh have that was the way men lived. But Paul tells us it's far better to be judged by men and live with God than to be judged by God and live with men. Look at verse number six. He says, For this cause was the gospel preached also to them that are dead. That they might be judged according to men in the flesh, but live according to God in the Spirit. What he's saying, beloved, is that There are people that are going to make fun of you. They're going to mock. They're going to laugh. They might not understand why you are pursuing God and Why you no longer live the way you did, the way you do in verse number four, he mentions that. He says, Wherein they think it strange that ye run not with them to the same excess of writing And they speak evil of you. So in verse 6 he says, it's far better, beloved, for people that are in this world to look at you and to make fun of you and to mock and to laugh and maybe Question why you don't go to the places you used to go to and why you don't talk the way you used to talk and why you stop participating in the in the the lewd conversations around the the table and and and all of a sudden you you're not part of those things anymore. Why is that? They may mock and make fun, but beloved it's far better that you would live in the spirit And honor God, let them laugh and make fun. It's not going to matter. Because, beloved, you're going to be in glory one day. You're going to be with your Heavenly Father. Then he gives us a serious requirement in verses seven through eleven. He describes, beloved, the person that's living to aim, that's aiming to live in acceptance to God. They're going to remain committed. How are we going to remain committed? We see first of all that there's a disciplined prayer life. Look in verse number 7. He says, but the end of all things is at hand. He said, beloved, the end's at hand. The time it's just around the corner. We don't know when our day is up. And notice what he says. He says, be therefore sober and watch unto prayer. It's a disciplined prayer life. Being sober is the idea of being being seriously minded, being disciplined. Do you have a disciplined prayer time? Do you have a time where you turn your heart towards heaven and spend a little bit of communion with your heavenly father and allow him to work on your soul and to teach your spirit and come in and convict you of sin and and and allow you to make those changes. Beloved, you cannot maintain a consistent prayer time and continue in sin. You're going to give up and quit the prayer time, or you're going to give up and quit the sin. One or the other is going to happen, beloved. You can't continue to do both, and so he calls us here to a committed life fully committed to God and he says if you're going to be committed to God you've got to have a disciplined prayer time. Be sober. Be serious about it. Make sure it happens. We see secondly that there's a deep love he calls us to in verse number eight. And he says, And above all things have fervent charity among yourselves, for charity shall cover the multitude of sins. A fervent charity. Have a deep love. We've talked about this before, and we could spend time here for sure with the the love of God and how it's that love that constrains us and That, you know, if you love me, keep my commandments. And if we have a deep, abiding love for Christ, it's going to motivate us to stay true to Him until the end. And how that loving the brethren is a sign that you truly are saved and that you love being with the brethren, and hereby shall men know that you are my disciples if you love one another. It's a deep love that we should have and it should be present in our life. Beloved, we need to love when it's hard. Love will cause you to forgive when it hurts. A deep love. We're talking about living totally committed. How are we going to maintain that commitment in our life? We see a devotion and service. In verse number 9, he says, use hospitality one to another without grudging. I believe, beloved, that this is the greatest characteristic of a Christ-like mind that you can see. Because he came to minister, not to be ministered to. It is Christ who gave himself. Who sat and washed the feet of the disciples and said, This is how you're supposed to be living. Living in service to one another. Living in service to the king and to Eternity, having a mind to serve others. I think one of the most detrimental things in the modern church Is that the church has turned into consumerism? It's about what I consume instead of what I contribute. And Christianity should be about what can I contribute, what can I do for God, how can I serve God. But the church has turned into a place where everybody wants to know, well, do they have something for me? Do they have a program for the teenagers? Do they have a program for the single moms? Do they have something for the divorced couples? Do they have something for the uh for the widows or the widowers? Do they have something for the senior saints? Or or do they have something for my group? Uh uh what about empty nesters? Do they have something for those that don't have children? Do they have something for T for Parents with teens because after all we're at a different stage of life. We've got teens right now we're dealing with. Nobody else is dealing with teens. All of us have these little niches that we find in our life and and somehow the church is supposed to come in and to meet all the needs of all the different people and we look for consumerism to try and Is the church going to provide and meet my need instead of what can I do for God through the church? We're supposed to serve. The church is supposed to be the instrument whereby we get involved and serve others and serve God. Now, the young Christians, the baby Christians, we serve them. And hopefully, through discipleship and training, they grow to a point where they begin to serve others. And we bring in new babes in Christ that get saved and baptized and follow the Lord and we begin to grow them up to the point where they serve others. But we shouldn't 10, 15, 20, 30 years after we've been saved, we shouldn't still just be coming in and sitting in a pew and soaking up all we can get and and and going home and not doing something for anybody else. It ought to be about service. The fact is, beloved, that the greatest hindrance to total commitment is selfishness. Because it doesn't feel good. Because it takes sacrifice. Total commitment takes sacrifice. Total commitment has to put our will aside. Mark 8. 35 said, Whosoever shall save his life shall lose it, but whosoever shall save his life for my sake, and the gospel is the same, shall save it. Loved the self-absorbed believer is miserable. He's miserable because it's always about him. In all of your work and effort to save your life To protect your time, to accomplish what you want to accomplish, to have your ambitions and goals met. God says very clearly that you're going to lose your life. You're going to lose those things that are most valuable, the things that truly bring joy, the things that matter for eternity. You're going to lose it all because you're so vested in saving your life, trying to protect your time and your resources and your goals and your ambitions. He's saying, let all that go and just serve God with a pure and clean heart And as you lose your life for God and the gospel's sake, he said, you'll find it. You'll find that God will give you a life that's so far above anything you could ask or think The joy of the Lord that will be in your heart, and the satisfaction you have in the life that God gives you, you'll sit back in awe and wonder at the goodness of God. I've uh read about a statement there's something like this that There's many people that spend the whole of their life climbing the ladder of success. And when they get to the top, they find out it's leaning against the wrong wall. That's the idea. When you when you invest so much energy and time and effort and working towards your own goals and ambitions, When you finally reach the end of your days, you're going to look back and say, wait a minute, this is all empty. Yea, all this vanity and vexation of soul and spirit. This has all been meaningless. What did I do this for? Yet, if we would serve God, lose our life for God and for the gospel, he says you'll find it, God will give you The abundant life that's greater than you could ask, ever ask or think. We see in verse number 10 and 11 a diligent stewardship. He says, and every man hath received the gift, even so minister the same one to another, as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. Sorry, I just coughed right into the microphone. That was not the right way to go, right? Hopefully if you're w were asleep, you're awake now. If any man speak, let him speak as the oracles of God. If any man minister, let him do it as of the ability which God giveth. That God in all things may be glorified through Jesus Christ, to whom be praise and dominion forever and ever. We have a diligent stewardship, a responsibility To steward the gifts that God has given us, to serve Him with those. We steward, of course, he mentioned specifically the manifold grace of God We steward that. Most people want to serve God, but they want to do it in an advisory capacity. You y you've seen the workers by the road, Brother Crane was just telling me, he's like, I don't know why it takes eight months to build that little bitty bridge right down here. I know why. Because they got twelve guys on the job and only two of them are working. The other ten are advisors. They're they're watching. They're they're hanging they're hanging out instead of just getting invested in the job. We should look for opportunities and be thrilled when God gives them to us. Remember how thrilling it was the first time you walked into that Sunday school class with your lesson? Excited about what God could do in the hearts of those young people Remember how nervous you were the first time you were asked as an usher, to serve as an usher and to pray for the s for the offering How how honored you were. It doesn't matter what you're doing. If it's for God, it's a big deal. It's important. We need to remember that it's a great work, no matter what it is. And we have to keep that in our heart and minds because beloved Satan would have us allow it to grow old and lose the passion that we should have and let it fall by the wayside Lastly, this evening, I want you to see we must learn to appreciate the affliction. He says in verses 12 through 14, he says, beloved, think it not strange. There's a surprising realization here as he says. Think it not strange concerning the fiery trials, which is to try you as though some strange thing has happened unto you. He said, you ought to realize and know that persecution is coming. Yea, all that live godly shall suffer persecution. He said, don't think it's strange when hardship comes, when trial comes, when the burden comes It should be no surprise to us because persecution is a reality, and I remind you, beloved, as I began and I opened this up, I'm telling you about a group of people that were in the midst of horrific persecution and and Peter is calling to them and he's saying, hey, you need to stay committed to God. Don't think it's strange that persecution has risen. He says to them, persecution should not be an interruption to your commitment. But it will surely be an examination of it. Persecution shouldn't cause you to give up on your commitment or cause you to stop doing what you said you would do for Christ or that challenge or that burden or that hardship shouldn't cause you to say, I'm done, I've had enough, I'm leaving No, but what persecution does do is it reveals the level of your commitments. In 1904, there was a shipmate named General Slockham. It caught fire on the East River and the flames were spreading fast. The many passengers that were there were were uh just obviously overtaken with fear and there was lifeboats on the deck of the ship, but the problem is is they were strapped down so securely and the fire was spreading so rapidly they didn't have time to even get the boats unstrapped. So they passed out the life vest, and everybody grabbed the life vest and jumped into the water. The problem is is the lifebest had been on the boat sitting there for so many years. They had completely dry rotted and when those light vests hit the water they fell apart. And they were th there's no floating capacity left in them. You see, when crisis came, it revealed that they really weren't ready. And when you and I go through the fiery trials that Satan sends into our lives, it's going to reveal the level of your commitment. If we are fully committed, what we need to remember is understand, beloved, that the fire does not destroy the gold, but it refines it. And when we go through the fire, God is refining us, doing in us a great work for His honor and His glory The saint learns how to rejoice in the midst of suffering. He says in verse number 13, but rejoice. Oh, not because you just love Going through the fire, not just because you just enjoy uh the trial, but because of whose company you're with. He says, but rejoice in as much as ye are partakers of Christ's suffering. He says, You're going you're you're going to be persecuted, you're going to be thrown in there with the lions and be ripped asunder, you're going to Maybe somebody you love is going to be uh uh killed there in the street or arrested. Uh hey, Jesus was killed. Jesus was persecuted for preaching the truth. You are in good company. You get to honor and glorify God through your suffering because you're with Christ. It's far better to suffer today and stand with Him in glory than to enjoy glory today and suffer for eternity. What Peter is telling us tonight is in the face of whatever hardship, in the face of whatever fiery trial, in the face of whatever persecution. He's saying stay on the firing line. Stay committed. Stay committed to being in God's house. Stay committed to serving God in your ministry. Stay committed to fulfilling God's responsibilities that He's given you in your life. Stay committed to your mate and to your family. Stay committed to the things that are of true eternal importance in this life. Satan would have you throw in the towel and give up and quit Do you know beloved the difference between the Olympic athlete who over the last several weeks brought home a gold? And those people who were aspiring athletes, but they were sitting at home watching it. You know many times the difference between them is simply commitment. How committed were they? Have you spent any time listening to the stories of these athletes that just com competed in the Winter Olympics, you know, the regiment of of exercise and and practice in pursuit of that sport that they put in hours and hours and hours every day because they were committed to it committed to winning a medal for skiing downhill They dedicated their life to it. How committed are you and I to Jesus Christ? To knowing him and the power of his resurrection. Would you stand with me with your heads bowed and your eyes closed