I'll take your Bibles. We're gonna start in Proverbs chapter 23. I did ten years in police work, uh Fairfax County, Virginia, which is just across the Potomac River from Washington, D. C. and from there uh twenty-eight years ago and went to Lighthouse and left my police career behind. I uh uh worked with a young man uh fresh out of the academy and his name was Dave and I won't tell you his last name. Uh but Dave and I got to a call. It was in a Franklin Farms area which is an exclusive community of uh I know today one probably two million dollar homes. A five year old had dialed nine one one. Because their teacher in school told them, if your parents ever tried to discipline you, you call the police and they'll come. And so Dave was a Catholic fellow and a very conservative Catholic. And he and I uh were uh bordering patrol areas and we uh back each other up regularly. Uh I picked on Dave, uh he picked on me for being a Baptist. He would say, Baptists get the people that aren't good enough to be Catholic And I'd look at Dave, his badge number was 666. Yeah. Okay. You know I had a lot of fun with that. Uh he was the Antichrist. So we go in this five-year-old says, My mom and my mom and daddy are gonna stank me and I called police. And uh and I said, Dave, you got this one. And uh Dave said, uh come into the room and uh here's the paddle and we're gonna watch your parents do it to make sure that they do it within the law, and uh then you go back and tell your teacher uh that the police came and watched your parents spank spank spank you. And that kid there his eyes were about that big. Uh what was his crying? The five year old wouldn't go to bed and they thought calling the police was uh uh five year old call uh call on the police was a was a good plan. Now that's not a not a good plan. Strong little children uh in the home. I have a strong-willed child. You have a strong-willed child. That a strong-willed child is a gift from God. Strong-willed children have the ability Change the world Uh but you have to you have to turn them over to Christ. You've got to lend that heart for Christ. If they don't learn to obey, they're never going to obey God for salvation So our our son was two years of age, and I said to my wife, our strong-willed one, I said to my wife, we are either going to reach this child for Christ, or he's going to prison. At two years of age, we we could tell that. And uh he pushed uh every uh step of the way. When he was uh five uh years of age Uh his Sunday school teacher was uh a newly married gal, and she was a military wife, and she didn't have any children. And so uh this was her first teaching assignment, kindergarten, kindergarten, and so she's got my kid in there, my my strong-willed guy And so I pulled her aside and I said, Welcome to the teaching ministry, White House Baptist Church. You have the misfortune, or the privilege, whichever way you want to look at it, of having my son in your class. He is a strong-willed child And he is going to push you from day one. And if you give him a pass, you do not do him any favors, and you do not do me any favors. She said, Well what am I supposed to do? I said, I'll tell you what you do. The first time you tell him to do something and he doesn't do it, uh you bring him upstairs. I was teaching the auditorium Bible class And uh you just stand in the back. You won't have to say anything, you won't have to tell me what he did. I'll know uh that it was something wrong. And it probably happened the first week And so I started teaching the auditorium Bible class. We're about 10 minutes in the class, and here she stands with my little guy in the back of the auditorium. And this is why it's important if you're in the preacher's class to pay attention. I looked at one of our men and I said, You've got my outline here on the platform. I'm on point two. You take over, I'll be back. And I walked out of the Bible class and the auditorium and went back to the back, took him by the hand, took him back into the office And uh we we we have a discipline session on Sunday morning during Sunday school. Uh so pay attention in Sunday school class to what the preacher is doing because you might be called upon to preach. But it's just the importance of reaching them for Christ I determined, after watching that five-year-old in police work, uh call 911, that I I wanted to be a parent that reached my kids for Christ. And that's where Proverbs 20 326 comes in. Are you there? My son, give me thine heart and let thine eyes observe my ways. My son, give me thine heart and let thine eyes observe my ways. Father, I pray you'd help me be a blessing of the folks this morning and that some Bible truths would help them. And motivate them to reach their children for you. And I pray that my unique perspective might be a help and encouragement to them. And we'll praise you for what you do this morning in our group as we look to you in Christ's name. Amen. I have, I sat down and did a tabulation, and in the t last twenty-eight years at Lighthouse, I have given one thousand four hundred and fifty-six lessons on child rearing alone 1,456 lessons just on that one topic. So here's the frustrating thing about that. Most parents with problem children don't come I had a parent come to me and say, I have a problem with my child. I said every Wednesday night I do this and uh you should be there. I I don't have time Yeah, I I can't help you. That that's frustration. Uh I also get equally frustrated uh with the parent that says to me I have perfect children. You're a gift of Satan. I should just say. Because children are sinners. Wherefore is by one man sinned? We know that came through Adam. The Bible tells us for all have sinned, and that child so my dad, my dad will say My dad is a type A Trump personality kind of guy. Okay, so you give kind of picture of of uh ruled with an iron thumb. And so my dad said, my my kids never gave me a hard time Uh they were always perfect kids. And here's the problem with that, is I know at least one of his kids pretty well. And I and I d I struggled with sin. Your children struggle with sin. If you if you're a parent here today and you think you have perfect children, then you don't know your child. Your child is a sinner and they need a savior. And that's why God gave them parents to reach them for Christ. So here's another good reference to write down. This should help you. It's 1 Corinthians 10 verse 13. There hath no temptation taken you, but such as is common to man. So Satan wants to isolate you as a parent. He wants you to think you're the only parent that is having trouble with the child. You're not. Every single parent, if they're honest, We'll tell you that they they struggled. They had to get on their knees. They had to take that child to the altar. They uh oftentimes uh would would say, go through God's word and say, how how can I use a God's word to reach this child for Christ? Any I wouldn't give you a dime for a parent that said, you know, te sarrah, sirah, what will be, will be. They're going to go the way that they go. No, no, no, no, no. God gave them parents To direct them. It is your job from the very beginning in the Garden of Eden. Adam had a task to dress and to keep the garden, to provide for it and protect it. And he led Satan, hang around. I guarantee you, every time that we had a problem with one of our children Something new cropped up. I'd look at Mrs. Bishop and I would say, what have we allowed in our home in the last 24 hours? What have we allowed? Because that problem wasn't here yesterday, but that problem is here today. What have you we put locks on our doors, we put locks on our windows uh to keep things at bay, but oftentimes we bring things in. And it might be innocuous. It might be a a little video game. If you bring cell phones into your home to your children, I probably just need your headache now. Children do not need a cell phone. Now there's more danger today in cell phones. So I chaplain at the local uh uh district station. Our police department has a couple thousand officers, and so I chaplain at the local station Every single day, there are two or three cases on the daily activity report of young people that have gotten into trouble with their phones. single day. Take your phones away. They don't need a phone. They just don't. So the first of all, if you're going to reach your child, if you're going to reach any child for Christ You've got to know the heart of the matter. That's number one. The heart of the matter is a matter of the heart. And I wanted to raise our children. I wanted to reach their heart. And I was determined to do that. And no no matter what it took, I was going to reach their heart. Now my my oldest child is my sneaky child. Now he he did not want uh he didn't want uh He didn't want that around. And so he I would go out of my way to to harass him. I listen, when he was a teenager, if I'd known teenagers were so much fun, I would have had them first. I I just I just enjoyed uh having the teenagers in the house. But he was one of those guys that uh wanted to keep me at arm's length. Uh he was too cool to have a debt, kind of thing. And so I would I would do things uh to to torment him. Uh Mrs. Bishop was pulling away from church one day. We our church is in kind of an exclusive community dating back to uh uh George Washington and uh million dollar homes around us. And uh I sit out in the parking lot, I'm on the church steps, I'm way up high from the church steps, and and Mrs. Bishop is pulling out the gas, so we can pull away uh put put the van window down the stop and put the van window down because i'm gonna I'm gonna call Daniel and so she she did she falling away and put this down And I went, Danny Pooh! Talking to the lost you. And and he uh he was absolutely mortified. He is panicked in that man And he's he's got his hand on the switch, trying to get that switch up in the worst possible way. And the window won't go up. And he looks over at his mother, and his mother is there with her hand on the button Uh he was just he was just mortified that his mom was in cahoots uh with dad Um he he Mrs. Bishop uh one day decided she was going to clean between the mattresses. Now what would ever What would ever possess somebody to do that? I mean I've been alive for 63 years and I've never been motivated to cling between the mattress. But she decided to do that. And uh he he had hidden something between the mattresses in his room Now when you find something that your child has done or brought into the home, don't get mad. The wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God. I taught Mrs. Bishop, we just had a habit in our home. Whenever we found something that was not right, the first thing we did was we stopped and pray and thank God for bringing that to life. Because as long as that was hidden, I couldn't deal with it. But when it was found, then I could deal with it. You know you're thinking, what did he have? Drugs. Oh please don't be quite that dramatic. Nothing. Listen, it was probably it would probably be something that you allowed in your home But it was something that he knew that I wouldn't allow in there, that he had brought in, and uh he had stuck between the mattress, she cleaned it, she found it. And uh we found it. So be number one, if you're taking notes, be thankful. When you find your child is doing something wrong, be thankful. Stop and give thanks to God uh for what he has done Thank God for bringing sin to light. You let me say, God always brings sin to light. Sometimes as parents, we're not paying attention. But if you pray, God, if there's something going on in my marriage, something going on in my child's life, if you'll bring it to light, I'll do my best to deal with it. So be thankful. And number two, be thoughtful. Stop. Don't operate in anger. Listen, your mom and your mom and dad, right? You're a picture to your child of God's relationship with us. Do you want God disciplining you in anger? I think every parent would say, oh no, I don't want God to discipline me in anger. Well, don't discipline your child in anger. Never, never, never. That's a never. Don't do that. So be thoughtful. Stop. Think about how you're going to proceed, what needs to be done, how it needs to be handled, what is biblical. And number three, be transparent. I'm here to tell you, I'm a preacher. I struggle with the flesh. The flesh, and it doesn't it has not gotten easier as I've gotten older. I struggle with the flesh. And you tell your child that. Listen, I know you got a problem here. Your dad struggles with the flesh. I struggle with that. And then be thorough So be thankful, be thoughtful, be transparent, be thorough. Don't be a hurricane parent. We had teenage uh two teenagers in a church, two teenage girls Uh their parents were military and they boy they did something really, really bad. They they were sneaking out at night. And uh dad dad caught them. Uh he's gonna do something about it uh I thought. And uh so I I set girls down and I because he wanted me to talk to them and I said, hey, what did you do? And we went through that and I said, now uh there's gonna be some repercussions And they said, oh, preacher, they're not going to be in repercussions. I said, no, your your mom and dad are really upset. Oh no. Let me tell you something about my mom and dad They blow up and then it blows over. In a week they won't even remember this. And yet they were absolutely right. They were hurricane parents. They were a storm coming through and then they blew out to sea. Don't don't be that way Determine in your heart that when you're thankful God brought it to light, that you're going to be thoughtful on how the how you're supposed to deal with it, that you're transparent, you're not perfect And you're going to do your best to reach that child. But boy, be thorough. Follow through. Do with it. Deal with the problem. Because if you don't, that little that little thing that you think is cute when they're two. It's going to be a big snowball when they're 18. If you don't teach them to obey when they're two, by the time they're twelve, uh you're in trouble. Well when they get bigger than you, good luck. Because they're gonna tell you to vaccine and and you're not gonna know what to do. So it's best to deal with them, start when they're small. I started with my children when they were in the womb. They're in the womb. I say, this is your dad speaking. But daddy loves you. Daddy wants you to know that you've got a sin problem and that Jesus loves you and he died on the cross for your sins. And I talk to them while they're in the womb. I did not want them crying the first time they heard my voice because they'd never heard it. Uh I say, You're you're you're strange. I am. I am. Nobody nobody that would debate that So uh my my my sneaky kid, uh uh uh Daniel, we homeschooled, uh we schooled them at home until they were in the ninth grade and we wanted to uh shepherd over them while they uh got into a school setting. So in the ninth grade Daniel went to our local Christian school about 30 miles away. And he had a competition. He's a pianist, very gifted in that regard. He was going to a competition. They were going to be gone for a couple of days And he said, Dan, we need to be at the school at four o'clock in the morning. And I said, Okay. Now I am an on-time guy. I'm punctual. And so four o'clock in the morning, I'm there. There's nobody there This parking lot is dark, school's dark, nothing going on. Uh four thirty in the morning, nobody there. Five o'clock in the morning, nobody's there. Five thirty in the morning, uh the bus driver shows up. And he says, Okay dad, thanks very much. Uh you can go now. I said, Man That's crazy. So uh two weeks later he got another school trip. He said, Dad, uh I said, now get the time right this time. He said, Dad, oh it's it's 4 30, we have to be there. I'm on time. We're there. And there is nobody there. 435. And like this kid, this kid doesn't want to be seen with dad He wants to get there first, to be first, so he can get his stuff out, so I can leave. And I'm not going to embarrass him around his friends. And so I said to him, Daniel I'm not the sharpest knife in the drawer, but I I I could I even figured that one out. And I said, Daniel, I'm gonna stay here and help them load up the bus He said, No, no, Dad, you can really go. I said, No, I want to help them. He said, You can go. I said, listen, I'm going to help them load up on the bus. And then when they get done, you're going to come down off of the bus and you're going to give me a manhug. You know, you shake the hand, dub dub the bro thing, and you're gonna say, Dad, I love you, and I'm gonna say, I love you, son, and uh he and then you're gonna get back on the bus. And he said I I I don't I don't I don't think that's a good plan. I said you'll do that or I'll get on the bus and I'll yell Danny Pooh and he said I'll get off the bus and give you manhuck. So win the heart of your child. My son, give me thine heart. I wanted their heart, and I wanted to win that. Your child is going to give their heart to someone. They're going to give it to the drug dealer or the first guy that comes along that tells them, oh, you're beautiful and bring some flowers You got a daughter, fellas? Bring them flowers? I brought my if I was bringing my wife flowers, I was bringing my daughter flowers. I wanted to win her heart. I wanted to win his heart. I wanted them I I I wanted to love them and I wanted them to love me. That's just kinda kinda natural. And we should do that So the heart of the matter is a matter of the heart. Every problem your child has is a heart problem. They have a heart problem. Now we like to say As parents, parents like to say this, the teacher is the problem. No, the teacher is not the problem. The Sunday school teacher has a problem. No, no. Your child has a heart problem. And when that, again, when the teacher at school brings that to light, you should say thank you to that teacher and you should say thank you to God. So I was on police work. I was working in the street. It was day work. I had uh uh Daniel, again my my sneaky little guy When he was five, we had put him in our local Christian school just before we started homeschooling But we put them in a local Christian school where we went to church. I was not again I was in police work, I worked in daywork, and the teacher sent home, she called us in for a conference She said, uh your son is is uh disruptive in class. Now it was in the spring. And every spring it just seemed like when the birds and the flowers came out, uh he he go nuts and he go wacky And so she I said I looked at her and I said, how long has this been going on? And she said, well, this has been going on for the better part of three weeks. I said, several things. I said, number one We stand behind authority. And number two, the fact that he's been goofing off for three weeks is not on me. That's on you because you put up with it for three weeks before you told me. If you'd told me on day one, I would have been here because we support authority The next time he gives you a problem in class, you have the office call me and I'll come in and deal with it. And she said, okay, which just happened to be the next day. So the next day, she calls the office and says, uh, Mr. Bishop wants to be called when his son give me a hard time. And so uh um they call house and uh my wife calls the station because I was working and the station calls me on the street and says, the Christian school is calling you that says there's a problem with your son. I said, I'm on my way. So you you know you're in trouble when you when you get kick when you get in trouble in class and the police show up in uniform I tell you what, the rest of the class, they were well very well behaved. And they did not mess with this teacher anymore because when they have a problem, they call the police. But again There I am in uniform. Take him down to the side to the side empty room and we sat down. We talked about what he did. Again, be thankful. Be thoughtful Uh you did wrong and and uh this is not the session for that, but you should have a plan. What what did you do wrong? What what was the problem What what should you have done? What are the repercussions? Daddy's going to spank you. And uh and and then you're going to do what? You're going to go into the classroom. You're going to tell the teacher you're sorry You're gonna give her a hug, and you're gonna say, This will never happen again. It better never happen again, or Daddy will be back. Don't get angry But you should deal with it every single time. Every single time. Don't get mad at the preacher. Don't get mad at the Sunday school teacher. Don't get mad at your child. Be thankful. Be thoughtful. Be thorough. Uh carried all the way through Because we have a sinful heart. And this goes along with transparency. The heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. Who can know it? Again, sharing that I struggle with the flesh. And when you struggle with the flesh And you get it wrong, and you will be honest. So if you want to know when I struggle with the flesh the most, it's when I'm working on an automobile. And I do mechanic work It just uh it just doesn't go well. So I was under the van and I uh uh my middle, my strong-willed kid was out there helping me And I said to him, now you pay attention. Now it was a starter, so I was laying underneath, and I took the two bolts off, and I've got it in one hand, and I've got to take the electrical connection off the top And I said, and he knew this. There are three tools out there. Daddy's going to call for each tool. Here's the number, here's what it is. Explain it to him And so when Dad calls for the for the three-eighth cent wrench, you hand him this one, uh three-quarter, you hand him this one. So he says, okay, okay, okay, okay. You got it? I got it, I got it. These ten And so I've got I'm underneath, I've got this starter and it and it's heavy and I'm I can see the wires and I said hand hand me hand me the the three edge wrench and he hands me a screwdriver And so I get a little frustrated. And and of course what do you do when you're under a car and you need to see something that's not under the car? You sit up And what do you do when you sit up when you're under a car? Well you smack your head. Which it does what? It adds to your frustration. So I'm under the car, he's not paying attention, and what is he doing? Chase and butterflies. Well, kids do! And so I hit my head, and so now I hurt, and so I'm frustrated. And then I realized that's sin, right? It is. And so I come out, we finish the starter, we get it done, and uh he he's just looking at me And I said, uh I said, David, um daddy, uh daddy was unkind, and that's sin. I dealt with myself the same way I dealt with him. Thankful, thoughtful, thorough. So what does that mean? That means you have to tell your ten-year-old that you're sorry. Boy, that's really humble. Daddy was wrong. That was sinful. Will you forgive me? Yes. So what do we do when we're dealing with our children? Well then we're gonna ask, we're gonna pray for the child So I said to my ten-year-old, Would you pray for Daddy? And so he did. He bowed his head and prayed. And I said, now I need to pray and ask God to forgive me. And we did. See, discipline should be it should be a big thing. It doesn't it doesn't just it I tell you what, it's gonna make your starter project go a whole lot longer But it's gonna it's it's gonna help you to win the heart of your child. So we get all done. Uh I I apologize. I pray and ask God to forgive me He prayed for me and asked God to forgive me. And then my strong-willed child said, because he knows what comes next, can I spank you now? Don't they look at him and I and I said, Don't push your luck. Don't don't push don't don't don't push it. You say, well, preacher, according to Matthew chapter 5, I can be angry as long as I have a cause. You let me say being inconvenience or hitting your head or somebody handing you the wrong tool is not a cause. It's an inconvenience. So stop excusing your own misbehavior and your own misdemeanor and when you do something wrong, make it make it right. Because you see, Proverbs chapter 23, verse 26, we like that first one. My son, give me thine heart, but we don't like the last half of that verse And let thine eyes observe my ways. The Apostle Paul put it like this follow me as I follow Christ. And you are not perfect. You will not be a perfect parent. You will not get everything right all the time. But when you get something wrong, make it right. Be thankful, be thoughtful, be thorough. Observe my ways. Observe my ways. The solution is to point them to Christ. That's why God gave them parents. My wife often would come to me and say, Uh yeah, I spank the kids all day long. Uh I I'm frustrated. And uh And I would say you should be thankful. That's job security. If parents were perfect if kids were perfect, they wouldn't need parents And my wife would look at me and she would say, I could use a little less job security. But your children are imperfect. They need parents. God, in his infinite wisdom, gave them to you. I can help you, your preacher can help you, but we are not responsible for your children. You are. You've got to take responsibility. You've got to step up and say, these are my children. I am responsible. I've got to deal with that. Again, the church is there to help you. We're there to encourage you. Christian school, I'm thankful for it. Home education, I'm thankful for it. But if you think the Christian school is going to turn your kids outright, you haven't seen some of the products that I have coming out of Christian education. Children need parents Who win their child's heart for God. They need that. My strong-willed child was 15 years of age. And Grandma was visiting. Grandma was in the spare room and downstairs. And before school, uh he uh came downstairs and and grandma the kids left for school and grandma said it was the oddest thing that happened this morning she said uh uh the son came into the room and he went and stood in the furnace room for just a second And then he stepped back out and said, Hey grandma, have a good day, and walked out of the room and closed the door. She said, it was just the oddest thing. I said, Went into the furnace room. So I walked into the furnace room and and the furnace has a k-ka, and it's just light enough for you to walk in. The washers over here, the furnace, the boiler is straight ahead, hot water heaters over here, and the wall is right there. And so I stood there where he would have stood And reached above the the stove and I found it in the first class. It was just really neat. He'd brought contraband in the house. He couldn't take it to school. And uh he that's where he was hiding it. And so Now, it's probably something you allow in your home, but it's just something we didn't allow in ours. And so I had it And so I I said mom um and my wife, I said, Hey, uh we found something in room he's sixteen. And uh I I said, uh I'll be here today when he gets home And and so we s we stopped there in the morning and we pray. He said, Lord, thank you for bringing this to life, because now we can deal with it And so he came home, I was sitting in in the in the chair in front inside the uh the front door when he came in and I greeted him warmly and said, Hey bud, how's cool? Good to see you. Welcome home. He said, Oh good to see you then. He went right downstairs, went right in there to retrieve his contraband. And he came upstairs and at what Peatman. I I can I can almost see him dominical. You know, Richard. One there. And and I'm just up, I'm I got my Bible open, you know, spiritual. And uh he comes and and he comes upstairs And he and he goes over in the other side of the room and he plops himself down on the couch and he says, Okay, Dad, you found it. I found what, son? He said, oh Dad, I hate it when you do that. You know you found it. Just just punish me. Just just get it over with. And I said, what in the world could you possibly be talking about? And he said, Oh, Dad, don't do that to me. I know you found it. I know you. And so I said, uh, we're gonna have court This is where the police thing comes in. And so I I brought some of my police uh training uh to the home. And so this is just kind of neat. Uh just just a little different idea of something you can do when you're dealing with an older teen and uh uh reach reaching their heart for Christ. And so I said, yeah, you brought contraband into the home. And uh we're we're gonna deal with that, but we're not going to deal with it today. We're going to deal with this next next Tuesday. Next Tuesday at uh 4. 30 p. m. in the afternoon. We're going to have court. And here's the neat thing about court. I'm the prosecutor, right? And I'm the judge which is a really neat place to be. And he is the accused. And uh so he comes in and uh and he says uh Uh we we have court the next week, it comes up and so he's got a whole week to go, uh what's gonna happen uh to me. So he comes in the next week and I say, oh the first thing is the prosecutor presents evidence. Did you know that the legal process is based in Scripture? You go to law school, the law school, our laws, our process uh gets this uh from from fr a lot of it from proverbs. And so the the prosecution goes first, lays his case out, and and so uh grandma, she was a witness And uh I found it, so I was a witness and uh just presented the evidence. And I said, Do you do you do you have any evidence to uh to present. He said, well I'm a I'm a pretty good kid. I said, no, that that's the sentencing phase, son. This is uh this is the judgment phase and you present evidence. Do you have any evidence? No, I don't have any evidence. I just I'm I'm guilty. I said, yeah yeah you are And I I said, Upon your pr upon your uh uh your your confession, uh I I find you guilty, and uh we're gonna do sentencing. He said, What's the sentence? I said, Oh well, we've got to schedule that. And so I said uh scheduling will be will be next Tuesday at 4 30 in the afternoon. I said, now, as part of sentencing Did you know even a c even an accused murderer is able to present a defense? And Proverbs says when the prosecution is done, that the defendant should be able to present evidence. And so I I said to him, uh you come back next week. The first thing I want is I want a written confession. I want a written out. I want to write something out. And then I want you to write out a uh uh uh an impact statement. uh courts do that. What's an impact statement? I want you to tell me how wonderful of a child you are. And he write, really? I said, yeah, I want you to write it up. A page, three-quarters of a page, half a page. Give me something Tell me how wonderful you are and why I should be lenient on you. And so the next Tuesday he comes back. I'm sitting in the living room, mom's sitting in the living room, the judge, right? And and so he uh he presents his written confession. And I read over it. Yeah, that's good. And then he I said, Do you have an impact statement? Oh so he writes about how wonderful it is. And he makes his bed and he gets up in the morning And he goes a team soul winning and he sings in the choir and then helps out and helps the helps helps dad out on church parties. He says all this stuff. I said it was oh that's that's really good. That's really good So I um and you can do whatever sentence you want. And I'm just gonna throw some things out there. My dad used to say you're grounded for the rest of your life. I'm live I th uh right now I'm living under several current Light sentences. And so I said, uh you you're just we're gonna ground you for twelve months for for whatever thing. And and uh one one strike uh on on the backside and um Based on your good behavior and on your statement, I'm going to suspend 11 and a half months of that. Which uh makes that too we said, don't the courts do that? You wonder why they do that? Well, it's your fun. It's your fun. It's your fun for the judge to do that. So we suspended a lot of it. And I said, the last thing you have to do is you have to sit down with the pastor for 13 weeks of intense spiritual counseling. Because why? Because it's a heart matter. And I want to reach his heart And so you have to call the pastor, you have to sit down for 13 weeks, and the pastor, Pastor, he's a very good guy That's me. Yeah, you're not laughing, so I know you're not getting this. I just the Pastor He's a really good guy. And I happen to know him personally And uh he and he's he really likes helping teenagers and he's got this 13-week program. He's gonna help you, he's gonna be a real blessing to you. So you've got to call that you've got to call Pastor and set that up. And so he says, okay, so uh We get done. And I said, do you have any questions? He said, yeah, Dan. I said, no, no, no, no, no, no. You're not doing this with Dad. You're doing this with the pastor I and your dad. You've got to call the pastor. And I happen to know the pastor's not in the office right now. But tonight at 6 o'clock, he's gonna the pastor's gonna be in the office And Joe, you call him and set him up. And so I go to the office and uh the phone ring, caller ID says, you know, it's mom's phone, and I go uh Lighthouse Baptist Church, Pastor Bishop speaking, how man helped you? And he goes, Oh Dad, you know it's me. And I go, No, no, no, no. Oh, who's this? Who's this again? Oh this I said, Oh, oh your dad's not here right now. Can I give him a message? He said, Whatever. Can I talk to the pastor? I said, well you just have that man, the pastor And he said, Uh uh I I need to I need to counsel with you. Well can you tell me why? Uh well what what has precipitated this? I make booking the whole thing all over the I got in trouble Dad shut me down, I got all this going on. What are we doing? We're making a big deal out of it. Good. And for the next thirteen weeks, when his mom brought him home from school She dropped them off at the church, and I'd go downstairs and we'd sit across the table with one another and we'd go over Bible precepts that would help him. Why? Because I wanted him I wanted to win his heart. So what is the imperative? And see the solution. What is the imperative? The imperative is for us as parents to walk in the Spirit. Walk in the spirit, you're not fulfilled the lusts of the flesh. So here's a couple of verses for you, Dad. Ephesians 6. 4 And fathers, and ye fathers, provoke not your children to wrath. I need that verse. I struggle with sarcasm. I look at sarcasm as a spiritual gift. Ezekiel, Isaiah Elisha, they were all sarcastic. Maybe your gods will switch, you know. So I struggle with that. And so uh every once in a while Mrs. Bishop will say, provoke not your children to wrath. And and I need that. That's why God gave me a wife. And so when your wife brings something to your attention that is not right, what should you use? You should be Oh. Thankful? Okay, all right. You were here in the same class I was, be thankful. So don't prov provoke them to laugh when your wife says, hey, you're pushing If you're provoking, you cross the line, and you should stop and say that's sin. And you should be thankful. God, thank you for bringing that to light. Thank you for giving me a light that has pointed out that weakness. Thank you for bringing it out at this level so I don't mess it up. But bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. Here's another one. Colossians chapter 3, verse 21. Fathers, provoke not your children to anger, lest they be discouraged. Here's my translation of that. My little edition. Lest they be discouraged and say, what's the use? Why should I even try? You want to discipline them, but you don't want to push them to the point where they say, there is no point in serving the Lord. My son, give me thine heart and let thine eyes observe my ways. So it was Thanksgiving, eight weeks ago. We were sitting around the living room. We were doing uh my my children are all saved. I have a son in ministry. Uh they're all in church, all serving the Lord. We're very excited about uh what they're doing. We've got grandchildren that are old enough that trusted Christ as their savior, just really, really exciting stuff. But this this guy's telling you down here is just priceless. Brother Vontrault is living the dream that is available to any Christian who is willing to avail themselves to fight the truth. And here's the manual right here. Right here. We were sitting around the living room and we were having a conversation. We were talking about Hey remember when you didn't remember court, remember when dad, remember when the and my my strong willed child Dropped his head. He's now, I don't know, 30 years of age, has children of his own. And he looked at me and he said, Dad, so Sorry. I was a lousy kid. He was a lousy kid. And the conversation finished. And I saw that. And I said, hey son, come up to the bedroom and talk to me for a minute. And I said, you weren't a lousy kid. You were a normal kid. You were a child that had a sin problem. But you were blessed to have a daddy that pointed you to the Savior. And as a strong-willed child You have gifts and talents and abilities that your brother and sister do not have Strong-willed kids have the ability to change the world. Those are the kids are going to stand at the stake and say, I will not deny the Lord Jesus Christ. They have special traits. They are special children. You're a special kid. And never, never did your dad think that you were that you were that you were a lousy kid. Dad knew that you were a child that needed the Savior, and Dad is very, very proud of you. About two weeks later, he sat down and wrote me the most beautiful letter that I have ever seen in my life, thanking me for being a dad that pointed him to Christ. Wow, a strong-willed child with a tender heart. The answers are right here. Father, I pray that you'd help us to be moms and dads, Sunday school teachers, and don't get mad at the preacher or leadership. Or the teachers, but give thanks for bringing us into light. May we be thankful, thoughtful, thorough. May we raise children that love you. And lead our grandchild and create lead our grandkids to know the Savior. And we'll thank you throughout all eternity in Christ's name. Amen.