Maybe five, six, seven, eight, maybe ten years ago you stood on the stage and now that infant that you held here on the stage is ten years old and was singing in this group that was down here today. But I wonder how are you doing on that commitment? How are you doing on that commitment to bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord? Hebrews, I'm sorry, Proverbs 22, verse number six, says, Train up a child in the way he shall go, and when he is old, he will not depart from it. We have a command and a promise from God given to us here. Commanding us to train up a child. You know, it takes work, it takes effort. To train a child. It literally to train a child. It it it's not something that is just happens. Your your child does not just all of a sudden know how to do calculus. They have to be trained to do calculus. And that makes perfect sense. You'll say, obviously. Well, you know, your your child also does not know how to be honest. He does not know how to be a hard worker. He does not know how to be compassionate. He does not know how to be sharing. He does not know how to resolve conflict. He does not know how to live the life that God wants him to live and be what God wants him to be. That takes training. And moms and dads have been given the responsibility, the command, the duty to train your children. Your life is no longer about yourself. You have been given children. Your life now is about raising them up, at least for the next 18 years, and some of you would say way beyond that. You're going to be working with these kids. That it's going to be an all-consuming effort to train them, to guide them, to give them insight into what they should be doing. It is our job and responsibility as parents. As we begin, let me just say what's the responsibility of the child? Well, their action should be to obey. The child's action should be to obey. Ephesians 6, verse number 1. Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. O B E Y Obey. Children obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right Honor thy father and thy mother. O B-E-Y. Obey. You guys know that song? Children obey your parents in the Lord for this this right. And you go higher and higher and faster and faster, but we're not going to do that. But Kids their their their action is to obey. You know the world today thinks oh it's okay They just want to use some myriad of methods to try and use do behavior modification. They want to try and bribe the children. They want to try and reason with the child. They want to try and manipulate the child. To get the child to do what he's supposed to do. The Bible says that he's supposed to obey. And as a parent, it's your responsibility to see that he obeys. You're not a loving parent if you let your child disobey you. They need to obey you. They need to learn to obey. That's part of training them. There's been more than one time in my life I've seen my dad look at a father and tell him, you need to get that boy under control. Or he will be in prison by the time he's eighteen. And can I tell you that I know of two instances specifically that there was no change made in the home and both those boys are in jail today. Because the parents weren't following the biblical uh admonition, the responsibility to train our children up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. To instruct them, to show them, it takes effort. Children who obey, their action is to be obeyed, but beloved, their attitude is to be honored. Honor thy father and thy mother. That's their responsibility. But as parents, we have been given a great responsibility to guide them. This importance cannot be overstressed This is not just a matter of opinion. Honor is learned in the home as it flows into other areas of our lives. Honor is learned as the children see mom give honor to her husband. Honor is learned as they see dad honor his wife. They see how dad and mom respond to each other and how they respond to other authorities in their life, and the children learn that. You know your walk talks louder than your talk talks. What are your children's rights? By and large, today society hasn't adopted a um You know, equal equal rights philosophy for children. But I want you to know kids don't have equal rights. They're your children. They were given to you by God. They are to be under you. They are to obey you. They are to follow you. But I do usually tell children they have a couple of rights You do have some rights, kids. Here's what they are. First of all, you have the right to remain silent. Okay? I'm a little bit old fashioned. I still believe that children ought to be seen and not heard. Now kids are the life of a church. Kids are exciting, they're fun, we're we're thrilled about the babies that were up here today, and as they begin to grow, and you know it didn't bother me at all that Emma was up here uh testing out her lungs, you know That that that's fine. But could I encourage you parents? If you've got little ones, uh I mean none of these older folks in here want to be the grumpy old grandpa. They don't want to tell you in the foyer to get your child under control. Nobody I mean kids are fun, we're we're all gonna grin and bear it. But especially around these older folks, them little kids running through, i it can it could make an older person stumble Crawling around on the floor in the foyer, you know, playing with toys, that's it's not the place for it. So I just want to encourage you parents. Kids should be seen, not heard. Your kid doesn't have to be the center of attention. And you know how they learn that? Through training. The reason your kid believes he has to be the center of attention is because you've trained him to feel that way. You've trained him to think that he is the most important person in the world. There's nobody else that he can't take you away from. And how you fix that is you show them that that's not true. You need to sit down and be quiet. You wait here for dad. You train them. You know, you should be able to hold a two-year-old in your arms and have a conversation with another adult But do you know what happens? The two-year-old sees that they're not the center of attention, and what does the two-year-old start doing? Whacking you in the face, pulling your glasses off, pulling your hair, yanking on things because they want the tension And you're you're trying to communicate and you're trying to have a conversation with an adult and you can't control your two-year-old. That takes training. Now the time to train them, you see training is something you do on purpose. Your kids don't just learn how to behave at two years old when you have them in your arms because you just automatically know how to do that. No, you have to train them. So when you're holding them at home and you're talking to mom and the baby slaps your face, you look at the baby and you say no. Can I tell you that they're a lot smarter than you think they are? They know what they're doing. You say no, and they'll look at you. And then they're gonna try it again. And then you take their little hand You say no, and they're going to you're going to start crying. You say, no. Mommy said no. Or daddy said no. Okay, listen, this, I don't I I don't have a two-year-old with me, but for me to take their hands and lock them into mine, and I mean I'm a full-grown man. I probably could corral a two-year-old. But it get it gets hard. You know, when them two-year-olds, when they want to mmm, they stiffen their back and you know they're squirming all over the place and everything and you're trying to hold on to them You don't have to do that to yourself. Training starts there. Very young. Thirteen months. Fourteen months. 15 months Two years old. They call it the terrible tools. We never had any terrible twos. You know in all the years we put our kids in car seats, we never had a problem with any one of them not want- I mean I'm talking about twelve-hour trips. Was never an issue. Putting the kid in the car seat. I'm not telling you something that's hypothetical. I'm telling you what we did with our children and it worked. Because you never take the child out of the car seat because he's screaming. Never Because then you've just trained him that the way to get out of the car seat is to start screaming. So anytime he's done being in the car seat, he's going to just scream until you're fed up and you're going to take him out. So he's the one that's in control. He's the one that's telling you as a parent what to do instead of the other way around. Do you say no? You know there's been times when we got out of the car when the kids are real little, they've been in the car for an hour and a half or something, and uh we'll carry the car seat into the house and they stayed in the car seat for another hour because they weren't getting out until they stopped crying. You say what? Yeah, but you know what? Beyond that, we never had any problems. Go get in the car seat. It was never a battle, it was never a fight. We never we didn't have to, you know, they're squirming and trying to, you know, lift up their stomach so you can't buckle it, you know. And you're fighting with a two-year-old. This is training. This is systematic training. What is the result that you want? It doesn't just happen. It's not just magical. And you know, some people would tell us, man, Pastor, it must be nice to have good kids. Like somehow God just gave us good kids. It takes training. You have to be systematic. You train systematically. So kids, you I I got I'm running down a bunch of rabbit trails. You got the right you got the right to remain silent. You know another right that kids have? The kids have a right to know that mom and dad love each other. You as a parent need to establish security in your home for your kids. By with all else, they know that mom and dad love each other. That mom and dad are for one another, and that mom and dad love them, but mom and dad love each other. You guys know I'm not big on PDA, but the kids like it when they see mom and dad kiss. They'll they'll squirm and turn away and say, Ugh, and all that, you know. Like, oh come on. But uh, you know, they they like it when mom and dad show affection one for another. When there is when they know the home is secure because mom and dad love each other. Your kids have a right to know that. Your kids have a right to know that mom and dad love them. You might not always be happy with them. You might at times be disappointed with what they did. But they should know in their heart that regardless, under no under any circumstance, that your love is secure. They should know that. They have a right to know that. The world's philosophy with regards to training and raising kids is a hodgepodge of different ideas. But they tend to most parents tend to adopt some type of behavior modification, whether that's overt permissiveness or aggravated discipline. They usually resort to what they know. Maybe what they grew up on, what they saw in the past. You know, uh a lot of things that I'm gonna give you today are are philosophies or ideas of how to do things that we did. But can I tell you that those philosophies or ideas are rooted In having had a godly example in the home that I was raised in, so I had that added privilege. And then now for twenty-three years raising our own kids. Some of these thoughts I shared with people when we had just been married and and our kids were only two, three and four or you know, it just when the kids were really little But the principles are still true. What is foundational, beloved, is that the Christian understands that God is at work. That God has a plan for the child. As these parents stood up here and said, well, I'm going to commit to raise my child and nurture and admonition of the Lord. It's not just a commitment to, oh, I'm going to try and have my kid be the best kid he can be. No, you see, you understand that God has a plan, that ultimately God is in control, and as a parent, it's our job, our responsibility to bring them up to be fit for the master's use. To be ready, to be able to be used of God. That's our job, it's our responsibility. And You know, there's I would not encourage you to go out on the internet and find anything in regards to parenting. If you want some advice or books on parenting, I've got lots of them. I've probably got thirty books on parenting. Have you read them all? Just about. Because when I was raising kids I wanted to know how to do it. But a lot of parents today they they've got children they're trying to raise them but you you haven't done any studying on how to do it. You haven't got any books or any all you're going off is what feels right. That feels good. But is that what's best for the child? Is that what the child really needs? You wouldn't approach any other part of your life that way. And yet we approach our relationship with our wife and the raising of our kids that way. Like somehow we just know how to do it? Like somehow we just know how to be a good parent? I know God has put some things innate, especially in the heart of a mother. That caretaking heart that's there and that that's no question about that. But whether you should, you know, the Bible says the rod and reproof could bring it correction. When should you use the rod? And when should you use reproof? You need to be led by the Spirit of God to know what the difference is, when and why, and what is the result. We understand, beloved, that from the moment of conception, God has a plan. Psalms 139, verses 13 through 16 says, For thou hast possessed my reigns. Thou hast covered me in my with my mother's womb. I will praise thee, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Excuse me Me. Marvellous are thy works, and that my soul knoweth right well. My substance was not hid from thee when I was made in secret, and curiously wrought in the lowest parts of the earth, thine eyes did see my substance, yet being un perfected, and in thy book all my members were written, which in the countenance were fashioned, when as yet there was none of them. You see, from the very beginning, he says, From the very beginning, when I didn't even have any hands and feet yet You knew what I was going to be. You is fearfully and wonderfully made. God has a plan for your child. God has given your child his temperament, his personality. His his ability, his strengths or his weaknesses, whatever they are, he's fearfully and wonderfully made. You know, Timothy is gifted. With humor. He he has a knack to make people laugh and connect with people. But the challenge was when he was younger was there are some times when that's appropriate and sometimes when it's not And there was a time when he really felt like me as a dad, like I didn't like who he was. Because that was his personality. And I'm not so much of a jokester, and so he he would look at me as being very disapproving of him and felt like it didn't matter what he did, he couldn't make me happy because it's not who he was. So here I am with a teenage son and there's a wedge getting created between us because what God made him, I was having a problem with. I had to come to grips with that myself, and then I had to get with him alone, and I had to say, say, listen, son, God made you this way. God gave you this talent, this gift, this ability to use this humor. It's not a negative thing. As a parent, I just want to try and help guide it so that it's not being used, you know, during church. Or or you know, other times I mean he he he just will pull it out at the most like yeah, son now he's getting much, much better. But it took a little bit of work for us to get around to that where he understood where I was coming from. And that I truly appreciated who he was in God. God made them that way. But you we need to see that and understand that God made them that way. We need to raise them To be what God wants him to be. God gave your child his skills and his abilities. By the way, he gave him his gender too. God God didn't make any mistake, okay? If somebody's confused, it's it's Okay. We're talking about child training. You know you can train that into a child as well. By letting listen to all of the foolishness that's out there in the world today? Letting people talk to them, well, are you really sure that you're this or this? Because you could be this But maybe not, maybe you're this. You know, you could confuse a child about anything. The complete and utter foolishness. There's just man and woman and God did not make any mistakes. Oh, you are fearfully and wonderfully made a mistake. No Don't let Satan and this world give you any of that goofy philosophy. Our child development begins with pointing them to God. The Christian uses the home to prepare a child to fulfill and do God's will in his life Am I saying that your child needs to be serving the Lord in a church, a pastor or something like that? No, doing God's will Does not mean that you're you're preaching. Doing God's will means you're doing what God wants you to do. Whatever that is, everybody in here should be fulfilling and accomplishing God's will for your life. If you're not accomplishing God's will for your life, whose will are you accomplishing? And from where do you draw your purpose for living? It's pretty empty. If my purpose for living is simply an ambition to to grow my 401k or to get to a certain level in my stock options or I hope that ultimately my purpose for living is to accomplish the will of God. Like Jesus Christ, who said, I've done the will of the Father, I've done what thou gavest me to do. The behavior of the child is an outpouring of what is in his heart. Okay, again, the behavior of the child is an outpouring of what is in his heart. You see, the heart of the matter is the matter of the heart. Discipline in the home, biblical discipline. And correction should address the heart issue. Often parents are too concerned about the behavior and they forget about the heart. We need to look at the heart issue. What is the underlying cause of this problem? Proverbs 423 says, Keep thy heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life Luke 6, 45 says, A good man out of the good treasure of his heart bringeth forth that which is good, and an evil man out of the evil treasure of his heart bringeth forth that which is evil. So what's coming out of your child's heart? What behavior things do you see that are a reflection or reveal to you as a parent what's going on in his heart? Ted Tripp said, a change of behavior that does not stem from a change of heart is not commendable, it's condemnable. A change of behavior that does not stem from a change of heart is not commendable, it's condemnable. Jesus Christ often talked to the Pharisees. about their the problem that they had of adjusting behavior without fixing the heart. And that's where as parents we've got to be very careful that our discipline doesn't do. Your child your discipline should bring inward change. If there's two kids that are fighting over a toy, Justice says Boy they should both get an equal opportunity or equal equal turn But when you think about the heart, what's the heart problem? Neither one of them want the other child to have the toy. You know how it is. What's yours is mine is mine, and what's mine is mine. And if you weren't playing with it but you or if I wasn't playing with it but you picked it up, then it's mine. You know, it it's it's children, it doesn't matter. Some some other kid picks up the toy and then that oh no, I want that toy. It's selfishness. So what we're dealing with when we're dealing with this problem with two kids fighting over over a toy is a heart of selfishness. That's what we need to be working to try and modify or change. Not just we did not solve the problem just because we took the toy away and gave it to him for a few minutes. And now you get it for a few minutes. Now ultimately that can be training if you take the time to train. And say, no, what we need to do is we need to be sharing. We share with one another. Which one of you would like the other person to have the toy? Neither one of them will say anything. You've got some training to do. So that they see the benefit and the blessing of sharing. It's a heart problem that needs to be addressed. The heart of a child is shaped by the influences that are put upon it. How many of you have ever poured any concrete? A few of you. Probably those that hands went up have done a lot and everybody else hasn't done any. Um You know what, ladies, this will be this how many of you ladies have ever baked a cake? All right, there we go. Now we got a bunch of ladies involved. Uh you know, you take that batter and you put it into a mold, right? See, I my mind went right to concrete because you you you build a form. You form up the concrete job and and they bring out the trucks and they dump that and the concrete is kept in the shape because of the mold that we made because of the form that was set up, because of the influence that I put on it. So as a parent, as we're shaping the heart of our child, they're shaped by the influence that we put on them. By the mold that we the boundaries that we set. Say, no, no, you can't go past this line. We're we're shaping their heart. Where you this no you can't go over here, no you you can't go over there. These are the boundaries that you have. This is we're we're shaping your heart They're influenced by the children's heart is shaped by the influences that are put on it, the pressures from outside. Not just the pressures from outside, but how he responds to them And it's our responsibility as parents to control these outside influences. We control those by the decisions we make, by the example that we are before them I wonder this morning, if your child grew up and had a relationship with their mate, just like you do. Would you be glad for them? Would you be, oh, this is awesome. I'm glad that they are able to have such a wonderful, caring, loving, compassionate relationship. I'm glad they get to have a home just like just like we have. Or will you say, man. The last thing I want is for my kids to have a home like I have. But why don't you change it? Because what you're doing is you're you're shaping their life. You're preparing them for life. You're showing them what home is like. And by and large, when we many times, one of the biggest problems with husbands and wives is we go back to what we know. Although we said we'd never be like our father, we're a lot like our father. We're never gonna act like mom and you walk like her and talk like her and use the same illustration she uses and all all of that. And a lot of times you just go back to what you know. Well are your kids learning the right things in the home? Are they being prepared for life in the right way by the example that you are before them? What their family is like before them? What do you value most? Where does God fit into your life? What upsets you and what do you let slide? What are your values? What are your boundaries? You see, you are an influence in your child's life. You know, we have a what I call life on life principle with our interns. They come here for ten weeks, and for ten weeks we spend an unbelievable amount of time with them. Basically, we invest ten weeks with them. We're with them all the time. It's life on life. I tell them you're gonna see me a good you're gonna see me good days and bad days. You just can see who I am, what I am. And and hopefully I don't discourage you too much. Uh you know, but hopefully you just see uh a a real guy that loves God, loves his wife, trying to raise his kids for the Lord, uh have bad days, but we're just trying to follow after the Lord, and that's what we want them to see. But you see, you with your kids every single day, you're influencing them in ways you can't even imagine. There was one school teacher that was having a really hard time with her one of her boys in her class. Every time she would really get down to brass tacks with him about what was going on, this little kid Would get up and storm out of the class, would just leave the classroom. He would be like, I'm not letting listen to this, and he would get up and leave the room. So she called the parent teacher conference, talked to mom and dad about the problem. Wouldn't you know that halfway through the parent-teacher conference Dad stood up and said, I ain't listening to this and walked out of the parent-teacher conference. The teacher now knew exactly why this boy was that way. You see, you're shaping them by how you're living every day, how you respond to your mate, how you talk to each other. Your kids should never, never hear you yell at your wife, sir. You should never lift lift your voice in anger against her. If you do, you have a problem. And you need to ask God to forgive you and get some help to get your own temper under control. A man that's not in control of his own uh spirit is like a city that is broken down without walls. And I tell you that in a home growing up, my father Never one time in all the years that I lived at home, never one time did I hear dad raise his voice against mom. Not one time. I'm not going to say that I've been as good as my dad. But I had this example that set a standard for me. That really makes it very easy. And I and I don't I don't raise my voice against my wife. You can ask my kids. They'll tell you, right? Yeah. You need to be in control of your spirit. They need to see that peace and harmony in the home. And if there's not peace and harmony in the home, that's your fault. You say, no, it's his fault, no, it's your fault. No, it's her fault, no, it's your fault. You need to resolve that. You cannot be responsible. You cannot fix the other person. But you can fix yourself. You need to fix what your problem is. And beg God to give you grace and mercy and love and compassion for what might be a shortcoming in somebody else's life. But God can change them. But you can only change you. If things aren't the way that you want them to be, Change them. Don't just keep living a life of misery. Do what God wants you to do. Do it right. And enjoy the great fruit of a blessing of living the way God wants you to live. A pastor friend of mine told me about a young man in his church. That came to him and he could not, this young man could not believe that he was saved. He could not accept the fact that Christ had forgiven him And I looked at him and I said, well he's probably dealing with some unconfessed sin. I said, or actually maybe even addicted to pornography. He's got that ongoing battle and and so he can't accept the forgiveness of God because he just keeps going back down that road. And and he said, that's what I thought. He says, but I brought the boy in and sat him down and everything I asked him about every time I talked to him is this He he he said, no, he doesn't have this problem, he doesn't have that problem, don't have this problem. He just couldn't realize the the forgiveness of God He said it's about two weeks later that this family had a big uproar in the home and dad and mom and this boy came into Pastor's office and said, we need some help, you know. And so they're they're talking and arguing back and forth. He said, in the progression of time, we got it calmed down. And he says, now the first step here is we need to forgive. And he said to the boy, he says, do you forgive your father? And he said, yes, I forgive him. And he said to the father, do you forgive your son? And he said, yes, I forgive him. And then he said to the son, he said, Son, do you accept your father's forgiveness? And he said, Yes, I accepted. And he said, Father, do you accept your son's forgiveness? And this father said yes. And then he turned right around and for the next five minutes began to berate his son about all of his shortcomings and the problems that he had. That right there revealed to this pastor friend of mine that the problem that this boy could not accept the forgiveness of God is because he was living in a home where he did not receive forgiveness. Where whatever he did was continually held over him. But I'm saying, parents, is how we live and what we do impacts our kids in a great way. There's so much that I want to give you about instructing and training in just in a practical aspect. How important the orientation of the heart is. I need to I need to bring this to a close. Training children is something that's done on purpose. It starts when they're very young. And if you train them correctly, when they're very young, it gets a lot easier. Instead of the opposite happening, where it gets a lot harder. We've been through it. If you as a parent will just take the time to train. It just doesn't just happen. The problem is that a lot of parents are childproofing their home instead of How would you say that? Child proofing their home. That's what you need to do. You see th you think fixing the problem is taking it out of his reach. That didn't fix the problem. I just told them anything in reach is fair game. You need to leave it there. That's right. And say don't touch that. If you think that you you can't get a two-year-old not to touch something, then you need some instruction on parenting. Because you can train him not to touch that and he'll leave it there. Why do you have a seven, eight, or ten year old going into a dad's room and getting a gun that he shouldn't be touching? Because he was not told that too, there's some things that are out of reach. Some things that you're not supposed to be touching. Some things that aren't what you play with. He figures anything that he can get into is fair game for him. You need to train them. Don't touch that. Your ch your your child doesn't like some type of food You say, okay, well let's find some food that he likes. If your child gets hungry enough, he will eat it. You say, man, that's mean. You are the one that are paying the price. For not just using some common sense about how to train your child. You put something in front of your child and I I listen You you don't have to go find the most nastiest, disgusting, gross things and put them in front of your child and tell them, eat this You don't have to be that way. Basically I would say if I wouldn't eat it, I'm not going to make my kid eat it. Mary wasn't that nice. But yeah, if I didn't like it, I didn't want my kid to have to eat it But if I would eat it, I would set it down in front of them and they're gonna eat it. They're gonna eat it without throwing it on the floor, without making a mess. You know, all all of our kids, uh I don't know. This is the problem with getting so old. At what age do we teach them teach them all to say please, thank you, and more They were a year. Ten months. Ten months. All of our kids said please, thank you, and more. With sign language. More. So you look at them and they don't just go, ah, You know he could do that for three hours and he wouldn't get a thing from me. And you stop that if you just be consistent. And you look at him and say, What do you want? And he goes like this. Oh you want more? And you give it to him. And then he he you look at him And you're supposed to say thank you. At ten months. And what that does is it trains your the heart of your child to be in submission to you. It's teaching so many more things beyond just screaming for food to get what he wants. It's teaching submission, yielding to you as a parent. And that allows their heart to be shaped by you because they're in submission to you. I didn't get into actual discipline. I believe you ought to spank your children. But let me say this, you should never use your hand to spank your children. Your hand should be an expression of love. Your child should never cower because you lifted your hand. Your child's afraid because you lifted your hand. There's a problem in how you're disciplining. If you discipline right, in love, in control, your children won't be afraid of you. They'll know it's all out of love. So use some type of implementation, discipline. And you apply the Board of Education to the seat of learning. That's what it's there for. And by the way, if you want to make a difference It needs to hurt. Miles you You know there was times when she was 18 months or two years old that I was literally weeping because I was having to spank her again. I didn't want to spank her. But what she was doing was wrong. And I wasn't gonna let an 18-month-old tell me as dad what to do. There's so much instruction in this area and so many people in the world today are so far off base that I think I'm starting for square one a lot of times in in training and instruction and how to display But if you're going to bring your kids up as these came this morning and said, hey, I'm going to bring them up in the nursery and admonition of the Lord. It takes more than just having some positive influences in their life. More than just getting them into church. The positive influences are good, and keeping the negative influences out is right. But you've also got to train, gotta train, instruct