In in the Word of God to first Samuel, first Samuel, chapter number one. I told you uh a week ago, well the week before I I wasn't here last Sunday, uh but the Sunday that Last I was here and speaking, I talked to you about the fact that I was interested in, or was possibly going to teach, on uh Hannah, the mother of a minister. And I modified my title a little bit uh because I I don't want people to think or feel, well, uh I'm not a mother, so that doesn't apply to me, or uh I don't have any kids, so it doesn't apply to me. Uh so I've changed the title of the message is to train a minister. To train a minister. Now Hannah trained a minister. And I'm sure many of you are familiar, if not all of you, are familiar with the story of Hannah and the Word of God. what has taken place in her life uh in 1 Samuel chapter number 1. Uh El Kani uh had two wives. uh Peninnah and Hannah. Now these two wives, of course you see these things take place in the Word of God and you understand that just because it's in the word of God, God is not giving his approval for it. Uh God still uh would want one man with one woman for life. Uh polygamy is not God's plan, although there are many people in the Word of God that participated in that. That's not what God wants. And you actually can see in all these families that that participate in this, the problems that arise. And that's one problem here between Hannah and what uh the Bible calls her adversary. You know, Hannah did not feel favored of God, even though her name means favored. Her name means grace or favored with grace. But she didn't feel favored because she was barren. She actually probably felt cursed. It was believed or thought that a lady that couldn't have children was probably cursed or guilty Of some type of sin, and therefore God was not blessing her womb and allowing her to have children. To make matters worse, her adversary, her husband's other wife Had sons and daughters, and seemed as though she had a very fruitful womb, and Hannah had none. Verse number six says that she provoked her sore. And Hannah, you can see in the text time and time again, she cried herself to sleep to the point where she couldn't bring herself to eat. The Bible says that in bitterness of soul that she went to God. We see that picking up in verse number 10, if you wouldn't. Read with me, follow along as I read. Verse number 10 down through verse number 20. And she was in bitterness of soul and prayed unto the Lord and wept sore. And she vowed a vow and said unto the Lord of hosts, If thou wilt indeed look on the affliction of thine hand. And remember me, and not forget thine handmaid, but wilt give unto thine handmaid a man, child, then I will. You see those two phrases in that verse, if thou wilt Then I will. She vowed a vow. She said, God, here's what I'll do. This is what I will do. She says, I will give him unto the Lord all the days of his life. And there shall no razor come upon his head. And it came to pass, as she continued praying before the Lord, that Eli marked her mouth, knowing, Hannah, she speaketh in her heart, only her lips moved But her voice was not heard. Therefore Eli thought she had been drunken. And Eli said unto her, How long wilt thou be drunk? Put away thy wine from thee Then Hannah answered and said, No, my Lord, I am a woman of a sorrowful spirit. I have drank neither wine nor strong drink, but have poured out my soul before the Lord. Count not thine handmaid for a daughter of Belial, for out of the abundance of my complaint and grief have I spoken hitherto. Then Eli answered and said, Go in peace. And the God of Israel grant thee thy petition that thou hast asked of him. And she said, Let thine handmaid find grace in the sight. So the woman went her way, and did eat And her countenance was no more sad. And they rose up in the morning early and worshipped before the Lord, and returned and came to their house to Ramah, and El Kanae knew Hannah his wife, and the Lord remembered her. When the time was come, about after Hannah had conceived that she bare a son, and called his name Samuel Saying, because I have asked him of the Lord. The name Samuel means asked of God She asked of God and God gave her a son and she named him Samuel. Now we don't know exactly how old Samuel was when the scripture says that uh when he was weaned. that she brought him to Eli, that she left him. And there are Bible scholars that base this on historical data that have come to the belief that it was probably somewhere around the age of five years old. I think that's pretty old for a child to be weaned myself, but but that's where they they they kind of believe that that's probably the age somewhere in that region, but it could have been much younger Can you imagine, mom, bringing your five-year-old and letting them go? I mean, there's some moms that aren't ready to let their 20-year-old go to college. And she brought her five-year-old and left him with the man of God. She left him there. In uh verse number 27 and 28, he says, For this child I prayed. And the Lord hath given me my petition, which I asked of him, therefore also I have lent him to the Lord. As long as he liveth, he shall be lent to the Lord. And he worshipped the Lord that She brought him. She said, This is the child I asked God for. God gave me this child, and I'm bringing him back. And giving him back to God. There's some things that we can learn about Hannah and her son, about her son here, that he was in fact a minister I want you to see three verses in this passage of scripture. Look at chapter 2 and verse number 11. It says, and El Kanae went to Ramah to his house, and the child did minister unto the Lord before Eli the priest. The child ministered unto the Lord. Look at verse number 18, chapter 2, and verse number 18. He said, But Samuel ministered before the Lord, being a child. Girded with linen ephod. And look in chapter 3 and verse number 1. In chapter 3 and verse number 1, he says, And the child Samuel ministered unto the Lord before Eli. And the word of the Lord was precious in those days. There was no open vision. Samuel was a minister. I would think every parent would desire of their children that they would have the spirit of a minister. That they would want to minister and serve the Lord. Every child should want to serve the Lord. Now You you understand that I'm not talking about just being a preacher. Sometimes we look at the term minister and we think of a pastor But what this is talking about is serving God. Ministering to others. You can have a ministry where you serve the Lord and you serve others. And sometimes nobody else even knows about it. You can serve in many capacities. And I'll tell you what, we need people today. Our churches need people who are committed to the idea of ministering, of just serving God. I'm talking about men and women who want to be used of God week after week, who would just show up and run a bus route. Just ministering on a bus route, just coming week after week, getting here at seven o'clock in the morning on Sunday morning. And saying, I wanna I wanna minister, and here's an area that I can minister and they ride the bus and bring in the kids to church and Going out on Saturday and knocking on their doors and meeting the parents and encouraging the family and trying to bring them into church, just ministering faithfully. We need men and women and boys and girls who would like to go out on Wednesday nights for ten weeks throughout the summer and be a part of Bible Club Go out to a neighborhood and gather the kids up into a group and bring them to a small park and teach them the Word of God for a few minutes. But we need some people that will say, I want to minister and I have a heart to minister and I desire to minister. So I'll give up my Wednesday night. I'll give up my Wednesday afternoon and prepare to be able to teach a lesson or teach a verse or plan a game or sing some songs. You know Raj is leaving us in not too long, but he he was pretty faithful in that ministry. There playing with the kids and gathering them together, giving up his time, and he who's going to take his place. We need some people in the church that have a heart to minister and they say, I'll do it. I'll do it. We need men who will serve in a nursing home ministry. You say, Pastor Caleb, we don't have a nursing home ministry. I know. We need some people who are willing to do it. There's plenty of nursing homes around here. There's people that need to be reached with the gospel. There's nursing homes we could get into, I'm sure. I had somebody ask me why don't we have a nursing home ministry? And I said, because I don't need something else to do. I mean, we need a nursing home ministry, but there's no way that I could do it. But if there was somebody that had a heart and desire to minister and say, I could give up every Saturday. The problem today is is we want to be intermittent ministers. We wanna we wanna oh I'll minister the first Saturday of the month if you can get somebody to do it every other Saturday of the month. Okay, we'll try and find somebody else that's willing to do that. And and we work at it. And it's with all of our ministries. You know you can't build anything with people that aren't faithful. You just can't do it. I mean, what if you had an employee that said, well, I really like this job. I enjoy it. I like getting my paycheck. The work is good. And I can come every third Tuesday unless something comes up. But that's what we deal with at the house of God all the time. All the time. Oh, I can serve Except not this week or this week or that week, but uh plug me in right there, and then if you can get somebody to cover those other times, the next time I'm back, I'll I'll cover this time. You understand if our church is going to grow, we need people that have a heart to minister, that decide they want to be there, they want to be faithful, they want to do it every week. They want to be a part. They want to serve in a nursing home. They want to work in the nursery. They want to minister for God. They want to get here early and open up the building or stay here late and lock it up and make sure everything's shut off and ready to go at the end of the evening. They want to work faithfully in the sound booth They want to sing in the choir every Sunday and be here a little early on Sunday afternoon to practice and prepare to sing. They want to serve in Sunday school and prepare a lesson. They want to go out and knock doors. They want to go and be a part of Hunt Valley Helpers and minister in our community as opportunities arise. Who will say, just plug me in, I'm ready to serve. I'm ready to minister. You know, she didn't know exactly what her son was going to do. She didn't know exactly what his task was going to be. She had no idea how critical of an of a Person in the history of Israel he was going to end up being. But she said, I'm willing to give him to God. And Eli was willing to minister. Ask yourself, what are you doing for God? What are your kids doing for God? If we're going to raise ministers, if we're going to teach the next generation to be ministers, I want to give you a few simple thoughts. First of all, you need to serve properly. Look in chapter 3 and verse number 1. Chapter 3 and verse number 1, he says, and the child Samuel ministered unto the Lord. You see, we need to be reminded on occasion that we're ministering unto the Lord. What we do here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church in any of the ministries that I've mentioned, in any of the capacities to serve that we've discussed already, is we need to be reminded that this is unto the Lord. This is not unto Pastor Caleb. This is not unto Pastor Gus or if you work in master clubs. It's not unto Pastor Derek. You're serving and working in master clubs as unto the Lord. Serving the Lord. We serve God with our ours. We bring honor and glory to God. Whatever your ministry you're in, it should be as unto the Lord. That phrase, unto the Lord, is found 511 times in the scripture. Scriptures. And I just, I didn't read them all. But I looked briefly through the Word of God and just thought, well, what is we as Christians, what are we supposed to be doing? Unto the Lord. Let me just give these to you briefly. In the Word of God, they sacrificed unto the Lord. They returned unto the Lord. They gave offerings unto the Lord. They had some things that pertained only unto the Lord. They ministered unto the Lord. They built an altar unto the Lord. They kept the Sabbath unto the Lord. They separated themselves unto the Lord. A man was sanctified unto the Lord. They prayed unto the Lord. They cried unto the Lord. They talked unto the Lord. They sang unto the Lord. They vowed a vow unto the Lord. They cleaved unto the Lord. They turned unto The Lord they Dedicated themselves unto the Lord. They drew nigh unto the Lord. They gave thanks unto the Lord, and they confessed their sins unto the Lord. That's a pretty good list of things that we're to be doing. I think what it boils down to is all that we do is supposed to be done unto the Lord. And I just want to remind you tonight, as you have opportunity to serve, remember it's for God. It's unto the Lord. It's for your Savior. And it will last for eternity. We do it unto God, for whether we live, we live unto the Lord. And whether we die, we die unto the Lord. Whether we live, therefore, or die, we are the Lord's. It's supposed to be for God, folks. And sometimes when we get that mixed up, we're not serving properly. We're not serving to impress men. Or somebody on staff or some other church member, but we're serving unto the Lord. Whatever we're doing. But I want you to notice one thing that's It is important. The heart of that verse is what I just gave you. But what is the last couple words in that verse? He says they serve him unto the Lord, but what else does it say? Anybody else? What does it say? Before Eli. We do serve unto the Lord, but I want to remind you that we serve before men. That men do watch us. Men do see what we are doing and how we are doing it. In college I was taught that people don't do what you expect. They do what you inspect. You might have these grand expectations of what they might do. But for the most part, they don't do what you expect. They do what you inspect. What I'm saying is they do what you say, hey, did you get that done? You know, I have five kids. And on occasion I have to come into their room and say, Hey, we need to clean this up. And I come back later to inspect And I've had a conversation with them. I've said, kids, what would this room look like if I never came in here? What would this room look like if I never came in and said, clean that up? Would you literally live in that? I mean, would it not bother you at all? I mean come on now. Kids, I'm trying to help you. I mean, think about it. If I never told you to clean it up, how long would it stay that way? I don't know. As an adult, as a parent, I'm trying to train them and teach them the importance of these things. But do you know if I never went into the room? The fact is it should not get like that. It shouldn't get that bad. It shouldn't be that much of a mess. Why? Because character says this rotten apple does not go on the floor. It goes in a trash can. And I'm not going to leave it there and step on it and sleep on it and wrestle on it. I'm going to pick it up. Right? Character says, I'm not gonna let it stay like that. I'm gonna fix it. We're gonna take care of this. Character says, and doing what's right says, we're not gonna leave this such a mess, we're gonna clean it up. So if I never inspected It should still be done right. Amen? Now, part of training as a parent is to teach kids how things should be done and to give them that character. But what I want to ask you is what about your ministry? I mean, let's be honest. What happens to you if you don't show up for your ministry? Are you fired? Are you uh horsewhipped? I mean nothing happens to you if you don't show up. I mean i if you don't do your ministry, somebody fills in and we get through and we keep on going and probably nobody even talks to you about the fact that you weren't there. But what I'm saying is uh character says I'm gonna be there. If nobody ever inspected What would your ministry be like? If nobody ever let's do the opposite. Let's say that you teach Sunday school here and I showed up in your class next Sunday. Would that bother you? What if I told you right now, I'm gonna come and I'm gonna visit your class next Sunday morning? Would you prepare in any different way? Would you put in some extra effort? Why? Because I was inspecting? But we do it as unto the Lord. Now we do do it before men, and the fact of the matter is sometimes before men becomes more of a ch more of a a challenge for us because we see men and we don't see God. But it ought to be him who we're worried about. We ought to be doing it for God. It ought to be Him who we are striving to please. Our ministry is before God, but also is for God, but before God. Men. Men see our ministry. What would your ministry be if nobody watches it? Would you come to church if nobody saw whether you came to church or not? or not? Would you be present? Would you show up for your ministry if it didn't matter? Let me ask you this, what about your kids? We're talking about training ministers. If let's say let's let's just say they're twenty years old and they could do whatever they want, would they be in church next Sunday? Would they well let's say they move, they get a job and they move to another city and they begin going to a church. Would they just be a Sunday morning goer? Or would they say, hey, God wants me to be a minister. I need to be serving. Would they say, hey, Pastor, where can I get involved? What can I do? Are we training ministers? Do they have a heart that when they're out on their own, they're going to say, can I get in a choir? Can I help in Sunday school? When is vacation Bible school? I want to help in vacation Bible school. Is there a bus route here or a nursing home ministry or a prison ministry? What could we get involved in? What I'm saying is, where are you going to be down the road, kids? You know it starts right now. You know, young ladies, you know how you're going to be a good wife someday? By what you are right now. Don't think that just because you said I do, that all of a sudden you're going to enjoy cleaning house. Don't think that just because you said I do and you're in love that you're gonna like doing laundry, that you're gonna enjoy cooking food, that all of a sudden life's gonna change and all of a sudden you've got character. And your house isn't gonna be the pink sty your room is right now. See at some point we've got to train the young to get beyond doing what's inspected and just do what God wants them to do. And they've got to be motivated themselves to say, hey, this is what's right. This is what I'm going to do. Men, you know how you're going to be good at work someday on a job in the workforce? How you're working right now at home. How you're working for different people when you do a little job here or there. If you're always trying to find out how to get out of work, Don't think that that's gonna change with how much you get paid. Because the amount you get paid does not make up for somebody's lazy. If you're lazy, you could make ten times what you're making right now and you'll still be lazy. How hard you work is not dependent upon your salary. Because we serve God and we work as unto the Lord, whether we're making two dollars an hour or making thirty dollars an hour. It's what's inside that motivates you to say, I'm going to work hard, and I agreed to work for $2 an hour. I'm going to work hard and give him my best day. And it's laziness and a lack of character that says, I'm only getting two dollars an hour, I ain't gonna work that hard. You'll do the same thing when you're making thirty dollars an hour. It's character inside. What you're going to be. Do you have that heart? We do it as unto the Lord. You've got to serve properly. Your ministry, whatever it is, serve as unto the Lord and do it right because it's for God. I know men see it, but God is the one that counts. We've got to stand under pressure. Twice in this passage of Scripture says her adversary provoked her. That word provoked means put pressure. That she put pressure on her. You can see her talking to her and mocking her and you know saying, oh, uh what, no kids yet? Oh, I'm sorry. God hasn't blessed you yet. You don't have any children? Maybe something's wrong. Oh, look what God gave me, another child. She provoked her. She put pressure on her But do you understand? It is the pressure that produced a Samuel Samuel came about because of the pressure that was put on her. Her adversary provoked her over and over again. Sometimes you may feel like your boss is of an adversary. He's putting some pressure on you. You may not like that. Sometimes you may feel me as your pastor is putting a little pressure on you. I hope you never feel that I'm your adversary. But I think occasionally, I I mean I hope occasionally I put a little a little pressure on you to to do what's right, to to go towards God, to to to pursue the Lord and and and to be more of what we ought to be, because the Lord knows, including the guy standing up here, we can all do a little bit better. Amen? So I hope occasionally you feel a little pressure. But listen, if we crumble under the pressure, if we don't stand and keep going Will not come out on the other end as gold. You see, pressure produces heat. Heat purifies, it removes the drops. It prepares us to come forth as gold. If we have any chance of training ministers the next generation, bringing up somebody like a Samuel, we've got to stand under the pressure. How are you handling pressure? Are you at your wit's end? Have you had all you can take? Are you ready to pull your hair out? Or are you taking it to the Lord in prayer? We've got to stay in prayer. We've got to stay in prayer. In verse number 10 in 1 Samuel, chapter 1, verse number 10, he says, And she was in bitterness of soul and prayed. Unto the Lord. In verse number 11, and she vowed a vow and said, O Lord of hosts If thou wilt indeed look on the affliction of thine handmaid and remember me and not forget thine handmaid, but wilt give unto thine handmaid a child, then I will give unto the Lord all the days of his life And there shall no razor come upon his head. Verse number twelve, it says, and it came to pass as she what's the next two word? Continued praying. Continued praying. I'll never forget it Dave Smith, the leader of Cedar River Baptist Camp, he said if you want to raise kids for God, it takes three things. It takes prayer, prayer, and prayer. We've got to continue praying. For the kids in your class, for the children of the church, for the young Saints. Oh, they're full-grown adults, but they're still babes in Christ here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church that need to be nurtured along. They need to be strengthened. They need to be encouraged. But they also need some of the church family praying for them. continually praying for them that they would be and continue to be what God wants them to be. We've got to pray for our kids, for the young. Every one of the kids are different. Every saint's different. Everyone has different needs and they're at a different place in their life. But God can meet those needs and God can bring about the changes Needed if we pray. Except the Lord, build the house. They labor in vain that build it. And lastly tonight, you need to start the presentation. Start the presentation. In verse number 27 and 28, she said, For this child I prayed, and the Lord hath given me my petition, which I asked of him, therefore also have I lent him unto to the Lord. She realized that the child was a gift from God, a direct answer to prayer, and she kept her promise and gave him back to God. Hannah had made a promise to God. And when the day came, she presented him. But do you know what I think? I think Hannah had to prepare him. I think Hannah had to start when he was just a little, little baby. She probably sang him songs and she probably told him, You're you're you're a gift from God. I prayed for you and God gave me you, Samuel. Your name means ask of God. And do you know what, Samuel? You're going to be a minister. for God because I promised him I was going to give them to you. I was going to give you to him. And and I think as he got a little older and actually started just being a toddler, she would ask him, What are you going to be, Samuel? And he would say, A minister That's right. The day's coming. The day's coming. You're going to get to be a minister. I think that the time came and he wasn't over there. uh crying and wailing and and and calling for his mom and she's believing and oh I can't take it. I think they reach that day with some anticipation and some excitement And yes, I'm sure there was the pain of separation, but they had prepared their hearts for him to be presented to God. They were ready to present him and he was ready to go. I'm sure that he entered that time with excitement, like any child would, if you looked at them and told them about something that was coming up, with excitement in your voice. You said, this is what you're going to get to do? When that time come, it doesn't matter if it's if it's shoving toothpicks through a little hole. They would be excited about it. They'd be like, all right, let's do it. I mean they're ready to do it. Why? Because that heart was imparted unto them. And parents, we've got to prepare our children to be ministers. We've got to push them that direction with excitement, with anticipation. Many parents today, from the time the child is little, they're not pointing them to God. They're pointing him to a career. They're presenting them to an education. They're presenting them to money. They're presenting them to finance. They're presenting them to success in the world's eyes. Is it any wonder that when they reach that age, that is what they pursue? Listen, at the end of their life, when they are old and gray, or bald. They're not going to say, man, I'm glad I made so much money. Man, I'm glad I worked so many hours. I'm glad I was a successful this or that. They're going to want to know what their life was about. What was it worth? What lasted beyond today What was for eternity? That's what will matter to them. And they'll be excited and grateful for those parents that pointed them to minister. I'm not saying kids need to be in full time Christian service. I'm not saying that they have to be a preacher or a Sunday school teacher uh or a a school teacher, you know, five days a week that they can't have a job. I'm saying point them towards God and give them a heart to minister. for God. Hey, I hope some of these kids I mean it's right around the corner, man. Some of them are gonna have some good jobs. They're going to be making some good money. God's going to bless them. And I hope so. Whatever field that God calls them into, and there's nothing wrong with that. If that's God's desire for them, they can do that. But the the question is is do they still have a heart of a minister? Are they gonna be making a a good good pay and earning a lot of money and still here in church Sunday morning? Sunday night and Thursday night. Still serving in vacation Bible school and singing in the choir. That's the question. Do they have a heart to minister, even though God has blessed them and given them a job somewhere? I'm not saying it's only full-time Christian service in that capacity, and some of them may be called to full-time service, but the heart is the same. It's doing what God wants you to do with the life that He has given you. They need to have a desire to please God first. actively serving in the Lord's church. At some point you're going to have to let go I remember the rehearsal dinner for Bradley when he was getting married. His wife, his wife, she was wife to be was sitting there, but his mom got up and she said, I have something here. And she pulled out an apron. She gave some story, long story about their life. She said, okay, he's he's getting married. She had him hold the other side and she cut the apron strings. The time's gonna come when you gotta let them go. You gotta let them go and do what God wants them to do. You know, we took Alicia down and got to see her walk across the platform and she was in her gown and I looked at her and I said, Alicia, I remember when you walk up to me and you say, Daddy, can I sit in your lap? And she looked at me and she says, Dad, I could still sit in your lap. I said, Okay, hon, we're gonna we're gonna put your gown on and we're gonna get a picture of you sitting in dad's lap for your graduation. But she's growing up. Time's come for her to take that next step. That's what we prepare them for. is to go serve God. Go do what God wants them to do with their life. That's what we look forward to. But we've got to be pointing them there from the time they're living We can't point them towards money and point them towards a job and point them towards success and then expect them when they're 20 years old to decide, oh, I want to serve God. They've got to have that heart for God the entire time. How do we train a minister? Well, we serve properly. They get to watch us serve properly, realizing all that we do, we're doing it for God. Oh, we work jobs. Many of you, you have jobs. You you you fulfill responsibilities, you do what your life demands. It's necessary evil. You've got to earn that money to pay the bills. But all you're doing, you're doing to honor and glorify God. You stand under the pressures of life and just keep Keep going. Bring it to the Lord in prayer. Let God meet the need. You stay in prayer. Stay in prayer for them and for others. And then as soon as possible you start the presentation. you start pointing them to God, saying, one day you're going to get to serve God. One day you're going to get to do this. One day this will be you. And you know what was such an amazing realization for me this last week? When Jason Bartels brought in that ensemble. The last time I saw him, he was younger than anybody in this room. Last time I saw him he was probably six years old. Oh, I didn't see Titus. He was older than Titus It's gonna come. These young people will be outside serving somewhere. Maybe here in this church, maybe as some other church But if that's going to be the case, we've got to start pointing them there. Right. Right now. Training to minister. One one one at a time. And one week at a time. Let's stand to our feet with our heads bowed and our eyes closed.