Praise God, praise God. I've always had a problem or an issue with technology as it's left me behind. And so, um Keep me in prayer as I continue to buck the system. One of the things that I truly have been amazed about is that uh God still Loves and cares for his people no matter what the trial or the tribulation or the situation may be. And we thank God that we have those that are here under the sound of my voice and those who might be listening from afar that we have a place that knows one how to pray and two know what to pray for. And we thank God for each and every one of you who are under the sound of my voice today. Uh some some time ago um God had laid a message on my heart to to share today and um It's it's related to the situation that the world is connected with. Roughly about fifteen months ago, the world as we know it educationally and experientially was closed because of a pandemic called COVID 19. COVID 19 had managed to escape the borders of China and spread across six six major continents throughout the world with a tenacity spike that either one caused us to be quarantined because we may have demonstrated the symptoms but were blessed to not have it but needed to be isolated so that the virus or a virus could actually run its course, allowing the medical professionals The opportunity to extract blood trying to determine desperately how people could show symptoms of this virus but not have the killer's frame. They should have called Hunt Valley Baptist Church and we would have told them that God knows Or two, or two, ask for prayers because the symptoms have grown into a dangerous beast. James chapter 5 verse 14 says this, is any sick among you? Let him call for the elders of the church and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord. They chose not to ask those who know how to pray. They chose not to ask those who know what to pray for. To call upon those leaders who know how to go into their secret closet and call on the name of the Lord and say, what has befallen us? Moses went before Pharaoh and said, Let my people go. We have Man of God, that's here. We're blessed to have Pastor Caleb here with us to to know how to pray and what to pray for. He's got that secret room somewhere like located here in this place. But he knows how to fall on his knees and pray Why? Because there's healing in the name. There's power in the name. There's a connectivity in the name. There is a God who wants to reach from the throne room of grace to not only touch and heal everyone, but to allow us to be uh uh healed by his mercy and his grace. We watched as medical professionals students, trainees, nurses, doctors, and even researchers were finding out the hard way how trained they were against a kill a virus that they couldn't see. As sophisticated as the world was, we were not prepared for the onslaught of COVID-19. History had recorded some years ago that the flu virus didn't move, has not moved as fast as COVID-19. but yet just had the same tenacity. The only thing is with the influenza virus they just didn't have the technology and they did not have the wherewithal to combat such a powerful disease, which has roughly about nineteen variations to it. But because we were slow to respond, because we were slow to act, COVID-19 put a chokehold on this world. I like everyone in this world was praying for families or friends to have the protection and the wisdom from Almighty God to provide the right antidote or combination of antidotes to fight the virus while curing our patients. I have a sister in in Houston, Texas. was a nurse practitioner and um she informed me because I got I was very concerned because there was a time where I wasn't able to catch up with my sister. And she texted me back, Reg, I I can't talk to you right now because I'm I'm on the front line and I'm right at the front where all the action is. And Houston, the city of Houston, is scared tremendously, not knowing what's going to befall the city. And I told my sister, well, Rose, you know how to pray. And what to pray for. And she said, yeah, we've already been doing that. But too many of the saints who chose not to adhere to some of the things that they've been instructed to do, they chose not to listen And so they went on to be with God. But I'm saying I was telling my sister, I said, Rose, um, be encouraged. Uh you've got brothers that know how to pray. what to pray for. So we we've got you back here in Maryland. I have a sister-in-law who is an obstetrician by profession. uh who is a part of the delivery uh team that was responsible for ushering into this world the most precious gift that I know in this world, and that is our daughter Sejani. But at this time uh juncture in our career in her career, uh she had to abandon her trained surgical skills in delivering babies to assist colleagues on the front line in combating COVID. There was a time when she succumbed to COVID-19 but was able to be treated to get back out on the front line as soon as she was provided a clean bill of hero to fight the unseen enemy. So uh let's fast forward uh to where the vaccines used were turning the the tide as people were anxious about Getting back to the way it used to be. Now mind you, I get it. I get it. Churches included were anxious to open its doors for worship, putting technology aside, allowing the people of God to to go. and and visually see what they needed to see over the the the the the the s the airways. But what would it be like As a people, we're we're we're being uh creative and and innovative with technology to the point where people have been feeling safer at home looking at church members on Zoom or or or Google than within the four walls of the sanctuary. What is it about worship that that that I that I long for? What is it about the the house of God that I've I I was so anxiously sitting on pins and needles trying to figure out why can't we get back to the place where we know is safe. Why can't we come back to the place where we know that God resides? The place where where we've fallen on our knees and fallen on our faces to pray. Wasn't about worship that I long for. Now, I'll be more than happy to to to speak for me. I'm not going to speak for everybody else, but I I'll speak for me. I I won't put this on anyone else but me. It's just a a me thing. Psalms 95 verses 1 and 2 provide us with this. David says, oh come let us sing un Let us make a joyful noise to the rock of our salvation. Let us come before his presence with thanksgiving and make a joyful noise unto him with psalms. uh David of all people knew how how to uh come before God in whatever his situation was, where whether it was him as a child as he stood before Goliath And he told Goliath on this day. Because you told to speak out against my God and my Savior, you're going to die today. Have you ever been to let me let me take a pause for this, have you ever been? Don't don't feel bad. I I haven't either. But I've had the pleasure to see them on on on on television. And the funny thing is about Whether right or and or wrong It seems as though it is never, ever silent unless they ask for a moment of silence to pray. During the Ray Lewis era, before every game, the middle linebacker had a ritual that he executed before each game. They even put it to music. And Ray Lewis would come out so excited and so pumped up in tune to the music that the players would get excited about what they were commissioned to do as players. And his message to the fans was that if you support your team, if you applause their effort, the outcome is that they will win. I'm here to tell you that we have a place where we can do just that. Uh we don't necessarily need a a a scripted uh uh uh uh play by play book to actually go play by play, but we know that when we come through these doors into this house of worship We come excited before coming before God, singing our songs of praises, meeting one another, getting excited about seeing Brother Bob and getting excited about seeing Brother Aaron, getting excited about seeing all of the people of God. Psalms David put it another way in Psalms 34, verse 1. I will bless the Lord at all times. His His praise shall continually be in my mouth. I will bless the Lord at all times. No matter whatever may come before me, I will bless the Lord at all times. No matter the highs or the lows, I will bless The Lord at all times. David is resolved and fixed on what has to happen. I will bless the Lord at all times. No matter what happens. Even when he unfortunately had that mishap with Bathsheba, he still came back and said, create within me a clean heart of God. God and renew within me a right spirit. David understood that no matter what situation I'm, I'm only but human as the as the People will say, I know that I can go before God and make myself prostrate on the floor and tell God to fix it. David, you was intelligent in the head to be able to articulate all of these songs that he had put together and David is uh Inflamed in his heart, but in other words, but David knows to whom the praise is due, not to him Even when they chose to say that Saul had killed his 1,000 and David had killed his tens of thousands. David understood that it wasn't him that actually did that. It was God Almighty that did this, and he's the one that needs to get the praise. When we say bless the Lord, we offer something from within ourselves to God in response. Put a pin right there. We started talking about wanting to come back for worship inside this building. There is something special about this place where we invite the presence of God. uh to meet him, to commune with him in a very special place. Despite the fact that the people of God are uh are the church and that it's more than just a bit It's a a collective that has a head and a heart. So what then is this worship that I talk about? Than is worship. Worship is our coming into the presence before God, where we can respond appropriately to his greatness and to his glory. So we have an understanding of what worship is. The problem with this is, with this word called worship, is this. Have you ever seen an iceberg? The Titanic did. But the problem with understanding what an iceberg is, is this. And what you see of the iceberg is not the complete picture. Above the surface of the water is 10% of the iceberg that is visible to the naked eye. The reason why I'm using the illustration of the iceberg is because while people Make judgment calls while people may decide how they're going to respond or uh how they're going to respond They're responding to only 10% of what they see, while the other 90% is submerged underneath the water, keeping uh from being judged, keeping from being seen, keeping from being a part of of either the solution and or the problem. God wants us to know that He already knows what the ninety percent is, what the ninety percent which is composed of, where the ninety percent of originated from. And the bottom line is, do you want to surrender to me? We're talking about God. Surrender to me what I already know. You can't dye it, you can't fry it, you can't even blow dry it. But the bottom line is that You can't hide from God. Turn to a familiar passage in the New Testament, John chapter 4, verse 19 to 24. The woman It says unto him, Sir, I I perceive that thou art a prophet. Our fathers worshiped in this mountain, and ye say that in Jerusalem is the place where men ought to worship. Jesus saith unto her, Woman, believe me, the hour cometh when ye shall neither in this mountain nor yet at Jerusalem worship the Father Ye worship ye know not what. We know what we worship, for salvation is of the Jews. But the hour cometh, and now is when the true worship worshipers Shall worship the Father in spirit and in truth. For the Father seeketh such to worship him God is a spirit, and they that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth. Here Jesus is responding to a Samaritan woman who who not really understanding who she actually was talking to. Jesus asked her for some water, but she's like, why would you be communicating with me as Samaritan woman? We we don't have relationships with one another. But Here Jesus starts to dialogue with her and starts to tell her about her entire family situation, the 90% that's underneath the water. The husband that you wished is not your husband. And the five others that you were with were never your husbands at all. And how can you know this? And you don't even know me. Well, in the beginning I was there when you came into this world. I I heard you when you cried. I heard you when you sought out to be recognized. I was there when you tried to make a name for yourself and didn't and was never ever understood. I was there. And so when she went off to go tell tell people about the man that she met at the well, the man who knew more about her than she ever knew about herself, that's the person who we need to deal with. That's the person who we need to go to. How can I surrender when the picture of surrendering is uh an unpopular uh way of submission Uh I had this conversation with Shamar about trying to uh surrender himself to training. Don't don't put your head down, Shamar. That's it. to surrender oneself to to something that you may not necessarily know how it's going to start or how it's going to end. If it it causes one to feel somewhat apprehensive. So it implies losing. It implies the unpleasant image of admitting defeat before one starts. In today's competitive society, we're we're taught to never give up and never give in. Winning is everything. It's getting Uh if getting the girl is everything, if getting the A is everything, then surrender is unthinkable It is the natural response to God's amazing love and mercy. We give ourselves to Him not of our fear or duty, but in love. There was a song that was penned clearly. It would be All to Jesus. I surrender all to him. I freely give. I will ever love and trust him in his presence. The daily live. But the first I like the most is the last verse. All to Jesus I surrender. Lord, I give myself to thee. Fill me with your love and power, let your blessings fall on me Let's shift gears a little bit and move uh uh forward for just a second. If you turn to Acts chapter 2, starting with the 40th verse. Verses 40 to 45. We find these words according, and with many other words did he testify and exhort, saying, Save yourselves from this unto towards generation. Then they that gladly received his word were baptized. And The same and on the same day were added unto them about three thousand saints. And they continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship and in breaking of bread and in prayers. And fear came upon every soul and many worshippers and wonder many wonders and signs were were done by the apostles. And all that believed were together and had all things common, and sold their possessions and goods, and parted them to all men as every man had need. And they continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship. And in breaking of bread and in prayers. Which brings us back to our text where it says they continued And the apostles' doctrine. They were studying the word of God. They were listening to The disciples that Jesus had left behind, understanding what thus saith the Lord. And if you understand what you can hear, if you understand what you can feel, these words are the words that will literally set you freeze, set you on fire, allow you to be excited about what's going to happen to you in the the next coming days In order for our fellowship to depend on our worship, one needs to understand what God is God has uh come to us in three persons. God comes to us as the holy creator. The word says In John chapter 1, verse 3, all things were made by him, and without him was not anything made that was made. God comes to us as the Holy Savior. Where it says in John chapter 3, verse 16, for God so loved this world that he gave his only begotten Son that Whosoever believeth in him shall not perish, but have everlasting life. Verse 17 says this, for God sent not his son into the world to condemn the world but that the world through him might be saved. God comes in us and dwells in us as the holy sanctifier, which is the Holy Spirit. The word says in Acts chapter 2 verse 4, and they were all filled with the Holy Ghost. And began to speak with other tongues as the Spirit gave them utterance. So God comes to us and In three persons, God comes to us as the Father who loves us. God moves within us as the Son of God who saved us. And God dwells powerfully within and moves mightily among us. Which brings us back to our text, the word says they continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship In order for our fellowship to depend on our worship, we need to understand what God is. He is a person that not only sits high but he's a person that looks low. He he's a a a person that didn't mind wrapping himself up in humanity and allowing himself to walk with us and be with us. As a matter of fact, he was called Emmanuel, God with us. And in the time that it came for him to start his ministry, John the Baptist told him, He said, Look, I need you to baptize me. And Jesus said, let it be so. That I should be baptized. And he baptized him. And as he went out, the Spirit of God came down like that of a dove and sat on his head, and behold, this is my beloved son, in whom I am well. Please. I want God to be able to to part the clouds and look at me and say, well done. I want God to look at each and every one of us under the sound of my voice and say, well done. For all of what you've done. We may have been scared during the the during the COVID uh situation. But guess what? I I I know that God knew everything about what was going on. I just pray that that the people on the outside of these walls who had who had some influence had a a backphone as you did as Batman used to have and was able to call for Pastor Petrell. Or call another man of God and say, what can I do? Or what should I do? If I were to take a census right now, there's not a governor that I could probably call out that would have said, you know what, I can I got counsel from a pastor and said close the doors. No. If you understood the word of God, the doors of this church should have still been open. Right We should have still we had the op should have had the option to be able to come before God and say, What should we do? What what am I supposed to do? God wants us to know that He loves us anyway, despite the decisions that we may have made. I don't know what tomorrow may hold, but I know who holds the future in the palm of his hand. God bless you. And amen.