Alright, this morning I'm gonna let you in on a little secret. I like to eat, and this being in Baptist church, I think I'm in good company. So Food tastes good and not only does it taste good, it's also an integral part of our lives. It's a necessary component for our existence. In fact, the only way or we can only survive up to two months without food Now Jesus only set fasted for 40 days, and I don't think he ever wanted to fast for two months. So while eating food is great, cooking food is also great. It's also good to gather a bunch of ingredients, mix them together and make something that looks good and hopefully tastes good as well Now one thing I can't stand, and this is private talking, is when someone tells me how to cook something or to uh change something or um give me suggestions while I'm cooking Like um when last time my mom was here for Mother's Day I made some uh shrimp and grips and she had put some um hot sauce in it when I wasn't looking. Like not just her bowl, like the entire pot. Now I'm not a fan of hot pot sauce. I don't like the flavor. And so I tasted it and it was like almost like a record skip moment. And if you guys are too young to know what a record skip is, think of it like um I did I felt a disturbance in the force if you're fan of Star Wars. So I can't remember being that mad at my mom in a long time, but I had the sense to, you know, rate it in because I know she was still she could still put me through a wall if she wanted to. So I really what really uh hurt me was that she didn't trust the cook. She didn't trust the chef. Now there's a saying in Japanese, omakase. It translates roughly to respectfully letting another choose for you or the chef's choice. You'd pretty much sell on the chef, I'll leave it up to you. No, we have a chef that we have a chef that knows what's good for us. And today we're going to look at some examples of times when he provided goodness for people. So, in Psalms chapter 34, verse 8, it says, O taste and see that the Lord is good. Blessed is the man that trusteth in him. So we have this for vet at home. It's kind of a uh kind of like a pothoar that you put on the counter to protect your counters. Once you bring your counter once, you realize that it's a good investment And it says on there, O taste and see that the Lord is good. Now that's a pretty nice phrase, you know. Put on a trevet, put it on a cup, put on a piece of wood hanging up in your uh kitchen But it wasn't until the summer where I read the entire verse where it says, Blessed is the man that trusteth in him. You have to love a book where you can read and get more out of it every time you read it. Some people think the Bible needs to be updated to fit with the times, but it's us who need to be updated daily when we read it. So getting back to the lesson, this idea of taste is a strong one. We tend to associate food with sampling something No, one time in elementary school, I was standing in line with the rest of my class, waiting to go to another class, and we got to talking about plums. And just thinking about a plum, my mouth started watering. And it wasn't just like a little, it was like a lot. It's kind of interesting experience. And you almost feel like um a little Jack Horner was sticking his phone in that Christmas pie and flowing a plum. So here David is talking about not tasting, not sampling, but perceiving, knowing that the Lord is good. We must see that God is always good. We need to recognize his goodness and remember that we have experienced it. David had forgotten God's goodness at this time. Or before this time. He was human like everyone else, and he made mistakes. He had lapses in judgment. So with the book at um verse 1, chapter 38, we see um what brought David to this point. Says Assalm of David when he would change his behavior before Abimelech, who drove him away, and he departed. So how did he get to this point? Well, Saul wanted to kill David. But David enjoyed living too much. So he tried to get a so he tried to preserve his life. He tried hiding in caves. That didn't work. He tries sneaking up on someone saying, hey, I could have killed you, but I didn't, because you're God's anointed. That didn't work. So in the end, he decided to hide out with the enemy. Now David had lost faith in God. He thought he knew better than God. And Samuel, 1 Samuel 27:1 says, And David said in his heart, I shall not perish one day by the hand of Saul. There is nothing better for me that I should sp speedily escape into the land of the Philistines, and Saul shall despair of me. To seek me out any more in any coast of Israel, so shall I escape out of his hand. So God trust so David trusted the Philistines not to kill him, but he didn't trust God to protect him from soul-killing him. David had to convince Abimelech, whose name was Akish, in Samuel chapter 1 Samuel chapter 27. He didn't try to hide who he was. He kind of just waltzed in, pitched his scent. They knew all the songs about him, how David had have um Saul had killed their thousands and David had killed their ten thousands. He probably had a bounty on his head. So David had to sell it. So he went, found some people, uh, destroyed them, came back and said, yeah, I just attacked Judah. So they thought it was really crazy. So it's interesting how David was behind enemy lines and felt protected and safe. David must have slept on a bed of nellows every night, wondering how long he could keep up this shade. But after this ordeal he learned that he needed to have faith in God if he was to be happy. O taste and see that the Lord is good. Blessed is a man that trusteth in him. David was the only one who had to learn this lesson to trust God. As it said for, God is always good. We need to trust God when things are going good. We also need to trust Him when things are going not so good. It's hard to look back in our lives to remember times when we haven't tasted God's goodness. There are times in Scripture where God provided sustenance to people miraculously This morning we're going to see that what we can learn from these times when folks were able to t physically taste or literally taste God's goodness. And this when I first started to think about this study over the summer, I had a question. What was the purpose of food in the Bible? Taste is so strongly linked to food. I wanted to study food in the Bible. I don't know if you know read the Bible, but there's a lot of references to food. So later I focused on specifically what food was got what food God had given to people, mostly miracle miraculous means. The phrase, the Lord is good, can be found seven times in the scripture. Now, if you understand number seven, it is number of completeness and perfection. This morning we're going to see how people in the scriptures were able to literally taste God's goodness. And it's plus in the title, Trust the Chef. So first we're going to see that he has something good for his creatures. So why did God make food necessary for humans? No, he created the universe. He created us. He could have created us but not need food or sustenance to run 24-7. I don't know if we would enjoy that, but right now it looks kind of a it looks um Beneficial, I would say. But the problem with that is that without relying on food, we have a less depend we have less dependency on God. You see, when he first created man or Adam and Eve, they didn't know what to eat, they wouldn't know what to do. They knew what they were doing. They knew they had to eat. But God provided for them. God showed them this is what you're supposed to do. This is what you eat to keep keep your strength up So, first we're going to look at um Genesis chapter 1, the primary food of God's people. So before you throw out causal apostasy, I'm going to ask you to uh turn to Genesis chapter verse one or chapter one. So in the beginning, we understand that God created the heavens and the earth. He created day and night, created the oceans. Created the sky, created the land, the celestial bodies, animals, plants, created people. And at the end of everything, um verse 31 It says, And God saw everything that he had made, and behold, it was very good. And evening and the morning were the sixth day. So we see here that God created everything with good But if we back up the verse twenty twenty-nine, it says, And God said, Behold, have I given you every herb bearing seed which is upon the face of the earth, and every tree in the And every tree which is the fruit of the tree, yielding seed, to you it shall be for me. So I hate to break it to you, but God created us originally to be vegetarians. I don't know how shocked you were the first time we read that. That was pretty shocked. So after you feel after you read something like that, reminded of the um old Wendy's commercials from the 80s and 90s with the old grandma going, Where's the beef? So it's good to think about the ramification. If we were allowed to eat meat, that means that we would have to kill something. And in God's creation there was no death yet, because death only came about because of sin. Adam and Eve didn't see the goodness of God. They had everything they needed, but they always wanted more. It's just like us humans to always want more. Satan was able to use the desire for more to deceive Adam and Eve and eating the forbidden fruit. Adam and Eve had it so good, they lost it all because they didn't trust God was enough for them. Now the secondary fruit we see in Genesis chapter 9, verses 1 through 4. Now in Genesis chapter 9, verse 3, it says, Every moving thing that liveth shall be meat for you, even as the green herb have I given you all things. So this takes place after the flood. When God wiped out every living thing that was on the earth that was not protected in the art, other than the um ocean animals too, because there's water, so there nothing was gonna happen to them So God had provided meat for his people. But there was a butt. If you look at verse 4, it says, But flesh with life thereof, which is blood thereof, shall ye not eat. So before the flood it wasn't good to kill animals. After the flood, it was A-okay. But animals, but we couldn't eat live animals, or we couldn't consume live animals because there's something precious about blood. It represents innocence. It's sacred. It's holy. And God wanted to keep that in the minds of the people. So being a vegetarian doesn't make you holier than anybody else. It just makes you weird. But that's okay. I was a weird kid when I grew up and I turned out right, I guess. Anyway, God told No that was okay to eat meat. And in Matthew 15, Jesus Matthew 15, 11, Jesus said Not that which goeth into the mouth defileth a man, but that which cometh out of the mouth that defileth a man. So it's more important to focus on what comes out of our mouth and why it goes in. Secondly, we're going to see that he's got something good for his chosen And the Lamb of Abraham was God's chosen people, because the faith that Abraham had in God. First there was the famine and the feast. Through Joseph's dire circumstances, he never lost the sight of God's goodness. Because of that, God was able to place him in the right place at the right time to save not only Egypt and the surrounding nations, but also his people. Not only did only did he interpret the um Pharaoh's dreams, but he also told them with wisdom from God what to do with this knowledge and how to prepare for the years of famine. It was because of this wisdom that God that uh Pharaoh had promoted him to second comm second in command. Now Joseph had plain reason not to Or um, to be mad at God. His brothers wanted to kill him, sold him in the prison. He was falsely accused for uh being an appropriate potifer's wife He um interpreted the dreams of the baker and the chief cup bearer in prison and said, Hey guys, remember me and they didn't for years But instead he saw his God's goodness. He saw that instead of dying, his brothers just sold him into slavery. He made he was made overseer of uh Potiphar's house after he saw that he prospered in everything that he did. And in prison he was put in charge of the prisoners. In the end, he was greatly rewarded for his trust in God. Next we're going to see the travelers and the thirst. Exodus chapter 15, verses 22 to 25. God brought Israel out of captivity using Moses, and they made their way to the promised land, but they got thirsty. They didn't have enough time to properly prepare for an eleven-day pilgrimage from Egypt into Canaan. So, to sum up the story, Boss brought bone-dry bodies to bitter beverage. Bone dry bodies bemoaned and imbibed bitter beverage to Boss. Boss bellowed about the bone dry bodies bemoaning about the bitter beverage of big cheese. Big cheese bestowed bulletin to Boss about bucking the branch into the bitter beverage to bear it better So the boss buffed the branch into the bitter beverage bearing a beverage better for the bemoaning, bone dry bodies. But this wasn't the end of their murmurings. In Exodus chapter seventeen we see they picture trenched in Refidim. There was no water for them to drink They could have prayed God and asked for water. He provided before. But instead they murmured and complained. Again, Moses cried out to God So God told Moses to strike a rock with his rod in the side of Israel, and they drank the water that gushed out. You never guess what happened the next time they ran out of water. There was even more complaining. So out of anger, or God told Moses to speak to the rock in front of the people. But out of anger, Moses struck the rock twice. The first time it didn't work, so he thought, you know what, I'm going to hit it again. And because of this, because Moses prioritized his wants over God's wants, he wasn't able to enter the promised land. Since he didn't sanctify God's eyes as people, he was not able to experience God's goodness in the end. Next we'll see the murmurings in the manna in Exodus chapter 16, verses 1 through 15. The people of God were hungry. They wanted to go back to Egypt where they were well fed. So freedom versus slavery with food. So while visions of flesh pots danced in their heads, God told Moses that he was going to send he was going to rain down bread from heaven, also known as corn from heaven or angel food. God made manna reign down. That's why the letter manna literally means wetness, because they know what to call it. So they were told to gather as much as they could, and on every day, except for the sixth day. Sixth day they were to gather twice as much, so they didn't have to gather it on Sunday, because Sunday was the Sabbath Now some of them didn't trust God about this, and so when they saw it, they gathered much more than they they they gathered what they could and then they saved it. And in the morning it rotted and there was maggots in it. Later on in Deuteronomy 8, when Moses is about to leave the scene, he admonished the people of Israel to remember the Lord their God, that he fed them with manna, to make them know that man does not live by bread alone. But by every word from the mouth of out of every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of the Lord doth man love it. But the manna was enough. They kept moaning and remember they kept mourning going back to the flesh pot. Numbers chapter eleven, verses five through six says we remember the fish which we did eat in Egypt, and the cucumbers, and the melons, and the leeks, and the onions, and the garlic. But now our soul is right away. There's nothing at all besides this manna that's before our eyes. Manna in the morning, manna in the evening, manna at suppertime. When now you're getting his manna, you're gonna have manna all the time. And they are pretty sick of it Now the funny thing is that I can understand what they were going through. When I was younger, I liked I well, one of my favorite foods is cheese. When I was younger I found out that there was such thing as blue cheese dressing. No. Put cheese on salad, that's a good thing. And so somehow I've managed to eat enough of it that I got sick of blue cheese. And for decades I went without it, except for um A few weeks ago we went to um Maud Pizza and I got this barbecue chicken pizza and I took a bite out of it. I was like, there's blue cheese on this. But the funny thing is that it was their fault. You see the trip from Egypt to Canaan was only supposed to take eleven days. And by this point they had already been in the wilderness for a year. So God never expected them w never wanted them to eat man manna for a year, let alone forty years. So the journey of so God provided for them water and manna that he might humble them. But they were never weren't but they weren't humbled. Next we see the quibbles and the quail in Numbers chapter 11, verse 18 and 20. Now GitHub they continuously complain to God, so much that he even destroys some of them by fire, and they continue to complain after that. So we serve a living God. So we serve a little we serve a loving God. Now that love, he wasn't getting them what they desired. They desired meat, he was gonna give them meat And so he told Moses in Numbers eleven, Saith, Saith thou unto the people, Sanctify yourselves against tomorrow, and ye shall eat flesh. For ye have wept in the ears of the Lord, saying, Who shall give us flesh to eat? For is well with us in Egypt. We skip down to verse twenty. It says, but then if even a whole month, or then it continues to say, Therefore the Lord will give you flesh, and ye shall eat. Verse 19, you shall not eat one day, nor two days, nor five days, neither ten days, nor twenty days, but even a whole month until it come out of your nostrils. And be a loathsome unto you, because that which you've despised the Lord which is among you, and have wept before him, saying, Why came we forth out of Egypt? So God was going to give them meat that required. It sounds it reminds me of one of those old genie reminds me of one of those genie stories where you ask for you make a wish, or someone makes the wish, and the genie gives them exactly what they want. So an example, say they wish for a million bucks. Say they didn't get a million dollars, they would get a million deer. Deer as far as the eye can see. So after the quail appeared, people went nuts. They gathered much, much more than they should have. And they ate it. And because they ate it, they were struck with a plague. We need to be careful not to ask God for what we desire in our hearts, if it's not according to his will. Next we'll see Canaan in the cuisine. Now we get to the promised land. The land flowing milk and honey. Deuteronomy 8, 7, or Deuteronomy chapter 8, 7 through 10, God describes it. As a land a land of brooks and water, fountains and death thus spring out of valleys and hills, a land of wheat and of barley, and of vines, and of fig trees, and pomegranates, a land of olive oil and honey. The language thou shalt eat bread without scarceness, thou shalt not like anything at all, in the land of the stones of iron, and out of the hill's nest they dig thou mayest dig brass. And when thou shalt eaten art for and art full, thou shalt bless the Lord thy God for the good land which he had given unto thee. So Bather and Canaan, that was pretty much their basic diet. So next we'll see the foul and the fair. And the ravens brought him, Elijah, flesh or bread and flesh in the morning, and bread and flesh in the evening, and he did drink from the brook. So Elijah just prophesied that there is going to be a drought for three years due to Israel's wickedness. And God told the man of God to hide himself, but God was going to take care of him. Elijah hadn't turned to wickedness and had to place his trust in the Lord, and God was going to bless him for it. Another story with Elijah was in 1 Kings chapter 17 through verse 8 through 15. This is the story of the mother in the meal. She asked this uh woman, God told him to go to this woman, and he told him to um make him a cake, and she said she only has enough for her and her son to eat and die. So we told her, make me a cake first, and then make you and yourself make you and your stone a cake. So she did that, and the barrel meal never wasted. Neither did the crews of oil fail, until the day of the Lord sendeth the rain upon the earth. So the widow's obedience sustained not only her and her son, but also sustained the man of God. The Almer actually multiplied the barrel of oil and the cruise of oil. The barrel of meat and the cruise of oil. Next we see the escape and the edibles. In first Kings chapter 19, verse 1 through 8 Eli was Elijah was on the run from everyone's favorite queen, Jezebel. He just slew a bunch of her prophets of Bel. And she was not pleased. So after he hid himself in the wilderness about a day's journey from Beersheba, he got tired of running and just wanted to call it quit. But God wasn't ready for him. God sent him an angel to wake him up and showed him that there was cakes and water prepared for him. Not only did God provide sustenance, you've provided enough to give Elijah enough strength to travel 40 days to Mount Horeb. We may give up on God, but God never gives up on us. The obligations. Next we'll see the obligations and the oil. 2 Kings chapter 4, verse 1 through 7. There was a widowed woman and she had debts to pay. Or else her sons were going to be taken away. Made into Bodman, slave, to pay off the debt. And so she went to the man of God and she wept. And you told her to find all the vases that she could from all her neighbors, shut herself and her husband her um children in the house, because all she had was oil. And I just told her to take the oil and they pour it in all the vessels. And when she did, she was able to fill all the vessels, sell the money, or sell them for money to pay off the debt, and live off the rest. God not only answered her prayer, but gave her enough for herself and her son to live off of. It made us sound crazy to her neighbors and anyone who heard the story, but she was well rewarded for her faith in God. Next we see the purification, purification of the pottage in 2 Kings chapter 4. Verse 38 through 41. And so um Elisha came and came to the prophets and told them to make some pottery, some soup. So all went around, they gathered the plants that they could find. One of them found this weird looking gourd. He had no idea who it was, but he thought it was edible. So he put it in the pottage. And when they ate it, they cried out that it was bitter So what did Elijah do? Elisha took some meal, put it in the pottage, and he made it s and he made it less bitter. So there's no longer death in the putt. Next we see the centuria and the corn. Now centuria is a group of uh a military group of a hundred men that was uh a centurion was put over. Now these hundred men, they weren't warriors, but I needed a word that I began with C. So if we look in the next few verses in chapter four. We see that there was a man that brought forth his first fruit, twenty loaves of barley, and four ears and four ears of corn. And he said, Give to the people that they may eat. And the servant said, Well, what should I set before a hundred men? And he said again, Give the people that they may eat, for thus saith the Lord, they shall eat, and shall leave the robe So he set up before them, and they did eat, and left their and left thereof according to the word of God. This is reminiscent this this is reminiscent of what Jesus fed the five thousand disciples with uh small boys small small boys lunch. God took the first fruits that were brought in and he multiplied them. So which of your first fruits can you use for God? Allow him to multiply them to be a blessing to others. Next we'll see the prophet and the prediction In 2 Kings, Elisha made a prediction. He said in 2 Kings chapter 7, Hear the word of the Lord, and thus saith the Lord, Tomorrow about this time shall a measure of fine flour be sold for a shekel, and two measures of barley for a shekel. And the gate of Samaria. The one of the lords who was there, he didn't believe him. So Elij made another prophecy. He said the whole He said, Behold, if the Lords would make or he said, Behold, thou shalt see it with thine own eyes, but thou shalt not get thereof. So how does the miracle come about? There were four leopards who were outside the city gate, and they were They have just given up. They're like, we stay here, we're gonna die. If we go into the city, we're gonna die due to the famine. Might as well go to the Syrians and see what they'll do with us. They could kill us, but we're already dead anyway So they went to the camp, and behold, there was not a man in sight. They left their horses, they left their supplies, their tents. And so they went through the tent, found a tent, and they ate and drank themselves full. They took the riches that they found and they hid him But then they realized that, hey, God's been good to us. We need to share this with the rest of the city. So after it was verified that this wasn't traps up by the Syrians, The king made the Lord, who doubted the words of Elisha, in charge of the gate, and he were he was trampled by the people who rushed in. And Elisha's other prophecy came true, for the measure of fine flour sold for a shekel. So let us remember that God blesses us to be a blessing to others. You can't expect to prosper if you're selfish. The Bible says to give and it should be given unto you. Next we see the wedding and the wine coming to the New Testament. Now we come now um this is the very first start of Jesus' ministry on the earth. He was at a wedding in Cat in um Canaan, I believe. And his mother came to him and said, You know, the ride of wine. So Jesus told the servants to gather the water pots, fill them with water, and he turned it into wine. And he told them to give it to the governor of the feast. And the ruler of the feast had tasted the wine that was made that was he tasted the wine that was made to wine. He knew not where it came from. But he said, Every man in the beginning doth set forth the good wine, and when the men hath drunk well, which he drunk well, and that which is worse, for thou has kept the good wine until now. So God doesn't give us atomic mediocrity. He always gives us his best. Next we see the time when Jesus met the Samarian woman at the well. And she told her that And Jesus answered her, said to her, in John chapter 4, Whosoever drinketh the water shall thirst. But whosoever drinketh the water that I shall give him shall never thirst. And the woman said to him, Sir, give me this water that I thirst not. Either come hither to draw. So Jesus didn't offer water that could quench her thirst, her physical thirst, but he offers her spiritual water. He offered her living water that would be welled up inside of her, which would be the Holy Spirit. Next we see the story of the lad and the lunch. And Jesus fed the five thousand, got a five barley loaves and two fishes. So not only did he feed everyone there, but there was even enough more food that was gathered. Next we see the life and the bread. So after after this miracle, Jesus ran away, and the people who he fed found him again. Just like the woman out of the well, they desired their physical needs to be met, not their spiritual ones. Jesus said to them in John chapter six, verse thirty-five, I am the bread of life, he that cometh to me shall never hunger, and yeah that believeth in me shall never thirst. Whoever eats Christ's flesh and blood, believing on him, dwells in him. God uses the physical things of the world to explain the spiritual things. Jesus was given the spiritual truth. For many of them was literally hard to swallow. The bread that Christ was offering was better than the manna, which could only satisfy for the day. Christ was offering himself to satisfy them for eternity. Then we see the fortune and the fish. So after Jesus had died, some of his disciples went back to fishing because they didn't know what else to do. In uh John chapter 21, Jesus called out to them and said, Children, have ye any meat while they are out fishing? They said, No. And he said unto them, Cast the net on the right side of the ship, ye shall find. They cast their four, and now they were able not able to draw it for the multitude of fishes. So God not only filled their nets, he filled their nets to the full, but they couldn't even carry as many the fishes that they had It was just another example of God giving us his best. Next we have the uh lastly we'll see that he's got something for us Christians. There's something that we can look forward to. And uh Matthew 26, verse uh 26 through 29, Jesus is spending the last supper, the Passover, with his disciples. He says to them, verse 29, But I say unto you that I will not drink henceforth of the fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new with you in my Father's kingdom. So I don't know if you're excited, but there's gonna be grape juice in heaven. But I look and it's probably made from the best grapes. And Christ isn't gonna wait to have any until he's been reunited with his bride. Next we see the marriage supper of the lamb. Revelation chapter 19, verse 7, it says, Let us be glad and rejoice, and give honor to him, for the marriage supple of the Lamb is come, and his wife hath made herself ready. And he saith unto me, Right, blessed are they which are called to the unto the marriage supper of the Lamb. And he saith unto me, These are the true sayings of God. And uh Evangel's Randystar's book, The Judgment Seat of Christ, talks about there's three parts to a wed to a Jewish wedding. First there is the betrothal. For the bridegroom, the Holy Spirit has come to secure a bride and is willing us to Christ and salvation during the church age. Just as Abraham employed Eliezer, his servant, to secure a bride for his son Isaac, God caused his servants to go and find a b to find a bride for his son Christ, or for his son Jesus. Jesus also taught about this parable in the wedding feast in Matthew chapter 20 verse 22 verse 2 and 10 2 through 10. Next, there is a presentation, the marriage ceremony or the wedding. Following the betrothal where the bride was presented to the groom. Likewise, the bride to Christ will also be presented to Christ So the marriage of the Christ and his bride follows the rapture. There is a language Christ used to describe how to go and prepare and return for us in John chapter 14, verse 2 and 3. Lastly, there is the marriage feast. The supper was the time of celebration for the wedding party and the guests. Laban prepared the feast for his daughter's marriage to Jacob. Genesis chapter 29, verses 21 through 22. For Christ and the church, this was called the marriage supper of the Lamb. It was normal for this feast to be at the parents or the groom's house. We see that in Matthew 20, we see that in the parable, Matthew chapter 22. And we follow this pattern from Psalms chapter 45, verses 14 to 15. So this time the celebration will be taking place in God the Father's home. In biblical times, the celebration goes on for days and sometimes even weeks. How many believe that this will last for um seven years? Next we see the tree of life. Revelation chapter 2. Verse 7. He that have an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith to the churches. To him that overcome the world, I will give to eat the tree of life, which is in the midst of the paradise of God And again we see the tree of life mentioned in Revelation chapter 22, verse 2. In the midst of the street of it, and on the other side of the river, there was a tree of life which bare twelve manners of fruits, and yielded her fruit every month. The leaves of the tree were also for healing the nations. I hope some of those true fruits were mangoes and strawberries, because those are some of my favorites. And it would never run out. Now there's also a tree of life in the Garden of Eden, and Adam and Eve could have partaken of it partaken of it if they didn't choose to sin against God. We who are called according to his purpose have accepted Christ. Rather than rejecting him, will be able to taste the fruit of the tree of life when God restores the world to what it should have been. And who knows, those fruit should probably taste better than what we have on earth anyway. So open up your eyes to see the goodness of God. Open up your mouth and let Him fill it. Trust that He knows what is best for you, and it's be ready to receive it. Israel didn't put their trust in God, and he was ready to feed them the finest wheat and honey from the rock. He was ready to feed you honey from the rock and the finest wheat if you trusted him and hearkened to his voice. Though there's honey in the rock, my brother, there's honey in the rock for you. Vavis Jita