Well, I want you to turn your Bibles to 2 Chronicles chapter 15 this morning. 2 Chronicles 15. Our text for the story that takes place today is in 2 Chronicles. It really takes place in chapter 14. 15 and 16. We are not going to read all of that, but we are going to be referencing different portions of the story and talking about it a little bit. So just by way of introduction, can I give you a little bit of background, just kind of lay the groundwork for our story today? Uh but you guys know of course that the children of Israel, uh Jacob had twelve sons. And his twelve sons became the twelve tribes of Israel. And God in his providential planning and design, he preserved this small nation. He protected them and he provided through for them in miraculous ways, and we don't have time to teach on it. but took them down into a foreign land in in Egypt and had a foreign king uh provide for them until they grew into a nation. And then a time came where You know, Egypt uh said, man, this this nation's getting too big. We've got to do something about it. And ultimately God says it's time for my people to to be freed from Egypt and go into what we know as the Promised Land. And so they left. They went to the promised land. And there in the promised land, they were originally under a theocracy, that is ruled by God. They were directly directed by God, just like in the wilderness where God led them by a pillar of fire during the day and a cloud by night. They had that direct connection to God, except they looked at the nations around them, and you remember they asked of those nations. They they saw them and they said, Boy We want to be like the other nations. We want a king to go out before us. And they said, we want a king. And so they asked God for a king. God says, no, you don't really want a king, but You know, if you do, they kept asking, he says, Okay, we'll give you a king. So you remember they had the king. They had Saul and uh they had um David and Solomon. They had three kings. Now I've asked Gus to give us a little diagram here to throw up uh on the screens to just help you remember. Now we looked at this uh in the Old Testament survey and we're not going to teach on all of this and I don't know how some of you they're sitting further back. I know you can't read this. Uh there you go. That helps us out because we don't need all the rest of them. But you see here the kings and the prophets of Israel and Judah. So we initially, this is Saul, this is David, this is Solomon. And these three kings uh became kings, they were ruling over the people. The green there means they were good. They were doing what God wanted them to do. They were following the Lord. And you'll see that, and if you know the stories, Saul kind of drifted a little bit. He got away from God at the end and just started doing his own thing. And yet Solomon, uh David, of course, pointed back to God. Solomon was very rooted and grew up following God, but the Bible tells us that later in his life, his wives that he had from other nations turned his heart away from God. So at the conclusion of his life, he was not doing right. Well, at this time uh the tribes of Judah break into two separate, the north and the south. And you thought the north and south just started uh in America. The north and south have had conflicts ever since the Bible, right? But you have the northern and southern kingdoms. So in the south you have Judah, which is made up of two tribes. What two tribes are make up Judah? Judah and Benjamin. Those two tribes make up what is known as Judah. And then you have Israel, and that's the other ten tribes. Now we're going to not worry about Israel for a minute because we're following this path of the story over here. So Judah, uh Rehabom takes the throne. Rahbohm is a wicked king. He doesn't follow the direction of his dad. He wants to follow the advice of his friends and young people When you're going contrary to mom and dad's opinion and following the advice of your friends, you're going to get yourself in trouble. It's pretty much guaranteed, and we see that played out in the life of Ray Abum Rehabil from some, uh Abaih takes the throne, and he doesn't reign very long, but he also is a wicked king. Then we get to this young man, Asa, who takes the throne. Asa All the years of his life, he followed the Lord and did what God wanted him to do. Now that's where we are in the story of the children of Israel. But I want you to look In chapter 15, we're going to look at verse number 3, 2 Chronicles chapter 15, and verse number 3. We see the Bible says, now for a long season Israel had been without the true God. And without a teaching priest, and without the law. Beloved, the children of Israel had lived a period of time where they didn't understand the relationship that they had available to them with God. They was a nation, were away from God. They were following after other gods. They were living their own life, doing their own thing, not considering what God wanted them to do. But I want you to see here in verse number four, he says, but When they in their trouble, sometimes, beloved, trouble comes into our life because God wants to get our attention God wants us to look his direction, and I want you to see, here's a thought for this morning, when they in their trouble turned. unto the Lord, God of Israel, and sought him, and he was found of them. I want to speak to you for a few minutes this morning on the thought of the idea of turn to God. Turn to God. Beloved, we need to get to the place where we turn to the Lord. We've got to get back to the Savior and our eyes off of the situation. We've got to learn how to look at Christ instead of the circumstances. The fact of the matter is, is we've got our mind, our eyes, and our focus far too much on the world instead of the Word of God We need to get back to the truth instead of the trouble. Beloved, that's our goal this morning to try and exhort and encourage you to turn to God. in the day of trouble. Would you pray with me as we ask the Lord to bless the message this morning and speak to our hearts. Lord, we come to you. I humbly bow before you as an unworthy servant to preach. the true and powerful word of God. But Lord, we ask you to take the words from the pages of Scripture and bring them alive in the hearts of these your people this day. May it exhort and encourage May they be spoken to by the Holy Spirit. Do that work which only you can do. In Jesus' precious name. Amen. Well, we're thrilled this morning to be looking at this. Listen, if you'll look at verse number 10, chapter 15, and verse I'm sorry, don't turn there. This is 1 Kings. 1 Kings and 2 Kings and 1 Chronicles and 2 Chronicles are very similar. They tell the same stories. the Kings and the Chronicles. They look at the same time period from different perspectives. The Kings kind of reads like a history. In all of its harshness, it kind of tells us what's going on. And yet uh Chronicles kind of contains more of the positive or personal details of what happened during that time frame. So occasionally I might reference to the kings dealing with the same story, but you don't need to turn there. The kings gives us facts where the conicles gives us feeling. That's kind of the difference between the the two books there. But we're in Chronicles. We're going to be there. So you say right there. In 1 Kings chapter 15 and verse number 10, we see that Asa ruled uh For forty and one years he reigned in Jerusalem, and during that time they followed the Lord. Asa did that which was right in the eyes of the Lord all the days of his life, as did his Great grandfather David, he was following him. Now he takes the throne, and the first ten years of him being on the throne are good years, they're prosperous years. Well would you look back at chapter fourteen, Second Chronicles chapter fourteen and verse number seven? We've got a lot of ground to cover, so I know I'm moving kind of quick, but I in my mind I know we've got to make some progress here in order to Get the thought across. But we see here in chapter 14, verse number seven, he says, Therefore he saith unto Judah, let us build these cities and make them walls and towers and gates and bars, while the land is yet before us. Because we have sought the Lord our God, we have sought him, and he hath given us rest on every side. So they built and they prospered. They built, they were growing, they were prospering the first ten years of their of Asa's reign as he turned to God and was doing what was right and pleasing the Lord. God gave them prosperity, God blessed them as a nation. Uh they had peace on every side. There was no conflict or problems. They were thrilled about the progress and he says, hey, well we have peace. Let's build. Let's do some things. Let's get some things accomplished. But how many of you know and realize that uh When uh everything is going right, when things are going just fine and dandy like sugar and candy, how many of you know that there's an enemy? And that uh at some point the enemy's gonna rear his ugly head. At some point that you know, hey, everything's going good, but the fact of the matter is and you don't want to live cynically, but you you you The prudent man foreseeth the evil and hideth himself. You understand the fact of the matter is is we have an enemy, and the enemy is going to attack, right? Well that's what happens in our text here. If you look at uh back at the beginning of chapter number fourteen. So uh Abijah slept with his fathers, and they verse number one, fourteen chapter uh chapter fourteen, verse number one, he slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city of David, and Asa his son reigned in his stead. And in his days the land was quiet ten years. So we see ten years of peace. Asa did that which was good and right in the eyes of the Lord his God. He describes here how he took away the altars and the strange gods, and he broke down the images, and cut down the groves, and he commanded Judah to seek the Lord and to give their fathers and do the law of the commandments. And he took away all the cities of Judah in the high places, and the images of the kingdom was quiet before him. Verse number six, and he built fences and cities in Judah, for the land had rest. And he had no war in those years, because the Lord had given him rest. Boy, aren't we thankful for the rest that God gives, the peace that comes. Therefore he said unto Judah, verse number seven, we read that, let us build. They built and they prospered. But look at verse number eight. And Asa had an army of men that bare targets and spears out of Judah, 300,000, and out of Benjamin that bear shields and Drew bows, two hundred and fourscore thousand. All these were mighty men of valor. Now it sounded as though he's got a pretty good group of guys ready to go and fight for him. But in verse number nine we see the enemy comes at the door. And there came out against them from Zira the Ethiopian with a host of a thousand thousand and three hundred chariots And came on to Mirshah. Beloved, when you're doing right, when things are going good, sometimes the enemy is going to come. There's going to be a day of trouble. There's going to be hardship. The enemy came out against them, and they were in a situation that was unwinnable. Not only was the army that was coming against them almost had them two to one, but they had far superior battle tactics. They had far superior weapons The Bible is clear to tell us they had these three hundred chariots. And I'm sure as a nation that had been there and established for a period of time, they had other capacity, and this left Asa and the children of Israel, children of Judah, in A real situation. Truly a day of trouble. So I would like to give you four points this morning as we move through the message, and I'm going to try and move quickly, but here I want you to know that first of all, every single man, woman, boy, and girl ever born needs to Find a day, a time, an hour when they turn to God for salvation. You turn to God for salvation. Beloved, we're all in trouble if we don't know the Lord as our Savior. That trouble is present and we need to turn to God. There's no other way to get out of that trouble except by coming to Jesus Christ for your salvation. In verse number eleven, we see that Asa was in this trial, 14, verse 11. He says, And Asa cried unto the Lord his God, and he said, Lord, it is nothing with thee to help, whether with many or with them that have no power. Help us, O Lord our God. Beloved, what we've got to understand is that there men and women, boys and girls, whoever you are, we have no power to save ourselves. Does that make sense to you? We have no capacity or ability to save ourselves. There's nothing that you can do that will secure your eternity in heaven, that will cover or forgive your sins on your own. It doesn't matter how many times you go to church, it doesn't matter how often you carry or read a Bible, it doesn't matter if you've been baptized or confirmed or uh you know followed, whatever segment of golden rule or any other rule that you want. Beloved, it doesn't matter how good I've been, the Bible says, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. And because I'm a sinner My penalty for the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. Beloved, the wage, what I've earned because I'm a senator is an etern an eternity in a place called hell, which was prepared for the devil and his angels Not not for you and I, but the only way we escape that is by turning to God for salvation. We have got to turn to Him for salvation. He is the answer. We have no capacity to save ourselves. When my children were young, I've been very nostalgic the last few days. It's been some rough days for me as a father. And uh One of the gentlemen in the back today, he's like, Man, you must be really hurting. Your kids are all leaving you. And I said, I know. Don't talk to me about it. You know. Uh that's rough, you know, going away to college and moving away. But they, you know, you you raise them to go, right? It's just hard when they leave and you guys are like, Oh, poor pastor, I know. But I've been all nostalgic anyway. I was just thinking about different things. Like, you know, I mean it was in twenty sixteen when we moved into the house and I'm like, Man Caleb would have been, you know, six years old. When Caleb was very young, we one day uh we were in a swimming pool. Caleb has always loved to swim. He still loves to swim. And uh we were in a swimming pool. He was very young and he was very apprehensive. But I was in a pool with him and we were in the shallow end and I was holding him. And uh we were in the shallow end and he was very comfortable, no problem uh uh but I started moving towards the deep end and he started getting very nervous, very apprehensive, like oh no, oh no. But the fact of the matter is is he was in just as much danger in the shallow end. He couldn't touch the ground there either. Didn't make any difference that we meant to the defen, because his, beloved, his his salvation was was not in himself, no matter where he was in the pool. It didn't make any difference. His salvation was with me, his father. And that's where he was secure in the shallow end or the deep end, it didn't matter because His salvation was secured by me and beloved. That's where we are in this world. Doesn't matter where you are, it doesn't matter how good you've been. Your salvation is only found in the Father. Jesus Christ God who sent his son to die for you and I and beloved our only hope of having salvation is turning to the Son Jesus who gave himself a sacrifice so that we could go to heaven. The Bible tells us that it's not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy that he saved us. Beloved, it doesn't matter how good you are There's nothing you can do that is good enough to cover your sin. Doesn't matter if you from this day forward never sin again. The fact of the matter is, what are you going to do about yesterday's sin? Only Jesus Christ can cover that. So I just want to implore you today, each and every one of you here present, there needs to be a day or an hour that you can point to. You don't have to know it was at 3 o'clock in 1974 that I trusted. I mean, you don't have to know that, but you need to know in your heart and mind that there was a time you realized you were a sinner In need of a Savior, and you turned to God for salvation. It's not some magical prayer that you pray and it just happens. It's a matter of turning to the Lord for salvation You prayed, you confessed the fact that you were a sinner, and Jesus saved you of your sin, forgave you, and has promised you a home in heaven And if you've had that happen, say amen. Praise the Lord. That's what salvation is in, beloved. We've got to turn to the Lord for salvation. Hey, uh the fact of the matter is, is many people are running from God when they're running from the solution, they're running from their Savior, and they think they're running from their punishment. In 1981, there was a man who stole a car in Minneapolis. Minneapolis, that's in Wisconsin. No. Minnesota. Minneapolis, Minnesota. Yeah. Thank you. Got Wisconsin on the mind, nostalgic. That's where I grew up. But he stole this car and and they don't they weren't sure where he went. But they thought he went to another state. They actually took ads out the police department took ads out and put it on the radio in like a three or four state radius trying to find this guy that stole the car And they're like, man, must have been a really nice car. Nope, it was a VW. They should have let it go. But they they still he stole this car and they were trying to find him. Come to find out the reason that they were working so hard to try and find this guy. is because the owner of the car had a box of crackers on the front seat, and those crackers he had laced with poison. He was going to take those crackers home and try and deal with a rat infestation that he had. And so he had laced these crackers with poison and he told the police, if this guy eats those crackers, it's going to kill him And so this man was on the run from the priest thinking he was getting away from his punishment when in fact he was getting away from his Savior. And uh beloved, that's where a lot of people are. They're running from God thinking, Oh, I'm gonna live my life and do what I want to do, and I I'm not I don't have to be in subjection to a God who's in control and who has all the authority. I'm running from him and I'm not going to be punished by him. But beloved, the fact of the matter is what you're running from is your Savior. We need to turn to God for our salvation, and He is the only one that can provide it, beloved. He is the only one that can provide it. And the fact of the matter is, the amazing thing is, is that it's free. Oftentimes I will give the illustration when I'm out talking to somebody on the street and I might have my Bible there and I'll say, man, I've got this nice leather-bound Bible here and I've had this for many years. It was a gift for me, but what if I told you this morning I want to give you this Bible? I'm just going to give it to you, but all you have to do is 20 push-ups. And I ask him, is that free? You'll be shocked that there are many people that say yes. Now say, okay, let's think about that. What if when you stood up from doing 20 push-ups, I looked at you and said, hey, just kidding Would you be mad? Why? Because you earned the Bible. You did the twenty push-ups, right That's the thing, beloved. God has given unto us salvation. It is free. There's nothing you can do to earn it. You've got to get this out of our heart and mind. It is a philosophy that's propagated by religion. Religion has sent more people to hell than anything else. You do not do for your salvation. You trust in what's already been done. All you have to do is accept it. It's a free gift that is offered to you. The minute you begin to work for it, whether that be push-ups or go to church or get into baptismal waters or follow through some other ceremony, religious ceremonies, you are trying to do What Christ had already done. Beloved, if we could do it, why did Jesus die? If we could do it, Jesus wouldn't have had to give himself a sacrifice for us. We need to just trust. In the Spanish-American War, Theodore Roosevelt was uh his his rough riders were in terrible shape. They had been injured, they've been hurt, they'd been on the run for a long time. And uh they came upon a Red Cross station where Carol Bennett was the uh director or commander or whatever of this Red Cross station, and he came up uh to Mrs. Bennett and he said, Mrs. Bennett, I uh want to ask of you. Uh I I have I have money and I want to buy uh you know care for my men and I want to buy food so all of my men can can be F Fed and Mrs. Bennett said, You can't. Nope, you can't. And Theodore Roosevelt was a little bit frustrated. And he was walked out of there kind of mad. And he went out front and there was uh another young soldier standing there and he told him about it. He's like, I don't understand. I've got money, they've got supplies, why can't I buy it? And he said, Sir What you need to do is just ask for it. She's not gonna let you buy it, but she'll give it to you for nothing. And a smile came across Roosevelt's face as he turned back in and realized that she wasn't there for money, she was there for service and beloved. God Jesus came not to be ministered to, but to minister, and he came as our Savior, and we can't earn it. How foolish is it for us to think that we could possibly do enough to get our own selves to heaven? We've got to turn to God for salvation. I've got four points this morning, so we need to hurry. Secondly, we need to turn to God for our security. I want you to look at verse number 13, chapter 14 and verse number 13. We see That Asa and the people that were with him pursued them unto Girah, and the Ethiopians were overthrown that they could not recover themselves. Beloved, the enemy of God's people were overthrown to the point that they could not recover themselves. God took care of this enemy. He provided security for them. He said, listen, this enemy is never going to bother you again. Can I tell you that Jesus Christ, when he died on the cross, he won victory over death and the grave, and that enemy is never going to bother you again He said, O death, where is thy thing? O grave, where is thy victory? God has given us the victory through Jesus Christ, who is our Lord. He has given us to Security. We believe in what is called the security of the believer. When you put your faith and trust in Christ, when you asked Him to forgive you of your sins and to take you to heaven. Beloved, that's a decision that is made one time. Once you've done it, it's done, and it cannot be undone. When I've been born into the family of God There'll be many times that I might make my father, my heavenly father, mad at me. He might be disappointed in my actions, but he's not going to disown me. I'm a child of the king, and uh I'm joint heirs with Jesus because of what Jesus has done for me, and I am on my way to heaven, and now I don't live pleasing to the Father. Don't take for don't take that for granted But beloved, you can't lose that. God has won the victory and it is secure. Amen. God has given us that victory. Not only is your sear your your soul secure because of what Jesus did, but beloved I want you to know that in this life we have a friend that sits closer than a brother. We have security. Our security in this life really should be in our Lord and Savior, in our relationship with our Heavenly Father who is there and present with us in every situation. Amen There's a uh missionary that was out in a foreign field, and I think it was Papua New Guinea, something like that. Uh but he used to go up into the bush and he would minister to people in the bush. Well there was one group of of uh natives that lived up on a mountain cliff and it was literally uh three thousand uh feet up if you hiked it. But they had installed this rope that you could get on, this basket that rode in a rope system, and you could get in this basket and several of the men would pull this basket and raise you up. Well this missionary had with him uh some visitors from the United States one time and they're in the basket And they are riding this basket up. And as it's getting higher and higher and further and further from the ground, this guy who hadn't really ridden this much, he was getting kind of nervous and started sweating bullets and he's like, wow. And He looks at the rope and he sees how frayed the rope is. Thinking I'm going to encourage myself, he asks them, he said, How often do you change the rope? And they said, When it breaks Uh beloved, if you wait till it breaks, it's too late. It's too late. Uh listen, friend, there's a lot of things in your life here that you're holding on to that you're going to find out after it's broken that it wasn't enough. How many of you realize that job you think is so secure really could be gone tomorrow? I heard this week a man 34 years uh serving at a at an insurance agency and he was six months from his retirement and they fired him Six months from retirement, thirty four years. You know, he thought he had it all secure, beloved. Our security in this life should not be tied into uh an individual, a place, beloved, that person that you're holding on to, it is the sad reality of life. They sang about it. Uh what's the words of the song you sang over here? Some sooner, some later, some Sooner or later. Sooner or later it's all of us. Amen. The time's gonna come where we all pass off into eternity. And then he said in that song, he said, some sooner. And that's a sad reality, beloved. If your security for this life is tied up into an individual, the sad reality is, is they could go home to be with the Lord next week. And your individuality, your spirituality, your life, all tied up in them. Beloved, we only have one thing that we can hold on to in this life that is unchanging. He said, I am God and I change not. We have God who we turn to not only for our salvation who saved our soul and forgives us, but for our security, security for eternity. Listen, if you're here and you haven't trusted Christ, I beg of you, do it today before it's too late. Boaxe not thyself at tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth You don't know if you're going to be here tomorrow, but not just our security for eternity. Beloved, our security from day to day. This life, how many of you realize this life is more uncertain than it's ever been? I mean things are crazy today. This world seems like it's so tumultuous and there is problems on every side and every day you hear about a new a new conflict arising A new storm, a new natural disaster, something else has happened. I mean we listen, if your security is in the stock market, you're in trouble, buddy. You you just I mean, hey Try and do what you can and I have some investments but beloved listen my security's in God. If that all gets taken tomorrow I can tell you I'll be disappointed, but listen that's not what that's not what I'm living for I'm I'm holding on to Jesus, to my Lord and Savior. We turned to God for security. I remember uh how many of you remember Harry? Harry? Oh he used he he he was such a blessing He would come in and he'd say, Pastor, I got your backup. I got your backup. He said, I got it right here. You want to see it? I got your backup. He's saying, I got your back, Pastor. Now he's gone on to be with the Lord now, but he would say it, I got it Listen, God's got your back. God's got your back, and I would implore you to turn to Him, to trust Him, to lean on Him. He has your security. Not only that, you need to turn to God for your supply. Look at verse number 13. Again, we saw them that the enemy came, they attacked, so that they couldn't, God defeated them so they couldn't recover themselves. But let's read on again. Are you there? Say amen. So he says, for they were destroyed before the Lord and before his host. And look at this last phrase, and they carried away very much spoil. They went from being in a place where they were going to be destroyed, where they had no hope, where they didn't even know if they were going to be around tomorrow as a nation. To going home with their bank accounts full. They walked away with great spoil. Can I tell you that God is our supplier My God shall supply all your needs according to his riches and glory. Beloved, he is our supplier. We need to turn to God for our supply. There's too many people turning to the government today. Thinking the government's going to solve and fix all of their problems. God is our supplier. We need to turn to God. He needs to be the one that we're leaning on, that we're trusting in These unsatan days, I tell you, I I can tell you this, I'm 50 years old, a couple of months from being 51, and over these years I have realized Then it it's always been uncertain days. There's always been trouble. You could go back 30 years ago and the people 30 years ago were saying, man, things are so bad today, they they're they're way worse than it was 30 years ago. You go back sixty years and they were saying, man, things are so bad today, they're way worse than they were sixty years ago. You could go back ninety years ago and you could ask Brother Ives what it was like You you go back up saying what I'm saying is there's always been problems. Through through through the whole history of time there's always been problems, but beloved Men have needed to turn to God for their supply. I know things are a mess today. I know things are worse today than they were even just ten years ago. But God hasn't changed. We need to trust and lean on him. Lastly, this morning, we need to turn to God for our strength. For our strength. Would you turn to verse chapter 15 here and verses 7 and 8? 2 Chronicles chapter 15 and verse number 78. He says, Be ye strong, therefore, and not let not your hands be weak. For your work shall be rewarded. And when Esa heard these words in the prophecy of Obed the prophet, he took courage And put away the abominable idols out of all the land of Judah and Benjamin and out of his cities, which he had taken from Mount Ephraim, and renewed the altar of the Lord that was before the porch of the Lord. Beloved, he tells them to be strong. Don't let his hands be weak, because God was there. And I ask you, will you turn to God for your strength today? Isaiah 40, 31 tells us, but they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength. They shall mount up with wings as eagles, they shall run and not be weary, they shall walk and not faint. Wait, I say wait upon the Lord. Amen. He is the source of our strength. The poet put it this way, I have a God who is mighty, who's sovereign and supreme. I have a God who loves me, and I'm on his team. He is all wise and powerful. Jesus is his name. Though everything is changeable, my God remains the same. My God knows all that is happening, beginning to end. His presence is my comfort. He is my dearest friend. When sickness comes to weaken me, to bring my head down low, I call upon my God. And into his arms I go. When circumstances threaten to rob me of my peace, he draws me close unto his breast, where all my strivings cease. And when my heart melts within me and weakness takes control, he gathers me into his arms and soothes my heart and my soul. The great I am is with me. My life is in his hands. The Son of the Lord is my hope, and in his strength. I stand. I implore you this morning to turn to God for your strength. If we're ever going to really know God's strength, We've got to be familiar with our weakness. Paul said, his strength is made perfect in my weakness. You see, beloved, because until we realize how weak we are, we're not going to be relying on his strength. So many illustrations come to mind to try and draw this out for you, but I believe that you understand it. Beloved, natural strength is the enemy. of experiencing supernatural strength. As long as we're standing up and saying, I got it, I can do it. I don't need anybody. I don't need I don't need God. I know we wouldn't say that, but I wonder if in our life we're practicing that. Maybe we need to realize how weak we really are and turn to God for our strength. In our text verse this morning, we read it, but when they in their trouble did turn unto the Lord. Would you turn to God today? Would you turn to Him In chapter 15 and verse number 2, it says, And when he went out to meet Asa and said unto him, Hear ye may Asa and all Judah and Benjamin. The Lord is with you while you be with him. And if you seek him, he will be found of you. But if you forsake him, he will forsake you. Beloved, the Lord's there. All we've got to do is turn to Him. Would you stand with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?