So we've been looking at the parables this morning. Um we're going to look at the parable of two sons and a promise is what uh I've titled it. Uh if you look in your notes, many people would just title this the two sons, the parable of the two sons. Um this parable, the reason I chose this particular parable is that it goes hand in hand with the one that we've looked at already uh about two houses and a hurricane as far as it deals very largely with obedience as did uh the The last parable, Two Houses and a Hurricane, the main truth that was taught there was the idea of obedience with regards to salvation, having the foundation of your life started at the right place. But this parable deals with obedience, so that's why I jumped to this parable. Really, all three of the parables that are in this chapter in the beginning of the next one deal with obedience. Jesus often responded to questions from his disciples, and that's what prompted the teaching of a parable. Many times Jesus would be respon somebody would come and ask him a question and he would respond with a parable, teaching them the truth, or not and not just answering yes or no, but teaching them why and how and so on. So his response, and I give a couple of examples there. If you look back in your Bibles to Matthew chapter 18, And verses 21 through 35 you can see that a question prompted the teaching of this parable back here of the unmerciful servant. He says in verse number 21, Then came Peter to him and said, Lord, how oft shall my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? Till seven times? Jesus saith unto him, I say not unto thee until seven times, but until seventy times seven, therefore is the kingdom of heaven like unto a certain king which would take account of his servants. So he opens up there with the parable with a a very common phrase, you almost know a parable's coming, when he says, The kingdom of heaven is like unto, and he begins teaching there about this servant who is uh unmerciful And uh if you know anything about that parable, the servant uh just wouldn't forgive, even though he had been forgiven. And then labors in the vineyard uh in Matthew chapter twenty, verses one through Now if you look at Matthew chapter 20, you'll see the very first verse is the beginning of the parable. He says, For the kingdom of heaven is like unto a man. So we know that's the beginning of the parable. So the question came before that. If you back up, look at verse number 27 of chapter 19. Then answered Peter and said unto him, Behold, we have forsaken all, and followed thee. What shall we have therefore? And Jesus begins talking to them and telling them some things, and then he uh leads into the parable of chapter twenty in response to Peter's question about the laborers in the vineyard And just much like he responded to these questions, other times something that promoted or prompted the teaching of a parable was a challenge So not just a question, but a challenge. Sometimes the Pharisees, the Sadducees uh would come and they would challenge Jesus, uh would front him with something, and he would respond with a question. Instead of answering back or defending himself, he would just ask a question of them and then teach a parable, which is what we have in this chapter this morning in chapter number 21. So the telling of the parable, let's read this together in chapter 21, verses 28 to 32, the parable that we're looking at this morning, 28 to 32. He says, but What think ye? A certain man had two sons. And he came to the first and said, Son, go work to-day in my vineyard. He answered and said, I will not But afterwards he repented and went. And he came to the second son likewise, and he answered and said, I go, sir, and went not. Whither of them twain did the will of the Father? They say unto him, The first. Jesus saith unto them, Verily I say unto you, that the publican and the harlots go into the kingdom of God before you. For John came unto you in the way of righteousness, and ye believed him not, but the publican and the harlots believed him. And ye, when ye had seen it, repented not afterward that ye might believe him. So Jesus teaching here to the disciples, uh I mean to the Sadducees and the Pharisees, the uh religious rulers of the day that were challenging him. And uh we'll look at the question that that prompted this teaching of the parable that we just read. It's obviously a little bit before where we started there. But this takes place, this Parable takes place during the Passion Week, the last week that Jesus Christ is alive. So when you're looking at the context of something, understanding that Helps you put it in perspective. Uh these Pharisees were not happy with Jesus. They were challenging him. I mean it seems pretty bold to me the way he says, hey, the the publicans and the harlots are gonna make it to the kingdom of heaven before you. I mean that is pretty straightforward talk. That's pretty in your face. That's pretty, listen, here's the truth of the matter. And Jesus looked at them straight and told them, this is only a week away. From when he's going to be crucified. And of course, Jesus, knowing that his time was drawing near, was telling, still speaking the truth and doing the will of the Father It's very, very important. If you look uh you know, in your list of chronological order of events, things that I gave you, the parables In the chronological list, you'll see that it's all the way down towards the end. It's actually number 35 of the list that I gave you. And you should have that in the beginning of your notes there. But uh just noticing chronologically, I mean Jesus' ministry he's been serving for three years. You know, he's been ministering to the people, uh doing great miracles. God's been blessing for three years. He's been doing this. He's towards the end of his ministry. And when this parable is being taught They challenged, secondly, you'll want to note that this down, they challenged Christ's authority. Now look back in our text here in verse number 21. I'm sorry, in chapter 21, verse number 23. There's a question is raised. He says, and when he was come into the temple, the chief priests and the elders of the people came unto him. And he was teaching and said, By what authority dost thou these things? And who gave thee thus authority? And Jesus answered and said unto him, I also will ask you one thing, which if ye tell me, I in likewise will tell you by what authority I do these things. Then Jesus asked him, The baptism of John, whence was it? From heaven or of men? And they reasoned within themselves, saying, If we shall say from heaven, he will say unto us, Why do you then believe him? You see, John the Baptist is who baptized Jesus, and these men knew prophecy. And they knew that a uh man was supposed to come before Christ. A man was supposed to come proclaiming that Christ was going to come. He was going to be the forerunner. and prepare and let people know that Christ was coming. And they knew that prophecy. So the the uh religious leaders were in a real conundrum here. Because if they say that John the Baptist was from heaven, then they are giving Jesus authority by their answer, saying, well, Jesus uh he he came was was baptized by John the Baptist, and if we recognize John the Baptist authority as from heaven then Jesus has that authority. But and then it goes on, he says in the baptism of John, whence was it, from heaven or from men? And they reasoned within themselves, saying, If we shall say from heaven, he will say unto us Why did ye not believe him? So he's saying, why did you ask me? Why would you ask me where my authority came from? If you say that he's from heaven, then why don't you just believe him? That I am what did John the Baptist tell people? This is the Messiah. This is the Messiah. He was proclaiming that as the forerunner of Christ, and he's saying, why don't you believe him? If you say he's from heaven, then why don't you believe him? Verse number 26 But if we shall say, of men, we fear the people, for all hold John as a prophet. So they're in a real conundrum. They can't say it's of men and take away the authority of Christ because they know that the people have seen the miracles. The people hold John the Baptist in high regard and they want to recognize him. So they're they're in a problem here. And they answered Jesus and said, We cannot tell. So they chose to plead the fifth instead of instead of answer Christ, who put them in their in their place And he said unto them, Neither tell I you by what authority I do these things. Again here, then he gives them a parable, and he's teaching Hiding truth. See, he said, I'm not going to tell you by what authority I do this. But he begins to give a parable hiding truth from those that aren't ready to receive it. But revealing truth to those that are, and are willing to learn and be taught what it is that they that they should know. Then we have the parable, and I think in the conclusion of the parable, uh in verse number 32 This is where John fits in because they they brought it up and he asked them about John the Baptist in verse number 32. He says, For John came unto you in the way of righteousness. And ye believed him not. But the publicans and the harlots believed him. And ye, when ye had seen it, repented not afterward, that ye might believe him. He said, Hey, John the Baptist came in the way of righteousness. John the Baptist taught truth. He was used of God to perform many miraculous things. And The publicans believed and the harlots believed. They saw and they believed. But you, even after you saw all that John the Baptist did, Even after you saw all that God has done through God the Father has done through me, God the Son, he was saying, all this time, and you still believe not. You did not believe. That's why the publicans and the harlots are going to be in the kingdom of heaven before you He I I think it's neat that he did not say they wouldn't make it. He didn't say you won't be there. They had already believed. He says they've already been accepted into heaven. They're going to make it before you. You can believe, you have the opportunity to believe, but you haven't done so yet. So the opportunity for them was still there if they would trust in him and believe in him. So they the context there we see Jesus taught, when he taught, the Bible says he taught as one having authority. And we see that when he taught, he taught as one having authority, and they came in and they questioned and says, where do you get this authority? Where do you get the authority to tell people these things? And Jesus, of course, responded by asking them a question. He told them this parable and the two that follow, the two sons. the wicked vine dresser, and the wedding feast, all in response to the question about his authority. And I would uh we're not covering them today. I knew there'd be no way I would get to them. And I don't know that we'll teach them another week. So I would encourage you just to read the next two parables in light of the context, understanding what it was that prompted the Christ to teach those. Right now, reading through them might give you a lot better understanding than in the future when you might not remember the context of what's being taught there. But read through the rest of that in the beginning part of chapter 22 to see those. As the guards of the law and religion, they were justified in asking Christ. You see, they were the leaders of the day They were the guard there in the temple. They were the ones in charge of making sure, I mean, you wouldn't want a false prophet coming into the church and proclaiming something. So they were correct in inquiring as by what authority he taught these things But their inquiry was not a simple question. Had it been just an inquiry, just a question Christ would have answered them, like he had done many times in the scripture, like Nicodemus when he came and had a question. Jesus answered that clearly. But that was not the purpose of their question. Was not just for information. Was not just to learn. If they came and said, Jesus, by where where do you get your authority? That you teach with such authority. Where does it come from? With a heart of wanting to know, realizing he had authority, realizing he was the authority? And came with a heart wanting to know where this authority come from, Jesus would have answered them. But knowing that that was not the purpose of their question, their question was to trap Jesus. Their tr their question was to try and you see if Jesus would have said that uh he got his authority from heaven, then they would have cried like they did in other places in the Bible, he blasphemes. He blasphemes. He says he's he is the authority. But if Jesus would have said, well, I I of myself Then they would have said, You have no authority. So by Jesus responding the way he did, he was trying to get them, he still, although he was straightforward, he was really trying to get them to see. in their own conscience and their own mind, the truth of it. He was bringing them around to the truth. in a roundabout way so that he didn't have to condemn them, but that they would condemn themselves in their own conscience. And we know that that's the better way to do it. Jesus Christ would have us judge ourselves. Would have us seek our own heart and see if there be a wicked way in us, so that we don't have to be judged by Him. He questions them. It's been Then we see the characters of this text, and this is just a listing of the people involved in this. The characters you have verse number 28. A certain man uh by description or definition here, the certain man would be God the Father. The certain man is God the Father. When you're talking about uh this parable, this certain man is God the Father. Then the first Son, in verse number 28 and 29 I put the initials there of Matthew Henry. This is a quote from Matthew Henry, and uh it's not mine, but I thought this was very succinctly put, is one who proved better than he promised. He promised, I will not go with you. He said, I ain't gonna go. No way. But then he repented and afterward went But then the second son, yeah, the second son, one who promised, better than he proved, he said, Oh yeah, Jesus, I'll go. And did nothing. And then you have the question, uh, the comparison between the two. He says, whether of them twain did the will of the Father. He says, which one of these did the will of the Father? Again, Jesus was asking them to determine by his example which one did right. Now, there's a lot of teaching today about uh you know that you shouldn't judge anybody. Okay, this is there's a lot of false thinking on that. Jesus was asking them, you tell me which one did right and which one did wrong. And they had to determine that. And obviously the answer is very clear. And they said the first Jesus asked them of their own conscience to know the truth of what there was. When they didn't come to the realization themselves, then he has the condemnation in verse number 31. The condemnation that the publicans and the harlots go into the kingdom of God before you. The publicans and the harlots are going to go into the kingdom of God before you because they already believe So that is the condemnation. The truth of this parable, as succinctly as I could put it, um I listed the truth. You know, there's one kind of main truth that each parable teaches. There's many ways that we can apply it, but the truth of this parable is to expose the hypocrisy and deceit of the scribes and the Pharisees. While revealing the obedience of a sinner to the message delivered by the man of God. Who was the man of God in this parable that is under consideration? Jesus asked them in re response to their question, he says, You want to know where I get my authority from? Let me ask you a question. Was John the Baptist baptized of heaven or of man? John the Baptist was a man sent from God. He was a man who was given a message That they were supposed to hear. He was given a message, the Messiah is coming. This is the Messiah. Behold my son at whom I am well pleased. This is the Son of God. He had a message that they were supposed to hear, this man of God. That is what is clearly in the context is the man of God had a message, and he said, You didn't believe it. You wouldn't believe the message that was sent to you from the man of God. Although you stand up Pharisaically and say that we do the law, although you stand up and say as a scribe and as a Pharisee that you know the law, Like the son who said, I will obey. Like the son who says, Oh, I'll go. But then you would not believe the message that was given to you by the man that was sent from God. So that is the truth that's being taught here. He's saying there's there's a bunch of you that are like the second son. You you say you'll do it, you look like you want to do it. Publicly you say, oh, I'm all about that. But privately you are doing nothing. Yet there are some who will stand up to say I ain't doing it. But then the Spirit of God speaks to them and convicts them and they get they come and they repent and afterward they do it. So that is the truth. The translation of the parable, and again all these things uh cover one another, but there was a certain man, he was the father of the two sons. Okay, a son implies relationship by birth. I put that in there because there are uh uh conflicting beliefs with regards to this parable, uh whether we are dealing with uh in a general sense these two sons are um Saved, or in a general sense, they are sons of God, as in everybody was created by God. So they are all we are all created by God. And therefore we you have a uh the conflict here because one of them, he says, hey, he's not going to make it into the kingdom of heaven, and the other is. But there's a son it implies the relationship of uh fathership uh by by birth. Um But there's a certain man, then you have the two sons. Uh this is not meant to be Jews and Gentiles. Some people might apply this to Jews and Gentiles, the two sons. You have the Jews and you say, well, the Jews uh were like the Pharisees and the scribes, and they didn't want to uh accept they they stood and they said, Oh, we know the law, but we're not gonna do what Jesus said. Jesus, uh that can be applied that way. And then you have the Gentiles, which as a general rule, Gentiles are considered to be sinners. That's us. We're sinners. But it's not really meant to, I don't believe, to be Jews or Gentiles. It's not meant to be saved or lost. These are two types of Jews These are two types of Jews. They both were Jewish people. They were people that would be chosen people of God. God's chosen people. Some sinners. Some willing to do right and others that were not willing to do right. The one who was a Pharisee said, I will obey, I will do the law, But then didn't. The publican, the harlot, or the sinner, outright said no, but then repented and went and did it. Then you have the vineyard. The vineyard is the kingdom of God. John spoke the truth. Christ's explanation comes and he says, John spoke the truth to you and refused it. John spoke the truth and the sinners believed it. And even though the sinners believed it, and even though it was preached unto you, and you saw all these things, ye still did not want to believe. After all this time, again we're talking about the end of Christ's ministry. This is close to the end. All that Jesus had done, and they still didn't want to believe. They did not want to repent. The key is found in verse number 45 of this text. And it says, and when the chief priest and the Pharisees had heard his parables, they perceived that he spake of them. He they finally it finally hit a home for them. They realized that Jesus was talking about them. That they were the ones who were like the second son who said, I will, I will, but then were not doing that So some teaching of the parables. Some of the teaching that we can look at here. First of all, is the test of sincerity. Is service. The test of sincerity is service. You can have people that talk about sincerity a lot. They could stand up And talk about their love of God. They could stand up and praise the Lord and oh, how I love Jesus And they can, man, isn't God good and in the foyer they're just praising God and want to talk about their week and and all these things. But They're never here. They're not faithful to God's house. They never come out and participate in anything that's going on. They miss the activities. They miss the work parties. They miss soul winning. They miss it all. The test of sincerity is service. I could tell my wife I love her five five times a day But if I never stop and take time to sit down and talk to her if I never stop when she says, Hey hun, the dishwasher's broken which it was just recently. And uh I had to fix it. If I said, Oh, the discharge is broken, it'll be fine. But I can invest all kind of time down here at the church house and I can get the lawn mowed and I can get the floor put in over at the White House and I can do all these things over here, uh but I can't get the dishwasher fixed at home? What am I telling my wife? I can say whatever I want with my mouth, the sin s the test of sincerity. is service. And my wife will realize that I love her by what I do. And yes, I do get the privilege of saying it and but it doesn't mean anything without backing it up with actions. It's got to be backed up. And that's in the Christian life as well. It is sonship that makes service satisfying. It is you know, people trying to serve God or do the will of God in their life and not being his son, it's hard. But Jesus says, my yoke is easy, my burden is light. That's they're trying to do the work of God in their own flesh without the power of God or the help of God. The joy comes in fulfilling the will of God when He's your Father. Sonship is what makes it satisfying when you are the Son of God. We see or learn that a relationship was developed. Many start living their lives in a bad manner, then they repent. And turn to Christ as the first son did there. And the relationship is developed. There was a change. He repented of that. He changed and he went and did what was right. Listen, uh William Booth said this, God help us never to get to the point where we preach salvation without surrender. Where we preach heaven without hell, grace without godliness, and redemption without repentance. That is where we are today in our church. I'm talking about the churches of America, the churches of the world. We want to don't judge anybody. Everybody's welcome. Everybody should be welcome as they are. But they should be motivated to be changed into the likeness of Christ. There should be A preaching of the truths of the Word of God and the preaching of the love of Christ, and those two things ought to transform our life. We cannot preach Salvation without surrender. We cannot preach heaven without hell. Grace without godliness or redemption without repentance. You see, he he repented and then he went. He went. There's a note for you there. Notice. It says, notice, and in quotes, he went. When he repented, he went. And did, he went to work in the vineyard. He didn't just repent and say like the other one, oh, yeah, I love you, Lord, and I will do the will of the Father as well, and then do nothing. No, he went and he changed his action, changed his direction. Don't talk of better things to come, just do better things. It's hypocritical to have good manners without good actions. If you have somebody that's very gracious Just so that they can steal from you? That's that's pretty hypocritical. Like they may be the kindest person and and most pleasant and and you know, they're just trying to gain your trust so that when you're not looking they can Rob you blind. That's hypocritical. We've got to back up our words, what we say, with our actions. Remember, it was the religious leaders who rejected the counsel of God for themselves. The people that knew the Bible. The sinners heard the truth and believed it and repented. It was the religious leaders, it was the people that knew the Word of God. That thought they had good theological grounds for not listening to the prophet that was sent from God. And this is where Christians need to be very, very careful. Because you see a young man, a young Christian He gets saved and he looks in the word of God and he's like, wow, I never saw that before. I I never saw that that I was supposed to dress like this. I was supposed to be uh modest in the way I dress. Wow, I need I need to change that. I never realized how much the Bible said about drinking and alcohol and And and Pastor, I gotta give up that alcohol. I gotta quit drinking that stuff. And I've seen it over and over again. Young men, young ladies get saved And they they just a few weeks later they come down to the church house and they say, I got all this rock music here, and I I I just want to get rid of it because I know it doesn't please God. But then I'll have somebody who's been saved 30 years. Been going to church Sunday morning, Sunday night, and Wednesday night for 30 years. Come to me and say, preacher. I don't see anything wrong with country music. I mean it talks about loving your wife. It talks about caring for your family and having good relationships. It also talks about drinking yourself into a stupor and all the bad friends you hang around, and sleeping with the neighbor, and losing everything in life. How is it that somebody that's been in church all that time can get to the point where they can just disregard the preaching from the Word of God And say, oh I will, but do nothing. But then a young Christian, that quick They don't even hardly know how to read the Bible. And yet the Spirit of God convicts them and they come in and they take it and they throw it down on the floor and they say, I want to burn it. No, I don't want to just throw it away. I want to burn it. I want to get it out of my life What happens is we grow in our Christian lives, we get comfortable where we are as Christians, and we decide I've grown far enough, I've adapted enough, I don't need to change anything else. Preacher, you're stepping where you shouldn't step now. Oh, I love God. I will, I will. But we don't want to change those things. We have stopped being obedient at the level where we're comfortable. Instead of letting the Spirit of God convict us, repent and go do what God tells us to do. The message from the man of God, from the Word of God, is supposed to change our lives. Many of us as older Christians, and I'm talking to myself, we get comfortable where we are, we think we're spiritual enough We think we know the Bible, we have good theological grounds to disregard what the preacher says. And we don't want to change. This is where the rubber meets the road of this uh illustration that Jesus taught. The Pharisees, who were the religious people They were the ones that knew the Torah. They knew the Bible. And they did not heed what the man of God said, and Jesus put them in their place. But there was a sinner who didn't know any better, and when the man of God said it, they said, Wow, and repented. And went. So where are you? What kind of a Christian are you in this parable? Are you like unto the first son? You know many times the person that stands the most against God will stand the most for him when he gets turned around. It's the person that will I I gotta close, but I I worked my dad was in uh Pine Bluff, Arkansas for a long time In the South there's this thing about people are all so friendly and they're all Christians. And you knock on the door and say, Hello, brother, I'm Pastor Caleb. It's a wonderful to meet you to Would you uh do you get to go to church anywhere? Oh yes, praise the Lord. I go to church on a regular basis. Where do you get to go to church? Oh I go down the road over here, this church down here. Uh you know, whenever we can but not uh well I'll tell you what would you come we would love to visit your church. I'm sure it's a wonderful church Uh, okay, would you come on this Sunday? This Sunday would that would be wonderful. We'll come we'll come and see you on Sunday. They'll stand there, smile, look you in the face, and lie flat out. 9 o'clock you say? We'll see you. 9 o'clock. Sunday morning? Yeah. Amen. And then they won't do it. I've had it happened many times. It's people like that that w What can you do? But somebody that stands at the door, slams the door in your face, and then later the God opens the door and gets a hold of them and they repent They stood against God, but maybe now they can stand for God