But what a what an amazing verse in Hebrews four and verse twelve. We'll have a word of prayer and then we'll go to Matthew eleven and Matthew twenty one So we read in verse 12, for the word of God is quick and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword. Piercing even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit, and of the joints and marrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart. Let's pray. Dear Father, we thank thee that you gave us a book that tells us what we are. Hard to get around and hard to escape. Lord, thou dost know what's in man. Help us see from Matthew 11 and Matthew 21. How the Word of God shows us, Lord, even our motives when they're not right and when they are right Lord help me deliver it in Holy Spirit power. Work in every heart and life. May it be a practical, real benefit to everyone tonight. If someone has visited tonight and has never put their trust in me, may they see their need. To cry out to thee and be wonderfully saved. Lord, we know there's no other way out of this life in a decent fashion. And that none of us can go to heaven without thee. Help me preach now and give us ears to hear in Jesus' name. Amen. Have a seat then. The Word of God, as he said, is a wonderful thing It's quick, meaning it's alive. It's powerful, those of us that trusted the Savior felt and knew that convicting power of the Word of God. That pressed us to put our trust in the Savior when we recognized what a wretched sinner we were. It says that it's sharper than any two-edged sword. And by the way, if people come to church, they shouldn't be upset if the if the Bible steps on their toes God has an operation he needs to do in all of our lives. There's things he needs to cut away, and it is painful And I'll give you just a little bit of my testimony in a moment when I finish with this verse. It says it's piercing even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit. It's hard to tell what the soul is and what the spirit is often. You get a bunch of Christians together and they all have a different idea about which is which. I know what the joints and marrow are. That's our flesh. That's our body. And it says it's a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart. But it's the word of God can separate between the soul and spirit. And basically, I I will just say this to help me most of all, but Maybe it'll help you too. In our spirit we think. Words are there. Jesus said his words were life. In our soul we have feelings. It's not quite the same. If I say fresh frozen peas, we calculate what it is in our spirit. We know what it is And then after we know what it is, some go, hmm, and others go never and that's the soul responding to what we think about everything How we feel uh about everything I should say. And of course then there's the body That's the part of us that wants to do what it wants to do all the time. Doesn't like being told what to do by anybody else. We'd rather sit in the hammock and sip lemonade and iced tea and let someone else do the work. That's our flesh. That's the joints and the marrow. But we want to look at these two chapters in Matthew. One is a good choice. Yeah, there's a bad choice. We'll look at the bad choice first in Matthew chapter 11 and see what the Word of God shows us. About the thoughts and intents of man's heart when it comes to some things that deal with music. Matthew chapter eleven I call this an obscure passage. I never heard anybody preach on it, and yet there it was. Um and I thought maybe I should do that, so we are. But um I still have to get there. And I've got a new a new Bible with things on a different side of the page. All right. I'm in Matthew eleven. And uh verse sixteen is where we begin. This is Jesus speaking to the people in his day that really weren't very much different than people are today. But whereunto shall I liken this generation? It is like unto children sitting in the markets and calling unto their fellows and saying, We have piped unto you, and ye have not danced. We have mourned unto you, and ye have not lamented. And he goes on, for John came neither eating nor drinking, and they say, He hath the devil. The Son of Man came eating and drinking, and they say, Behold the man gluttonous. And a wine biver, a friend of publicans and sinners, but wisdom is justified over children. Here we see children They're in the marketplace. They're in the marketplace to learn their parents' trade. They are supposed to be working, but these children are idle. They pulled out a couple flutes and began to play some songs. Now I know lots of musicians that are musicians because they wanted to get out of work. David's musicians, it says the number of the workmen was, they were workers in David's group of musicians. So they were supposed to be learning their parents' trade, but they were playing little songs. They were not standing. They were not running. They were not kneeling. They were not fighting. And they certainly were not working So they uh called out to the other children. It says calling unto their fellows. So there were other children there. What are they there for? They're supposed to learn their parents' trade. How much you you sell that fish for when it's starting to go? You know, buy one, get one free. Or you say it's a meal fit for a king. Here, king. They had to learn those things. How much do we sell that rug for? Jesus was saying this generation was spoiled. He's saying that the children were spoiled. Instead of learning to work, they were getting by without working. And they appealed to their friends. They wanted to get a hold of their friends and They were probably bored with the whole situation. And they said this in verse 17, We have piped unto you and you have not danced. They played a fast song, a happy song. And they were upset because their friends didn't get up and dance. The amazing thing to me in this chapter is that even children Know the power of music to move the human body. And so they were upset when their friends wouldn't pay any attention to them They were unsuccessful because their friends were busy doing what they were supposed to do. This first appeal, and they made two appeals to their friends. This first appeal was to the flesh. We had a name for them back when I was a kid. There was such a day, believe it or not. We called them flesh balls. Everything they did was based on what they wanted to do and how they felt in their body. They had no regard for any morality, no regard for danger. Just, I want to do that. And they wanted to do it when they wanted to do it and how they wanted to do it. Flesh balls follow their flesh. And so they made this attempt to get a hold of them and could not. And by the way, the people who play music to attract the flesh, to get the body to dance. End up being that kind of person where they're affected by the rhythms of a song more than anything else. They're affected by what their body tells them to do. I didn't tell you much of my testimony, but When I was young I wanted to be rich and famous and popular. No, it never happened. I do tell folks we're we're famous, just most people don't know it. But but uh I set out to get into get into a rock and roll band and make a lot of money and uh as I said it n it never happened. I found myself those eight years I was in the band, leaning pretty hard toward the flesh. The music that I was playing was geared to that and for that. Its very purpose was to incite lust in people. to get them to socialize with dancing and become familiar with each other bodily And I found myself thinking that way, living that way. A fleshball. Too long a story to tell. There was a young girl who became famous at the time she was not We were playing a word game, and I just tried to distract her and I uh her name was Singing Angel So I thought, well this I said, Do you sing? So she's trying to unscramble words and I I was trying to distract her from unscrambling the words by asking her questions that she had to answer. And she said, Yes I do And I said, well, I sing too. And uh she said, well, I sing whatever the people want. I said, I sing gospel music. And we found her name. It was Jessica Simpson. She has a younger sister, Ashley. Somebody thought I got the names mixed up, but there's two of them. And so she's a Baptist girl, supposed to know the Lord, lives in Texas. Her father was her manager, but she wasn't selling enough recordings. So they said we you need to wear a sexier outfit. You need to add more drums, get more rhythm going in your song. You need to get your friends and relatives to dance behind you. And it's got to be wilder. We're gonna write articles about you that are mo that are more seamy, more uh sensual. And because it was her career I don't know why her dad ever approved it. But they went ahead with it. And I told my wife, I said, you watch that girl. It's not going to go well for her. I don't wish that things would go bad. But especially if she's saved, she's just in the in the wrong arena altogether. And sure enough, along came Mr. Wright, or I guess she thought it was, and she got married. The marriage didn't last. That was no surprise to me. Pretty soon she is listed in the papers as the rich, the young, and the lonely. She was living for her flesh. She was living for popularity and fame. And oh, she got it But along with it, not a happy life These little children wanted their friends to get up and dance. They knew this this this lighter, bouncier thing ought to ought to make them want to dance and they wouldn't do it. The parents taught him better, I guess. So with that being unsuccessful, they made a second appeal. Now music Affects our body. Rhythm affects our body. One way or another, but rhythm does affect our body. But that's not where we aim as Christians. We're to walk in the Spirit and not fulfill the lusts of the flesh. And so you know we have to learn our music needs to change when we get saved if we would help ourselves It's a struggle. I struggled for two years trying to get enough Bible in me to have enough sense to get out of that rock and roll band Pastor Caleb's father didn't even think I'd gotten saved because he didn't see enough change. That got me under more conviction. I said, I know I've trusted the Lord. I know I have, but nobody could see it. Living in the flesh so much. So they made a second appeal And they said in verse 17, We have mourned unto you, and ye have not lamented. They said, okay, the the happy song didn't work. We'll try the sad song. That's a that's a lot like Country Western, isn't it And it depends what part of the country you live in. You lose your horse, you lose your dog, you lose your truck, you lose your wallet, you lose your job, you lose your wife, you lose your mind And that's that's what Country Western's all about. And everybody else says, Yeah, my life's going like that too. That's a really great song. And so they relate to it, don't they? But that that bunch is different. The ones that are moved by the sad song And their friends again were stayed busy working and they would not listen to the Zad songs. You know what it what that one guy guy saying the only good years were the tires on our car. Something like that. I don't know if that's really a song, but you never know with those people Emotional people. I was that way too. Up one day, down the next. Up one day, down the next. We call them emotional yo-yos. Everything's great today, and then the the next day, oh I could die. I wish I could die. And then the next day, I'm on top of it. Man, and we got a plan. And the next day, I can't wait for it to be over. I'm going to sleep at 3 p. m. These emotional yo-yos. I remember a a man who, again, is a Baptist. A born-again Christian. I read his testimony in a book. And he's one of the best guitar players that I know of that ever lived. His name was Glenn Campbell. He wrote his autobiography. If you're going to write your autobiography, do it before you die. And in it he said, I've trusted Jesus as my Savior, but I haven't lived for him. He was an honest man, but how sad. He was nationally known at one time Even when he could no longer remember the lyrics to a song, they put them up on the screen and he could still play those guitar parts. The first song that he ever sang on came out when I was a kid. It was called Tequila. And he played guitar on it. And you know what happened in his life? The liquor bottle got him. I don't know how many wives he went through. I'm not gloating over that. I'm not happy about it. But that's what he sang about. He sang about all those sad songs, Honey, I love you, but I'm leaping. Or Honey, you left me high and dry when I loved you. I I I married my wife for her to stay with me. There was no plan to get rid of her. She's not gonna if she leaves me, I'm going with her That's a threat and a promise. And so these children have have made this appeal and you know it turns them into those emotional yo-yos. And I find found myself up and down in my emotions. And that's hard to hard to keep to keep track of that when it's going up and down. Hard to keep an even keel. Hard to keep going. Too much up and too much down. And so These children knew it could move the human body, and they knew that the sad song could affect the emotions. That's the spirit. I'm excuse me. That's the soul. The emotions. And music does affect our emotions, but we have to learn that that is not the right choice for aiming our music at anybody. Yes, folks can do it, but It isn't right. These children made a bad choice. And as I said, here they are. They're just little kids and they knew it. They knew it. Boy, we play sad music, it's supposed to make people cry. We play happy music and it's supposed to make them dance. But that's not the most noble purpose for music at all. Now we're going to leave these people after we look at verses 18 and 19. This is what so said. If the music in our life made no difference as to what we thought of the Lord I would say, who cares? I still know more about rock and roll than I know about gospel music. I would use it for God if I could. I can't. Look what it says about God's preacher in verse 18. For John came neither eating nor drinking, and they say, He hath a devil. My Bible says that John Baptist was filled with the Holy Ghost from his mother's womb. But these people, listening to the emotional up-and-down music, listening to the carnal music, the fleshly music, Think John the Baptist was full of the devil. They couldn't be more wrong. They didn't see God's man right. And how about Jesus himself? Look at verse 19. The Son of Man came eating and drinking, and they say, Behold a man gluttonous. And a wine bibber, a friend to publicans and sinners. Now Jesus was a friend to this sinner, and I'm so glad. But he's not everything they accused him of. They couldn't even see the Lord Jesus Christ for who he was. And their music has a lot to do with it because they're not thinking with their mind. They're not thinking spiritually. They're thinking with their body and their heart. You see, the flesh balls have a slogan. It's if it feels good, do it. You've probably heard it. The yo-yos have a slogan. Listen to your heart and follow your dreams. Whoa! That is not what God told Jeremiah. He said the heart was deceitful above all else and desperately wicked Who can know it? I cannot trust my heart. You cannot trust your heart, your feelings. I cannot trust my flesh. You cannot trust your flesh. It's an enemy, the spirit So we're going to turn to Matthew twenty-one. Matthew twenty-one, we need to see a good choice here. We need to see that the children can make a good choice. We certainly found that they can make a bad choice Do you know when I got in the rock and roll band? I think I was twelve. It wasn't when I was twenty or twenty-five or I wasn't even a teenager. And it began to shape my life. And it did everything but ruin it because the Lord found me. And saved me and made me a new creature and gave me a wonderful life in the gospel, and we'll talk about that when I get to Matthew 21. But here we have a different scene. And I'll begin With verse eight is good enough, I think It says in a very great multitude spread their garment in the way, others cut down branches from the trees and strew strawed them upon the way. And the multitudes that went before and that followed cried, saying, Hosanna to the son of David, blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord, Hosanna in the highest. So here we find these children are in a great multitude of people And they're outside. And there's physical stir, there's a crowd moving. There's emotional stir, a lot of buzz about what was going on. But the children were in the crowd that was crying, Hosanna to the son of David. Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord. Hosanna in the highest. These children chose to sing praise to God Let's read a little further and see what went on. They identified this as Jesus, the prophet of Nazareth, in verse 11 And Jesus went into the temple of God and cast out all them that sold and bought in the temple, and overthrew the tables of the money changers, and the seats of them that sold doves, and said unto them, It is written my house shall be called the house of prayer But ye have made it a den of thieves. Well that's good. He cleansed the temple of people that weren't supposed to be there doing what they were doing. And the blind and the lame came to him in the temple, and he healed them. That's good too, isn't it? And when the chief priests and scribes saw the wonderful things that he did, and the children crying in the temple and saying Hosannah to the son of David, they rejoiced with exceeding great joy. Doesn't say that, does it? They were sore displeased. I don't know you folks here, but I'll tell you what. If I went to a church Where the religious leaders were displeased that someone was praising the Lord. I wouldn't stay there. As a matter of fact, they didn't I was raised in just such a church. I don't know what that preacher believed, but by the time we were done talking, I knew he didn't believe the Bible. And uh I said, I'm going to the Baptist church where they teach the Bible verse by verse. And maybe I'll come back and visit, but I need to go somewhere where they believe the Bible. Oh we believe the Bible I said, well I want him to teach me how to win souls so my friends don't go to hell. Oh, there's nobody going to hell. Jesus died on the cross. That's all taken care of. Not quite true, is it? Not true at all. It's an amazing thing that religious leaders can be upset When Jesus is doing some work. I told the told the my Methodist preacher. I said, you know, I played in a rock band, didn't you never came over and said, Mr. and Mrs. Ives, we need to pray for your son Never once. He said, Well it's an artificial life. I said, it's not artificial, it's very real. But it was sinful and it was wrong. Why didn't you say, let's let's pray and and get your son Alan out of that band Let's see what the Lord will do. Let's talk to him. That never happened. Very strange. He wasn't thrilled at all that I was in a rock and roll band and got out and was learning to live right as a Christian. Just because they're religious doesn't mean they know the Lord, for sure So they did all these good things, and the chief priests and the scribes knew it. They saw that it was wonderful, and they couldn't stand it. At least they had enough nerve to come to Jesus and said unto him, Hearst thou what these say? And Jesus saith unto them, Yea, have ye never read out of the mouth of babes and sucklings thou hast perfected praise? And he left them and went out of the city into Bethany, and he lodged there. So here we read, the Lord took the word of God and kind of just turned it in their stomach a little deeper. He said, aren't you reading the scriptures? Haven't you ever read out of the mouths of babes and sucklings? Thou hast perfected praise? When we believe the Lord, we sing a perfected praise. When we simply take the Lord at His word and trust Him, we sing a perfected praise. He was quoting from Psalm 8. 2. It reads just a little bit different. ordained strength because of thine enemies, it says in Psalm 8. He didn't spend any more time talking to these Pharisees, priests, and scribes. But those children We don't know. We don't know that they ever heard any preaching about Jesus. Maybe they did. About the Messiah, I'll say that Not by name, perhaps, but they were looking for a coming Messiah. Or they may have heard. Nevertheless, they chose to get in that crowd and sing Hosanna to the son of David. Hosanna is a huge word. It means a number of things. When those children were singing, Hosanna means Lord, save me. Hosanna, save me. Don't forget me. Save me. Hosanna means, I pray thee, I beseech thee. What prophet should we have if we pray unto him? Eternal prophet. Hosanna means free me. And we know the verse in John 8. 36, if the Son therefore shall make you free, ye shall be free indeed. Hosanna means open to me, be wide to me, make room for me. And Jesus said, Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Hosanna means make me safe, Lord. They didn't know the song Safe in the Arms of Jesus We're kept in Jesus' hand and we're kept in the Father's hand and no man is able to pluck them out of Jesus' hand. No man is able to pluck them out of the Father's hand. That's in the end of John chapter 10. Hosanna means succor me, comfort me, aid me, relieve me. How did these children know that it was Jesus who could comfort them? Jesus who could help them. Jesus who could save them. Even these children recognized the Messiah when they saw him. Now I I suppose that the priests and scribes preached the coming of the Messiah well enough that the children said that's him, that's Jesus. Kind of ironic. They were trying to keep everybody from the Savior, but the children found him. Somebody taught him about a coming Messiah so well that when Jesus was there, they said, That's him. He's the one that can take care of all of our needs. He's the one that can take us to heaven. He's the one that can forgive us of our sins. He's the one Whom we can give our life to. Those children made a right choice, a good choice. You say that's kind of simple. Maybe so. But they decided to pray to the Lord with their music. They decided to Point others to the Lord Jesus while they're singing and crying out I finished looking at this chapter one day and I said, Lord, that's what you did for me. I learned a thousand songs out in that rock and roll band. Not one helped me when I needed help. Not one had an answer that was right. And then the Lord found me, and I found out we've got four hundred and fifty thousand hymns in praise of our Savior. Countless spiritual songs and psalm settings, I wouldn't be able to tell you how many. I began just by showing up at church. And then I got to lead some singing. And the Lord reshaped my whole life after I was saved. And we've just sung what people need. They need to hear about the Savior. They need to be moved to surrender their life, to yield their life, an instrument of righteousness to the Lord. And I said, that's a very, very wonderful thing. I'm 75 years old now and maybe don't have much time left to go. And I've had a useful life. And on those days when I can't get much done, I did what I could. And people have heard of the Savior. I did what those children did. I just made a right choice one day, and God rearranged my whole life And blessed my life, wife and five children and twenty-one living grandchildren, all the children married, and some of them, many of them, singing praise the Lord, and sometimes they can still go with us And make us sound good. I'm not really going any further than that. But these children, if they can make this kind of a choice, certainly we need to as adults. Most of us are here tonight. I don't need the carnal songs. I've got a body of flesh. I don't need any help from anybody else to sin. I'm an emotional mess by myself. I don't need anybody's country western songs to make me cry tears in my beers or whatever it is But oh what a blessed event. Those those of you that get to lead singing for the congregation, you know it's a wonderful event. Those of you that play in the the orchestra, that's a wonderful eventum. Pick up that instrument and praise God. However little you may think it is. It may have a tremendous effect on the people around you. I could go on and on I'm so glad for the Lord's salvation. I'm so glad there's a right choice that we can make. And yes, as I said, I have a body and flesh And I I have to work at it. It it just wants to do its own thing all the way through life. It never gives up. That's why the Lord has to has to kill the body and give us a new one when we get to heaven. But Hosanna, Lord save me, Lord keep my life, Lord bless my life. It cannot be any better than that. Well, have you made the decisions God wants you to make when it comes to your music? Other things as well. Is it the flesh you listen to? Is it the emotions you listen to? And let me just add this, because it might help Life is bigger than any of us. And there will come a day, if it hasn't already, when your whole life May be turned upside down. If you look to your flesh, you won't come up with the right solution If you look to your soul and your emotions, your heart, you'll be disappointed sorely But if you look to the Word of God, it will keep you and me on an even keel, even when everything's upside down and backwards. It's amazing. What God can do. So we need to walk in the Spirit. That's the way to get through this life Best. Best. Let's pray. Dear Father, would you speak to every heart as we close? And uh in these closing moments, maybe there's someone needs to make a decision they've never made. Help them to do so. Help them to recognize that that's what we saw. We saw that the emotions and the flesh at work in people's lives. Lord, we need to have our spirit controlled by the Word of God and by the Holy Spirit. Help us, Lord, to yield to thee. Help folks make the right decision and not make a rash decision at a bad time. But look to thee Lord, we thank thee for the strength that thou does give. Bless in these closing moments now. In Jesus' name. Amen. I'm going to ask Pastor to come in, musicians. Let's stand to our feet, and I'll let Pastor close as he sees fit, but if if there's business you can do with the Lord, we ought to do it. And uh talk to the Lord about that. Maybe you're right in the middle of making the wrong decision. A bad decision, a bad choice. And maybe your music has something to do with that. Why don't you come and talk to the Lord about it?