We're going to get into the Word of God this morning. Now, if you would, turn your Bibles, turn your Bibles to Matthew, the beginning of the New Testament, there, Matthew chapter 24. Our text verse is verse number three, and we'll be there in just a moment. We'll read that. We're going to walk through Matthew 24 as we uh speak this morning. In the book of 1 Chronicles, there was a group of men uh that were known or were recognized, the Bible says that they had an understanding of the times. Their head wasn't in the sand. They realized what God was doing. They realized the transition that was taking place. And God says of them that they had an understanding of the times. Well, the disciples came to Jesus and they asked for that in Matthew chapter 24. They asked, Lord, what will the sign of the end be? Look with me if you would in Matthew chapter 24, in verse number 3. And as he sat upon the Mount of Olives, the disciples came unto him privately, saying, Tell us, what shall these things be? When shall these things be? And what shall be the sign of thy coming and the end of the world? Jesus was talking to them and describing to them about his going on to heaven and about what the world was going to be like and the signs of the times that should be evident in His people of all people should have an understanding of those things. And the disciples, wait a minute, when is this going to happen? And what shall be the sign of thy coming and of the end of the world? Listen, we should have an understanding of the times. Christ concludes his discussion with these disciples, telling them in no uncertain terms, down in verse number 36, he says But the day or the hour knoweth no man, know not the angels of heaven, but my father only. He says, Listen, nobody knows the exact time Nobody knows the day or the hour when the Lord's going to return, when our time on earth is done. He says, but there is some signs. There is some things that should be a very evident picture to you that you should have an understanding of what's going on in the world You are not to have your head in the sand. You're supposed to be awake to the fact. And my goal this morning is maybe to help us to have an understanding of the times that we're in. To sound the alarm, if it were, to wake up those maybe who have been sleeping, to remind those who have forgotten. That the times we live in have not taken God by surprise. God knows where we're at and He knows what's going on in the world. We're going to ask that God would maybe help us this morning to have a clear picture and understanding of the times and then Get an answer and an admonition as to what we're supposed to do now that we know what the signs of the times are. So let's ask God to open unto us the pages of Scripture and speak to our hearts as we look at this understanding the times this morning. Lord, we come to you right now. We're grateful for The privilege that's mine to preach the word of God, to bring this truth that's very clearly presented in Matthew chapter 24 to your people. And I pray, God, that you would help us to understand not just the situation around us and what's going on in the world, but ultimately your answer and your admonition to us of what we're supposed to be doing with that knowledge. Lord, I pray that you would speak to our hearts, draw us into your presence, do that work which only the Holy Spirit can do in the heart of your people. And we certainly will praise you and thank you in Jesus' precious name. Amen. So first of all, I would like to raise the alarm, raise an alarm and let you know and remind you of what it is that's going on in the world. You see. The signs of the times are everywhere. In Romans chapter 13 and verse number 11, he says, and that knowing the time That it is high time to awake out of sleep. For now is our salvation nearer than we believed It's just as a matter of pure deductive reasoning, pure practical common sense The time of his return is nearer today than the day that you believed. If for no other reason and the fact of the matter is, is that today we're one day closer to his return than we were yesterday. And some of you have believed on the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and you did so ten years ago or fifteen years ago or Fifty years ago, I don't I don't know, but it's been many years ago, but today, your time of meeting the Lord, whether that is through passing off the stage of this life and going on to glory to be with your Lord and Savior or His imminent return, whatever the fact is, we know that it's closer today than it was yesterday It's closer than the time with than the day that we believed. We know that it's time, and so he admonishes us, he says, Hey, awake out of your sleep, realize what's going on in the world. And he gives to the disciple here some description of what the signs of the times are. He talks to them about some things that should be recognizable. And the thing is if you don't understand this in light of the pages of Scripture, when you hear the news Or you listen to the news and you see what's going on in the world, you can be a little bit overwhelmed. You can be a little bit taken back. You can be a little bit afraid, and you begin to think, oh my goodness, what's going on in the world? But understanding it in light of the scripture gives you peace and understanding knowing that God is in control. So I would have you see first of all, look down in verse number five, Matthew chapter 24, and verse number five, he says For many shall come in my name, saying, I am Christ, and shall deceive many. Look at verse number 11, chapter 24, and verse number 11 there. He says, and many false prophets shall arise and shall deceive Many. So the first sign of the time that should be recognizable to us is the deception of many Can I tell you the proliferation of false religion and an acceptance of Christ made in the image of man instead of man being made in the image of God is very prevalent today. You have TV programs that are trying to depict Jesus Christ as man would like him to be instead of as this book describes him. Teaching about this man and they're calling him Jesus, but not teaching biblical truth regarding him, not teaching who he was in his holiness and his righteousness, but who man wants him to be. The acceptance and the belief of false religion is astounding today. Now I want you to know, according to studies, independent studies done, there's anywhere between 3,000 and 10,000 cults in the U. S. alone. I'm talking about people that have some of the most Hey, Jim Jones is not the only wacko out there. I'm talking about people with beliefs on level of like that. People that are saying, I mean, you ever heard of the happy scientist? This is a group of faith that believe they're the happy scientists. They believe, beloved. That the founder teaches that he is the reincarnation of Christ Himself. That he is the reincarnation of Buddha. Of Muhammad and every other prophetic deity that has ever lived. He believes that he is going to establish a nine-dimensional heaven. In which he will rule over. And I was listening to some of his videos this week just to learn a little bit about him. And he's talking about things he said, I said this when I was Muhammad. I said this when I was Jesus Christ. He is teaching and what I'm saying is this wacko has people that are following him that believe this foolishness. Or what about realism? Realism, they teach that aliens abducted their founder. It's amazing how much biblical truth these people take and twist. So this founder says it took six days for these aliens to teach him all the stuff that he needed to learn. The head alien, his name, the head alien's name is Yahweh In six days this alien taught this man everything he needed to know and then sent him back to earth, and these people that believe in realism are in the process of trying to build an embassy here on earth. For when the aliens come back. Okay, these are pretty far out beliefs, but I want you to know that there's everything in between. The adoption and the acceptance of complete and utter falsehood is on the rise. There's false religion everywhere in the world today. There's a deception of many people are being dis decep deceived by the multitudes. Now we got a long way to go this morning. And uh I I hope that I'm not boring you. I want you to know not only is there a deception of many, but I want you to understand the Bible tells us that there's going to be some declarations. of war. Look at verse number six. Verses six to seven. And ye shall hear of wars And rumors of wars, see that ye be not troubled, for all of these things must come to pass. But the end is not yet, for nation shall rise against nation and kingdom against kingdom. Beloved, there is going to be a rise in the declaration of wars as we reach the end times. As we reach the coming of the Lord, it's going to progressively get worse and worse. Can I tell you that there is a record number of conflicts in the world today? According to the UPCD, which is Upsala Conflict Data Program that has been tracking conflicts worldwide, 2023 there were 59 armed conflicts in the world. That is the highest number of armed conflicts since they began keeping records. There's conflicts in Afghanistan, Iran, Pakistan, North Korea, China, Ethiopia, Sudan. Somalia, Sudan, Ukraine, Venezuela, Haiti, Israel. The list goes on and on. In nineteen forty-seven, a group of atomic scientists established what is called the doomsday clock. You guys familiar with that? It is a depiction of how close we are to a man-made worldwide catastrophe. Obviously, it was established in 1947 by those that were involved in the Manhattan Project. The invention of the atomic bomb. In 1947, with the invention of the atomic bomb, they set the doomsday clock at seven minutes to midnight. The picture is when it hits midnight, we're done They said in a picture allegorical sense this doomsday clock is how close are we to total and utter catastrophe? In 1947, they set it at seven minutes. Over the last, how many ever years has been since then till now, the clock has steadily moved back and forth, back and forth. In January 2023, the clock is reset every January. In January of 2023, it was set to 90 seconds. And it hasn't changed. It remained unchanged in January of twenty-four. They're saying 90 seconds to midnight. We're we're really close to complete and utter destruction. The UN says in a recent article that we are in now a new era of conflict and violence. What I'm saying, beloved, is there is a wars and rumors of wars. God says that is what the end time is going to be like. So we see the declaration of war. Only that we see the destruction from severe weather. Destruction from severe weather. Look at verse number seven. In verse number seven, he says, For nation shall arise against nation and kingdom against kingdom, and there shall be famines. and pestilence and earthquakes in diverse places. Can I just talk to you about the weather for a minute? We like to talk about the weather, don't we? Been hot. In 2020, there were 30 Atlantic hurricanes compared to the normal or average of twelve. Forecast forecasters predict that 2024 hurricane season could set a new record. Because the number of hurricanes this year, this season, hurricane season goes from June first to the end of November, with a few stragglers coming in in December, and they're saying twenty twenty four could be a new record for how many hurricanes. hit land. Earthquakes. According to USGS, in 2021 there were over 23,000 earthquakes. That is a new record from the recorded of 20,000 in 1993 The record was set in 1993 of 20,000, and that's obviously every little quake. That's everything they can measure on the Richter scale. It's not things that do destruction, but every quake that they can read, there was 23,000 of them. in 2021. Tornadoes. In April and May, the typical busiest months for tornadoes Uh this year has been an exceptional pace for tornado activity. On July 19th As of July 19th, there's been 1,386 reported tornadoes in the U. S. A 15-year high, which has been steadily rising for the last 15 years. Now, the world wants to blame this on climate change. But can I tell you that this book has described what the end times were going to be like thousands of years before anybody ever heard of climate change? The book said what was going to happen. The book said what the ending days of time on this earth was going to be like. Yeah, the destruction from sear severe weather. How many of you guys have seen a report about flooding in the US? And then other countries? Flooding all over the world. According to satellite analysis, there is a growing number of flood events in the world. The Smithsonian says a storm that occurred once every seven generations So the level of rainfall, the kind of storm that occurred once every seven generations, many, many years ago, is now occurring twice in every generation. There's an increase in storms. There's an increase in severe weathers God described what these ending days were going to be. I want you to know the Bible describes as well there's going to be a disregard for the things of God. Matthew 24, 12. Look what it says there in verse number 12. And because iniquity shall abound, the love of many shall wax cold. Iniquity is going to abound. Love is going to wax cold. Paul, talking to Timothy, describes this time when men will be lovers of them own selves. In 2 Timothy 3, verses 1 through 4, he says, Know this also that in the last days perilous times shall come, for men shall be lovers of their own selves. Covetous, motors, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy, without natural affection, truthbreakers, false accusers, incontinent, fears, despisers of those that are good. Traitors, heady, high-minded, lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God. There's a disregard for the things of God. Can I ask, are we in that time? I mean I don't know of a topic that would be more uh pertinent to every single person here than an understanding of what's going on in the world today. This is what this is not what Pastor Caleb is saying. We're just reading the Word of God. The Bible says this is what's going to happen when we reach the end of days. Men are going to have a disregard for the things of God. Men just doing what they want to do. It's about having a good time, about personal pleasure, the destruction of the family unit. This world is doing all it can to undermine the home and parental authority. Just a couple of weeks ago I took Melissa to the hospital, to the ER. First time in her life she's been to the hospital. And uh we're in the hospital and they're checking her out, you know. Everybody's coming in, doing all the work that they gotta do, checking her blood, you know, check or all this stuff, doing everything they're supposed to do, right? And they did a great job, the hospital. I'm very thankful for the medical workers that we have and the skills that they've learned. However, the doctor comes in and says to me, Dad, I need you to step out. I need to ask your daughter some questions, and for her protection, you need to leave. And I said, uh no. I'm her protector. She said, I don't know you from Adam. This is my daughter. I'm not stepping out. And she says, No, no, this is what we have to do. We have for her protection you have to leave. I said, I ain't leaving. This is my daughter. If anybody's going to protect her, this guy's going to protect her. And she's like, well, we have to ask her some questions that are sensitive. And Melissa says, I don't care if he hears what you ask. And then the the the the the doctor's like well I mean she didn't like it at all but she said okay and so she asked Melissa some questions. But the mindset That parents don't know what's best. The mindset that we have to decide what's best for your child, or we are going to guide this child, or we are it's the government and the government's control and the medical institutions and the school systems and mom and dad are pushed out over here. Can I tell you parent, God has given you the responsibility to raise your children, the nurture and admonition of the Lord. You are responsible for God for training them and bringing them up and teaching them and you will be held accountable to God for what you teach them and how you treat them. They're doing all they can. This is a sign of the time. Bible says that they men will not endure sound doctrine. Can I tell you we've reached that time when men don't like to be challenged? I think it's partially because we've uh have several generations now that have been raised in homes where they've never been told no where they weren't disciplined growing up They've been allowed to do what they want to do, and now when they get into the church house and the man of God stands up and says, Thus saith the Lord, here is how what God expects of you. They say, You're telling me what to do. Who are you? Men cannot endure sound doctrine. That's where we are. And and praise God, that's not everybody. Just like we talked about in Sunday school, and when we're talking about Ruth, there was a time when People of God were leaving God and going to idols, but Ruth was somebody that had idols and she left her idols and went to God. Amen. And there are some people that are looking for sound doctrine. There are some people that are looking for the truth of the word of God, and they want to hear it straight. And I praise God for that. But by and large, in the world today, in these churches that are the mega churches that are growing by leaps and bounds and they've got hundreds and thousands of people gathering in their in their Colosseums on a Sunday. Can I tell you, they're not preaching the truth. 2 Peter 3, 3 and 4 says, Knowing this first, there shall come in the last days scoffers walking after their own lust. You see, they're going to disregard the things of God. They're going to scoff. They're going to mock. They're going to make fun of those that believe that there is a God in heaven. Well, can I tell you that one day When he breaks the eastern sky, the Bible says there's gonna time come a time when every knee shall bow. And every tongue shall confess. We could go on with the development of the one-world government, the movement towards a one-world currency, and ultimately under the Antichrist, there's going to be a one-world religion. The signs of the times. But what is the answer? What are we to do? Look down in verse number forty. What is the answer? He says, Then shall two be in the field, the one shall be taken, and the other left. Two women shall be grinding at the mill, the one shall be taken, the other left Watch therefore, for ye know not what hour your Lord doth come, but know this that if the goodman of the house had known in what watch the thief would come, he would have watched He would not have suffered his house to be broken up. Therefore, be ye also ready. This is the answer. He's saying, okay, what do you do? You see the signs of the times are everywhere. You look at it and you say, man, it's got to be close. He's saying if somebody had a half of rain in their head and they knew a thief was coming to their house at midnight, they wouldn't open the doors and go to sleep. They would get up and they would lock the doors and they would find some protection and they would say, Listen, nobody's going to come in this house tonight because they know the thief is on his way and he says, Hey, like a thief in the night Jesus is going to come at a time when you know not of and he's saying be ready, be ready, be ready. The signs of the times are everywhere. There's pictures and every single thing you look on in the world and the news that you hear and you say, oh, things are so bad. But what it ought to say to the Christian is the Lord's return is imminent That he could come back at any moment. And it ought to implore us to be ready to meet thy God. Are you ready to meet God today? Is your heart right with God? Do you know beyond a shadow of a doubt that if Jesus broke the eastern sky today, if he came back and you met your Maker today, do you know for sure that your sins are forgiven? If not, you better get ready. Because we don't know when that time will come. Christian, are you sold out for God? Are you living for God? Are you doing what God wants you to do? If not, you better get ready. If you knew right now that you had twenty four hours to live, if you knew right now that your days were going to be done at a certain time next week, what would you do with the last ten days of life We don't know the day or hour. We don't know how long we have to be on this earth. We don't know when God will call us home or when He's going to come again. So the answer, beloved, is not to retreat, but to be ready. Not to crawl in a hole. Listen, I know it's dark times, but the light that shines the brightest, shines the brightest in a dark night. Man, last night I don't know how many of you are outside, but last night the sun the moon was shining so bright. It was a bright night last night. I mean it was like the lights were on. It was amazing. Uh I was out pretty late last night walking and uh it just the light was I mean it was just bright out. It was amazing how uh hey, I didn't even need a light. But there's been ni many times when it was really, really dark and man just to walk out grab something outside you you need your turn your phone flashlight on, right? Just because of how dark it is. A light that shines the brightest, shines the brightest in a dark night. Beloved, it's time to stand on the truth of the Word of God, not to crawl in a hole. We need to do the job that God has left us here to do. We need ladies and we need men who will stand like the prophet of old on Mount Carmel and say, if God be God, then serve him. If Baal be God, then serve him. If you want to go the way of the world and destruction and the flesh, you've got the right you can do that. But if God be God Then stop playing church. Stop messing around. Get serious about the things of God because we've only got a short time. The night cometh when no man can work. Our time here on earth to do something for Jesus is almost done So it's time to be a witness. It's time to be serving. It's time to get busy about the things of God. Stop being so distracted with the things of this world. That's the answer, friend. These are golden days of opportunity. Yes, they're dark days. Yes, they're days of destruction. You look at it and you can get overwhelmed in your mind and you can Be consumed with worry, you can fret. Look what it says in verse number six six, twenty-four and verse number six, and ye shall hear of wars and rumors of wars, and we say, Oh my goodness, the wars that are around the world today. But what does he say? See that ye, what does it say? Be not troubled. He's saying, listen, ye believe in God, believe also in me. He said, and in my father's house are many mansions, and we can trust him. Let not your heart be troubled. Believe in God. Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you. Not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. Be careful for nothing but in everything by prayer and supplication. Let your request be made known unto God. He's saying, Hey, you don't have to have a troubled heart. You see the signs of the times. It just lets you know the Lord is coming. You don't have long to wait He's going to break the eastern sky, and I've only got a little while, so I've got to do what God wants me to do today because time is short. God that has given us the victory yesterday can do it again today. Can I remind you that God is not just the God of the mountaintop, but He is the God of the valley. And the signs of the times are everywhere that he that end is drawing near. There's a brand new feeling in the air. Keep your eyes on the eastern sky, lift up your head, for your redemption draweth nigh. Would you turn to Psalms 91? And I'll bring this to a conclusion this morning. Psalms 91. I want to leave you with the admonition given to us here through the psalmist about how to view this time and what to do. I don't even need to preach this if you'll just listen to the words of this psalm in light of what we've just talked about. He says here, he that dwelleth in the secret place of the Most High shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty I will not say of the Lord, He is my refuge in my fortress, my God in Him will I trust Surely he shall deliver thee from the snare of the fowler, from the noisome pestilence. He shall cover thee with his feathers, and under his wings shalt thou trust. His truth shall be thy shield and buckler. Thou shalt not be afraid for the terror by night Nor for the arrow that flieth by day, nor for the pestilence that walketh in darkness, nor for the destruction that once it at noonday. A thousand shall fall at thy side, and ten thousand at thy right hand, but thou shalt not come nigh thee. Only with thee, with thy eyes shalt thou behold and see the reward of the wicked. Because thou hast made the Lord, which is my refuge, even the Most High, thy habitation. There shall no evil befall thee. Neither shall any plague come nigh thy dwelling, for he shall give his angels charge over thee to keep thee in all thy ways. They shall bear thee up in their hands, lest thou dash thy foot against a stone. Thou shalt tread upon the lion and the adder, and the young lion and the dragon shalt thou trample under feet Because he hath set his love upon me. Therefore will I deliver him. I will set him on high because he hath known my name He shall call upon me and I will answer him. I will be with him in trouble. I will deliver him and honor him. With long life will I satisfy him and show him my salvation. Just listen to the words of David as he describes his peace that he has in the storm and how he knows that God is protecting him through it all. And then God's answer of how he is going to be with him and protect him and lift him up with angels' wings and deliver him and honor him. Beloved, God will protect the Christian who is dwelling in that secret place. We don't have to be overcome with fear and anxiety about what's going on in the world and how to live through this tumultuous time. We can get down and dwell in the resting place of the Most High and know that God is our protector. He says, ten thousand will fall at thy right hand, but none will come nigh thee. God will bear you up. But we like the verse over the New Testament, for we know that all things work together for good, to them that love God, to them that are called according to his purpose. We don't know about tomorrow, but we know who holds tomorrow. And praise God for those that are dwelling in the presence of the Most High. He is holding your hand. Are you dwelling with your Father today? Do you have that peace? If you're here this morning or the sound of my voice, and you don't know that your sins have been forgiven, you don't know that He is your Father, you can know that today. And if you do know that As long as you're dwelling with him, you can make it through this tumultuous days. Amen? Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and you