Amen, amen. You can turn your Bibles to Psalms, Psalm one hundred and thirty-three. We're going to be Uh we won't be very long, but we are going to look at a number of scriptures this morning. So I hope you have your Bible out and you're ready to turn. A lot of times I'm guilty of and uh I I I just read the scriptures and keep moving. You know, I'm kind of on a mission and I just read it and I just keep flying and uh don't give you guys time to even turn there, but I uh I need to improve in that area and you know pause so that you guys can get there and see it in the Word of God. Um but uh we're going to Look this morning at a very needful and necessary topic. Have you ever had a car that was out of alignment? Ever been driving a car that constantly pulled to the right or to the left? You know, it's so far out of alignment that you let go of the wheel and it would turn a corner by itself. You know, it just cr you know, it would go. And uh that You know, kinda it it's very hard on your tires. It tears your tires up, it cuts into your miles per gallon and uh it also can wear you out actually driving if you're driving a long ways and you have to constantly be you know, I mean forget lane assist. I mean you've got to hold it it hold it to keep it in the lane uh otherwise it's going to just uh run its own course. You know, even the best of cars at times need realignment. The fact of the matter is as you drive down uh some of these roads, especially this time of year coming out of winter, and uh inadvertently you don't realize it, but there's a big pothole there And you hit that with your car, and all of a sudden your car is knocked out of alignment. It's no longer tracking like it should. And you get into a small fender bender. and your car is knocked out of alignment. Sometimes even just driving on a rough road more aggressively than you should in in El Paso. We had uh you know we lived out in the desert And so we had these roads made of caliche, which is a white rock, a white stone, but in the that windy environment uh we would get washboards on all these country roads and literally it's I mean it's like you're driving on the bumps on the side except substantially more aggressive. They're much bigger than that. And I mean it would beat your car up, knock it out of alignment. So the best of cars at times need realigned. You know, the best of churches at times need realigned. Uh churches are made up of people and none of us are perfect and we go through life and sometimes things happen, we get jostled, we get uh bumped into, we we hit a pothole or get into a small tragic uh accident or something happens in our life and we can get out of alignment This morning, I want to speak to you about our theme for this year. Our theme for the year is United in Christ. And beloved, this is not just a rally cry for the troops. It is literally the will of God. And it is the key to power and the progress of a successful church Is that we are united. Look in Psalms 133 with me. It's not a long psalm, so we're gonna read All three verses. Behold how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity. It is like the precious ointment upon the head that ran down upon the beard, even Aaron's beard that went down to the skirts of his garments. And the dew of Harron and the dew that descended upon the mountains of Zion, for the Lord commanded the blessing, even life forevermore. That first verse there, would you read it together with me? He says, Behold how good and how pleasant it is for the brethren to dwell together in unity. Beloved, we are to be united in Christ. The fact of the matter is, there is little that is more detrimental to the cause of Christ and the progress of the church than disunity. The Bible tells us clearly that it grieves the Holy Spirit, that it disrupts the work. It removes God's blessing from the church when we have disunity. As a church, we are called to be united. And today we want to be reminded of that fact and from the pages of Scripture be exhorted to function as a united group in one accord. Would you pray with me and ask God to do this in our hearts today as we see this from the Word of God? Lord, we come to you right now. We ask you, Lord, that you would allow me to step out of the way and take the few brief minutes we have here to look towards your word and see how important this aspect of unity is in the body of Christ. And I pray, Lord, that we wouldn't just hear it, but that we truly would be doers of the Word, and that God, we would allow this to Change our attitudes and our actions that we might function as a united whole to bring honor and glory to you and to further the gospel of Jesus Christ, Lord that we might have our eyes on the field that's white unto harvest, and we'll praise you for it. In Jesus' name, amen. I want you to realize first of all this morning that this is God's plan. This is not just a rally cry, this is not something that man came up with, but indeed this is God's plan for his people to be united. The plan for unity All through the scriptures, this is very clear. It's given to us, and we're going to see numerous scriptures this morning, but I want you to know that this is not man's idea, but it is God's intention. God planned for the church, for for his people, all the way back in the pages of the Old Testament, God plans for his people to be united Well, you if you remember the story of Reuben, Gad and the half tribe of Manasseh, they saw the land that they were in there on the east side of the Jordan River. And they said, Boy, w why don't we just stay here? Boy, this should be nice. I mean this was pretty good land. And after all, there's not really any enemy here. We could just stay here. Let's take this land. And that's what they wanted. But God said, wait a minute. No, no, you can't just stay on this side of the river. You've got to go over with everybody. You've got to join in the fight. You've got to be united front. You're going to go, you're going to win the land for everybody. And then, once the battle's done, you can come back if you would like to And ultimately that is what happened. But God said, no, you guys need to go forward in unity. Part of Korah's rebellion was a sin against unity in Numbers chapter 16, where they tried to raise up against the man of God, against the leader that God had put in that place. And Korra's rebellion was a rebellion against the unity of God's people. It was God's intention from the very beginning that his people be united. As we move into the pages of the New Testament, we know, of course, God is working initially with his people. He came unto his own, and his own received him not. And God takes the gospel message and he gives it to not just the Jew, but also to the Gentile. But as he started reaching the Gentiles, he begins to teach and tell them, listen Jesus came to seek and to save that which was lost, not just the Jewish nation, but the Gentile nations as well. And he begins to teach them and say, hey, uh, there is only one sheepfold. There is only one shepherd, and we are going to come together in John chapter six ten, verse number sixteen. And I'm going to read it. You don't have to turn there We'll get you some passages here, but he says, And other sheep I have, which are not of this fold, them also must I bring, and they shall hear my voice, and they shall be onefold And one shepherd. He says, listen, the Gentiles are going to come into the fold. I want you to know there's only one fold. He's saying there's not a Gentile church and and a Jewish church. And I want you to know, beloved, it God it it is not God's plan that there are American churches and Filipino churches or that there's white churches and there's black churches and there's rich churches and there's poor churches. Listen, there's only one fold. And there's only one shepherd, and God's plan is that we would be united. We're not supposed to be divided or segregated, and there's no place for uh any type of racism or hate for anybody else in this in the family of God. Amen? Amen. There's only onefold, and God calls all of them into that one fold, and he says, listen, you Jewish people, you've had a privilege to be My people for so long, but I want you to understand the Gentiles are coming into this thing and they're going to be part of the fold. They're not they're they're all they're all going to be equal here under one shepherd He had to teach them that they might understand that. Ephesians 2. 14 says, For he is our peace, who hath made both one, and hath broken down the middle wall of partition between us. Jesus is the one shepherd. And we're looking to him. He's removed that wall. There shouldn't be any barriers, any walls, any separation between us and other believers of Jesus Christ and followers of the Lord, and inside the church house we should be one. Beloved God offers salvation to every tribe and every kindred and to all peoples. And he wants to bring them all into the fold, regardless of their background, regardless of their culture, regardless of their home, regardless of where they've come from. God calls them all, and He calls us all to unity over and over again In 1 Corinthians chapter 1 and verse number 10, he says, Now I beseech you, brethren, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, and ye all speak the same thing: that there be no divisions among you. That ye be perfectly joined together in the same mind and in the same judgment. In Philippians 2 2, he says, Fulfill ye my joy, that ye be like-minded, having the same love. Being of one accord, of one mind. Now I'm just scratching the surface with regards to the admonition and the teachings in the Word of God about us being of one accord and of one mind and uh following Jesus Christ. But I'm as I'm establishing this first point here, I want you to understand this is God's plan. It's what God expects. It's what He desires. He says there that you be of one mind. What do you think the one mind Are we supposed to have? Are we all supposed to have the mind of Pastor Caleb? No. Are we all supposed to have the mind of Bob Gamble? No. No. What is he saying there? It's in Philippians chapter two. You should know, but whose mind are we supposed to have? Christ. And let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus We're supposed to be unified together. How is it we can all uh be unified? Why? Because we're not worried about our mind, we're not worried about lining up with what we think or what we feel. What we want to do is we want to get behind, we're unified in the calling of God upon his people and what he wants us to accomplish behind Jesus Christ. We're in line with him. I want you to know, beloved, unity is not something that we create. It is something that we're called to keep. Because unity was created in Christ Jesus. That unity is there and it's present and it's given to us at the moment that you come to Jesus Christ. You're given new life in Christ. Old things are passed away, behold, all things are become new. And as we have that new new life in Christ, we say, uh we baptize somebody. Bearing the likeness of his death, raised to walk in newness of life. That you're raised to walk in this newness of life. been baptized in that old life you're saying. Every th every part of that I'm lett letting go of that and I'm publicly testifying to everybody that I've put my faith and trust in Christ and that He's given me new life And I'm going to follow him in this new life. I'm going to try and live as he would want me to live. And beloved, as we all are striving to follow him and get behind him, we're going to be united. We're going to be moving together in one accord, united in Christ. Would you turn your Bibles to John chapter 17? Matthew, Mark, Luke, John. John chapter 17. We see in John chapter 17 the Lord's Prayer. He prays. What I'm saying is, Jesus gets down on his knees and he goes to his father. And as he I mean, you just ponder and think about something that was so important to Jesus. That he would call on his father and beg his father that this might be so, and ask his father to perform and to do this thing. I wonder what is so important that Jesus would feel the need to beg God for it. Look in John chapter 17 and verse number 20. He says, Neither pray I for these alone. Now he's talking about the disciples there. He's like, I'm not praying just for the disciples. He says, but for them also which shall believe on me through their word. So through the word that the disciples are preaching, the disciples are going to preach Jesus Christ, his death, burial, and resurrection. And so we see here, beloved, the people. That are to be unified. The people of unity, he says, those that would believe, not just for the disciples, but for all those that are going to believe on me. And beloved, anybody that has put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ have Christ as the head of our lives. We're supposed to be following him. And so the people of Unity Be are supposed to be all those that believe. Are you a believer today? There's a couple of you. I hope that you that you're a believer. I hope that you know without a doubt that you're on your way to heaven, that your sins are forgiven, and Jesus Christ is your heavenly Father And that there's not a question about that. You've got that settled. Well, if you're a believer, uh we are the people that are supposed to be involved in unity. Jesus goes to his father and he prays. We see him pray here. He first prays. Who is he praying for? The people, the believers, right? Does that make sense? You see it there? See, we see the people first he's praying for the believers. Then I want you to see the pattern for unity that he gives us here. In verses 21, he says that they may be one. As thou, Father, art in me, and I in thee. The pattern here: unity, beloved, is not to be found in our preferences We're not supposed to get together and just, oh, we all happen to agree on uh what color the carpet should be, so we're all excited about that and we We enjoy that or we're we're real we really like the fact that the the walls at this church are tan and that's why we go to that church and you know we appreciate that. You know, there may be some things you appreciate, but you know what, our preferences really don't matter We ought to be willing to let those go. We're going to talk about that some more in a minute, but you know what? We don't we don't get unified around personalities. I've said it often, there's nobody who comes to Hunt Valley Baptist Church for the pastor's personality. There's no question about that I hope that we're pointing you to Jesus Christ. We're unified around Jesus. And and some churches are in a real trouble because they're unified around the personality of the man standing up here. And the problem is, is when that man uh who is just a man and the best of men are men at best, and they're going to make mistakes, they're going to falter, they're going to fail, and when they do, the church just gets goes throws to the wind. Why? Because it was all built around that man. The church, we are unified around Jesus Christ. That's what he tells us. The example that he gives us here is the unity that God the Father has with God the Son. And God the Holy Spirit, they are three, but they're three in one. You can't really get more unified than that. That's just it's good a unity. You know, that's like you argue with yourself. I mean You can't be more unified than than than an individual and you have God the Father and God the Son. He says, My prayer, Jesus getting on his knees and talking to God and says, Lord, I pray that they would be unified, that they would have the kind of unity that you and I have. What an amazing thing. So we see the people. The people is who? The believers, alright. The people is who? Believers. That's who he's talking to. The pattern he gives us is the example of Jesus. Jesus and the Father. But I want you to see the purpose. He gives us the purpose here as well. Are you looking in John We're in verse number 21, he says, that they all may be one as thou, Father, art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be one in us. That what's the next phrase there? That the world may believe So the purpose, beloved, is that the world may believe. Do you know that unity in the church is one of the most powerful evangelistic tools that the church has? By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, that ye love one another, that you have unity in the body of Christ And this unity in the body of Christ is a testimony to the world and it's a tool that reaches into the hearts of people that are struggling, that are battling in this world, and they don't know uh which way is up and they don't know what to believe in and they see heartbreak and turmoil everywhere they go but when they see the church of God functioning in unity and they see the harmony that's there and the sweet spirit that's among God's people And it is a sad thing and such a disruptive thing. And many of you here have experienced the heartbreak of being part of a family of God, a church where Satan had got in and caused disruption and disunity and some of the most painful things that you've been through in your life is that kind of heartbreak inside the family of God. Am I lying or no? That's what it is. But see, the church is supposed to be a unified body, the family of God. I'm so glad I'm a part of the family of God. Join us with Jesus cleansed by his blood. Aren't you glad you're a part of the family of God? We have a family, but that joy is only present when the family of God is unified behind Jesus Christ That's what God's plan is. This is what God wants for us. And Jesus prayed that it would be so. Look at verse number 23. He says, I in them and thou in me, that they may be made perfect in one. So he's describing there the The goal here of unity, that they be made perfect in one, that they're they're they're completely one, there's total unity there, they're present. And what's the next five words? That the world may know. That the world may know. You see, beloved, unity Is a testimony to the world that the world would believe and that the world would know about Jesus. And that thou hast sent me and hast loved them, and thou hast loved me. What a testimony to the world. This is what God would have for us. The unity of the church is one of the strongest and greatest evangelistic tools that we can have to reach this world is being unified. I would have you see secondly here this morning. Don't you think that if Jesus got on his knees and prayed for it, that you and I ought to pursue it? Anybody think that? We ought to pursue it. It ought to be something that's on our heart and our mind. And when we notice things that are going to disrupt unity, We ought to put a stop to that. We ought to realize that Jesus prayed for unity in the church, and it is my goal and responsibility to keep unity in the church. Can I get practical for a second? What I'm saying is when somebody comes to you and says, Did you hear what Bob Gamble did last week? No, tell me. Actually, I want to know what Carol did. Tell me what Carol did. There ought to be something in your spirit that says, wait a minute, that's going to disrupt the unity in the family of God. No. I don't want to know what it was. Oh, but we need to pray for them. I can pray for them without knowing it. I'll just say Lord Be with Bob Gamble. He's married to Carol. I mean the other way around. Be with Carol if she's married to Bob, you know. Uh you know that We there ought to be something in your mind that says, hey, uh-uh. I I don't want to know that. I want to protect the unity of the church. Somebody comes to you and says, I don't know why we're doing this. Pastor, he's got some crazy idea that we're, wait a minute. That's gonna disrupt the unity of the church. So maybe you would rather not have a work party and shovel the parking lot. Not everybody's into that. But it's got to be done. Whatever it is, you know, oh we're doing this again or whatever. Why are we doing that? Hey Let's put aside some things and let's have unity. Jesus prayed for it. We ought to pursue it. You know what? If we're going to have unity, there's going to be a price. It's going to cost some things. You know what it's going to cost? The first thing it's going to cost is going to cost you your pride. The Bible tells us that only by pride cometh contention. And here's the thing, where pride exists, unity flees. But where unity exists, pride must go. It's going to cost you your pride. Are you willing to let go of that? Are you really willing to let the Holy Spirit of God direct and to lead, or are you going to hold on to your pride? Pride demands And humility submits. Pride promotes self, but humility promotes the Savior. Pride is hard But humility is soft and pliable. Pride has a lot to say, but humility has a lot to learn. Pride divides, but humility unites. I wonder: are we willing to sacrifice to give up our pride? It's going to cost you your preferences, maybe. Maybe there's some things that you like one way or another. And I I don't know what there are. I just don't understand why people hold so strongly to their preferences You see, we need to surrender our will to the Fathers. Get unified behind Jesus Christ. You know a lot of things in the church here, obviously I'm the pastor, and so ultimately everything rises and falls on leadership. I have to make the decision. But if I'm perfectly blunt with you, there's a lot of things I really don't care. I literally don't care one way or the other And sometimes people get mad at me because I made the decision that we're going to do this. And you know what? I don't really care if we do this or do this. But somebody came and said, are we going to do this or this? And I say, well, let's do that. They asked me, and so there's been times where uh I've given some people a job to do, and I said, listen, I don't I don't care how you do this, whatever, whatever you want to do. They can do it however they want. And they decide to do it And they do it how they wanted to, and I gave them the liberty to and they're doing a good job, but then some other member in the church doesn't like what they're doing and they get mad at me because they think I'm the one that said they had to do that Who gives a rip? I mean who really cares? Why are we so tied up on our preferences and how we want things to go that we're willing to disrupt the unity of the body of Christ in order to try and you know get what we want. Why does the whole body have to adjust for you? Pride. Humility says, you know what? What I think doesn't matter. I mean why why would I why would what I think matter? I'm the pastor and I feel that way. I'm the pastor and it doesn't matter to me. There's so many decisions that I have to make on a weekly basis that are really just logistical and and organizational and these are just somebody has to decide what we're going to do and so here's what we're going to do and we set forth a pattern of action. But in in the grand scheme of things it's not what's important I'm saying, beloved, when the whole when when when Satan rises up in your heart and causes you to get a little bit because of some preference you have, would you respond with the Holy Spirit and say, Get thee behind me, Satan? Let's push that down. We all have our own little things that we like or that we want or we feel are necessary. Beloved, this is important. Jesus prayed for it. It is the design and the plan of God that the church would be unified. We're going to have to give up our pride. We're going to have to give up our preferences. You know what you're going to have to do? Would you turn to the book of Ephesians? Ephesians, 1 and 2 Corinthians, Galatians, Ephesians. If you get to Philippians or Colossians, he went too far. Turn to Ephesians chapter number four. You know what's gonna cost you? It's gonna cost you some forgiveness. We see in Ephesians chapter 4, verses 31 and 32. He says, Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and evil speaking be put away from you. With all malice, and be kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God, for Christ's sake, hath forgiven you. Beloved, we teach on it, we teach on it, we enjoy the forgiveness of God, so rich and free, so full, and we embrace that forgiveness and we're so thankful for that forgiveness. But then God calls on you and I to have that kind of a heart with our brothers and sisters in Christ, and for some reason we cannot forgive. That's wrong. That's wrong. You should be able to forgive. It's gonna cost you some, you're gonna have to let go of the bitterness. You know what you're gonna have to do? You need to grab a hold of grace and let go of your grudge. Now, this is real practical down-to-earth preaching. But this is what makes the difference between a church that's moving forward in unity and the power of God to see mighty things happen. And a church that's just existing, putting out all these little little problems and these fats and these issues between God's people. We ought to pursue as much as lieth within you, live peaceably with all men, especially those that are of the household of faith. Amen. Is this too heavy for you guys this morning? Is this just too it's too much? It's awful quiet. It's truth, I can tell you that. And and I can tell you that to my knowledge, I'm not preaching that anybody today. I don't know anybody that has an issue with another brother or sister. I'm I'm not trying to, you know I I I'm trying to deal with the fact that th Satan tries to get into the family of God and cause problems. And I know that that's the case. And so what we're doing is ahead of time is we're we're taking a boatload of vitamin C this morning. Right? To try and ward it off, to be careful that it doesn't happen, because you and I both know, and as I said earlier, many of us have been part of a church that has faced the disruptiveness of disunity and how hurtful it is and How many people of God's God's family that are that are hurt and maybe not even in church today because of some turmoil like that. We don't want it to happen at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. We want to be unified before God. True unity is going to cost you your surrender. Surrender your will and follow God. And if we're unified behind God, We'll all be heading the same direction. Lastly, I want you to see and consider the power of unity. That's found in the book of Acts, really all the way through the book of Acts, but in Acts chapter number two. Is the day of Pentecost. When power came down upon them. I want you to see in Acts chapter 2 and verse number 1, the Bible says, and when the day of Pentecost was fully come. They were all with one accord in one place. Unity. Unity is such a small word, but it's packed with so much meaning. It implies and gives so much power that there really is no stopping a church that's moving together, that's moving forward in unity. When the body of Christ functions in one accord, there's no holding it back. I've seen it. It's astounding. How when God's church moves together in unity, how when God's church moves together in one accord, what is accomplished? It's amazing. You literally you sit back in awe and you think, wow, look what God did. With everybody just doing their part. I can think back through the the many years of my life and ministry having grown up in a pastor's home. My dad started a church in El Paso, Texas, and we were out in the desert, out in the middle of nowhere. And uh dad started soul winning and witnessing and reaching people and started inviting people to the house and we started having people at the house for church and His plan was to move into into the city, but the church kept growing out there in the desert, in the middle of nowhere, and he thought, well, as soon as we get a building in town, we'll we're all going to drive into town for church. But the church kept growing and uh after one year we uh substantially outgrew our house and we had to break ground and we built a building. In three years, we had a high day of 352 in church. In the church moving forward in the power of God. Magnificent move of God. Amazing to see as as a young man of God do that. I can track down through the years several times like that where it seemed like the church was just empowered and in unity moving forward. I think about Hunt Valley Baptist Church back in two thousand and eight and two thousand and nine when we bought this building and the church was sacrificially given and everybody was doing what they could and here we reached way beyond our capacity to to do something that only God could do. And we looked at this building that really was outside of our the realm of our capability, but we looked at God and said, God, we've done all we can do. Would you do the rest? And we prayed together that God would do a miraculous thing. The church prayed for six months. We had over twenty men that uh and many ladies that fasted and prayed at least one day a week. for six months and we approached the owners of the building again. They had put the building on the market for $2. 25 million and uh we approached them and asked if we could buy it for $900,000 and they came back and said you can have it for a million But the fact of the matter is it might as well have been five million from our standpoint. We only had a hundred thousand dollars. That's all we had. And here they are offering this to us for a million. But the but we were at the place where we could pay rent We were paying almost thirty six hundred a month for rent for the storefront, the build the front we had there, which was three thousand square feet. We could have never bought this building, but you know what? God already had put preschool in the middle level. There was a preschool minting rent renting the middle level for $2,500 a month. And do you know we were able to buy a million dollar building and the difference in our monthly payment was only fifty dollars? Because the preschool was renting that middle level and with their $2,500 and our thirty-five hundred dollars, we were able to make that payment of only fifty dollars more a month to buy a million dollar building from what we were paying for rent. So two and a half years later, when we grew to the point where we didn't need the preschool, we said, hey, by the end of this year you guys are gonna have to find a new location. We need we need all those classrooms and all that. When we were when we first moved in here, we were small small, we didn't even need the middle level I mean we hardly hardly use it. Now we put preschool or we or s Sunday school in those classrooms and shared with them, but what I'm saying is the movement of God when God's people are unified i i it's amazing. We see in Acts chapter number two, and really all through the book of Acts, we see God move in a mighty way. The Apostle Peter preaches at Pentecost and 3,000 souls are saved. We see the heart of Lydia is moved and turns toward God. We see the ministry of Peter launched. The ministry of Paul is launched in and through the power of the Holy Spirit. And the work and and you think about we just went through the book of Acts in Sunday school, talking in our New Testament survey, and think about all that God did with the Holy Spirit there as the church moved forward in a mighty way. Peter preaches and a lame man is given the ability to walk. I I'm hungry to see God do great things at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. I'm hungry. I'm longing to see God grow this church and grow the people of this church. in their walk and in their relationship. And as I look around this room, I see many of you that God has touched your heart and life and and you've grown. And it's a magnificent thing. But here's what I know beyond a shadow of a doubt that if we as a people are not un unified in moving forward, uh it won't happen Because Satan is going to get in and disrupt what God wants to do. And he's going to use a disgruntled, disturbed. discouraged, whatever situation in your life has got a burr under your saddle causing disruption to the unity, that's gonna keep do you you guys remember Do you guys remember Achan who stole the bacon? Yeah. Remember the story of Achan? How the children of Israel were going in and they had just won a magnificent battle? And one guy, God said, Hey, thou shalt not touch of the accursed thing. This is to be left for me. Don't take any of it. One guy says, You know what? I I want. I'm gonna get some of this gold. I'm gonna get some of these garments. And he took it and hide it under his tent. And then the children of Israel went to the battle of Ai, and thirty-six men lost their lives. And as a nation, the entire nation of Israel lost that battle. They were sent running home like whooped dogs. Why? Because one man. And here's what I'm saying for Hunt Valley Baptist Church, the family of God. We need to be like Jesus and we need to get on our knees and say, God, give us unity. Give us unity that we can move forward in a right spirit. With true love for one another. Love that we can love the unlovable if we do it through Jesus Christ. Jesus is the one. He loves me. If Jesus can love me, I think through God I can love Stephen. It's hard, man Don't you think we can love one another through the love of Christ? Jesus prayed for it and we ought to pursue it. And anytime we sense, we get a little little idea that Satan might be creeping in and causing some disruption in the family of God, we need to say, hey, get thee behind me, Satan I don't want to be a part of that. I want to keep unity in the family of God so that we can move forward in the power of God. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed? Our church could see great and mighty things in the coming days. Could be next week Beloved, I don't want to just be existing as a church. I don't want to just be attending and coming and we gather here with no anticipation, no excitement about what God wants to do. in our midst. I want God to do great things, and I want us to enter the house of God with a hunger and an anticipation of what God wants to do in our hearts and in the hearts of those that are gathered. And if we're going to see that, it's going to take a people that are unified, united in Christ. As a pianist plays, if God spoke to you, you come. Beloved, a divided church is always going to struggle. But a unified church will shine. It'll shine with the light of Jesus Christ.