All right. Have your Bibles. Open them up to the first book of the Bible. The first book of the Bible in Genesis chapter number three. Genesis chapter number three. I enjoy this church, and it is a privilege every time that I get to speak here. And let's bow our heads. in prayer to God. Father, we love you and we want to say thank you for the precious blood of Jesus Christ. And we want to say that without you we can do nothing Nothing. Sometimes we just have to hear ourselves saying it because sometimes our minds think otherwise. We live our lives sometimes with the without you and all of our thoughts, and I ask for your forgiveness. Focused intently on the Word of God tonight, sitting there with purpose to learn more and more about you. And I pray that this would be an educational time, an instructional time. uh convicting time challenging each and every one of us to live our life in the middle of God's plan in Jesus' name amen Now, tonight I hope to give you a love for the Word of God. That's my aim. That's my goal. That's why I'm preaching a message entitled The Plot of History. Okay, I've talked through this before. I'm refining it a little bit more, and I feel like it's helpful to bring out again, and so I want us to Follow the plot of history and see God's overall plan and where we are in it. Genesis chapter number one, the Bible says, in the beginning Okay, that is a big phrase that and that everybody still today wonders about, right? What was the beginning? Everybody is sitting there wondering about it, and I really don't know. Okay? All I know is that it says in the beginning Okay, stop worrying about the beginning, start worrying about the end. That's what the Bible has to say. Okay, we gotta worry about where we're going. We know where we came from, and that is the Lord But this beginning is really only the beginning of what I would call human history, right? We begin to pick up the Bible and we begin to read about God's interaction with mankind It's not the beginning of God. God's eternal, and if you start thinking about eternity, you start malfunctioning. It you only can go back so many years before you really can't think too much more because you can't fathom it because eternity is outside of our our our scope, okay? So we don't really understand And eternality. But the Bible explains in Romans chapter 1 and verse 20 that God's creation of the world reveals to us more and more about the eternal power in Godhead. So the more you go outside, the more you learn about eternity. In fact, last night as I was walking into the house, we look up, we see the stars. I've got five daughters, and Tori, my second oldest She's about 11 years old. She's looking up. She says, Mom, does the sky ever end? And that was her question. And Holly looks at me and she goes, I think somewhere, doesn't it, Tom? And I said, that's so elementary. Ask your sister Does this guy ever end? What is she proving That's she's proving that the eternal that the that the creation of God reveals more and more about his eternal Godhead I guess the sky ends, but then it emerges into outer space, and outer space they're still discovering. And is there an end to outer space? I don't know, but somewhere out there is heaven And is there any boundaries to heaven? I don't know. So it's it's one of those questions, right And as you study the Bible, you begin to realize that there are things inside the Bible that are beyond our knowledge. They're beyond our understanding. But we can think about them and know that God has them all under his control. I don't know, but God does. And that's faith. That's leaving it in the hand of your creator to believe what he says about what he made. So prior to Genesis chapter number one and verse one, there was some divine activity. We know that. Okay? And while we could never begin to grasp the fullness of what happened, prior to the creation of the world, right? Who made God? All these questions that people want to pose. Before Genesis 1-1, there was divine activity. We don't know what happened beyond that, but we do know something about what happened before the foundation of the world. Ephesians says so. Ephesians 1 says that according as he hath chosen us in him, before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him. Love. So one thing we know about God is that He was master planning a creation that He knew He would have to save. And He chose to save us before He made us. All before. He made us. Now think about that for one second. God knowing that what he would make would rebel against him. chose to make us, and then chose to save us. So that we can stand before Him. Holy, without blame, before Him in love. Up to this point of creation, there was an eternal Godhead, God who who always was. He existed with no beginning. And then prior to the creation account that we begin to read in Genesis chapter 1 and Genesis chapter number 2, uh The Bible is unclear to us as to when, but we do see that God created what we commonly refer to as angels. In the Hebrew language, this spirit world or this supernatural race is referred to as Elohim. God Almighty is also referred to as Elohim because God is a spirit. But Elohim is also a word that is used for more than just one supreme being. The Elohim are the quote little g gods. The the in the angel realm is a realm that we really don't know much about. In fact, every time, not every time, but a lot of times that they appeared to humans, what did humans do? They were afraid. Or they bowed down and worship. And what did the angels who were right say? Don't worship us, worship God. My point is that this Elohim, we really don't know much about, it's spiritual. They're spirits. The Bible says in Psalm chapter 104, verse number, I think it is four or five. I'm memorizing it with my daughter right now. He maketh his angels spirits, his ministers, a flaming fire. That's what the Bible has to say about his angels. And we don't really know about that. Bible says that if you enter into the spiritual realm a different way, other than then through the door, you're a thief and a robber. And today's society they like to enter the spiritual realm. Over the wall. There's Ouija boards, terror cards, seances, you got horoscopes You've got fortune tellers. You go down the list in today's society, and there is some scary spooky stuff that's out there that is the angelic realm that has rebelled against God. But God says you don't need to go that route. You just need to go through the route that I tell you and the route that I tell you is the door Jesus Christ. You enter in through the door, and you have access to the throne of heaven where you can cry out for grace in time of need. We have access not just to the spiritual realm, but to the throne of grace, to the God of the demons. We have access to because of the blood of Jesus Christ. So nonetheless, the spiritual realm was created before us And the the Bible speaks of this group of creatures, this Elohim, these cherubs and seraphs and and angels, and they have a major role throughout the entire plot of the Bible. In fact, that's one of the amazing reasons why I like reading the Bible. It's because the Bible is not just a history. It's not Pastor Gus sat there, Miss Amy sat there, that person did this, that person did this. If you read the story, it's Pastor Gus sat there, and there was an angel. Angel that came and appeared unto him and said this. And Pastor Gus went over here. The word of the Lord came down and said this. And Amy was over there, and I saw the spirit realm coming over here. You actually get a glimpse Into the spiritual realm. And God begins to show you the criss-crossing of the Elohim and the humans together. And he says, I am. The Most High God. I made them all. I made all the Elohim, good and bad. I made all the humans, good and bad. They're all mine. And you're to follow me. In fact, you're to have no other gods before me. In fact, in Psalm 85, he says, I judge the gods. Because they lie and they deceive and they elevate these wicked gods, these wicked Elohim, elevate evil men into positions of authority. Of course, the most, if you will, significant Elohim, Son of the Morning, anointed cherub, Lucifer, which God created, rebelled You can read of his rebellion in Ezekiel chapter 28, Isaiah chapter 14, Revelation chapter 12 reveals that the name Lucifer was stripped from him, and he was now called the great dragon. The devil and Satan. Satan convinced one-third of an innumerable host. Okay? So an innumerable host divided by three. Okay? Satan took one-third of them and he re-he he he He rebelled in civil war in the heavenlies. And of course, he's no match for God. So God takes the great dragon, casts him down to the earth, and strips his authority away from him. And these angels, these Elohim became acquainted with the earth, with this physical realm, which we humans love to explore. They were all there in attendance when God created the physical world. We learn of that in Job chapter 38, where the angels sing together when God made the world. So this great Elohim Council, all of them, good and bad, were present when God made This world. And then they were cast down into this world for punishment prior to the human race. And then we see this Elohim Council in Genesis chapter number one and verse numbers 26, where God says He says to them, He says, Let us make man in our image after our likeness, and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth Now, this gets interesting. There was an Elohim Council where God pulls together all of his heavenly hosts. He reveals to them his plan that he was going to create a new race. A new group of people Which will govern and rule this created physical earth, which we read about in Genesis chapter number one. He would make this new race. Made in his image, after his likeness. In other words, they would be his representatives. In this incredibly beautiful creation that God just created, these new people were to rule his creation. They were to have dominion over it. Talk about jealousy? What do you think Lucifer wanted? He wanted to be like the Most High. Who now is like the Most High? The man, who is lower than the angels, are made in the image of God. So Satan gets bypassed. For humans. This Elohim Council was the first of many councils in the scriptures that we can see where God is speaking to his angels and vice versa. Sometimes we see the angels speaking to God. Okay? And behind the curtain, so to speak, we get this scene where Satan, that old serpent, is trying to usurp control of this newly created Sphere called earth. And the setting, the first setting of this is in the Garden of Eden. So when you read the Bible, you actually see those divine counsels. In Job chapter 1, there was a day where the sons of God presented themselves to right to their maker. And then in 1 Kings 22, God speaketh to the angels and he says, who's going to go to see they have? And one angel says, I'll go and do And he one says, I'll go do this, and then one lying spirit came out and said, Oh, I'll go and I'll lie and I'll do this. And God says, Okay, go, you'll be successful. So you have a these evil spirits are still subject to God, which is one of the most fascinating and wonderful aspects. Of all of the Bible. Except the Bible tells us in the New Testament, don't go out and boast that the angels are subject to you. Don't go out there and boast that you have power over demons. You're to go out and boast that your name is written in the book of life. That's what we're to boast about. We're not to be going out there saying, I've got power, okay, like Amen. Oh, I am a boast. Okay, no. No. We're to go out and say, Man, Jesus saved me. I'm washed in the blood. That's my praise. So nonetheless, behind the scenes is Satan, who is trying to usurp control and dominion and authority from God. And God makes us. And now we are given the control, the dominion of the world. That's the setting in Genesis chapter number one. And by the time we get to Genesis chapter 3, two chapters later, Adam and Eve blew it. They listened to Satan. They followed the deceit of the father of lies. And so the setting is Eve and Adam had just committed the first sin of mankind. They are now subsequently punished by God. And the ultimate punishment is the curse of death. But the curse of death was extended not just to these two, but to the whole of humanity As Romans chapter 5, verse 12 explains, wherefore is by one man sinned into the world, and death by sin, so that death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned Not only did God punish humans, but he also punishes the ground as well. He curses it. He says thorns and thistles will come from it. But then he punishes Satan himself. And in Genesis chapter 3, verse 15, he's speaking to this serpent, and he says, Here, I will put enmity because Between thee and the woman, and between thy seed and her seed, it shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise his heel So there in a little acorn lies a massive oak tree. If you fail to understand this single verse in the Bible, you'll miss the entire plot of human history. In this single verse of the Bible, the greatest curse and the greatest blessing are given. In this single verse, we have the key that unlocks. The mystery of history. It's the first spoken prophecy ever given in all of the Bible And the rest of the Bible is a fulfillment of this single verse. God says in Genesis chapter 3, verse 15, that until Satan is defeated. Evil, hostility, hatred will always be present, particularly between Satan and The woman. Because it says, I will put enmity between thee and the woman. Satan hates women. And then secondly, and between thy seed and her seed, Satan hates children And then thirdly, it says, it shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise his heel. There's a small little glimpse there That the seed of the woman would be a man child. And so Satan hates men. And he's trying to usurp God's authority, so he attacks all three of these categories in different ways. The plot of history is beginning to unfold He knows from that prophecy by God that it would be the seed of a woman. How embarrassing to him. He was the glory of the angels. Who was above humans. And the Bible says that a baby would be his end, a baby boy. I don't fear too many babies in the nursery. Okay? But Satan does Because the Bible says here that that baby boy would end his career. That's what it says. Who is this baby boy? We don't know. Doesn't say. All we know is that Satan's going to get the work, and he's going to get the work right away. And so in Genesis chapter 4, if you Flip the page right over, the very next story in the Bible, we see Adam and Eve's first child. And it was a Boy! Can you imagine there, right? The gender reveal. Poof, there's blue, right? Eve thought, no doubt, this must be The seed. This must be our deliverer. They had been banished from the Garden of Eden. They had been separated. From their God. They had just been told that a baby boy would be the one who would deliver them. Satan heard that too. And so they name him Cain, which means, surely I have gotten a man from the Lord. This is the promised Redeemer. He will save us from the curse of death. He will be the one who crushes the head of the serpent. Satan wasn't blind though, nor was he deaf. So he sets out immediately to defile the seed of the woman. And he fills Cain's heart with hatred and with evil. And of course, this story ends in murder where Cain The evil one kills. The first sin recorded afterwards is murder, where the seed murders the seed. Satan thought he won, no doubt. Two down, back to Adam and Eve But Cain's line begins to multiply in Genesis chapter 4. Cain's still living, but he's wicked. God records the birth, though, of another son. To Adam and Eve, Seth was born. And the righteous seed. is alive. It begins to multiply in Genesis chapter 5. You ever get bored? Or if you ever want to get bored, read Genesis chapter 5, right? You read all these names and you You can't pronounce it. Okay? But what it is, is the seed of Seth. It's multiplying. God's showing you the line of Cain, the evil seed, the line of Seth, the righteous seed Why? Because the Bible says that the two seeds would be against each other. Satan's seed and God's seed would be against each other. Why? Satan wastes no time though. Who says? He does a a some forensics, right? He researches into his background and he and he begins to defile the godly seed In fact, he defiles it so badly that the Bible records in Genesis chapter 6 how the fallen angels, underneath Satan's leadership, left their habitat took upon themselves a human form and had human relations with women The Bible says that they married the daughters of men. Now think about for one second. Just like we can enter into the spiritual realm, the spiritual realm could enter into the human realm. And by the way, there's nothing uncommon about that in the Bible. We see is Abraham walking with three men, thinking that they were men, but they were actually angels. The Bible says to us today, right, to entertain strangers Because we might be entertaining unaware. Angels unaware. So they they have the power to enter into our realm, and they did. And they defiled women. It was the ancient Me Too movement. These demons came in and defiled the woman. And the Bible says that their seed were the Nephilim or giants. Today, we look back on these myths and these legends, right? And you think of Hercules, right? Human mother? Divine Father. Zeus. Going down the list, man. He man, I am the master of the world. All these different Greek legends or Greek mythological creatures. You even get into these superhuman characters of today in the comic strips and whatnot. And all of it it is is kind of a a a cute way of what happened The seed of these Elohim creatures with the human women, the Bible says, were men of renown. And they became huge in the world. And they defiled the world. In fact, defiled it so bad. Genesis chapter 6 and verse 5, the Bible says that God saw the wicked Of men, of man was great in the earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. I don't know how you can say that stronger. As a result of this great wickedness, God says, enough is enough, and he sends a worldwide flood to destroy the world. And again, Satan must have thought he had one because he defiled all of the seeds of the world. of women. It wasn't the seed anymore. It was half seed. It was divine human. This mix that that should never have been. But before God sent the flood in Genesis chapter six and verse eight, God reveals that Noah found grace. And so God worked through Noah to build the ark, and supernaturally humanity was spared by the grace of God. And although the world only had one family in it, the seed of the woman was still alive. Though optimistic, Satan was still doomed. And I love how the Bible says about Noah that he was perfect in his generation. That doesn't mean that he was a good in two shoes. It means that he had complete human lineage. And you can follow his lineage all the way back. There was no angelic strain inside of him. He was all flesh and blood. Okay? He was perfect in his generations. Well Satan, even though he got he he lost there and got the whole world minus one family, he was still pretty optimistic. And you think about it. He only had eight people to deal with. And as soon as the ark landed, what does he do? He attacks the seed. He goes after Noah. He gets him drunk. He causes one of his sons, right, to go in and commit a vile, reprobate, homosexual act. And as a result, his seed, Canaan, is cursed by God And under Satan's guidance and his influence, this evil line of Canaan, the seed of Canaan, multiplies, it replenishes the earth, and you can read about that replenishing. You can get all those names and all the lines all the way through it, all the way into uh Genesis chapter 8, 9, 10, and uh you get to eleven Until the whole world again, just like in Noah's day, the whole world rebels under the leadership of Nimrod. And of course, he wants to build this huge Tower of Babel in ancient Babylon, and Satan had to be sitting on his throne, man. Seated in gold and leather, watching with glee, as this tower of Babel is being constructed. And God intervenes He comes down. I like how he says that. This huge tower of Babel that's going up. The Bible says in Genesis 11. 9 says that he came down to see what was happening. Therefore is the name of it called Babel, because the Lord did there confound the language of all the earth, and from thence did the Lord scatter them abroad upon the face of all the earth. And we just read part of this plan was that he changed the human language to a plethora of languages and he scatters the world. He in the Bible says as they as they scatter as they scatter the world is divided into nations This is the beginning of nations. They call it the table of nations. Prior to this point, it was really one world. Everything was happening in one world. Kind of interesting that we're trying to go back to one world today. One world, one world, one world. And they're all trying to unify under one man that they will, called the Antichrist, which Nimrod represents here. But these people are all trying to come together and God scatters them into nations. He separates them by great geographical divides, and he separates not only the people into different languages, but he actually separates the fallen Elohim and the fallen angels into territories, too, so that their evil is constrained. God says he divided up the one-third of the angels. Angels and he scatters them across and he says, You're the prince of Persia, you're the prince of this, you're the prince of that, you're the principalities, you're the powers, and if you read Ephesians chapter six, it tells you the hierarchy of hell It's a complete organized spiritual realm. And they're all after the seed of women. And they all hate women. And they all hate men because they all hate God. But to get to God, they're attacking you. Because God loves you Because God died for you. Because God created you to rule and to have dominion on this earth, to bring him glory, to bring him honor. Even though they're more powerful than you. They don't have the same authority. And by the way, the Bible says that in the last days, right, in the days when He comes again, we are going to judge angels. Which is why he says, don't you have any wise men today? Stop thinking too down about yourself. Look to your Maker. If he made you to rule, rule. Start with self-control. Start with having an orderly life. Start with having your house in order. Start with having your family in order, your business in order, your church in order. Start ruling with God's wisdom and with God's power. And understand that Satan's after you. He's trying to get you. So the nations are divided up by people and by angels. And you can see that explained in Deuteronomy 32. And then the biblical world is understood more and more as our Western culture uh as our Western clearly than our Western culture does. In other words, the biblical world we don't understand in our Western culture. It was clear to him that these fallen Elohim have places of authority of rule. The Apostle Paul refers to these Elohim rulers as rulers of geographical locations. They, if you see Daniel, they have Prince of Persia, right? Prince of Greece, and all these different places. here. It's pretty con pretty amazing and in considerable detail. What's interesting is that prior to this chapter in Genesis Genesis chapter 11, there's only one worship or one rejection of the Most High God. But after Genesis chapter 11, when the nations are divided, we're introduced to idolatry. It's only after this division of nations. It seems as though these Elohim, who are now rulers of their direct provinces, create gods. Create these figures so that people can see them and worship them. And so they get their newly established territory. And as soon as they get their newly established territory, in Genesis chapter 12, God calls Abraham. He says, Alright, get you out of that country, and I'm going to give you a country that you don't know of, and I'm going to make of you a great nation. So he divides the whole world, and as soon as he divides the whole world, he says, okay, and I'm going to call that man, I'm going to make a nation. And so what happens? Satan, leading this rebellion, realizes: whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, we got the whole world, except Abraham. And what does he do? He goes after him. That's what he does. Abraham's introduced to the world stage, and now we know why the entire world is against Israel. After all, God sees Abraham and he says to him in Genesis 12, I'll make of thee a great nation, I will bless thee, I'll make thy name great, thou shalt be a blessing, I will bless him that bless thee, I'll curse him that And so the history of the Bible is unfolding, and God now makes it known that the Son of Man Would not only come for Seth, not only would he be a descendant of Noah, but now he was going to be a descendant of this man named Abraham. And so the dragon rushes to Abraham and gets Abraham to make a detour. Don't go to the Promised Land. So he takes them up north, stays with his father in Haran for a little while. And then Abraham gets back onto the right path and begins to go to the promised land. And the great dragon rushes to the scene, causes the famine in the whole world. And get Abraham to make a detour in Egypt. Got an Airbnb on Pharaoh's palace, right? His wife, who was now aged, must have been so pretty that he was worried about her. So Abraham listens to the lies of Satan. and gets her, gets him to lie about his wife. Pharaoh takes in Abraham's wife, messing with the seed. He's after the seed. What happens? God says, hey, that's Abraham's wife. Pharaoh says, My beds, I'm out of here, right? He's like, hey, he gets mad. Why didn't you tell me, Abraham? Abraham's like, I thought you were going to kill me, okay? So Abraham takes and Satan says, hey, slip in Hagar in the back. So they leave Egypt. They go back into the promised land. Abraham begins to lose faith. He begins to say, God, I know you wanted me to be here. I don't understand this whole story. You promised me that you were going to give me a child, and I don't have a child. I am old. And can I just can I just give it to Eliezer? God says, No, I'm going to give you a son. He says, And Sarah says, hey, I got an idea. Why don't you just take Hagar? Abraham says, not a bad idea. Ancient culture, that was fine. Messes with the seed. Ishmael's born. Thirteen years later, finally, God gives Abraham the seed. Isaac. We follow that seed. They have children. I'm speeding up my whole message, right? Jacob and Esau. God says Jacob. Jacob has 12 children. The twelve tribes of Israel. They get they get they get uh into the land of Egypt through Joseph through this whole story. Joseph says, bury me back in the promised land. The mantle is past to Judah. 400 years of slavery take place. The children of Israel are beginning to multiply. You get now into the book of Exodus. You're following the plot with me? God is going to bring a seed who is going to defeat Satan, and Satan is after the seed. And God is multiplying his seed, and Satan is multiplying his seed. And God is trying to get his seed to follow his word, because if you don't follow his word, you're going to end up in Egypt like Abraham did. But God is merciful to Abraham and pulls him back out of Egypt and says, if you work with me, I'll work with you. And so you get to the book of Exodus. Moses, right? He's about ready to be born. But just before he gets born, Pharaoh comes walking out, looks out across his kingdom, he says, boy, those Israelites are getting too big. And so what does he do? Oh, someone says that Satan spoke. Exodus chapter 1, verse 8 says, Now there arose up a new king over Egypt which knew not Joseph, and he said unto his people, Behold, the people of the children of Israel are more and mightier than we. Come now, let us deal wisely with them, okay? Lest they multiply, and it come to pass that when there falleth out any war they join also our enemies and fight against us, and so get them up out of the land. Therefore did they set them over them taskmasters to afflict them with burdens. And the very next verse says, but the more they afflicted them, the more they multiplied and grew. Talk about the two lines. Go into town. The more they were afflicted, the more they multiplied and grew. Satan's plan wasn't working. So we read of Satan's counterattack, Exodus 1, verse 13. And the Egyptians made the chosen of Israel to serve with rigor, and they made their lives bitter with hard bondage, in mortar, and in brick, and in all manner of service in the field. All their service wherein they made them to serve was with root was with rigor. Satan was flexing his muscles. He was trying to get rid of all of God's people, but it wasn't working. Somehow, Satan had to stop the Son of Man from coming. It wasn't that long ago, where he only had eight people left. On an ark with the whole world destroyed. But now they're multiplying and multiplying and multiplying and they're in bondage. And he's saying, put them to work harder, whip them harder. Of God to stop the Son of Man from coming. And so this time he says, Enough is enough. And in Exodus chapter 1 and verse 15, it says, And the king of Egypt spake to the Hebrew midwives, and he said, When you If it be a son, then ye shall kill him. But if it be a daughter, then she shall live. But we continually see Satan's hatred for the seed of the woman. By the way, this hatred is no different today. Why do you think abortion is out of control? It was back in the Bible times. Kill the seed of a woman, and in so doing, you will kill the Son of Man, and so foil the plot of history. Satan will win, is his thought. But God has a wonderful way of working his plan in spite of Satan's attempts to overthrow him. And God has not given us the spirit of fear. But of power and of love and of a sound mind. Satan can do all he wants, but I am Tucked into my Savior's hand, and my Savior's hand is tucked into my Father's hand, and there is nothing or nobody who can take me out of my Father's hand I'm in the center of his will, protected by the wings of Almighty God. I am safe in the arms of Jesus. Satan was furious. Exodus 120 says, Therefore God dealt well with the midwives, and these people multiplied and waxed very mighty. Satan was furious. His abortion order wasn't being obeyed. And so through the mouth of Pharaoh, Satan speaks in Exodus. 122, where Pharaoh charges all the people, saying, Every son that is born, ye shall cast into the river, and every daughter ye shall save alive. The son of man must be destroyed, but God still protects us People and the baby Moses was born. God hid him in an ark and floated him down the river where Pharaoh's daughter found him, and God had Moses raised under the protection of the Paulus, right underneath Satan's nose. Second time the ark saved humanity. Just a neat little story right in the middle of Exodus. Of course, the plot of history keeps unfolding. Moses would eventually grow up into the palace. He would eventually leave the palace. He'd lead the Israelites out of Egypt, and then he would form the nation that God had promised Abraham, and he leads them to the promised land. And uh gets to the brink there, spends forty years of wandering, eventually he dies, God hides his body, Satan is arguing over it, and then all of a sudden Joshua takes the takes the He uh takes the lead and he marches into the promised land, right? Where they were where they were facing giants. And they were. And who were those giants descendants of? The Nephilim They were descendants of the of the evil seed of the Elohim. The Egyptians pursued, the whole army was wiped off the face of the earth. Satan is forcibly Shake him with this blow. He sends the Amalekites to attack the seed of the of Abraham, the infant nation of Israel. God preserves them And uh sooner than later we read Joshua at the Battle of Jericho, right? And we and we see the battles, we see the walls falling down, we see the army of Israel moving in, and then sooner than later Satan's plan is beginning to crumble. But he encourages himself And it's not working fully, but it is working somewhat. After all, it had been approximately 2,500 years since Genesis chapter 3, verse 15. 2,500 years, Adam, dead. Noah, it was good. It was just But dead. Abraham, he scared me. Dead. Job? Dead. Enoch? Missing. I think he's dead. Jacob? Joseph? Moses? Where were they? They were stiff under the dust of the centuries, under the curse of sin. But Satan, 2500 years alive and still standing. Ready to take on the next seat of the woman. He was enjoying the scene, watching from his earthly throne as Israel makes King Saul their king. And Saul makes a fool of himself and he tries to kill the man after God's own heart. Of course, David was given the kingdom. And as soon as as soon as Satan learned who David was, by the way, he had to wait over 20 years after the kingdom. But as soon as he he as soon as he waited over twenty years, he realizes that David, when he was anointed to be king, he realized that it was now the son of David that he was anointed Going to have to go after. And so Satan rushes to the scene and he begins to hunt him day and night He uses a lion, he uses a bear, he uses a giant, he uses King Saul, he uses the Philistines, he uses everybody. Couldn't get him. So he calls Bathsheba to the scene. And he causes David to commit adultery, messing with the the seed. But Satan didn't get the memo that God can still use people who make mistakes in his plan. Because God loves you. And God knows and he remembers that you're but flesh. And he has pity on you. And when you go to him and you confess your sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins. He redeemed you. He purchased you with his blood. And he uses us. Even though or even be in spite of us. Satan didn't know that. The seed of the woman would be Satan's end, though, just like Jesus had prophesied. So he begins to furiously work. He begins to try over to overthrow God's plan again and again. He successfully defiles David's seed. Look at David's seed. family history, it's awful. He divides the nation of Israel, causes civil war. He sends Israel into captivity down into Babylon. There is prophets who The Babylonians were the first captors, and then the Medes and the Persians came next, and then God used Queen Esther to spared the entire seed of Abraham from utter annihilation again. You can read that story in the book of Esther. And then the voice of God fell silent for some four hundred years years. All the while few of the true prophets of God prophesied about this coming seed. For they stood up and they say, Behold the virgin shall conceive His name shall be wonderful, the mighty God, the Prince of Peace. We sing those songs. They say it's going to be out of a little town in Bethlehem, the Freda. They began to say this will be a star that anoints. birth everything began to spot spot on these prophecies about a coming seed a coming seed but then it went silent for 400 years Who is this seed? In the Gospel of John chapter 1 and verse 1 it says, In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. But then we read in John chapter 1 and verse 14, and it says, And the Word was made flesh and dwelt among us. And we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. This is one of the greatest truths in all the Bible. God himself. Became flesh. God came here not to defile us like Satan did. But to save us God with us This Savior would come and not only redeem man from the curse of death, but he was coming to claim back his earthly territory, and the government of the world would be upon his shoulders. And this man, this God man, would be Satan's end. Now do you see why Jesus refers to himself as the Son of God only six times in all of the Bible, but he refers to himself as the Son of Man over seventy times in the Bible. Jesus was the Son of Man. He was the seed of the woman as prophesied in Genesis chapter 3 in verse 15. He is the remedy of the curse of death. He is the end of Satan. He would be the one to crush the head of Satan. And it would be him that was bruised for our iniquities. It was God who would die for us and then rise again that we may live with him forever. So when Jesus reigns, he's King of kings, he's Lord of Lords. The Elohim who have rebelled against him, and the humans who have followed those Elohim will forever be expelled into the lake of fire. So what don't you know when this Godman was born When the miraculous birth of Jesus Christ was announced and the wise men came searching for him, they stopped by the palace and they said, Where is he born, King of the The Jews, and what did Herod do? He ordered the death of all the infant boys. Unbelievable. And when Herod failed, Satan tried to get Jesus to commit suicide by jumping off the top of the temple. And then when he failed, he sent the religious leaders called the Pharisees. To try and kill him, but they failed too. And then Jesus sent his own family clan from Nazareth to kill him in an attempt to push him over the edge of a cliff. And they failed. And when all of the tricks in Satan's bags seemed to be not working, on this Son of Man in frustration, speaking through the mouths of the Pharisees in John 12, 19 Satan says, Perceive ye how ye prevail nothing? Behold, the world has gone after him. The people were baffled just the same They began to ask this question that I'm aiming to answer. In John 12, 34, 1, 2, 3, 4, the people answered them, We have heard out of the law that Christ abideth forever. And how sayest thou the Son of Man must be lifted up? Who is this Son of Man? Who is this son of man? He's different. They were bewildered. They could only see his human sigh. They could not see the divine side. And indeed, he was fully human. Born of a virgin. His mother was Mary. His family tree or his lineage is given to us in the Gospels of Matthew and in Luke. He was from the seed of Abraham in the royal line of David. He was of the Son of Man. His humanity was It was evident he was he was forgotten, he was hated, he was ridiculed, he hungered, he he thirsted when he was tired, he had no place to lay his head, he suffered persecution He was betrayed. He was single and lonely. He was rejected. He was delivered into the hands of the sinful men. This son of man Suffered the hardships of humanity. He went through sorrow through trials through temptations. Who is the Son of Man They were perplexed. He is the man, Christ Jesus. He was known as Jesus of Nazareth, the carpenter's son. He was the Son of God, though. And that was what people could not see. He was not just man. He was God. Before he ever was the Son of Man, he was the Son of God. Jesus simultaneously is the God man. The Son of Man and the Son of God in one. This is what unbelievers could not and cannot see. And this is the mystery that was baffling Satan as he was staring at truth, and through the mouth of Pilate was saying, What is truth? First Timothy three sixteen says, Without controversy, great is the mystery of godliness. God was manifest in the flesh. In fact, first John chapter four and verse three says, Every spirit that confesses not that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is not of God. This message that I preached This evening to a Thursday night crow crowd is the same message that the evangelist Philip preached in the desert, and the Ethiopian eunuch upon hearing the Philip preaching this message in Acts chapter 8, verse 37, he says, I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. It's the same message that uh the Apostle Paul preached in Acts chapter 9, verse 20, where it says, and straightway he preached. Preach Christ in the synagogues, that he is the Son of God. It's the same message that Jesus when questioned his disciples in Matthew 16, 13 He says, whom do men say that I, the son of man, am? And one of his disciples, Peter, answers and says, Thou art the Son of Man Christ, the Son of the Living God. Do you hear that question? Jesus says, Who do who do who is the Son of Man? Peter answers, You're the Son of God, and this is the message I'm preaching tonight. Jesus Christ is the Son of God who died in our place To forgive us of our sin, to break the power of sin and the curse of sin upon your life, reclaiming all the rolling hills of Pennsylvania and all of the farmlands of Maryland and all of the countries of the world, kicking out the principalities And the powers that had their territory stripped from them when he went down off the cross and he preached to them and he preached openly, triumphantly, the Bible says in Colossians chapter number three. He was rightfully reclaiming all earthly dominion because it belonged to him in the first place. Jesus Christ is the Son of Man. He is the Son of God. God the Son, Jesus Christ, by name and by title, set his eyes on saving not only humanity, but on humanity's dominion as well. He was here to redeem. The entire fallen Elohim race that had tried to usurp control and authority was rebelling. And they thought they were winning. In fact, in 1 Corinthians 2, the Bible says, none of the princes of this world knew, for had they known it, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. Isn't it amazing how God's plan came to be? I went over time and I'm still not done, so I'm going to end it. The point is this You're on the winning side. So stand strong in the evil day. Put on the whole armor of God that ye may be able to withstand. Fight the good fight of faith. Finish your course. Get to the in line. Because Jesus is waiting there. And you have nothing to fear. God is our Father.