Turn in your Bibles, if you will, to the Old Testament minor prophet of Jonah. And we'll be looking at Jonah chapter number four this evening. There we go. Jonah chapter four. I've entitled my message tonight, Up and Down with Jonah. Up and down with Jonah. Now, to be honest with you the sermon is really incomplete without chapters 1, 2, and 3. So to to bring you up the speed a little bit. In chapter one, Jonah's fleeing from God and he ends up down deep. In the depths of the sea, down deeper into the belly of a fish, and even deeper. into the heart of anger that he had towards the people of Nineveh. And we see in Jonah chapter 1 that this hatred towards evil people causes Jonah to hate his own life. And even God, hate even God who had pity on the people that Jonah Heeded. In Jonah chapter number two, Jonah has a great revival. And literally he is revived from the dead, and spiritually he He is revived in his own heart. And we find him in there actually praising God and seeing him realize a few things. He first realizes his own condition And then he realizes God's mercy personally, and then he realizes that God is in control. Okay, and so that before you knew it, know it, Jonah chapter three, Jonah chapter two, Jonah's back on top of the world. So Jonah 1, he's down deep. And Jonah chapter 2, he's on top. Jonah chapter 3 goes to Nineveh. Nineveh has a great revival. Then you get to Jonah chapter number four. What do you see? Greg gives the hand motions best. He just goes back down. Jonah is an it's it's an up and down story. It's a it's a roller coaster. Now I'm not used to preaching to people in math Okay, so this is an interesting situation here, folks. I can't tell if you're smiling or if you're snarling, okay, but uh but one thing I do know is that there is a there is a amusement park in Japan that that opened. This is true. It opened. And uh they had every place opened. I see that you guys have different different conditions but you're open. Every place has different conditions. Well this place has a condition on the roller coasters. You can ride them, but there's a unusual unusual rule No screaming allowed. No how do you write a roller to listen without screaming? Okay? And uh to demonstrate that they put a four-minute video out there. You can find it on YouTube. YouTube, okay? No looking right now. They put a four-minute video with all the executives all strapped in on their roller coaster and they wrote it silently. And they put a little sign out. They said, please scream in your hearts. That's what they said. So you have to ride a roller coaster Screaming in your heart. And uh boy, I tell you what, when I read that I had a I had a little thought. You know there's a lot of people screaming in their heart right now. And Jonah was screaming in his heart down there in the belly of the whale. Okay? And you know what? I think we can learn some lessons here. Because when Jonah comes back up, he goes right back down. And we've got this incredible message in Jonah chapter number four. Now before you get to Jonah 4, you read Jonah 3, and it's a great revival and if Jonah was a fairy tale the story would end with Jonah chapter number three Jonah living happily ever after, the king of Nineveh giving him his own palace, right? But Jonah has no fairy tale. And so there's no fairy tale ending. As a matter of fact, Jonah 4 records a very sad account of Jonah's reaction to God's mercy. Chapter 4 records the End of the story and it begins with Jonah exceedingly displeased and very angry, like it says in Jonah four And verse 1. It ends with Jonah arguing with God, as it says in Jonah chapter 4, verse 2 Brother Gus, it says, and he prayed unto the Lord and said, I pray thee, O Lord, was not this my same when I was yet in my country? Didn't I say this, God? Therefore I fled before unto Tarshus, for I knew that thou art a gracious God and merciful. Slow to anger, and of great kindness, and repentest thee of the evil. Therefore now, O Lord, take, I beseech thee, my life from me For it is better for me to die than to live. Then said the Lord, Doest thou well to be angry? The story of Jonah ends with Jonah wanting to quit, like it says in verse 8, Pastor Gus, and it came to pass when the sun did arise that God prepared a vehement. East wind and the sun beat upon the head of Jonah that he fainted and wished in himself to die, and said, It is better for me to die than to live. I hate starting off a message this way, but it's a bit depressing. The story of Jonah ends awfully. And when I was studying the book of Jonah and coming down to chapter four, I can readily admit that it's Jonah chapter number four. Was never written, I would actually be more discouraged than if the book ended with chapter three. I'd be discouraged because there's a lot of chapter fours in my life and in the people's lives that we minister to. to in our parents' lives, in our children's lives. The truth is, Jonah didn't live a perfect life He didn't have this Christian utopian circle. Instead, he lived the Christian life in a sinful world. And in the sinful world, Jonah went up and down. And he was learning that sin is a returning enemy and though he had made it back up to the top of the world in Jonah chapter 3 he gets knocked back down again and in this chapter of Jonah 4 we actually find some very very wonderful truth that God wants for us to grow thereby. That's why He wrote Jonah for us. Our first point tonight, Pastor August, is the first encouragement that we see from Jonah for is that Jonah had some ongoing issues. I don't know if Pastor Gus fell asleep back there or not. Well, he got it there. Jonah had some ongoing issues. In other words, you can say it this way: Jonah was an ordinary human. In his rather short four-chapter life, Jonah had all kinds of issues If you were to look at Jonah's resume, in fact I found it right here, you'll find that it was actually pretty bad. He was disobedient. Okay? Because right after God tells him to go to Nineveh, the Bible records in Jonah chapter 1 and verse 3 that Jonah rose up and he rose up the flea of the Tarshus from the presence of the Lord. If you were to look at his resume, you'd see that he was a bit lazy. Let's face it, his shipmaster Had to wake up Jonah in Jonah chapter 1 and verse 6, and he says, What meanest thou, O sleeper? He got a nickname, man. Sleeper. Okay? I hope you guys don't have that nickname. Tonight. Go on with his resume a little bit. He was filled with hatred. He even admits it in Jonah chapter four, verses one and two. It says, But it just Pleased Jonah exceedingly, and he was very angry. Look at Jonah's resume. He was selfish He was suicidal, as it says in Jonah chapter 4 and verse 3. He says, O Lord, take, I beseech thee, my life from me, for it is better for me to die than to live. For that matter, Jonah was in depression. Because later in that day we hear Jonah saying the same things in Jonah chapter 4, verse 8. He didn't really have a positive attitude. Here he is wishing himself to die more than just once. Truth be told, Jonah had some priorities mixed up, as the only thing that made Jonah glad was a gourd. As it says in Jonah chapter 4 and verse 6, so Jonah was exceeding glad of the gourd. I believe that was the next slide. I've got to do a better job at alerting him. Jonah was a bit obstinate towards God. Kind of like all of us can get at certain times. We get obstinate towards our Maker. And God even says to him in Jonah chapter 4, verse 9, Doest thou well to be angry for the gourd? And he said, I do well to be angry, even unto death. All of these issues, all of these failures, all of these faults and sins on Jonah's resume, yet Jonah was still. God's man. I mean Jonah went up and down. Jonah went up And Jonah crashed down. And no sooner than he crashed down, he got back up, up and down, down and up And he was no even killed character. You see, you know there's people out there, if they were Jonah and they were thrown overboard, they'd be doing these calm bats strokes in the Mediterranean Sea. and and all these fish and dolphins will be sitting next to them. Not me, man. I'm all I'd be flailing. Whoa, whoa, whoa. So was Jonah. He even records it. In fact, he hits rock bottom. He s Sinking underneath the waters in Jonah Cheka two verses five through six he says the waters compass me about either to the soul. The depths closed me round about. The weeds were wrapped about my head. I went down to the bottoms. Of the mountains, the earth with her bars was about me forever. My goodness, if drowning wasn't enough, Jonah had seaweeds wrapped all around his head and the seaweeds wasn't enough. Jonah got swallowed by a whale. When Jonah went down, he went all the way down He ruined it. And this man didn't make just a mistake. He was a failure of a prophet. He went down and down deep. And the truth of the matter is that we too are like Jonah, and so is everyone Ourselves and the truth is not in us. As much as we would like to never sin again, we sin and we sin often The Apostle Paul he admits his sin problem in Romans chapter 7 and verse number 14 He says, For we know that the law is spiritual, but I am carnal, sold under sin. And then if you look at the wording, the Apostle Paul actually makes me laugh a little bit in verse number 14. He says, we know that I am carnal. He's saying everybody knows that I'm a carnal guy. That's what the apostle Paul is saying. The truth is still relevant today. It doesn't take long for you to be around me before you start saying, you know, compared to Tommy O'Manza, I'm not that bad. That's what the Apostle Paul is saying. Okay? And if you think I'm bad, just wait till you hang around Noah. Okay? Gets even worse. I'm just joking. Okay? The apostle Paul calls himself the chief of all sinners. And in Romans chapter seven, he is not teach. A sinless perfection, but instead he's teaching that the sin nature of a believer doesn't go MIA once you're saved. In fact, he's teaching that it's the opposite. He says, For that which I do, I allow not, for what I would, that do I not, but what I hate, that do I. I used to go to camp. All those kids are all excited about camp coming out. That one day camp. We used to go to camp Cedar River. Cedar River Baptist Camp We used to load that bus. Mr. Snyder would take us down there. We'd all be we'd be singing, Come and join us as Peter River. And I forget all the words. I I generally remember like half the words. And that bus would break down every year, you know, and then we'd be out there pushing that bus to camp. We'd be enjoying camp, man. We loved it. And one time we went to camp and there was a preacher there and he preached. I knew them, good old camp preaching, okay? And he preached a message from Romans chapter 7, and he taught us all a song. And I loved it. And it goes like this: I'm a messiah. I guess I must confess. Now to be honest with you, I actually forgot the rest, okay? But I do know the chorus, and the chorus goes just like this. So the good that I would I I do not. And the evil I would not I do. So if I do that I would not. It's not that I could not do the good that I would not do. It's a ping pong match. Coming straight from Romans chapter number six 7. If I want to do good, I don't. If I don't want to do bad, I do. I am a mess. That's what the Apostle Paul was saying. Verse 19 says, For the good that I would, I do not, but the evil which I would not, that I do. Now if I do that I would not, it is no more I that do it, but sin that dwelleth in me. I find then a law, he says. He says, aha! Like I like Isaac Newton. Aha! I found a law. I have found something to be consistently true. Every time I've Studied it. I find in the law that when I would do good, evil is present with me. Whenever I want to do good, evil is present. Since salvation my desires have changed But my sin nature hasn't. I've been given a divine nature that can overcome, but my own nature has not yet been removed. That's why Paul says in Romans 7, 22 and 23, for I delight in the law of God. after the inward man, but I see another law in my members. He had double visit. He says, I see the law of God, but I see another law in my members. And I want to do good. But sin keeps me. Verse 24, O wretched man that I am. Who shall deliver me from the body of this death? Did you notice how Paul describes the Christian life? In verse number two, he says, warring against the law of my mind It is a battle of the mind to stay the course. Now I enjoy watching YouTube. I don't know where where Brother Wormwood is here or not. What am I saying? Brother uh Glover. Brother Glover. I don't know where Brother Glover is tonight, but he got me hooked onto some uh some YouTube channel channels, okay? And I go on, I start watching different YouTube channels. But one of the things I like, I confess, I like watching boxing. Okay? Growing up, man, my dad used to take me boxing every Saturday night Okay? We'd go in somebody's basement. I don't know who it is. He found these little like these little basement boxing recorders, man. And we put on these gloves and I didn't know who I was fighting. I was like We you know literally man I come home, whoa whoa man Who'd I box again? Okay. And there he is. And next week we go to these boxing corners. I guess I grew up liking boxing. In fact, we liked boxing so much that I was in the basketball team in in in high school and halftime came, and we all walked in. We weren't playing that good. And uh man, we went into the locker room and you know most coaches get in there and they got this drawing board and they and they say, okay, here's X and here's O and here's what you're gonna do. dude, the reason why you got a rebound. No. Not my basketball coach. I walked into the I walked into the locker room and I thought I was going to be getting some coaching. And I there was boxing gloves in the middle. And the whole halftime, the whole basketball team boxed. He was like, There, now you got all your fouls out. Now go out there and stop fouling and play basketball. Okay? Now we did. So when I read things like this, warrying against your mind, I naturally picture a boxing ring. You know, the Apostle Paul says in 1 Corinthians, Corinthians 9 and verse 26. So fight I. He describes the Christian life as a fight. As a boxing match. I've been to uh Olymp Olympia there in the in the Mediterranean area where they where they have the torch, right? And they light that torch up and they run, and I've been there And I stood in those gymnasiums where the Apostle Paul was using the imagery of a boxing match. There you are in the middle of that boxing ring and the bell has rung and you're up against the super heavyweight champion of the world. Satan and Satan And he throws some hard punches with his right hand, the world. And then he gives you an uppercut from your flesh. And often those punches catch you and me by surprise. You get knocked down. And immediately the rest of guilt begins to count. One, two Three, four, five, and though you've been knocked down. You haven't been knocked out Through the noise of it all, you can hear your coach from the corner as he yells to you, get back up! Get back into the fight! You struggle to your feet, and the wrath of guilt comes back in front of your face. Six, seven, eight You put your gloves back on. And the match goes on. You see the fight's not over If you get back up. 2 Corinthians 4, verse 9, the Apostle Paul says, cast down. But not Destroyed. Paul is saying what Jonah experienced. I hate going down. But it seems like I go up and down all the time. Up and down up And down. I mean my forefathers, Abraham. He went up, but Abraham went down. David went up, but David went down. Elijah went up. And Elijah went down. Peter went up. Peter went down. I go up. I go down. You go up. You go down. The truth is, every human being that calls himself a Christian has ups. And downs. Hebrews 12, verse 1 says, Let us lay aside every weight and the sin which doth so easily Beset us. Has it ever occurred to you that Lot was called just In 2 Peter chapter 2 and verse 7, he said, hold on, hold on, hold on. You went from Jonah? To Paul, to Lot. And now you're saying Lot was a just man How was Lot called just? How was he called righteous? He left Abraham He had carnal eyes for the well-watered plains of Sodom. He moved into that wicked city of Sodom. Listen, Lot gave up his own daughters to be raped by the men of Sodom. How in the world was Lot just I had to do a lot of soul searching to find the answer. But I found it in Proverbs 24, verse 16. sixteen, where the Bible says, For a just man falleth seven times and riseth up again You know why Lot was called just? Because even though he moved into Sodom, he got up and left. Sodom. We don't know how long he stayed in Sodom. We don't know what he did in Sodom. But one thing we do know is that he got up and out of Sodom. And that is why we see he is called just in 2 Peter 2, verse 7. For all the failures that we hear and read of Abraham in the Old Testament, in the New Testament, all we see is that he staggered not. At the promises of God. For all the failures that we read of David in the Old Testament, in the New Testament, all we see is David, a prophet and a man. The message of Jonah chapter 4 is actually simple. When you fall down, come back. You might be discouraged this evening, thinking it's a lost cause You might be thinking, why? Why even try? It's a winless battle. Satan the accuser is pointing out all of your failures in your life. life and he points them out in pinpoint accuracy. But I'm going to encourage you this evening. We're all Jonah's. And when Jonah went down in chapter 4 It wasn't the end. In fact, God was still speaking to Jonah. Jonah has some ongoing issues, and so does every Christian. Don't fall into the death trap thinking that there's some perfection that you can attain to, because if you fall into that trap of trying to reach perfection, You'll miss the amazing work of God's grace in your life. God was working on Jonah While Jonah was having all of his ongoing issues, like every single one of us have, the loving but chastening hand of God began to affect the life of Jonah in various ways. If you see in Jonah chapter 1, verse 4, it says, But the Lord sent out a great wind into the sea. the sea, and there was a mighty tempest in the sea so that the ship was light to be broken. In Jonah 1, verse 17 says, Now the Lord hath prepared a great fish. So we see a great wind and we see a great fish. And then we see Jonah 4 verse 7. But God prepared a worm when the morning rose the next day And then you see in Jonah chapter 4 and verse number 8, and it came to pass that God prepared a vehement east wind. You see, God was working on Jonah Jonah in the midst of all of his ongoing problems. Feel like Jonah tonight. Can you feel the Forming hands of God, pressing on your life, reshaping you, reforming you all the surrounding events in your life when it rains it pours right do you feel that there's a lot of heavy pressure possibly from the hand of God Take encouragement tonight. God is working on you. What's interesting about Jonah is that even though he went back down, he didn't go as far down as he was in chapter number one. He didn't end up back in the belly of a whale. He ended up underneath a gourd. You see, life does get a little bit better. And when God is working on you, especially in the form of chastening church, the temptation will be to quit on God. When you feel the circumstances of life being too great to bear, you will feel like the men of Jesus Judah in the story of Nehemiah when they say we are unable to go on Hebrews 12, verse 5 says, My son, despise not thou the chastening of the Lord, nor faint when thou art rebuked of him. Maybe there's someone here this evening where you need to stop and you need to realize that all the pressures of life right now are not a bad thing. Maybe it's God working on you right now Maybe it's all the ongoing issues that you're dealing with that consume your minds. Take encouragement tonight. God is working On you. Point number two, the second encouragement that I want all of us to see in chapter 4 of Jonah is that God was long suffering with Jonah. You see, while many of us would have written off a disobedient, disrespectful, and disgusted prophet, God chose to be long-suffering. with Jonah. And to not only work on Jonah's life, but to work in Jonah's life. I want you to see how God was long suffering. in this story. First, God allowed Jonah some time. And this is a good point to stop and consider. God allowed Jonah some time Perhaps God was hoping for Jonah to turn around. The truth is that God could have stopped Jonah before he even reached the ship. And God could have stopped Jonah at any point in this entire story, but he allowed Jonah some time. He allowed him to flee to Joppa. In the next slides here. He allowed them to sail towards Tarshish. God gave Jonah three days in the belly of the fish. Jonah was allowed to sit under the gourd for some time in conversation with God. In truth be told, God gave Jonah, a lot of long suffering in this entire endeavor. And not just Jonah, he gave the mariners on board some time. And God also gave the people of Nineveh. Sometime. As a matter of fact, inside Jonah's message, he said, 40 days God was giving time for people to repent. God gave the people in Noah's day sometime 120 years. God gave the Canaanite nations sometime 400 years to repent. And the truth is, God gives each and every one of us some time to repent. What we do with that time determines God's actions. Psalms 50, verse 21, says, These things hast thou done, and I kept silence. Thou thoughtest that I was altogether such a one as thyself, but I will reprove thee. And set them in order before thine eyes. People mistake God's silence, and they think it's God's tolerance But it's not. The silence of God is actually the long suffering of God. And He's waiting for you to return Return. Take encouragement from Jonah four this evening. It echoes with Psalm 103, verse 8 Boy doesn't that sound like that verse that Jonah was quoting From Jonah chapter 4. He says, I knew, I knew that Psalm 103 verse 8 is true. Not only did God give Jonas some time, but God also remembered mercy in the middle of Jonas' time. punishment. You see, God sends a storm, and in the midst of that storm, Jonah gets thrown overboard, and then Jonah prays to God in the belly of a whale. Verse two and verse four he says, Then I said, I am cast out of thy sight, yet I will look again toward thy holy temple. While everybody on board that ship thought Jonah was a goner, God heard Jonah's prayer. In verse number of Jonah chapter 2 and verse number 7, it says, When my soul This also happens in chapter four and in verse six. It says, And the Lord God prepared a gourd and made it So Jonah was exceeding glad of the gourd. Going back to Psalm 103, verse 9, the Bible says this concern He will not always chide, neither will he keep his anger forever. He hath not dealt with us after our sins nor rewarded us according to our iniquities. Praise God. He deals with us mercifully. He remembers that we are but dust. We were joking around the dinner table, me, my five girls, and my wife. And I was talking about how men are strong and how we can do lots of things. And I looked at my five girls, I said, technically, you're just a rich You need to remember that. And my wife was like, I think you're taking this out of context or something. And all of a sudden my third oldest daughter, Macy, looks away across the table and she says, Technically you're just dust. And I crawled under the table and said, Let's go back to eating our meal, okay? Huh. But you know what? She said a theologically True and accurate statement. We are just dust. And God remembers that. God was also long-suffering toward Jonah in that he protected Jonah. He protected Jonah on the ship. He protected Jonah in the water. He protected him in the fish. He protected him in the city of Nineveh. He protected Jonah from the east wind. He protected Jonah from his own wishes. Remember he wanted to keep kill himself. Had it been up to Jonah, all of not only would all of Nineveh be di been destroyed, Jonah's life would have been destroyed. Verse three of chapter four, therefore now O Lord, take IBC Verse 8, he wished in himself to die. You know, if you keep looking at your failures so close Closely. You'll soon be saying with Jonah, take my life. It's better for me to die than to die. to live. Moses felt the same way. In Numbers chapter 11, verse 15, he says, If thou deal thus with me, kill me, I pray. Out of hand, if I have found favor in thy sight, and let me not see my wretchedness Elijah prayed the same prayer, but he started looking too closely at himself in 1 Kings chapter 19. And verse 4, he requested for himself that he might die, and said, It is enough now, O Lord, take away my life, for I am Am not better than my father's. Here was Elijah, a man who never died, praying that he would die. The prophet Jeremiah cursed the day that he was born. In Jeremiah chapter 20, verse 14, cursed be the day wherein I was born. Later on in verse 18, he says, Wherefore came I forth out of the womb to see labor and sorrow that my days should be consumed with shame Job questioned why he was even born. And he wished that he could have died at birth in Job chapter 3 and verse 11. Why died I not from the womb? If you've ever felt this way, you are not alone, but God protected Jonah, and he protects you today, even from your own wishes. Psalm 34, verse 19. Says, many are the afflictions of the righteous, but the Lord delivereth him out of them all. And that all includes the afflictions that we get ourselves into. Because of our mistakes. Take encouragement from the Word of God this evening. In Psalm 103, verse eleven, the scripture. says for as the heaven is high above the earth so great is his mercy toward them that fear him And wonder why. Jonah says that if you believe in lying vanities, you forsake Your own mercies. If you're running away from God, you're running away from His mercy. Fourthly, God was long-suffering towards Jonah in that he prepared for Jonah's failure. I really got encouragement from that. Point. God prepared for Jonah's failure. I really am starting to question this idea of God's second best. For a person, or God's second will for a person, because of this little story of Jonah. God knew what Jonah was going to do. And all the way that Jonah was running, God was one step ahead of Jonah. Jonah was running away from God, but but God was actually running in front and preparing a host of things. Look at verse 1, chapter 1, verse 17. It says, Now the Lord had prepared A great fish to swallow up Jonah. Verse 6 of chapter 4. And the Lord God prepared A gourd and made it come up over Jonah that it might be a shadow. Verse 7 of chapter 4. But God prepared a worm when the morning rose the next day. The truth is that God remembers that we are but flesh, and He prepares for our failures. If you failed in the past, God prepared for it. God took care of it. He did it ultimately on the cross. But every step of the way, he's prepared a worm, a gourd, a fish. And he'll take care of you just the same. Take encouragement from the Word of God this evening in Psalm 103 Verse 12, As far as the east is from the west, so far hath he removed our transgressions from us Like as a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear him, for he knoweth our frame, he remembereth that we are dust. You might be here this evening, and you may have some failures in your past like I do, but nothing has surprised God. He's prepared for your mistakes, and He wants you to He wants to continue to use you. God was not finished with Jonah just yet and God is not finished with you. First Corinthians chapter two and verse nine says, I have not seen And when you study the book of Jonah, you soon realize and you find it interesting, like I did. Most of the things that God prepared for Jonah were things that you couldn't see It was the great wind. It was the great fish. It was the seed of the gourd. It was the worm, it was the vehement east wind, eye hath not seen, nor ear hath heard, neither have entered into the heart of man the things which God hath. Prepared for them that love him. You ever prepared something for somebody? And with anticipation You waited to give it. God has prepared things for you. Not only when you do good, he loves to pour out his blessings. On you, but when you stumble and fall, just the same, he prepares a protection for you, he prepared for your failures Fifthly, God was long-suffering towards Jonah in that he kept speaking to Jonah. Nobody likes the silent treatment. Have you ever felt that before from somebody? They just were silent. God didn't do that to Jonah. I love Jonah chapter 3, verse 1. It says, and the word of the Lord came unto Jonah the second time. Don't you love that little phrase? And the word of the Lord came unto Jonah the second time. I love it when you read Jonah 4, because even though Jonah might have gone back down again. We see God talking with Jonah. We see God reasoning with Jonah. We see God pleading. with Jonah. In fact, the book begins with God speaking with Jonah. And if you read the very last couple of verses Of Jonah chapter 4, the book ends with God speaking to Jonah. The Lord is long-suffering with us. For his word keeps speaking to us again and again. And when we find ourselves being defeated And needing cleansed from our sin, the Bible says, Wherewithal shall a young man be cleansed by taking heed thereto according to the We have a God that continues to speak to us even when we're running from Him. He continues to speak to us, to plead with us, to reason with us, to ask us questions, to show us his power and his glory. We have a long-suffering God. Take encouragement from the Word of God this evening In Psalm 103 verse 15, as for man, his days are as grass, as a flower of the field, so he flourisheth For the wind passeth over it, and it is gone. The effects of the hurricane Isaiah are reaching us, even in Pennsylvania. And I went out there to show Miss Donna our butterfly, our butterfly garden, and I opened it. the door and I said, oh a wind must have taken it because my beautiful butterfly garden was all blown over And that's what this verse is saying, for the wind passeth over it, and it is gone, and the place thereof shall know it no more. But The mercy of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting. El Olam, everlasting to everlasting. That has got to get you on that, off of that silent roller coaster and screaming from your mouth, praise God for his everlasting Mercy in our lives. His righteousness unto children's children, to such as keep his covenant, and to those that remember his commandments to do it If Jonah having some ongoing issues caused God to work on him, and this brings some encouragement to us, then surely God being long suffering And working not only on Jonah, but in Jonah, surely must be an encouragement and much more of an encouragement to us this evening. When Jonah realized God was working on him, he yielded so God could work in him. And we see the wonderful working of God in Jonah's life in chapter 2 particularly. You see, his disposition had changed. In Jonah 2, verse 9, he went from running He went from being angry at the Lord and angry at the heathen to verse nine, I will sacrifice unto thee with a voice of thanksgiving. I will pay that I have vowed. Salvation is of the Lord. Jana Jonah have been changed from the inside out God had finally penetrated Jonah's heart, and the truth of the matter is that Jonah's circumstances hadn't changed. He was still inside the belly of a whale. But his heart was in heaven. Jonah's body was still overwhelmed by a great fish. But Jonah's heart was overwhelmed by a great God. And the heart changed before the circumstances did. I would propose to you that after studying the entire story of Jonah, that was the greater observation. the miracles. Perhaps some of you are in awful circumstances, whether it's internal or external. God's been working on you. Seemingly you're being swallowed up. I want you to be reminded tonight that God generally changes the Heart before he changes the circumstances. And be reminded tonight that God is a long-suffering God. And I close by bringing out one final and brief encouragement from Jonah chapter four. And that is, God uses Jonah's. I love this point. God uses Jonah. That means God can use Tommy Omanza. That's what that means. That means that God can use Greg Seraphim. That means that God can use Brother Wilson. That means God can use anybody here. He loves to use Jonas. You see, we see this at the end of the book as God is reasoning with Jonah in the last two verses in chapter four, verses ten through eleven. Then said the Lord, Thou hast had pity on the gourd, for the which thou hast not labored, neither madeest it grow, which came up in the night, perished in the night. Should not I spare Nineveh, that great city wherein are more than six score thousand? That's 120,000 persons that cannot discern between their right hand and their left? That's speaking of children? There's more than 120,000 children who don't know right from left And also much cattle? He was concerned about not. He wanted a spare Nineveh for the cattle, let alone the children, let alone the adults that were there. God's reasoning with Jonah, and in his reasoning, he reminds Jonah that in spite of all of Jonah's failures, he still wants to use Jonah. To bring that great city of Nineveh to revival. You know what's something interesting in the story of Jonah that I kind of have to share here? for being a disobedient, disrespectful, dishonest, disloyal, you know, and disgruntled prophet You might as well call him Midas. Everywhere he went, there was revival. When he fled from the Lord, he gets on the ship, and the sailors, once they threw him overboard, if you go back and read chapter 1, the mariners all went back and worshiped God Every one of those sailors, man, they were like, I'm serving God. And then Judah goes on to the belly of a whale, and there he himself has revival. Even in the bottom of the Mediterranean Sea. And then he gets sped up, he's all bleached, and he goes into Nineveh. And the whole city of Nineveh, the king of Nineveh, repents and worships God Everywhere Jonah went, there was revival. And yet Jonah was still down in the dumpster. You would think that that would have that would have been a blessing given to Elijah, right? Who was a man of God and faithful and stood strong and he fought Jezebel's. No, that this blessing went To Jonah. Everywhere Jonah went, he was the Old Testament Billy Graham. And this guy knew how to do it. He could have held seminars on how to lead revivals. Jonah probably never really saw the blessings of God until the until the end when he wrote the book of Jonah. All of us may have bypassed Jonah for an Elisha. And yet God used Jonah in a way Elisha never saw The psalmist David was overwhelmed by that thought. And he describes his emotions in Psalm 8, verse 4, when he says, What is man that thou art mindful of him and the son of man that thou visitest him. Has God ever blessed you so much that you look toward Why me? Why me? I failed you so much, God I've hurt my wife. I've hurt my children. I've hurt church members. I've hurt my parents. I've hurt my neighbors. I've hurt strangers. I've hurt you. I've done this. I've done that. The blessings of God. Come flowing down to you so much that you can't count them So much that you can't, it's more than the stars of heaven. It's more than the sands of the seashore What is man that thou art mindful of him? David was amazed that God would use an ordinary Imperfect man like himself, but that's exactly who God wants to use. Oh, listen, when you read the story of Jonah, you'll find some amazing things. God uses all kinds of things. Pretty neat. It's kind of like having a shelf that God went to. He used the great winds and the storms, man. He picked that out. He says, Oh, I'm going to use that. He used the great whales of the sea, okay? That big fish. He says, Oh, I want you to go do this. He used the he used the the gourds in the middle of the desert. He used the worms that live under the ground He used the sun to beat down on Jonah. He used the vehement east winds of the earth. But none of those things did God use to bring revival to Nineveh. And truth be told, God could have had that whale leave Jonah down there, go floating up on shore, and use his mouth to bring revival to the city of Nineveh. But he didn't use any of those other things. God wanted to use Jonah to bring revival to the city of Nineveh. God reserved that special blessing for Jonah. And he used Jonah to bring his mercy And his grace to others. Believers, the same is still true today. 2 Corinthians 4, verse 6 says, For God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, Hath shined in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ But we have this treasure in earthen vessels. That the excellency of the power may be of God And not of us. The truth is, God uses Jonas that he might get all the glory. Praise God. He uses us in spite of us. And this has got to be an encouragement to you. Not only does God work on you, not only does God work in you, but God also works through you. There are many times that God works through us. In spite of us. One man said, God only has imperfect people to work through. All the perfect people are already in heaven You know, I guess I close with one simple little thought. God knows exactly how to use imperfect Perfect people. Perfectly. Up and down with Jonah. I pray that you get some encouragement tonight from the story. Let's bow for a word of prayer. Our Father, we come to you in the name of the Lord Jesus, and we thank you. For your grace and your mercy as it has been extended to us above measure. And you alone are worthy of our praise and our adoration. We have not only been given the right to be called servants of the King of Kings and co-laborers in the Gospel Coalition. We have been given the power to become the sons of God. We have been given the ability to call Jesus our brother. Joint heirs with Christ. I thank you, Lord. I pray, God, that you would use this message to encourage Encourage somebody who has fallen to get back up, to remember that God is rich in mercy, and that God wants to use them I pray, Lord, that you would use this message, not just tonight, but across, Lord, our lives. I pray that we would remember this truth. For it's in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen.