What a joy it is to be here and um glad I have the opportunity to speak for a few minutes. I uh was born in Illinois, but when we was in seventh grade my my uh family moved to Missouri and so I moved with them and um my dad bought a farm there and He uh uh was a good farmer, taught me to work hard when I was young and and uh started driving a tractor when I was about eight years old, seven years old, something like that, just real young, and and uh Then uh went to Brunswick High School, Brunswick, Missouri. And uh we uh I played basketball. I love basketball. And uh actually when I first started I loved basketball but I didn't know nothing about it and didn't know how to play. I could start dribbling, I'd hit my foot and go into out of bounds and whatever. And in fact, um about fifty kids went out for basketball to try out for basketball and they had a they had a uh varsity team and also a junior varsity team. There were twelve people that ended up on the varsity team and twelve boys ended up on the junior varsity team. And after about a week of practice The coach had his first cut day where he cut people that weren't any good off of the ball team. And the first one he cut was a guy by the name of Roger Battrell. You probably have heard of him And so uh after the practice was over that day I I went to the coach and I said, Listen, I know that I can't play very good and you were right to cut me first. Said, however, could I Go over on the sidelines there. There's a basket goal over there and I'll stay out of your way and not give you all any trouble, but I'd like to just practice And he says, okay, that'll be fine. Just stay out of the way and don't give us any problems, okay? So I went over to the side and I started practicing, dribbling. down the c down the basketball gym and back and down and back and down and back. And for three to six hours a day I would practice basketball. to practice dribbling dribbling, pa practice shooting layups. When I first uh tried to dribble in and shoot a layup, I couldn't get to the basket without kicking the ball somewhere and And it was amazing and but after a while I got to where I could make it to the basketball goal and make a few of those shots and pretty soon I was making all of 'em. And then I practiced three shots and When I first started practicing free throws, I'd missed about a hundred in a row, but I kept going at it, at it, and at it, and at it, and and uh pretty soon was making about ninety out of a hundred shots And uh the coach all this time he was practicing with the regular team, with the varsity team and the junior varsity, and uh he was watching me in one of the uh first games of the season One of the kids on the junior varsity got hurt. So they needed somebody to take his place. And so he had me come in and take his place on the junior varsity team. And uh in about uh three or four more weeks, one of the kids on the varsity team got hurt. And he had noticed enough improvement in me that he put me as the twelfth guy on the varsity team as a freshman in high school. And um And then uh to make a long story a lot shorter, uh by the end of the year, I was uh on the first five of the varsity team. And uh from hard work 'cause I didn't know nothing about it. I just worked and worked and worked and worked and worked until I got good enough to be there. But I remember when I was in um uh uh in school playing basketball that uh a basketball game is divided into four parts first quarter second quarter third quarter fourth quarter fourth uh fourth quarter however two major parts the first half and the second half And our coach would uh at halftime, a lot of times we would be behind in the score at half time. And he would bring us into the locker room and he would pick out each person that was a starting five on the on the varsity team there. And he would say, Battrell, here's what you're doing wrong. You need to do this the second half and uh this and this and this and this. You straighten out that and you'll do much better in the second half. Then he'd pick up butch gags Butch Geggs, here's what you've been doing wrong. Then he'd pick out Billy Bob Brandt and he and tell him Billy Bob Brandt what he was doing wrong. And then he would pick out Jerry Richardson and tell him all of the things he was doing wrong. And then he would pick out Freddie Collins and he'd tell him all the things that he did wrong. And we would go back out the second half and play a much better game the second half than the first half because we had that halftime where our coach straightened out all of our messes and all of our things that we were doing wrong. Now I recall one year one time we were playing Keatsville, Missouri. Now Brunswick was here and Keatsville was about fifteen miles away and they were one of our rival teams and at the halftime they were twenty points ahead It looked like they were just going to run away with the whole game. But during the halftime the coach did this thing that I mentioned a mo a few moments ago and um you know we came back and we won that basketball game. Because of the adjustments at halftime. Now you go through life and When you're young, you don't think a whole lot about it because you're young and you have a long way to go. I talked to some ladies here today. that in a week or so she's gonna be forty years old. Who was that that I talked to? Oh doesn't want to admit it anyway, but uh uh but anyway uh Forty years old. And I says, Oh, you're just about over the hill. Uh do you know that if you live to be twice what you are now, you'll be eighty. In other words, it's downhill from now on. I said, you don't want to miss tonight's message. I'm preaching on something about that. And we do have some young people here. But you know what? You would be tremendously ahead of the game, all of you teenagers, if you would think about some of the things that I'm gonna be mentioning tonight. And then of course all of us that are past forty, you know, when I got to be forty, my wife was thirty-nine. When I got to be fifty, my wife was still thirty-nine. And then when I got to be sixty, and I'm I'm seventy-six now. And she's still thirty-nine. Do you know it's um it's amazing how your life flies by. But do you know that um The third quarter and the fourth quarter are just as important, if not more important, than the first quarter and the second quarter. If God was through with you, he'd take you on home. But if God's not through with you, he has something else that he needs you to accomplish. I talked to a man this morning. His he has three children. Two of them know the Lord is their Savior. Praise the Lord. But one is lost. And is an atheist, doesn't believe in God, and is a very big burden to this man. I'll not tell you his name, but uh I said, you know, could be one reason why God's letting you stay alive so you could reach your son before he dies and goes to hell. And who knows what he might be able to do to try to influence his son for the Lord Jesus Christ to get him saved. Turn to the book of 2 Timothy, please. 2 Timothy Verse number uh chapter four. Second Timothy chapter four, verse number uh 7 and 8. 2 Timothy chapter 4, verse numbers 7 and 8. The Apostle Paul says, I have fought a good fight. I have finished my course. I have kept the faith Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord the righteous judge shall give me at that day, and not to me only, but unto all them that love his appearing. Heavenly Father, I ask you tonight, Lord, to help me as I preach on this subject. And I pray, Lord, that you would help us to think about our lives and how short really, really is. And uh whatever time we have left that we would use it wisely. Lord, I pray that you would bless this evening for Christ's sake and Please speak to our hearts and meet our spiritual needs tonight. And we'll sure be grateful and thankful for your help this evening. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Well, as you approach this uh next decade of your life, you don't know whether you're going to live another decade or not. You may live a year and die. You may live a month and die. You don't know I preach a message once in a while. I don't know that I've ever I don't remember whether I've ever preached it here or not, but um I think the message is um titled Um It Could Be You And uh I may may have preached it here, but I give some examples whenever that message is starting about individuals that had died uh in my ministry. And it ranges all the way from just a month or two old all the way up to a hundred and four. I think a hundred and four was the oldest person that I ever had a funeral for. But uh all in all in between. Had uh teenagers get killed in car wrecks and uh uh middle-aged men die. Little boys eight years old. Little girl twelve years old rode our school bus, our church bus, um, to Sunday school when she was six years old when we first went to Arc Arkansas and Pine Bluff. And After many, many weeks, she got saved. And she kept coming and kept coming and kept coming. And now she's twelve years old. And so A labor friend called her up and said, Hey, could you baby for sit for us tonight? And uh she said she had a date. And so the little girl, Samantha Rhodes, was her name Said, okay. And so she went over to her house. And when she got there, a few minutes after she got there, her boyfriend showed up and he came into the house with a gun and killed his supposed girlfriend. And then he proceeded and shot all five of her children. Little Samantha Rhodes was trying to get out the window to get away. He caught up with her and shot and killed Samantha Rhodes. And of course I had the funeral. And after the funeral then the public school called me and said Samantha Rose, this is w the kids are having a rough time with this. Could you come and preach to the and speak to all the kids? uh in our public school to be able to help them. I said, sure, I'll be glad to. So I went there and there was about a thousand kids in the audience. And forty-two teachers lined up across the platform that sitting in chairs. And I told the principal, I said, Listen, all I know is the Bible, I'm not going to preach nothing but that. I said, oh this is a public school, but I'm pre just preaching. He said, you just do whatever God wants you to do. So I got up and I preached my heart out and and about five hundred of those kids got saved. I'm just thinking, she probably got more people saved in her funeral than if she'd have lived a normal life. Wow. And we'll see Samantha Rhodes in heaven one of these days. She was a faithful little girl that came to our Sunday school. But I'm just saying that you don't know when you're going to die. So even if you say, well, I've got a while left, I'm not I don't have to worry about this message much, then think about it, you may not have much time left at all. People, when they get to be about 40 years old, they start thinking about a midlife crisis. Man, I'm getting old. Well, there they just are thinking about it. Some of us have to say, I am old. I'm not getting old. I am old. And uh you know, for a while there when I was getting old, I didn't feel a little bit old at all. I felt like I could go out and run a mile. Probably couldn't, but I felt like I could. And, you know, I felt felt healthy and everything. But do you know now Sometimes it's hard to even stand up. I think your mother wants you to put that book down in your lap. Thank you. I probably saved you from a spanking after church. You know. So you ought to fall in love with me and really like me. You can start calling me grandpa after church or something like that, okay? Uh all righty. But uh but you know uh uh uh We need to look at it when you get to be 40 years old. Just remember, the glass Is only half is half full. You still have another half to fill up. Another place to go. But the bad news is it won't be too long and your teeth will be floating in the glass. Uh one thing for sure, the older you get, the more reflective you start getting. The more you start thinking, man, I'm getting old. I'm not going to live forever. I know that, you know, Jesus could come back, and maybe he'll come back before I die, but man, if he doesn't, I'm gonna die sometime. Maybe this year and maybe uh two or three years down the road, but someday I'm going to die. And we start wondering and asking the very important questions that we've heard all of our life: why am I here? What am I doing? Where am I going? Uh what's life all about? What should I do with the time that I have left? We look in the mirror and find our hair is receding or turning gray. We find that we look in the mirror and find out that we see a wrinkle that we didn't have yesterday. And you think, man, this getting old is something. You know, but it's and I thought it only happened to other people, but it's happening to me. And uh but I believe in every season You can have a fulfillment. Fulfillment in your life. Turn to the book of Ecclesiastes, please. Chapter number 3, I believe it is. Ecclesiastes chapter number 3. And starting with verse number 1, it says, to everything there's a season. And a time for every purpose under the sun, under heaven. A time to be born and a time to die A time to plant and a time to pluck up that which is planted. A time to kill and a time to heal. A time to break down and a time to build up. A time to weep, and a time to laugh, a time to mourn, and a time to dance. A time to cast away stones, and a time to gather stones together, a time to embrace, and a time to refrain from embracing A time to get and a time to lose. A time to keep and a time to cast away A time to rend and a time to sow, a time to keep silence and a time to speak. A time to love and a time to hate. A time of war and a time of peace. What prophet hath he that worketh in that wherein he laboreth? I have seen the travail which God hath given to the sons of men To be exercised in it. He hath made everything beautiful in his time. Also, he hath set the world in their heart So that no man can find out the work that God maketh from the beginning to the end. It's interesting, isn't it? That scientists are still finding new things every week. Things that they don't know. It's interesting that they'll never find out at all of it. They'll never figure it all out. No one can. Anyway, back to the verses here, verse twelve. I know that there is no good in them but for a man to rejoice and to do good in his life. Boy, that's good advice right there And also that every man should eat and drink and enjoy the good of all his labor, it is the gift of God. I know that whatsoever God doeth, it shall be forever. Nothing can be put to it, nor anything taken from it, and God doeth it that men should fear before Him That which hath been is now, and that which is to be hath already been, and God requireth that which is past And moreover, I saw under the sun a place of judgment, that wickedness was there And the place of righteousness, that iniquity was there. I said in mine heart, God shall judge the righteous and the wicked, for there is a time. For there is a purpose and for every work. It is very interesting when you uh read the Word of God that you uh see what God is doing and speaking to people's hearts and He speaks to your heart as you read the Word of God. In verses number one and two, to everything there is a season, and a time for every purpose under heaven, a time to be born, a time to die, and a time to plant, a time to pluck up that which is planted Verse number eleven, He has made everything beautiful in his time. Also he has set the world in their heart, so that no man can find out the work that God maketh from beginning to the end Do you know that most people live the first half of their life as if they just walk in, walked into a movie 20 minutes later? And they sit down and they say, well it looks pretty interesting, but they don't quite know what it's talking about much. And just about the time that they figure out what the movie's about, it's over. And that's about how people live their life. By the time they figure out what life is all about, it's over. It would be great if you young people people could figure that all out right away. And then you'd have a tremendously successful life. A few people in history have done that. Very few Most people do not. I believe the rest of your life, regardless of what age you are, can be the best of your life. Regardless of your season. Or your status in life, and if you begin today, the benefit you have of even past experiences that you know a lot of things that don't work. But you see in the Bible some things that do work. And if we would use those things as valuable lessons To teach us to live right and act right and be right and make profitable the last years of our life, whether you have uh a year left or fifty years left in your life. There's several principles that will help make the rest of your life the best part of your life that I want to give you tonight. How to make the rest of your life the best. Number one is develop the ability to look beyond past failures and adjust to a successful future. A lot of times people spend their whole life lamenting over wasted years. I had a man in my church in Lyons, New York. He has since passed away in the last couple of years. But every time we would have a revival, he would come to the altar weeping. And I'd have prayer with him and talk with him and he'd say, Preacher, when I was a young man God called me to preach, and I just wouldn't do it. I didn't do it and I didn't surrender to the Lord. And now I'm so old I can't do it anymore. You know, but good God called me to preach when I was just a little kid. And he wasted his life. But what he did is he spent the last half of his life lamenting what he didn't do the first half of his life Do you know that I was his pastor for 14 years before I went into evangelism? He lived, he died just a couple years ago. But if he would have gotten things right with God and forgot about his past failures, learned from them though, and started then 100% serving God He could have had a successful probably twenty years at least before he passed away. Think about that Man, we ought not to lament everything we've done wrong. Who hasn't made mistakes? Who hasn't made bad decisions? Who hasn't done something that oh man if I just hadn't have done that when I was twenty five years older, if I just hadn't if I'd have just made the right decision when I was younger and so on. And you think about that And you spend your life just lamenting all of those things. Develop that ability to look beyond those past failures in your life and uh believe that God can use you in spite of the circumstances that you messed up on. I think of David as one of the greatest examples in the Bible of that David committed that sin with Bathsheba, and then he had Uriah murdered. And you think, he doesn't qualify for nothing Man, God sure can't use him for anything. Look what he did. But it took him a year before he finally got things with right with God. And you can re read Psalm 51 and different uh chapters of the of Psalms and see how David repented of his sin and got things right with God. And one time in the past I had a friend that messed up. She lived a long distance from us, but she messed up in her life And she was ready to just quit serving God and quit being anything for God. And I wrote her a letter. And I went through the book of Psalms and I wrote down all the chapters in the Bible, in the book of Psalms, that David wrote after he messed up his life. And you know when David became a man after God's own heart? After he messed up. After he messed up. And and he was uh known as a man after God's own heart. He got things right with God and made a success with the rest of his life. And you and I, what we need to do is that any failures that you've had in your life and you messed up and so on, get those things, just get them under the blood you probably already have, but then don't worry about them anymore, just let God Take that and use it for a good experience that you had in the past that you did wrong. You've learned from that. And there's not any greater lessons that we can learn than the ones we go through ourselves. like that in our lives, and then start serving God, start being what God wants you to be day by day, and you will be amazed. You'll be totally amazed in watching how God will use you. You know, everybody influences somebody. You think you don't have any influence. When I was in high school, there was a young man that was watching me. I didn't even know it. He followed me around in high school. I didn't know it. He followed me to church. But I didn't know it. And one day, a few years ago, he calls me on the telephone, tells me who he is, and said, I was watching you in high school and I wanted what you had. I didn't even know what it was. I was not a Christian yet, but I pretended like I was. I acted like one and I talked like one. He thought I was a godly Christian, but I really wasn't a Christian. But he was watching me. And when he talked to me on the phone, he says, and I just want you to know that I followed you to church and I kept asking people what you had that I didn't have, and somebody said he he has Christ and you don't. And they led me to Christ, and he says, I'm an independent, fundamental, Bible-believing Baptist preacher in Bendenhall, Mississippi today because of your testimony in high school. And I wasn't even a Christian Let me just say that you don't know who's following you and who's looking at you and who's watching you and that you're either a good example or a bad example for somebody, or maybe a bunch of people are watching you. Could be your children, could be your grandkids. That's one of the incentives that helps me to try to not want to mess up my life. Because I want to be a good example for the teenagers So that when they come along that they they will say, Boy, uh uh uh uh and they they look at my wife and they look at me and they wanna wanna uh pattern their lives after Christ and and what a what a thing that is and what a blessing it is. But you know it helps me to try to keep on doing right. And you've got people that'll watch that are watching you, whoever you are. And even you teenagers have got little kids watching you. Right. I mean maybe uh maybe uh Katie and Joe and whatever your kids' names are. You know, I you you know how old I am, and I can't remember everybody's names, but you know, your two kids, you know, and so on. It could be that they're looking up to you teenagers They see you go out on the bus route, and they see you come on Saturday and you go out visiting, and they see you uh teaching a Sunday school class And they see you trying to lead the choir. They uh I mean leading the choir. Excuse me. Uh they they see you leading the singing. They see you singing a special. They see you playing a clarinet. They sing that is uh what they were playing, isn't it? Yeah, they s they see you on the organ. I didn't even know Alicia played the organ. Uh I didn't know she did play the piano either, but now I know she plays the piano and the organ. She might be able to do a lot of things, you know, that I don't know. But uh but anyway, uh somebody's watching you, Alicia. I bet during college when you get to college in a few weeks, I bet there's a bunch of kids at college, in that church, that are watching you. That's it. You know when I grow up I want to be just like Alicia. You know. And it's not a bad thing if you're doing right. But man, if you're not doing right, what a tragedy. And listen, you older folks, some of you think, man, I'm over the hill. I don't have much life left. About all I can do is set in the pew until Jesus comes or until God takes me home. You got more to do than that. You know what you ought to do? You ought to pray every day. Every time you come to church, Lord, somebody at Hunt Valley Baptist Church is hurting I don't know who it is. But God, if you'll if you'll let me, I'd like to try to be a blessing to him. Help me to be an encouragement to him And you will not believe that God will lead you up to somebody and talk to them that's having a heartache and a trouble that They don't know what they're going to do, and you can encourage them and maybe even have a word of prayer with them, or just just your smiling face and shaking their hand and letting them know that they are important too. Everybody here is important. And we ought to love each other in such a way that when when somebody's hurting, we all ought to be hurting. When somebody If you got backslidden and bought a lottery ticket the other day and if you were a billionaire today, you know, and so on, well, hey, we'd all be your friends And I just say some people have problems and need help. Some people uh uh every every week and you ought to ask God how in the world I can help 'em. How can I be a blessing to them? But we can do that. It doesn't matter how old you are, you can still be an encouragement to somebody by saying thank you. Our dear lady back here that said, Well I appreciate Brother Baltrell's message this morning. Do you know why she said that? 'Cause she probably said, Boy, he really needs some encouragement. You know, I I mean uh I haven't heard such a bad message in a long time, but he needs some encouragement And so I'm gonna say something just to encourage him and you know that encouraged me. You know, maybe I'll do better next time because of your testimony uh that I'm here. And so but um But do you know in Mark chapter 9, verse 23, it says, and he said, If thou canst believe, all things are possible to him that believeth. Then if you just believe in the Lord and trust in God, Mark chapter 11, verse 22 says, And Jesus answered and said unto them, Have faith in God. For verily I say unto you, that whosoever shall say unto this mountain, Be thou removed, and be thou cast into the sea, and shall not doubt in his heart, but shall believe that those things which he saith shall come to pass, he shall have whatsoever he saith. Why don't we hear about mountains moving to the ocean and falling into the sea? Why don't we hear about stuff like that? Because not very many people have much faith. Man, wouldn't it be great if somebody here had a mountain and they started praying and say, Oh God, we need this mountain. Now, whether it's a real mountain or whether it's something that's just remind you of what a mountain is or whatever and pray and ask God. God can do miracles, like save our brother's atheist son. God can do that. Yeah. Well, it seems like it's impossible. The guy doesn't even I mean he calls his dad an idiot You know, he said he he you know none of you know who this is. Um but uh but but man we ought to pray for him and ask him God to do a miracle in us in their in their lives In the book of James, chapter 1, verse number 5, it says, if any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God. that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not, and it shall be given him. Philippians three twelve says, Not as though I had already attained, either were already perfect But I follow after that I may apprehend that for which I am also apprehended of Christ Jesus. You know, our circumstances may seem bleak Your back may be against the wall. Your life may appear to be over, but God specializes In turning darkness into light. God specializes in doing miracles. God loves to do things that that nobody else will have faith to get them done Man, God can use you in a great way, even we older people, God can use you in a great way. And even if you say something wrong, God can straighten it out and say it right. I said, say anybody that talks as much as women do and preachers have to be very c careful what they say. And I am always putting my foot in my mouth. Uh uh I I I say things w once in a while I'm preaching and and my wife will say, Do you know what you said? And I said, what did I say? And she tells me what I said, and I said, I didn't say that. And she says, yes, you did. Get the tape and listen. And man, sometimes I say the dumbest things. But um God can take them and use them. He really can, especially if you have the right kind of a heart when it's said. Um remember the story of of a guy that was kind of a a little bit of a retarded guy And he uh always sat in the back of the auditorium, and during the invitation time he would peek periodically and see who raised their hand. And once in a while he would go up and talk to somebody that raised their hand. And the pastor of that church had been trying to get this fella that was an attorney to come to church for years. And he finally got him to come to church. And so he was sitting on the on this side right over here toward the back, and the retarded guy was sitting back over up there on that side. And the preacher said, every head bowed and every eye closed, and said, if God's speaking to your heart and you really need some prayers, slip your hand up. And the attorney raised his hand. And so the preacher in his heart he was saying, oh Lord, don't let my retarded guy go say nothing to him. And he'll mess it up. And so they had prayer, and sure enough, when the invitation began, the retarded guy slipped over and talked to the attorney. The attorney grabbed his coat, took his wife's arm, and they both walked out. After church, the preacher approached this fellow in his church and he said, What in the world did you say to my attorney friend? Said, I just asked him if he wanted to go to heaven when he died. And he says, Leave me alone. No. And he says, Well, go to hell then. And he He says, That's what I told him. He said, Oh no, I'll never get him in church now. Oh man, he blew it. And at about three o'clock that afternoon, that attorney friend called up the preacher. And said, preacher, and he told him the story. He says, And I need you to come over and show me how to get saved because I don't want to go to hell. Even though he said what you and I would say would be the wrong thing, God turned it around and used it for his glory. So man, uh so many people worrying, well, if I I would go soul winning, but I'll probably say the wrong thing. You can't say the wrong thing. Somebody's lost or already on their way to hell. You can't say the wrong thing God can even take the wrong thing and turn it around and use it for his glory. So don't worry so much. Just try to say the best you can the things that God wants you to say. In the book of uh of uh Philippians chapter 3, verse number 12. Now, let me just say that all of us have setbacks in our life. We fail, and that but but on our setbacks we need to just keep on moving on. Keep on serving God and being faithful to the Lord. And be challenged to do things maybe differently than you've always done them, but be committed and be determined. Uh I am determined, I've made up my mind. I'll serve the Lord. Jesus has saved me, I know he is mine I'll serve the Lord. I'll follow wherever He leads me. I'll serve Him wherever He may need me. I am determined, I've made up my mind I'll serve the Lord. We ought to just make up our mind that we're just gonna serve God. We're just gonna try to obey the Holy Spirit of God. Do what He asks you to do. And next week when you come to church, on the way to church, say, Lord I'd sure like to be a blessing to somebody at church today. Lay somebody on my heart, Lord. Just speak to my heart about trying to encourage somebody. And you will be amazed when you come in that God will answer your prayer. And you can go up and encourage that individual, and you just don't know what God will use you to do if you'll just listen to the Holy Spirit of God in life. Philippians chapter 3, verse number 12, says um says um Not as though I had already attained, either were already perfect, but I follow after that I may apprehend that for which I am also apprehended of Christ Jesus. And uh what he's saying there is we need to be committed and determined. In the book of Hebrews, chapter 3, verse number 5, it says, let your conversation That means your lifestyle. Be without covetousness, and be content with such things as you have. For ye have said, I'll never leave thee, nor forsake thee He says in the book of Psalm, chapter number 37, verse 25 and 26, he says, I have been young, and now I am old. Yet have I not seen the righteous forsaken, nor his seed begging for bread. He is ever merciful and lendeth, and his seed is blessed. Jeremiah twenty-nine, eleven For I know the thoughts that I think towards you, saith the Lord, thoughts of peace and not of evil. To give you an expected end, then shall ye call upon me, and ye shall go and pray unto me, and I will hearken unto you. And ye shall seek me and find me when ye shall search for me with all your heart God puts a big premium upon our heart's condition. If you're praying and asking God, God, use me Lord, help me to be a blessing to somebody at Hunt Valley. Lord, help me to be a blessing at work to somebody. Help me to be a blessing at the gas station to somebody. Lord, just help me, Lord, in my little old way. I I I just want to be used of you. And man, then God will use you. Your heart right with God, you'll be amazed. You'll be amazed. And at testimony time, you won't be able to wait hardly. Say, hey, I've got one. And you say, God used me in a great way. Look what he did to me for me and you'll share that with the rest of the congregation here at at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. Do you know um uh get get to know God Get to know what he's really like. Get to know him personally. Get to know him not like a buddy, but he's your savior, he's your Lord, he's your God. Establish your relationship with God. He wants you to have a relationship with Him. He doesn't want you to have religion. He wants you to have a relationship with God, with Him. And then you can talk to him like a brother. And no, uh once you know Christ, then you'll discover that you have some other purposes in life. One is to become Christ-like. Every day you could be more Christ like. I remember one time you ever heard of Bill Rice at the Bill Rice Ranch? When he he's not alive now, he went to heaven, but um when he was alive Bill Rice was sitting in a chair getting ready to be introduced by somebody. And the person that was introducing him said, Do you know Bill Rice Reminds me more of Jesus, what Jesus would be like than anybody that I know that I've ever met in my life. Man, what a testimony. Wouldn't it be something if you reminded somebody else of Jesus? If they looked at you and saw Jesus in you, in the way that you acted when something didn't go right. The way you acted when the normal person would have been mad. Somebody was telling me about uh today about um uh uh road rage. He said, man, people will drive by, they'll roll down their window and make the and say ungodly things and and stuff, you know? Well well wouldn't it be great? Smile. You know. Of course they might pull out a forty-five and wipe the smile away. You know, but uh man we ought to respond like Christ would respond. You know, they they pulled his beard out of his face. They swapped him and spit on him, blindfolded him and said, Who hit me? And all that time he answered not a word. He didn't say anything. It's the kind of savior that we have. Do you know also we ought to practice serving other people We can do that no matter what our age. Practice serving other people. Fellows, open the door for the ladies. Yes. Um ladies, uh open the door for the old men. I'm just kidding. Uh but uh man we can all serve somebody We can all be a help to somebody, and we ought to look for things that we can do to be an encouragement to somebody Do you know that I was at a hospital one day and I always try to like you know if there's two people in the room, there's a little curtain between them, and I visit the person that's maybe from my church And after I visit with them and have a word of prayer and talk with them, then I go over and I make sure I visit the other person in the bed over there too. And one day I walked around and I said, Howdy, neighbor. I can't leave without saying howdy to you. How are you doing? And I went up and talked with him a little bit. And I said, Listen, let's have a word of prayer. And we prayed. And after I got done praying, he said, Preacher, I'm of an old man And you're the first person that's ever prayed for me in my life. Do you think he forgot me that day? No. He probably remembered me until he died. Let me just say, folks, that you can be a help to somebody. You just ask God. Just ask God. God's led me to, hey, go talk to that guy over there. Okay, Lord. And I go over there and say, hey, listen. I'm a preacher. Now you can't say that if you're not a preacher, of course, but that's what I s say. I say I'm a preacher and I was standing over there. And God asked me to come over and talk to you. He really did. Are you having problems? And I've had him just break down ball and Because they were carrying such burdens in life. They needed help. Oh, how we need to listen to the Holy Spirit of God. I don't have a corner on the Holy Spirit. I wish I was a much better Christian. I wish I was closer to God than I am than I am. But man, God will use you. In a great way, if you just pray and just talk to God and say, God, I want to be used. Will you help me to help somebody? And so, ma'am, we ought to practice serving, serving the Lord in whatever ministries you have here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church or Or whatever you can find to do to serve the Lord, we can help somebody else. Um and then witness to other people Everybody you see is gonna either die and go to hell or die and go to heaven. If Jesus doesn't come back pretty quick, everybody's gonna die. Sometime. Wouldn't it be great if you and I could reach a few of them? We can if we just listen to the Holy Spirit, pay attention to Him. Because God wants people saved more than you want them saved. He does. And if you really are serious about it, you say, Oh God, I want to lead somebody to you, but I don't know who they are. Would you lead me to them, Lord, so I can lead somebody to you? And he'll lead you to somebody. If you'll just pay attention