This is Veterans Day weekend. Um We as a nation, as a people, honor those that have served our country. A national day of observance and remembrance for those that have served and given of themselves in a sacrificial way of s in any capacity, whether men or women in any one of the branches of our armed forces. We appreciate those that are here that are among us that have served in the military in different capacities. Over the years. Since the rest since the Revolutionary War, more than 29 million men and women have served our country. Have stood on the battle lines and stood prepared and ready in times of feasts to go to battle should there need arise. Millions of men and women have fulfilled this need of our country to stand at Eddie to defend life, liberty here in America. And we're grateful to you that are among us and to those that have stood and fought in all the wars down through Time that we could enjoy the freedoms that we have today. I want to bring to you a message this morning entitled The Value of Veterans. The Value of Veterans. We ought to value and appreciate those that have fought for what we have today. Value and appreciate those that have sacrificed. Maybe their time of service has passed as Many that are here, their their time, their days in in service for our country have passed. But we should value and appreciate them. We should value the freedoms that we have that have been secured and guaranteed by those that have gone before us and fought for the freedoms that we have today. Look with me at our text in 2 Timothy chapter 4, verses 6, 7, and 8, a familiar passage of Scripture. He says, For I am now ready to be offered, and the time of my departure is at hand. I've fought a good fight. I've finished my course. I've kept the faith Henceforth, there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give me in that day. And not to me only. But unto all them also that love is appearing. Would you pray with me as I ask God to speak to our hearts this morning as we look at this message, the value of veterans? Lord, we come to you right now, and I ask you, God, that you'd give me clarity of thought, that you'd give me liberty to preach this morning. Lord, you know that on my best day I'm an unworthy vessel. I've been given the task this morning, the privilege to preach your word to your people. Lord, they've gathered today in God's house not to hear from Caleb Atrell, but to hear from heaven. Lord, I pray that you would allow me and my personality to step out of the way and present your word. And I would lift high the cross of Jesus Christ, and men would see you, not me. Lord, I pray God that as we sang a few minutes ago, that for having been in God's house today, we would be drawn nearer. My God, to thee, nearer to thee. Would you stir our hearts today, each and every individual here, and we'd be drawn into your presence? For having gathered in God's house this hour, we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, millions have fought, and yea, over a million have in the history of America given their life and paid the ultimate sacrifice for the freedoms that we enjoy today. I would like to draw a correlation, a application between those that have fought and secured Secured the freedoms we have in America with those that have fought and secured the religious liberties that we have, and the idea that we are soldiers of the cross. And that we, as Paul here, literally is a veteran of the cross. He's coming to the end of his time of service, and he's speaking to, talking to the next generation coming behind him. He is challenging him to do what is necessary. Paul at this time is in a Roman prison. There's probably no better example of a veteran of the cross than the Apostle Paul. Having sacrificed and giving his all to Jesus Christ. I want us to hear from Paul this morning and admonish and encourage us. To be worthy soldiers of the cross. Paul is instructing Timothy, his son in the faith Literally the next generation of Christians coming behind him, telling him how to live for Christ. Can I ask you this morning, who are you instructing? There was a day in our country, I believe by and large, sadly it has passed, but there was a day when the younger generation was instructed and taught By mom and dad and grandma and grandpa. There was a day when grandma and grandpa would sit with their grandsons or their granddaughters and teach them about life. Teach them about what's important and what matters and what things don't matter. Grandma and Grandpa would pass on the wisdom of their years. Who are you instructing today? Today we've given off that responsibility. We let some stranger on the internet instruct them as to the values that they should have. We let some humanistic, God-denying evolution teaching professor instruct our children as to the values they should have. Because they've got a couple of letters behind their name. You know it doesn't matter if you're a moron If you have an education, you're just an educated moron. Doesn't matter how many how many letters you have behind your name. We need the older generation, those that have lived, and learned some of life lessons. By going through the battles to be teaching the younger generation. Proverbs chapter 20, verse number 5 says, Counsel in the heart of man is like deep water, but a man of understanding will draw it out. A man of understanding will draw it out. It is our job and responsibility to glean from the older generation, those that have gone on before, the wisdom they have. The fact of the matter is maybe the reason grandma and grandpa stopped instructing is because the young people of today are so full of themselves they've stopped asking questions. The younger generation has stopped seeking the wisdom of mom and dad and grandma and grandpa. Kids, it's your job. It's your responsibility. You ought to value spending time with an older people. With the previous generation, with those here among us who have gray hair. I enjoy getting my kids around the older generation. Find somebody that's got some wisdom that have lived that's lived a little while. And parents, we need to instruct and teach our kids when grandma and grandpa's around, it's not time to get out of the house. It's not time to you need to teach them how to honor and respect the older generation, how to value and appreciate the wisdom that they have, and how to glean it from them. Teach your kids how to ask questions. Teach your kids to get that wisdom from grandma and grandpa that they've got from so many years. It's good for them to learn how to sit and just talk to an older person. Kids are like, well, I don't have anything in common with them. But you need to learn from them. You need to learn to value and appreciate the wisdom that they're passing on to you. And that takes teaching and instruction, instruction from us as parents. Every person has a well, and it's our job to draw out from that well all that we can. Some people's well is pretty shallow. But everybody has a well. Some people's well is so deep that by the time it gets to the top, the bucket's dry. You ever sat under a teacher that was so smart that it was just as dry as a bone? I mean, just so dry you just couldn't hardly stay awake. Well they say, yeah, his name's Pastor Caleb. We know that's not true. I'm not I'm not that deep. We know that. But you know it's just it's so deep that it it's just hard to get it. But hey, we still need to try and draw it out. We need to value and appreciate that generation that's gone on before and ask questions from them, draw it out. I have I keep a list of questions, a document that I have on my computer specifically with questions to ask The senior saints, the generation that's gone before, as a question comes to my mind, as some type of wisdom that I would like to glean from the previous, I add it to that. When I get around them, I ask those questions. Trying to learn and get wisdom from those that have gone before. Apostle Paul here, a veteran of the cross of Jesus Christ, is teaching. The next generation, Timothy, and he gives them several things. I want to give you three points this morning. First of all, I want you to see the priority of the present present. The Apostle Paul is teaching Timothy, and he says, Hey. For I am now ready. We see the present here. He says, I am now ready to be offered, and the time of my departure is at hand. Listen, it's important. He's telling the next generation, regardless of your age, regardless of how long you've been on earth, no matter where you're at, you need to be ready. To depart. You need to be ready for that day when you'll no longer be here on earth. You need to be ready to face death. You know, I suppose that in war, like no other place, men face death on a daily basis. They call it foxhole Christianity because men turn to Christ in that hour because they're there and they realize that this very day they may pass off into eternity. They realize death is imminent. That the possibility that they would not see sunset is there. And so they call out and they look to God. But listen, you may not be in a foxhole today But every one of us are not guaranteed tomorrow. We don't know what a day is going to bring forth. And every one of us must be ready. He says, For I am now ready. The priority of the presence is to be ready for the future. Are you ready for the future? Paul was imprisoned. He was imprisoned by Nero. Nero was a wicked and hateful and cruel king. The things that Nero did to Christians is so vulgar. Nero would take Christians. And put them on spikes up in his garden, cover their hair with oil, and light them on fire. He literally would have his walkways of his garden lined with human torches. The apostle Paul is sitting in prison waiting to be judged. And he says, I'm ready. I'm ready to be offered, for the time of my departure is at hand. Are you ready, Christian? Are you ready? Individual, everyone here this morning, are you ready to face death? Are you ready for that day, that time of departure? The priority of the present is that we're ready for the future. He was ready because he trusted Christ. 2 Timothy 1 and verse number 12 says, For I know whom I have believed. And I'm persuaded that he is able to keep them which have committed. And I'm messing up the song Do you know that song came from that verse? For I am persuaded I know whom I believed in and persuaded that he is able to keep that which I've committed unto him against that day. Paul was ready. He knew who he had believed in. Are you ready this morning? Do you know who holds tomorrow? Do you know who holds your eternity? He was ready. The time of his departure was at hand. You know it's not random. It's not it's not by chance. It's appointed unto men once to die. God knows when your last breath is going to be. God knows the day and the hour when you're going to pass off into eternity. The Apostle Paul said, the time of my departure is at hand. We don't know when the time of our departure will be. But we've got to be ready. We've got to be ready. We can trust him. Your time and my time will come. To everything there is a season in A time to every purpose under heaven. A time to be born and a time to die, a time to plant, and a time to pluck up. That which is planted. There's a season for it. You know, friend, we say things like he's coming to the end of his life. But that's not true. Just yesterday I was talking to somebody uh uh trying to help them with an individual who was ready to commit suicide. And I said, here's the thing that you need to tell him. Most people that are ready to commit suicide, what they they say to themselves, I just want to end it all. But understand is not the end. It literally is just the beginning. It's the beginning of eternity, and if the individual who is ready to commit suicide feels like he's ending it all, he may end his time on earth, but he's embarking upon an eternity. an eternity in a place either called heaven or a place called hell, depending upon whether they're ready to meet God or not. I said they've got to understand that. There's not an ending at all. To be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord or to be in a place called hell. Beloved, we must be ready. That's the priority of the present. We must take today and prepare and get ready for tomorrow. That Greek word. Actually, the phrase, I am now ready, is according to Strong's, is really combined together into one Greek word, which literally means to pour out. To pour out. It's this idea. I have here a bottle of water It means to pour out this vessel that held the water It has been poured out, it has been moved to a new place. Our life's blood, our soul, who we are at death. This vessel ceases to carry us. Our vessel is put into the ground, but our life, our life's blood, who we are, is poured out, and we're taken to a new place. Heaven or hell. That is what happens at death. You're relocated. So the question: are you ready? The priority of the present is to prepare for the future. Let me show you in verse number seven we have here three aspects of time. Excuse me. The first verse we have the present. In the second verse, we have the past. In the last verse, we have the future. So let's look at the progress of the past. First, let me say that we're thankful for the veterans who have fought a good fight for us. Amen. This verse says, I've fought a good fight. I've finished my course. I've kept the faith. And literally, here in America, we have had Millions of veterans who have fought a good fight. We owe a great debt of gratitude to these men and women who fought for our country, that have sacrificed that we could enjoy and have the freedoms that we have today. We know freedom isn't free. Men and women gave of themselves to secure this freedom for us. Their bravery. Secured for us the freedoms we have. Their bravery was spurred on by the cause that they had, that they were willing to fight and die for They understood they had a good fight that needed to be fought for. Otherwise, men and women in America and in much of the world would lose the freedoms that they have. when they stood against Nazism or communism. Men and women fought against the ruthless dictators and tyrants who had no value or appreciation for life. Paul is saying here that life is a battle. You see, the past is referenced by the three I have's in this passage. And he says, I have, I have, I have, saying, I did this already in the past. First he says, I've fought a good fight. You see, life's a battle. There's gonna be some fights that are worth fighting for. There are some good fights. There's some worse, there's some things worth fighting for. Somebody said, never get into a fight with an ugly guy because he's got nothing to lose. You gotta choose your battles. My dad uh always told a story about a drunk who one day walked outside of the bar. He pulled out his pen and his paper. He walked up to the first guy and he said, What's your name? Walked over to the center guy, he said, What is your name? I walked over to the third guy. He says, buddy, what's your name? And he wrote it down. The third guy looks at him and says, What are you doing? He says, I'm making a list of all the people I'm gonna whoop. As soon as I'm done making the list, I'm gonna come back and whoop y'all. The guy there looks at him and he says, You ain't whooping me. He says, I'm six foot four. I'm a green beret, got a black belt in martial arts. Guy's like, well, I'll take your name off the listen And he went on to the next guy. What I'm saying is there's some things worth fighting for. You gotta choose your battles. You gotta choose what's worth fighting for. There's some things that there's a good fight, and there's some fights we shouldn't be involved in. Brothers and sisters of Christ, we shouldn't be fighting one another. That's not a fight worth fighting for. I tell you what, there's some things that are important, there's some things that are valuable, there's some things that are worth going to battle for, but we shouldn't be fighting each other We shouldn't be tearing each other down or causing schisms here in the church house. We should be fighting for each other. There's some things that are valuable that are worth giving ourselves for I'll tell you what, we ought to fight against this old flesh. Stand against the flesh that always wants to pull us down. We ought to fight against this whole world. This world at every turn is trying to bring us and pull us away of Jesus Christ. On every hand it's there, and I'll tell you what, all that's needed for evil to prevail is for good men to do nothing We need some Christians that'll stand up and fight for what's right. Ah, man, we need to fight against this old devil. The sloughfoot, that rotten, dirty rascal that would destroy everything of value you have. Unless we fight against him. We wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. Paul realized that every day was a fight, a fight for truth and righteousness to do what was right and to not do what was evil. How are you doing in your fight, Christian? How are you doing in your fight, in your battle? Onward, Christian soldiers marching as to war, with the cross of Jesus going on before. Christ, the royal master, leads against the foe, forward in the battle. We see the banner go. How are you doing in your fight? There's some things that are worth fighting for. Life is a battle. Paul used his armor to fight. You know battles come to an end. He said in chapter 4 and verse number 7, he said, I've finished my course. I fought a good fight. Praise God, there's an end to the battle. Looking for that day The glory is superior. Amen. There's an end to the battle. Now I know sometimes in history we have gotten into battles where it seemed there was no end. There was no objective, there was no goal, there was no end of it. We as a country almost floundered in this battle, not having any real direction But listen, your life has an end. Your battle as a Christian has an end. There's a time when they won't have to fight anymore. Praise God. Amen. But while we're in the battle, we've got to keep going. We've got to keep fighting. Yes, sir. Too many Christians have surrendered to the enemy. They've stopped the they've stopped the fight long before the battle was over. I know that you're weary, but the Bible says be not weary in well-doing. We get tired, we get worn out, and sometimes we wonder: is it worth the fight? Let me tell you this morning, it's worth the fight. It's worth it Don't let the devil have the victory, whether it's in your own personal life and the battles that you're dealing with, the struggles that you're facing. Or whether it's in your family. Maybe you think it's not worth fighting anymore. This battle of getting them to church, it's not worth it. uh this battle of of trying to control what comes across that old television and just forget it. We're just gonna let it be whatever. It doesn't matter. This battle of trying to control what we're listening to or or keeping the world out of this place as much as we can it's not worth the fight Parents, listen, it's worth the fight to discipline your children. I know it's a battle, I know it's a struggle, and at every hand, listen, the Bible says foolishness is bound in the heart of a child, and as a parent, man, does that come out. Wow, you think, what were you thinking? How in the world? And under what circumstance does that seem like a good idea? I mean, you just wonder sometimes at the foolishness of a child And it's a battle sometimes with parents, it's worth the fight. It's worth the fight to do it God's way and to teach them and instruct them in godliness. In the way that they should go, and when they'll old, they'll not depart from it, and they're going to rise up and they're going to call you blessed And you'll have an amazing relationship with your children one day as they grow up and begin to value the fight that you won for them. But if you give up on the fight. You'll regret it. It's worth the fight, Christian. Don't be weary in well doing. Keep on keeping it on for God. Paul finished his course He did what God wanted him to accomplish. What does God want you to accomplish? What course has God set out for you? What path are you supposed to be following They that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength. I know sometimes you're tired in the battle. We need to wait on God and get renewed in our strength. We'll mount up with wings as eagles and run and not be weary. Walk and not faint. He says, I've kept the faith I've kept the faith. That literally means to be trusted with. He was entrusted with. I've kept the faith. It's like When you go to the bank and you make a deposit, you give them a hundred dollars. You know, you don't go to the bank and think I'm not sure this is going to be here tomorrow. I don't know if I want to put it in here. I'm not sure I can trust them with this hundred dollars. Well, it's FDI insured, so it's safe until you go to the I mean we trust the banks. I'm not going to talk about whether you should or shouldn't, but what I'm saying is the fact is that as of now in America, we trust the banks. We take our money and we deposit it there. We've been given them that amount of funds and they've got a fiduciary responsibility to keep that and use it wisely so that when we come in the hour of our need and say Hey, I need my hundred dollars back. It's there in its whole amount, and we've been given that hundred dollars back. So that's what Paul says. I have kept the faith, what I've been given, what I've been trusted with, what I've been taught, I've kept it. All of it. He was trusted. The faith refers to the teachings, the doctrines, those things that the saints before him had passed down to him. And now Paul was passing them on to Timothy. In Jude chapter 1, verse number 3, he says that you should earnestly contend for the faith which was once delivered to the saints. Earnestly contend for the faith that was once delivered. What the faith that's been delivered to you, it's our responsibility to keep that. Too many soldiers today don't want to contend for the faith. They've forgotten about those that have gone on before. Those that have paid the ultimate price, and those that have sacrificed time with family to keep America safe, and those that have paid the price to keep our faith what it is today. And because of that, we don't value it as we should. And we're not ready to contend for it like previous generations did. I looked last night for uh trying to find a number about how uh every source I looked at Washington Post, CNN, New York Times, uh USA today, all of them uh in different numbers say talk about how patriotism in America is falling. Falling drastically. People no longer loving their country and valuing what they have. All of them giving different reasons for it, but I can tell you what We've lost the ambition for people to contend for what we've been given. And the next generation doesn't want to fight for it because they don't value what they've been handed. They're departing from the faith. They're distorting it. They're compromising it Paul tells him in 2 Timothy 2. 2, he says, And the things which thou hast heard of me among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men, who should be able to teach others also. Paul was saying, hey, the things that I was trusted with, I passed them on to you. The things that you've been entrusted with, you need to pass it on to the next generation. You need to be able to do that. Pass it on to those that are coming after you. The progress of the past. He's fought a good fight. He finished his course, the course that he had to run. How about you? Have you finished the course? Are you on course to finish the course that God has for you to run? Are you keeping the faith? I've kept the faith. Are you keeping the faith that's being handed to you and passing it on to the next generation? Then lastly, I want you to see the possibility of the future. The possibility of the future. He says, henceforth there is. There is, you see the future reference there, there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness which the Lord the righteous judge shall give. Again, future shall give me in that day. And not to me only, but unto all them that love is appearing. There is a crown, there's a reward coming for those that keep the faith. For those that continue to contend, those that continue to fight, those that finish their course. I'm glad that the Apostle Paul, under the direction of the Spirit of God, put there not for me only. But for all. Because I'll tell you what, we would look at the life of Paul and say, well, I could never do that. I know Paul earned the reward, but I can't do it. But he said, hey, it's not just for me, but it's for everyone. Everyone that looks for his appearing. There is a reward for those that are looking for Christ's appearing. The reason that we look for his appearing is because we love him. Because we love him. Curtis Hudson used to say we Are looking for the rapture not because we want to disappear, but because we want him to appear. I know many times we get that backwards because we sure want to get out of this old world. We're a little bit tired, we're a little bit weary, and certainly that's a motivation to be done with the battle. And I understand that. But ultimately the motivation ought to be a love for Jesus Christ and the fact that one day we're going to see him face to face. We're going to be brought into the very presence of God Himself. That love will motivate us to live for Him today. While we're still in the race. While we still have some battles to fight, but we still have some race to run. In our country, friend, the highest reward for a veteran is the Congressional Medal of Honor. I've had the privilege of sitting and talking to some Congressional Medal of Honor winners down in D. C. and videoed the testimony of some Congressional Medal of Honor winners for Awake America Ministries. And I'll tell you what, both the men that I talked to they just looked at it and said they they're not even worthy to wear it. Both of them just said we just doing what any soldier would have done. Done. We're just doing our duty on the battlefield. Doing what is expected of us and what we should do, and they were given a reward. Do you understand, Christian? If you do what God wants you to do, you're going to be given a reward. You're going to be given a reward in that day. One day, our commander-in-chief is going to reward us with a crown of righteousness. For the battles that we fought, the struggles that we've endured, the faithfulness that we continued in. Yes, we're thankful today for every veteran who has served our country and secured the freedoms which we have today. But I'm also thankful today for all of the Christians, that great cloud of witnesses that has gone on before, that has secured for me the faith that I have today. And what God has given me, it is my duty and responsibility to pass it on. To teach others also. How are you doing, Christian, on the race that you're to run? On the fight, the battle that you're in. Don't give up. Don't give in. But stand for God. Let's stand to our feet with our heads bowed and our eyes closed. The priority of the present is to prepare for the future. If you're here this morning and you don't know Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, you have not prepared for that day. One day it's appointed unto man once to die, and after this the judgment One day, friend, we're gonna pass off the scene. We're gonna pass off into eternity. Are you prepared? Are you prepared for that day? If you're not prepared, you say, Pastor Caleb, I need to get prepared today. Would you Show me by an uplifted hand, say, I need to prepare for the future today before it's eternally too late. Would there be one here? You need to get prepared. Amen. Thank you for that hand If you're here, believer, how you doing on the battle and the race that you're to run? How you doing Are you fighting a good fight? Are you still on course? Are you keeping the faith? Will you be able to get to the end of your days and say, by God's grace and through his strength, I have. fought a good fight. I have finished my course. I have kept the faith. If we can, we can rejoice because there will be a reward that God will give you in that day. Dear Lord, we come to you right now and we ask you, God, that you would give strength to the one who has raised their hand and desires to prepare for the future, desires to have that settled. Lord. We're not guaranteed tomorrow. Today could be our last day on earth, and anyone who has not prepared is going to either wake up in heaven or wake up in hell, depending upon what they've done with Jesus Christ. I pray God you would give this one the strength to trust you today before it's eternally too late. I pray, Lord, you'll be with each and every Christian here that they would see the value of continuing in the fight. Enduring harness hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. Not being weary in well-doing, give us strength to keep on, keeping on for you, to be veterans for Christ. As the Apostle Paul was such a great example for us. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen