You're in 2 Timothy chapter number 2. Look down in verse number 19 for the text this morning. We'll follow along with me as I read this passage, 2 Timothy 2, 19 through 23. He says, Nevertheless The foundation of God standeth sure, having this seal. The Lord knoweth them that are his. Are you glad this morning God knows your name? He knows that you belong to him. Knows what's going on in your life. He says here, and let everyone that nameth the name of Christ depart from iniquity. That might be a little less encouraging of a statement. Verse number twenty, he says, But in a great house there are not only vessels of gold and of silver, but also of wood, of earth. And some to honor, and some to dishonor. If a man therefore purge himself of these, he shall be a vessel unto honor, sanctified and meet for the master's use. and prepared unto every good work. Flee also useful lust, but follow righteousness, faith, charity, peace. With them that call on the Lord out of a pure heart, but foolishness and unlearned questions avoid, knowing that they do gender stripes. I'm going to bring the message to you this morning entitled A Vessel of Honor. A Vessel of Honor, would you pray with me as we ask the Lord to speak to our hearts today Lord, we're grateful for your love for us. We're thankful, God, that we can call on your name and ask for your help to bring healing to Doug in the hospital even right now, Lord. We're thankful that in our hour of need we can call and you're there and that you answer. Lord, right now, this morning for us present here and those that are tuning in via live stream, we ask you, Lord, that you would draw us into your presence. We've put our life on hold. We paused other things. We've emptied our hearts and minds of the burdens of this life for a few minutes that we might be spoken to you. By you to our hearts. Lord, we just ask you this morning that you would do that. Lord, you would do that which only you can do. Reach down into the heart of man and challenge us from your holy word. Oh, we'll thank you in Jesus' precious name. Amen. I have here this morning a vase. This is a classy looking vase. But not necessarily a vase of great value. Um, you know, like those bases that people find in garage sales and at junk stores and then they find out they were worth a lot of money I read of one lady that bought a vase in a garage sale for $4. 99. On a whim, she thought she would call and ask somebody what it was worth. It sold for over $50,000. A few years ago there was a force in bowl bought and new bought in New Haven, Connecticut, for $35 That bowl was found to be quite old and sold at auction for $722,000. That's the kind of find we want, right? Uh going around the house looking for bases, seeing is there anything on the bottom of the you know, uh any value here, you know, trying to find something, right? Uh it might be And and you know, we all of course think about that or the possibility. Man, wouldn't that be wouldn't that be fun? Wouldn't that be amazing? Last year on June twentieth A vase from the eighteenth century, which I asked Pastor August to put on our slides here, this vase last year. Twenty twenty one sold for forty one point six million dollars. That base. Yeah, it looks looks nice, but you know uh uh forty one million dollars. What I say is we have lost our minds. That's what I say. That is just people have complete they just have too much money is is what it is. There's just too much money. This morning we see in our text here vases, some vases that were vases of honor, vessels, vessels that were to honor, and vessels that were to dishonor. In the great house that is stated here. Listen, beloved, in the family of God Both at large and there is much debate over whether this text is speaking about the family of God at wh uh in in in the entirety of world, but I'm a local church guy and I believe in the local church. So even inside of local churches, inside of this group of people, You have vessels that are vessels of honor, and you have vessels that are vessels of dishonor. Here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church, For in every local church, in every group of people, there are people that are vessels of honor and vessels of dishonor. I'm sure that you're like me, and there is a desire in your heart to be a vessel of honor, a vessel of honor unto God. And I don't just mean that that would be a nice thing. Or that would be great if I could be a vessel of honor. But truly there's a heart passion, there's a goal, an ambition, a desire rooted deep within you to be a vessel of honor It's that desire to be a vessel of honor that motivates you to get out of bed on Sunday morning and come to God's house. That would cause you to get your Bible during the week and in the morning open it up and begin to read and ask God to speak to you because you desire to be a vessel of honor. So you spend some time in prayer and talk to God and let Him work on your heart and change you and make you into His image. It's the desire of being a vessel of honor that caused you to stop participating in or being involved in things that you know God wouldn't be pleased with. Because you want to be a vessel of honor to God. Because you want to be a vessel of honor, you purpose in your heart to do that which you know He would like and want you to do. The question I have for you this morning is, are you a vessel of honor? Could I encourage you today that regardless of your current status, you can change that? This vessel right here will never be worth more than about the twenty-nine bucks it costs to buy. That's what it is. You can't not really gonna change this. This isn't gonna go up in value Relatively cheap and expensive vase. I want you to tell tell you something this morning. You were fearfully, wonderfully made. You're made in the image of God, and it's God's plan to do great and mighty things in and through you. You in your heart can purpose to be a vessel of honor. Regardless of what you've done up to this point, regardless of where your life has taken you up to today, today you can determine and decide, I want to be a vessel of honor, and because of God's grace and because of his goodness He will choose to reach down and pick you up out of the miry clay, set your feet on a solid rock, and get you your way established in his goings. And you can be a vessel of honor. I want to tell you a couple of things this morning that you need to have in order to be a vessel of honor. We could walk through this text and we'll be looking at this, but I want you to understand, beloved, the first thing, if you're going to be a vessel of honor, the first thing that you need is you need to be washed. I thought it was exciting this morning. The first song we sing, Are You Washed in the Blood? I said, Hallelujah, you gotta be washed, Amen. You've got to be washed. Have you been washed in the blood of Jesus Christ? If you're going to be a vessel of honor, you can't remain a vessel filled with dirt and filled with this world. You've got to be washed by the blood of Jesus Christ In 1 Corinthians, the Lord was describing the wicked heart of man, that sin that permeates society, and he says, Know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Be not deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor abusers of themselves with mankind, nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkers, or revilers, or extortioners, shall inherit the kingdom of God And such were some of you. And if you know the text, what's the next few verses? But ye are washed. You're washed. If you're going to be a vessel of honor, the first thing that's got to happen is you've got to get washed, beloved. You're washed, sanctified, justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ by the Spirit of our God. Hallelujah. You've got to be washed. It's not something that we can do ourselves, it's nothing that we can bring about, but through the blood of Jesus Christ, you and I are washed and made clean. You might be here this morning and say, you know what? I'm not that dirty. You know, uh have you ever seen a mother trying to encourage her child to take a bath? And the child is there saying, but mom, I'm not that dirty. And mom sees dirt all over his face. Mom sees his clothes are wearing half the yard. And mom, I took a bath yesterday. I'm okay. And mom's like, you get in a tub and and the water turns brown, you know. And that's the same thing, beloved, as any one of us trying to look in heaven's eye, up into God's eyes and say, Yeah, I'm not that dirty I I don't need to be washed, God. We need to be washed, beloved. The Bible says that all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Every one of us has sinned. In Proverbs thirty, verse number twelve, he says, There is a generation that are pure in their own eyes, and yet not washed from their filthiness. Isn't that what we see in society today? There's men and women, boys and girls, so many that in their own eyes they're pure. And maybe you're here this morning and you look at yourself and you say, Well, I'm not that bad. I I really uh you know uh compared to Whatever you want to list, compared to this person or that person or the drug addict I see over here or this person there, compared to them, I'm really a pretty good guy The problem is you need to compare yourself to Jesus Christ, which was perfect. For all have sinned to come short of the glory of God, God's glory is his perfection. We come short of perfection. No matter how good you are, you're short of perfection. Amen? And so we need to be washed. David, that sweet psalmist of Israel. The Bible says he was a man after God's own heart. I don't know how spiritual you are, but are you a man after God's own heart? David understood this, and he said in Psalms 51, verse 5, he said, Behold, I was shapen in iniquity, and in sin did my mother conceive me. He understood, beloved, that we all have a sin problem. It's something we're born with. There's nothing that we can do about it ourselves. We need to be washed by the blood of the Lamb. I was pondering and thinking about this idea and our inability uh to take care of ourselves in recent days. I've spent a lot of time in the hospital and in care facilities with people and um you know there's a there's a time when the kidneys stop functioning. And you know when the kidneys stop functioning there's A lot of infection, and there's a lot of things in the body that need to be taken out that you no longer have any ability to process or take care of yourself. That's kind of like the sin problem. The sin problem that's inside of us, beloved, you don't have a means or capacity or wherewithal to get it out. You could from today till the day you die never perform another sin, but it still doesn't, that's of course you know is impossible. But if you did. You still have a problem with all of yesterday's sin. Everything you did in the past. And you have no way to take care of it. But praise God, Jesus Christ, who came and sacrificed himself for you and I, gave himself that his shed blood could wash you and make you as white as snow. Praise God for that. I hope that if you're here this morning that you've been washed. If there's no question in your heart and mind, you know that you've been washed by the blood of Christ. In Revelation chapter 1 and verse number 5, he says that we are washed, he washed us from our sins in his own Blood. He washed us from our sins in his own blood. He cleansed us. Only that sacrifice what can cleanse and take away. Because it was a perfect sacrifice. Because there was no sin in him. He doesn't just cover our sin. Like the Old Testament sacrifices, they just covered the sin. But Jesus Christ washes that sin away. Praise God for that. I hope you're washed today. Loved, I want to encourage you this morning that we see here in this text there's different types of vessels. There's some that are gold, some that are silver, some that are wood, some that are earthen. You know, there is it's long been held that the gold and silver are vessels of honor. And the wood and earthen are the vessels of dishonor. As I was pondering this text, I wonder if they're not just all different types of vessels. There could be some gold vessels that are vessels of dishonor. There could be some silver vessels that are vessels of dishonor. You know what? There could be some wood vessels that are vessels of honor. Because I pondered and thought about that in the in the great house. All the different people we have. We've got people with a lot of different skills. Some of you might be that kind of a gold. You might be gold. You might be silver. Majority of us probably a little more Down to earth. Wood. Earthen vessels. You know, I don't know where your skill set is or where your ability is. But I want you to understand that it's not necessarily about your skill set compared to somebody else's skill set or your gift compared to somebody else's gift. It's what are you doing with that gift? It's what are you doing with that skill? You might say, well, I'm just an earthen vessel, but you can be an earthen vessel that's a vessel of honor. There's there's a purpose and a plan. You know there's some gold vessels that are used for particular things. You wouldn't take the the gold vessel to go do a particular job outside But there's some earthen vessels. You know, you wouldn't take that earthen vessel and use it to put on the table to serve a fine dining meal to your friends and family. But that earthen vessel has a purpose. And it's a vessel of honor when it fulfills and does what it was created for. You wouldn't want to take the gold vessel and go do this, but you've got a great you've got the perfect vessel for that. You grab that vessel and you go use it. What I'm saying is you might have different abilities or different skills than the next guy, but you can still be a vessel of honor. You can still be a vessel of honor. You are uniquely crafted by God for a particular purpose. Are you fulfilling that purpose You can be a vessel of honor if you're fulfilling the purpose for which God created you. God prepared you. God uniquely made there's things that you can do that nobody else can do. Bob and Carol. Faithful servants of God, testimony to the grace of God In God's providence saw fit to take their sight many years ago and Carol her whole life. But because of that, there's areas of ministry that Bob and Carol have that I could never have. There's opportunities and doors open to them that I could never do. I'm not a vessel fit for that. But they are. There's things that God calls or wants me to do that Bob and Carol couldn't do. That doesn't make them less of a vessel. There still can be a vessel of honor to fulfill and do what God has called them to do, and that goes for any one of us in here. Whatever God has prepared you for, are you fulfilling that purpose, beloved? Not only must you be washed, but you must be willing. You've got to be willing. He says here in the text, he says, but in a great house, there are not only vessels of gold and of silver, but also of wood and of earthen, and some to honor and some to dishonor. What's the next word? If. If a man Therefore purge himself. If a man there is in that word put forth The option, the the question, are you going to do it? If a man will You and I all have the choice to make. We have to be willing to say I will do what's necessary to be a vessel of honor I want to be a vessel of honor. Therefore, I'm going to adjust. I'm going to change. I'm going to purpose. I'm going to fulfill God's will in my life that I might be a vessel of honor There are some people that they had the choice or the option to be a vessel of honor and they decided not to. I think of Judas who was walking with Jesus Christ and he was there and God said Come, come, come with me. You're going to be one of these chosen, and we're going to be used of God mightily. He had the same options and choices and opportunities as the other disciples But Judas said in his heart and mind, No, I would rather this money. I would rather the coin. I would rather go after that. Are you willing this morning? That qualifier is put clearly there if you're willing. I remember the rich young ruler. Jesus said to him, If thou wilt be perfect. The rich young ruler was coming to him to say, hey, what do I have to do? He and he talked to him about keeping the commandments, and the rich run ruler says, Oh, yep, done that. I'm all good. And then Jesus says to him, If thou wilt be perfect, go and sell that thou hast and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven, and come and follow me. But when the young man heard that saying, he went away sorrowful, for he had great possession. You see, Jesus said, if you want to be a vessel of honor, here's what you got to give up. Here's what you got to let go. Take it, go be a blessing to somebody, and come on, let's go do something great for God. And the young man said, Man, I wanted to be a vessel of honor. I was hoping to be a vessel of honor, but I'm not willing to give this up. I'm not willing to let go of that. Not willing to stop this. Not willing to start that. Oh yeah, I have a desire to be a vegetable honor, but Only if I can do so and still keep this. I think of that familiar story of Jonah. God wanted to use him to be a vessel of honor, to do a great work. And Jonas said, no, I ain't having none of that. See ya, I'm going the other way. He ran the other way for a period of time. You know the story. But God found a way to get a hold of his heart. God found a way to change his heart. What I'm saying here is maybe some time ago God was speaking to you and said, this is what I want you to do, and you said, Oh Lord, I want to be a vessel of honor, but that's too much. That's too hard. That's too much commitment for me, God. A long time ago you got down into a ship and you headed to Tarshis. I want you to know God's calling you today. And you can, as as the story of Jonah says, he came to himself. He realized where he was at. He said, Man, this is pretty dumb. I could be doing great things for God. Instead, I'm in the belly of a fish. Some Christians are living in the belly of a fish. I mean their life is just one heartache and turmoil after another. And and if they got real honest with God, they know why. You can turn back to God at any time. Anytime if you confess your sin, He's faithful and just to forgive you of your sin and cleanse you from all unrighteousness. Amen? You can come back to him at any time you want if you want to be a vessel of honor. But you might have to be willing. I'll tell you something. When I was a young man struggling with determining what I was gonna do with my life and whether I was gonna follow God, you know, uh dad's religion and the church and that commitment and all that stuff was all dad and I I was at that stage where I'm deciding what I'm gonna do Because bless God I'm a man. I'm thirteen years old. Amen. And I was deciding what I wanted to do. But that thirteen, fourteen, sixteen, I'm making those choices and determining, is this really what I want? Is this what I want? I'm gonna do what I want to do I'll tell you several times God got a hold of my heart, but I I had a a besetting sin. I'm not going to confess my sin. But I had a besetting sin. And every time I got real with God, and I would come and I'd say, God, I want to be a vessel of honor. I want to be a soul winner I want to reach people for you. I want to have a testimony. I want to be I want to praise you, Lord. I want to sing to you, Lord. I want to do all this. And God would reach down from heaven and put his heart finger right on that sin in my heart. What about that? And I'd say, Lord, can I keep that? I don't want to let that go. I tell you over and over again as a young man, God kept putting his finger on that. At one point I had to say, okay, God. I want to be a vessel of honor more than I want that. And I'm gonna let that go. And that's when change took place in his heart. Do you want it today? Are you willing? Have you been washed Yeah. Sometimes the vessel is used because it's handy. Because it's handy. Whatever's closest, amen. Whatever's the most convenient. You want you know the best ability is availability, amen. You want to be a vessel of honor? Get available. Just just be available. Do what God wants. You know, you've all done it. We've all been there. We've used some ridiculous tool for that which was not intended, but it was the one that was closest. Amen? You grabbed that and made it happen because it was there. He says, if a man therefore purge himself of these, he shall be a vessel unto honor, sanctified, and meat for the master's use. That word meat means fit. That means easy to use. You know, uh I'm kinda picky about what glass I use My wife puts up with my idiosyncrasies. She knows what I prefer. You know, if I'm gonna drink coke, I prefer that out of glass. Because you put coke in plastic and it changes the taste. I don't know if plastic just sucks the carbonation out of it or what, but it changes the taste. You put coke into a glass and it's just like refreshing. Now if I'm t if I'm drinking iced tea, it could be either, but I prefer plastic because I like the convenience of the plastic cup. Now Mountain Dew is good no matter what you put it in, amen? But you know what? If I'm gonna go outside and I'm gonna be working outside, I like a cup that I can throw away. I don't even want a plastic cup that has to be brought back in the house and and washed because I don't want to have to remember to bring it back in. So I look around for a cup that was from from McDonald's or from Royal Farms or something, the little plastic one, and my wife washes those on purpose and puts them there so that I can use it when I'm going outside to work. And then I'll have one of those and then it gets thrown away. I mean I just th there's things that are fit for a particular purpose. Right. What are you fit for? What is God going to use you for? God looked down from heaven and he was trying to vessel of trying to find a vessel of honor that he could use to send. On his next mission that he could use to accomplish his next task. Are you the vessel he would choose? Are you fit for the master's use? I think of when God looked down and was looking for a vessel to send the forerunner of Christ to. He was looking for somebody that he could send John the Baptist through. He said, I need John the Baptist, the forerunner of Christ, to be there. And he looked down from heaven and he found a couple. Zachariah and Elizabeth. The Bible says that they were righteous before God. That that means they've been washed. Amen. It means they'd purged themselves of these, these things that would defile their body. When God was looking for a vessel to send his son. He looked down and he found a young lady named Mary. I wonder what God needs? Right now, and he's looking for a vessel of honor that he could use to fulfill a purpose or a plan. He's looking down here in these first few rows and he's like one of these young men, these young ladies, is there a vessel there that I could use? There's a mission field over here that needs reached. There's there's there's a job over here that needs to be done. Are you a vessel fit for the master's use? That he would want to grab a hold of you and say, Yes. Shamar, can you do this for me? Let me remind you, beloved, that it's a privilege to be used. It's a privilege. I mean you think about the privilege that Mary had to bring the child of God, the son of God, into the world in a miraculous way. But you know every work of God is miraculous. And what God wants to do through you can be a miraculous work if you and I are vessels of honor. What a privilege to be used of God to sing in the choir. What a privilege to be used of God. Vessels of honor to serve as an usher in the security in the sound booth, in the nurseries, in the Sunday schools. I know sometimes when we do it week after week after week, we we lose sight of the how blessed we are. That God looked down and saw a vessel and said, you know what? That vessel's fit for this job. I can use him there. I can use her there. You know there's been times when God was looking for someone, but he couldn't find anybody. Over there in Ezekiel 22, he says, And I sought for a man among them that should make up the hedge and stand in the gap before me for the land, that I should not destroy it, but I found None. But I found none. What a disparaging testimony it would be if God from heaven looked out at Hunt Valley Baptist church and said he was looking for a vessel of honor that he could use for this call or for that job or this responsibility. And he looked over all of the church and he said, I found none How sad that would be. Would to God he would look from heaven's portals into the pews of this church and find many washed and willing vessels ready to be used, fit for the Master's use. You know, some tools I have I don't like to use because they're hard to work with. have your pair of pliers that accidentally got left out in the rain or just weren't used for a very long time and they don't work real good. You gotta kinda you gotta almost use both hands to pull them apart. You can squeeze it back down, but they're not they're not easy to use. They don't they don't work like they're supposed to. Have you ever met somebody it wasn't easy to work with? They weren't easy to get along with You know, sometimes when I might have a tool at uh at the church here that I could get a job done with, but I've got a tool that'll do so much better, it'll be so much easier that I'll get in a car and I'll drive all the way home. and get that tool and come all the way back because the tool that I have on site is just not worth the trouble. Have you ever had to work with a tool? I mean somebody that was hard to work with? I'm just throwing this out because I want to exhort you, encourage you to be easy to work with. Get over yourself. It's not all about you. It's about him. You know, I I I remember an individual that Everything I said was misinterpreted, twisted, turned around, and used against me. It didn't matter how I strived to minister to this individual, it was wrong. If I was being too friendly, I wanted something from them. If I wasn't being friendly enough, I was ignoring them on purpose because they weren't valuable. I mean any it didn't matter what I did. Every conversation was a struggle And I spent time in prayer. I spent time asking God, help me. I'm supposed to be all things to all men. God, you called me to this ministry. If I ought to be able to minister to anybody, Lord, Lord, show me how I can meet this individual's need. Listen, let me just throw this out. If you have a problem with a lot of people, you're the problem. Okay? That's just putting it straightforward and simple. If you have a problem with a lot of people, you're the problem. You need to get that fixed. You shouldn't be that hard to get along with. It shouldn't be that hard to use you. Inside the church We're all serving God together. We're all vessels, just being used of God to do whatever we can, and we want to be vessels to honor, but we're just sinners saved by grace And and we do stupid things and you know uh like I try and preach in the love of Christ. I try and preach in the spirit and and let him leave. But you know, sometimes I'm sure that I get in the flesh and I might say something In my flesh instead of in the spirit. That's bound to happen because I'm just a sinner saved by grace. But I try and have grace with you. Have some grace with me. Let's let's just serve God together. Let's not be so hard to get along with. Let's be a tool that's easy to use. Amen? Don't be somebody that is so hard to get along with that people would rather not do the job than to have to do it with you. That's bad. That's a bad testament to how easy you are to work with. And we all can be better at this, amen? You gotta be washed, you gotta be willing. Lastly, this morning I want you to see you've got to be working. He said, if you will do this, if you'll do what? Purge yourself of these. What I'm saying is sometimes we look at God and He's a vessel, uh we're we're to be vessels and And we think, well, God's going to do it all. No, no. God has given us a list of things here that we're supposed to do. He's given us some commands, some steps that we're to take. There's some processes that we've got to be involved in. We've got to be willing to work towards it. If we're going to be a vessel of honor, like I just was talking about, maybe we need to work towards being easier to work with. Maybe we need to work towards being a better worker overall. Maybe we tend to need last Sunday school's last week's Sunday school lesson on laziness. Amen. Maybe we need that. I don't know, but we have areas in our life that we were supposed to be working, he says, to purge yourself of these. What are these? Anything that will defile the vessel. Anything that's going to get the vessel dirty. This is your job. This is my job. Jesus washed us. Not only did he wash us initially, but he gave us the ability, the wherewithal, to stay clean. Amen. Because greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. And God has given you the power to live a clean life. And He's given you the wherewithal, when you slip up and you fall, or you dirty the vessel, you can come back to Him and get clean. Amen? God's given it, but that's our job. God's not just going to do it for you. You have got to do this. You've got to be working. Because it's going to take work to keep the vessel clean. He says several things here in verse 22. He says, flee also youthful lust. But follow righteousness, faith, charity, peace with them that call on the Lord out of a pure heart. What do you got to do to be a vessel of honor? What do you got to be working at? He says you've got to flee useful lust. As you and I grow in the grace and the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, there's some things we're supposed to learn to let go. Those youthful lust, those youthful passion, those things that that uh you maybe one time didn't realize or think were wrong, but God's taught you in His Word that that's something that you shouldn't be desiring or shouldn't be going after You're supposed to grow to a point where you start letting those things go. Supposed to be fleeing those youthful lusts, those those initial passions. There's supposed to be some growth in the life of a Christian where that's no longer a problem. You know, I grew up in a Christian home, been in a Christian home my whole life, and although I have my own list of sins, they're sins of the heart usually, they're sins of attitude, sins of spirit, there's and and listen, I'm And as wretched as the next guy, but the the difference is where you find somebody that didn't have the blessing or the benefit of growing up in a Christian home, that they have a lot of sins that are maybe outward. overt and they're more visible. They're they're just as bad. I mean in my sin, they're just as bad. They're just is sin. A lot of times it's worse because it's things you can hide. But sometimes you'll you'll hear about Christians, they start growing and they say, Hey, I'm gonna I'm gonna give that up. And were they initially when they were a babe in Christ, and it was such a struggle. Let's say cursing Man, it was such a struggle to stop cursing. It's like it just it was part of my conversation, and I I cursed all the time. But then as they grow, they get to the point where they think. I can't remember. I can't remember the last time I cussed. And then they grow some more and they think, why was that so hard? Why was that so hard to get rid of that? To get rid of that sin. But as we grow in grace and in the knowledge of Jesus Jesus Christ, there's things that we're supposed to give up, and with his power we can give it up. And initially it's a struggle because Satan's got his grip in you, amen. And he's holding you But with God's help, you get to the place where that's let go. It's a youthful lust. You look back and think, man, I don't know why that was such a big deal. That's not really a burden at all anymore. You've let that youthful lust go. He says to follow after righteousness. Follow after righteousness. List here. Faith, charity, which of course you know is love and peace. You know, beloved, the best offense, the best defense is a good offense. I look at this first point here, flea, useful, lust is kind of defense. You know, putting on the whole armor of God and and and being sober and vigilant because your adversary, the devil, like a roaring lion, walking about seeking who I look at that first as kind of defense, like guarding against that and putting that stuff away. But step number two here is an offense. Follow after righteousness. Okay, in your desire to flee these things, you gotta go somewhere. Follow after righteousness Go towards faith. Go towards charity and love. Go towards peace. Go after righteousness. Sometimes, beloved, one of the reasons people continue to struggle for so long with the things that they're supposed to flee It's because they have never started following after righteousness. They've continued to battle over and over again with these things that, oh, li Christian life is so hard, I'm supposed to quit this and quit this, and everything's a don't with God No, it's not right here. He said do, amen. He said follow after righteousness. And if you get in your heart and mind that you're going to pursue after righteousness, you'll flee some of that stuff. And it won't be such a struggle because you're on purpose going after what God wants you to go after. Flee righteousness, follow after righteousness, flee lust of the flesh, and follow after righteousness. And he says, fellowship with godly believers. He says, with them that call on the Lord out of a pure heart. Do this with people that are calling on God with a pure heart. Listen, it's no wonder you're struggling with living the Christian life if the people you're hanging around are are out in the world. You can't run with a skunk and smell like a rose. You can't lay down with the dogs without getting fleas. You guys know the stories and illustrations. And you can't expect to live a godly Christian life If you're if your all your time and energy and effort is spent with people that aren't living godly. He's telling you here how to be a vessel of honor, how to keep from getting the vessel dirty, how to purge yourself of these Flee, youthful lust, follow after righteousness, and spend time with God's people. In church, out of church. Listen, I know that you guys work in the world. And I I mean I my heart bleeds for you I I feel like I'm spoiled, like it's not even really fair, because I get the privilege of of serving God full time and I don't have to go out into the And the the the ridiculous music that's played over all e every single system out there that you And you every day you come home and you feel dirty. I know, I think God on purpose put me back in the workforce a few years ago for about a year and a half so that I would understand what you're going through. Man, it was a struggle out there. You've got to find a way to get some godly friends that You gotta be out there, you've got to do that work, you've got to be in that environment for those things. Man, when you come home, your home ought to be a refuge from that. The people you spend with, time with, your friends, ought to be people that are are a refuge from that. They're giving you strength and they're helping you to follow after righteousness. They're seeking Seeking God and just getting around them is like getting a a shot in the arm, like getting uh uh I shouldn't have used that illustration, should I? Nobody wants a shot right now. But it's like getting uh uh you know, I don't know, you guys drink energy drinks? I I wouldn't encourage that either. But it's like getting a boost of energy. I mean it's just like getting around somebody that I mean they're on fire for God and and you were burdened and you were discouraged and life is so hard, but you get around them and they're singing praises and And they're talking about how good God is and what God has done. And man, you think God is good and and He is worthy of praise. And I can be a vessel of honor. God, would you help me to do it But if you don't have those kind of friends, how can you expect to have that kind of help? You want to be a vessel of honor today? I do. It's the desire to be a vessel of honor that motivates the changes that we make in our lives. Doreen Van Stone was too ugly to love. At least that's what her mom told her. Her mom told her over and over again, why are you so ugly? She had a little sister. A year younger than her, that was very cute. Her mom would shove her aside and pick up her sister, say, Why can't you be pretty like your sister? Get away from me, you ugly thing. She would try and scoot up close to her mom. She said, Mom, hold me too. She would say, No, I I'm not holding you. Go clean the kitchen. Her mom would leave her at home at five and six years old to care for her little sister for 10, 12, 14 hours a day She was left caring for her little sister. This was in the Great Depression. Mom said, you can't turn the lights on There was very little heat, and often there was no food. Doreen took care of her little sister day after day When night would come, they would sit at the window looking down the street, starving, just waiting for mom to come home. She never felt her mom's embrace, never felt her mom's love. She was too ugly to love She thought this was bad until one day at six years old her mom said, I can't take it anymore. And she took her and her little sister and dropped her off at an orphanage. She said her mom turned and walked away and never looked back. Her mom didn't shed a tear, or her mom didn't call out for her or say she was sorry. She just took them, dropped them, and said, Here you go, and turned and walked away. Dory was beat almost every night for little things like not finishing every morsel of food on her plate. Many, many nights she was beat for crying herself to sleep. Eventually she began to get beat for fighting She determined, well, if I'm too ugly to love, at least they're going to fear me. And she began to fight with anybody and everybody that she could. You know, for six years in the home she endured this, almost being beat daily. And during these beatings, and not only that, enduring the monthly rejections from family after family. Every month on adoption day, when the kids would line up and look for somebody to take them home, for somebody to love them. Month after month after month she was rejected. She was too ugly to love. Then at twelve years old, a group of kids from the university came and One young lady began to tell the group about how God loved them. She almost called out in the class, that's a lie. Nobody loves me. But as the lesson went on, the Holy Spirit reached down into Dory's heart and began to struggle with her, began to battle with her over that truth that God loved her Before they closed that session, Doreen there bowed her head and she said, God, if you really love me, if you have me, I'm yours. She gave her heart to God and trusted Him as her Savior. You see, the only place she had ever heard about God was from the mouth of an angry adult. She never knew about God's love before That night Doreen went to bed and she was crying not tears of loneliness, but tears of joy for the love of God that was now in her heart. When the matron came and began to beat her for crying, she almost didn't feel the pain because she was so overjoyed there was somebody that loved her Yes. She felt anew God's love She began shortly thereafter a young lady came to the work in the orphanage. This young lady working in the orphanage knew God and she tried to encourage the kids to go to church with her. Well, Dory was very excited about that and wanted to go to church. Dory began to grow by leaps and bounds. She would soak up any scripture she could, me kept committing to memory verse after verse after verse, uh studying the Word of God, finally getting her own copy and being so thrilled to have a copy of the Word of God. And she would constantly read the message God had given her in His Word. Her and her sister were put into foster care eventually. During foster care, they endured an untold amount of abuse All the while Dory held on to the fact that God loved her. You see, here was a broken vessel that God was shaping into a vessel of honor. One day in the city, she looked into the window of a shop and she saw there a beautiful dress. She stood there longingly looking at this dress and she thought, boy. If I had some money and I could just buy one dress, if I could wear just one of those beautiful dresses, oh, that would be so amazing And the Spirit of God spoke to her heart and said, Dory, you're clothed in the righteousness of God. And from my eyes, That is more beautiful than the finest dress in the finest shop in the city. You're clothed in the righteousness of God. She walked down the street a little further and she smelled the bakeries. He walked over. She looked into the bakery and there in the bakery there's a rack And all those pastries there and her stomach growled and she thought, oh, oh, if I had money and I could just buy one of the pastries God said to her, Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. As she walked down the street, she saw moms and dads holding their little children by the hand and walking down the street. And she says, Oh, if I could just have somebody to hold my hand. If I could just have somebody that wanted to keep me safe. And God said to her, I'm a friend that sticketh closer than a brother. I'll never leave you or forsake you. I'm with you every hour of every day. And she gloried in the love that she knew God had for her. This broken vessel being shaped into a vessel of honor. The struggle of her life continued, but her faith and conviction in the love of God only grew stronger. In God's time, he brought a Christian young man into her life. They were married. This broken vessel joined with another. These two became vessels of honor as they surrendered to go to the mission field. They went to New Guinea, served God, and worked with 60,000 tribal people. You see, she could love these tribal people like nobody else. Because God loved her when no one else would. These tribal people were very often unbathed and they stunk. But you see, as a young girl, in one of her foster homes, she was only allowed to take a bath one day a month. For years, she only bathed one time a month and often stunk. And her friends made fun of her. But she didn't realize when she was on the mission field that prepared her to be able to love somebody that smelled. All the hardship she had as a young person prepared her for the response they would have when they first got to the field and how angry they were and how mean these tribal people were. What I'm saying is God took a broken vessel and made her a vessel of honor. And used her to minister to in a very unique way people that nobody else could. What does God want to do with you today? How is God looking to use you? Are you a vessel of honor?