Robert Orbyn said that the essence of America can be summed up in this one exchange between a father and his son. He looked, the father looked at his son and said, All Americans belong to a privileged class. The son looked up at his father and said, I disagree. And the father said, that is the privilege. We live in a unique society that is today facing some unique challenges. Would you turn your Bibles to Romans chapter number 13, this familiar passage of scripture that deals with government? As we preach this morning, the message entitled Vote Virtue, not Vogue. We ought to vote for people that have biblical principles evident in their life. Not somebody that's popular, not somebody that has the largest Facebook following or the biggest YouTube channel, but somebody that has real virtue in their lives. This passage of scripture, which we'll be referencing through the message this morning, follow along with me as we read Romans 13, 1 through 4. He says, Let every soul be subject unto the higher powers, for there is no power but of God. The powers that be are ordained of God. Whosoever therefore resisteth the power resisteth the ordinance of God. And they that resisteth shall receive to themselves damnation. For rulers are not a terror to good works, but to the evil. Wilt thou not then I'm sorry, will thou then not be afraid of the power? Do that which is good, and thou shalt have praise of the same For he is a minister of God to thee for good. But if thou doest that which is evil, be afraid, for he beareth not the sword in vain, for he is a minister of God, a revenger, to execute wrath upon him that doeth evil. This morning I know that not just in this election that's coming up, but in every election, we face challenges. A challenge to try and determine who to vote for Uh what can what can we do? I mean uh sometimes it appears as though it not only appears, sometimes there is, no good options. I mean that's the sometimes that's just the fact of the matter. It i i there's no good options. And so you're you're you're dealing with and faced with what do we do? Choose. There were two elderly ladies walking through a crowded cemetery one day, crowded with graves not other people. They are walking through this overcrowded cemetery and one of the ladies paused looking down and seeing the inscription upon this tomb. She read it aloud Here lies Jack Kufis, a politician and an honest man. Good heavens, she says Isn't it awful they had to bury two people in the same hole? Sometimes we feel like that. Like is there an honest politician in the world? Is there one that is gonna do the job? Is there one that actually has virtue? And and as we evaluate the situation, uh we certainly sometimes get discouraged. And we think, well, what can I do? What difference is it gonna make? I want to encourage you today with a few simple thoughts from the Word of God about how to determine who to vote for when it comes to To an election. I'm not going to give you names this morning. I'm going to give you biblical principles and I want you to find out what candidates line up with these biblical principles. at least as close as possible. As we begin this morning, first of all, I want you to consider the responsibility of the good. The responsibility of the good. The Bible says, therefore to him that knoweth to do good and doeth it not, to him it is sin. We as God's people. are commanded to do good. In Psalms 34, 14 he says, Depart from evil and do good, seek peace and pursue it. We as God's people we're supposed to depart from evil. We're supposed to do good. Anywhere that we can, we are supposed to do good. And as God's people, we have a requirement to do so. It's our responsibility. So in the situation that you don't know who to vote for, maybe when there is no good option. What do you do? I had one of our church members in the recent weeks ask me about abstaining from voting. Just just obscene because there's there just is nobody to vote for. I mean what I mean I I just can't bring myself to put a check down next to this person or that person because the options are so poor. Well, uh, personally, uh I had to put a lot of thought into this and figure out what what should a person do? And I go back here to this that if a person has opportunity to do good, he should. And I know that sometimes the You would put your name down on somebody's ticket that you would say they don't line up with me. I don't agree with the things, these, these, these, these, these things in their life. Well I think that it's like this. Let's say this candidate doesn't line up with 80% of what you believe. And this candidate over here doesn't line up with 98%. I think to abstain from voting for this guy, even though it's gonna make Make you like they say, you gotta plug your nose and and do it. I I mean I I understand this, but I I think that to not vote for him is to actually vote for the one that That doesn't because you're taking your vote and making it not count. So you're effectively doubling the vote for the person that you know is 98%. Doesn't line up with you. I think that that's your option. So I would encourage you if you have the ability, the possibility to do good in any way and And I know that this is just marginally better, maybe not much better at all. And sometimes that's where you're at because the options are so poor. But what do you do? I I think that you've got a requirement, responsibilities to try and at least do the best you can. What about voting for a third party or doing a write-in? Why not do that? You could just write in a name. Uh again, in in America here we have two parties. There's been a lot of third parties down through the years that have come onto the ticket. One time I was traveling, I don't even remember where I was in the country, and I don't know how I got this guy's name, but he said, if you're ever passing through my town, give me a call. And I'll put you up. And so I called this guy and he said, Oh yeah, I've got a great big house. Come on by. He put me up in his house for the night. And we went into his office and he showed me in his office how he personally has run for president of the United States. in every election since like nineteen eighty. But none of you guys have ever heard of him and I can't even remember his name. And I slept in his house. I'm saying, yeah, I know there's a lot of options out there sometimes, but the reality is is we have two parties. And You know, uh since Abraham Lincoln, no third party has been effective. Now you know Abraham Lincoln ran on the Republican ticket, the founding of the Republican Party. And just throw this out there for free information. By and large, that's because the other parties were for slavery. And the Republican Party was not. So he didn't run on the Whig ticket, he ran on the Republican ticket. And uh since then we've had the Republican Party and the Democratic Party. Instead of trying to reinvent the wheel, why don't we balance the wheel we've got? I I don't think I I feel that it's much like the same thing as doing nothing. If you're gonna vote for a third party or you're gonna do a write-in, you might as well write in Scooby-Doo. Because it's really taking your vote and throwing it away. You're not going to affect the the outcome of the election. So if you want to affect the outcome of the election, you've got to determine the best possible candidate of those that are available and vote for them. We as God's people are to be salt and light. There's no question about that. Matthew 5, 13, and 14. Salt and light. If we're going to be salt, if we're going to be light, We've got to let our voice be heard. The way to do that in America is to cast your vote. And it's a privilege that we have to be able to do that If you don't vote, you put your light out and your salt slots to Saber when it comes to this area of our life. Now listen, the motivation to get out and vote is not because you believe that this candidate is going to save our country. That this candidate's going to solve the educational problem. This candidate's going to change the the economics of our of our country and make things so much better. The motivation to get out and vote is because it's right to do. We understand as God's people that government is not the answer. Government is not, never has been the answer, not going to be in the future is going to be the answer. Jesus Christ, the salvation of souls, and the change of the hearts of men is the answer But we live under a government that determines our ability to live and to practice and to worship God. And so it's important who serves in these positions. So we consider the responsibility of the good. We've got a responsibility to do what we can. So if we're going to do what we can Then how do we determine who is right? You need to consider the role of government. As you're deciding who to vote for, consider the role of government. In Romans chapter 1 that we looked at, verses 3 and 4, he says, For rulers are not a terror to good works. But to the evil. Wilt thou then not be afraid of the power? Do that which is good, and thou shalt have praise of the same For he is the minister of God to thee for good, but if thou do that which is evil, be afraid, for he beareth not the sword in vain Put it very simply, the role of government is to restrain evil and to reward good, to punish evil and promote right. That very simply, that's the role of the government. That's what government should be doing. That's their purpose They they like to say you can't legislate morality. You know, here's here's the thing. I can't make you love me, so we have a law to keep you from killing me Okay. And the fact of the matter is, is all laws legislate morality. They draw a line and say when you cross this, you're gonna be punished. That's what law does. In America today, we are further legislating morality by saying this is acceptable, even though God says it's not. Aren't things backwards today. He says here, for rulers are not a terror to good works. They're not the rulers, those that are in all government in government office, are not to be a terror to good works. That means the powers that be should not be punishing A store owner who has worked his whole life and been a good citizen for protecting his own property. The powers of beast should not be so backwards in their thinking that they would punish the good citizen for protecting his own property. And applaud the one who is destroying that property. If your politician believes that way, he should be removed from office. How do you know who to vote for? Well, you need to understand what the role of government is. The role of government is pretty simple in the scriptures. That means any politician that's for big government You don't want. If they're talking about expanding and growing the government, that's not the one you want. Because the role of government is to be very limited, very small. It's stated very clearly in the scriptures, basically, simply put, to restrain evil and to reward good. Government should support and encourage what is right. Nothing that is morally wrong should be politically right. The farther a candidate is from these principles, the less he should be considered. So the farther a candidate is from this very basic, simple definition of government, the less they should be considered for office. Then you need to consider the reputation of the governor. And what I use the word governor, I'm not talking about your actual literal governor. I'm talking about a man in leadership The reputation of the person being put in office. We need to consider his reputation. Turn to Exodus chapter 18, 21. I want you to see God's definition of what kind of a man should be put in office. God's description of who a leader should be. In Exodus chapter 18, verse number 21, he says, Moreover, thou shalt provide out of all the people Able men, such as fear God, men of truth, hating covetousness, and place such over them to be rulers of thousands, and rulers of hundreds, and rulers of fifties, and rulers of thousands. So God very clearly says to Moses here, hey, you're going to choose a leader? This is what you're looking for in a leader. First of all, you're looking for an able man. I'm going to use the word fit. Able to do the job. He's not just popular, but that he has the ability to do it. He's not just a good pop politician. Just because somebody is a good politician doesn't mean that they have the skill to run a country or to run a state or a city. Matter of fact, many times that probably means they're not that capable of running those things. It's not about how well they mix and how popular they are or how well they can communicate. How how camera friendly they are. We are so influenced by what we see on the TV. Boy, I really like that candidate. He's sharp looking. How sharp looking he is has nothing to do with it. By the way, I'll throw this out too. What color his skin is has nothing to do with it. It is you consider the man. Is he able? Is he capable? Can he do the job? God said, You want to pick a leader? Pick somebody that's able. That has Why would you consider somebody for President of the United States who has never held any office before? Who's never led in any political race before? Why why would you consider somebody that I mean to lead your state who the last thing they did was worked at McDonald's. What I'm saying is you've got to find men that are able. They need to be men, secondly, here, that fear God That fear God. You know, this list here pretty much removes the idea of that Christians shouldn't be involved in politics. Because if this is a list of who should be leading, This list pretty much means that they ought to be Christians. They ought to be fit. They ought to fear God. Now let me just tell you. If they in any if your candidate that you're considering in any way supports the LGBTQ community, they do not fear God. They do not fear God. This is a requirement for somebody to be chosen or picked for leadership. And if they want to support that agenda, they don't fear God. And they should not be in office. They should at least not get your vote to be put into office. I'm trying to give you some guidelines here, biblical principles, how to choose who to vote for. They're supposed to fear God. That means they're not going to support that which God calls an abomination. This is not a civil rights issue. This is a moral issue. God made man and woman. Two genders, that's all. It doesn't matter that they've come up with almost 70 other classifications. There's only two according to God. And it's very vogue today to support the LGBTQ community. Isn't it? It ought not be in this crowd, but I'm saying in society as a whole, it's very vogue. But God's people shouldn't have it. That's something you ought to I'm saying you vote virtue, not vogue. You vote biblical print. Does he fear God? Listen, if the candidates that you're considering in any way supports abortion, they don't fear God. Because God is the giver of life. All life is sacred. Life begins at conception. Jeremiah chapter 1 verse 5 says, before I formed thee in the belly, I knew thee And before thou cameest forth out of thy womb, I sanctified thee and ordained thee a prophet unto the nations. God knew Jeremiah's name and knew what he was going to do and called him to be a prophet before he was ever out of the womb. But today, politicians want to be patted on the back by Christians. Because they don't support partial birth abortion. That's like saying I only kill up to 19-year-olds. Children between the ages of 1 and 19, we can shoot them. But I should be rewarded because I don't kill anybody over 20. Right? Am I wrong that hey if Bert if life begins at conception Now listen again here's the here's the option. If you have two candidates and one candidate says uh let's say over here keep the Guy here, listen, I'm on purpose being careful. I don't want to use conservative and liberal or or Republican or Democrat. I want to use biblical principle. So we're not talking about conservative issues or liberal issues, we're not talking about uh uh Democrat or Republican issues, we're talking about Bible issues. And if over here you have a candidate who stands against partial birth abortion, now listen, I wish he was against all abortion. Every aspect of it, the uh all of it. And over here you have a candidate that's for partial birth abortion Now listen, I'm not happy this guy doesn't stand against all of it, but I know this guy stands for all of it, and not only is he going to promote it, he's going to use my tax dollars to pay for it. So what are my options? Again, I don't have a good option. I really don't. But the choices are either at least we can stop partial birth or We can have somebody in office that doesn't care who we kill. What I'm saying is you look for somebody that fears God, and this is an issue. If they support euthanasia, they don't fear God. Now, it's hard to believe that euthanasia is legal in nine of our states already. It's just a suicide. We can help somebody die. We think well not saying we, I'm talking about society as a whole, that it's not that big a deal. Somebody wants to die, we should let 'em die. And I don't have time to get into all the logistics of this because there's so many lines with regards to euthanasia. That you've got to be careful with because listen, it's not wrong to provide somebody pain medication who is dying to make them comfortable, to take away the pain That's not euthanasia. The difference is you're giving somebody that's dying medical aid to help them, or you're giving somebody medical aid to kill them. Okay, that's the difference between trying to help somebody to make their passing more comfortable and trying to take somebody before their time. And there's a lot of lines with regards to that, and because it's so blurry, that's why these things keep uh getting uh okay. But here's the thing: since 1973, uh when we had Roe Roe v. Wade, I don't think America as a society realized that we would kill from then till now over 160 million. Babies. We wouldn't that was not the goal back then when that was made. Actually, the judge that made that decision went on record and said he is Astonished at how far it's gone. What I'm saying is, if we don't stay the tide with this idea of euthanasia by putting people in office that value life, We'll look down the road and find out that we're killing off our old and sick because it's convenient. And that is wrong. It is wrong. We are to value life. God is the only one that has the power to take life. He gives life and he takes life, and it's not up to us to just determine who is an asset to society. So they don't fear God if they support euthanasia. But you see Most thirdly here, men that are truthful, the verse says. Truthful. That word truthful also has uh a idea or connotation of faithfulness to it. Being truthful in their character, faithful in their actions. Listen, I'm going to touch on an issue here that It's gonna push some buttons, I'm sure. But uh if your candidate, your concilian, supports minimum wage, he's not the candidate you want. Minimum wage is not a biblical principle. Now I don't have time this morning to teach on all of this, but you read, there's a whole list of parables that God gave us in the New Testament. in the words of Jesus, if it makes you feel better, that a laborer is worthy of his hire, that you choose what you're going to work for and you make an agreement, and whatever that is, you be happy with it. If you came to work the first hour and decided I'll work for twelve hours for a penny, and somebody came to work and they worked for two hours and they got a penny You cannot and do not have a right to say that's unfair. You agree to work for twelve hours for a penny. That's what you get. And it is not the government's responsibility to build for you a safe face. That's that's the issue that we have today is people are looking to the government as their savior. And we are removing personal responsibility. Because then people don't have to be personally responsible, they can blame it on the government. Well, this is what the government said When you choose who you're putting into office, find out are they truthful? You say, Pastor, we have nobody to vote for. I know sometimes pickings are slim and the choices are hard. And just the very fact that somebody's I I've said it before, I don't think that I could be in office Because there's so much give and take that has to take place to maintain your position that I don't think I could do it. I think they would run me out in a hurry because I would not want to bend on this stuff. And it takes somebody with great wisdom to be able to balance these things, but are they truthful? Um the last thing here is that they hate covetousness. They hate covetousness. That description there literally means any type of unjust gain. Any type of unjust gain. So if your candidate that you're considering is for uh the racetrack Or would want to vote for bringing in gambling, this is unjust gain. And that's not the candidate you want If your candidate is for raising taxes. This is unjust gain. And it's not the candidate you want. If your candidate is for the redistribution of wealth, this is unjust gain. And it's not the candidate you want. It's not right to take from Bob and give it to Andrew It doesn't matter if Bob makes ten million dollars a year and Andrew only makes five. Congratulations, Bob. Work harder, Andrew. It's personal responsibility. Man, is it fair that these people have all the money and we don't have any? Go get a job It is fair. That's life. Stop looking for the government to solve your problems. Take personal responsibility for your situation. If a candidate is for redistribution of wealth, he's not the candidate you want. You need to vote morality, not money. Too many of us vote our pocketbook. Who's gonna give us the biggest Check. Who's going to give us the the most money? Now I'm going to wrap it up with this last thought. I want you to consider the reliability of God. The reliability of God. Here's the thing. If your candidate that you wanted to get in office doesn't make it, God's still in control. You don't have to go sell everything and move to Mexico. Or wherever you want. I'm just saying that listen, God is reliable. The powers that be are ordained of God, and although in our mind we did our part We went out and we voted and we tried to put in who we could to get the right person in office. As Christians, we understand the government's not the answer. God is, and it doesn't matter who's sitting in the presidency or who's sitting in the courthouse or who's sitting on the Senate or the House seat, that God is still the one in control. God is still the one that we rely on, and He is our hope and He is our reward, and it's not about the government. Listen, we do not need a favorable government in order for Christianity to move forward. And we want to do all we can to be careful and try and keep things as free as they can be. But I'll tell you this: most of the time the church did better under persecution than it did under prosperity. And although I'm not looking for persecution, and I certainly don't want to uh you know bring it on any faster than it has to, we're gonna try and stay the tide as long as we can. But freedom in America is not what makes the difference of whether God's church moves forward or not. The difference is whether God's people are on their face seeking Him or not. Whether people are looking to God or looking to government, that's the difference of whether the church moves forward. We look to God. God is in control. The work and power of God is self-existent. It doesn't need a favorable government to make it happen Listen, all of these things are just for a time anyway. This world's not our home. We're passing on. We have no hope of changing this nation politically. That's not our goal. Our hope of changing the nation is in and through the power of God by witnessing and reaching lives one by one. Just like Brother Duarte did on the street playing soccer That's what we've got to be willing to do. Yes, we go out and vote, but that's not the end-all answer. If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves and pray and seek my face. Then will I hear from heaven, will I heal heal their land. We need to pray Pray. We need to get a hold of God. We need to do our part day by day. Don't think because we voted somebody in office, things are going to be okay. So we can relax. Now. We've got to pray. We've got to seek God. That He'll bring healing to this land.