It is so good to see you all tonight. It really is. It does my heart glad to see people. People who I can talk with. people who I can bare my heart with, people who I know love the Lord just like I do. And it's a blessing. But tonight, let's look at his word. Turn with me, if you will, to the book of Ephesians. To the book of Ephesians. Tonight I want to talk about walking worthy. And I know this might be a little bit of a generic title. You may have heard it before, but I think I'm going to take it in a little bit of a different direction than perhaps you've heard. Tonight we're going to talk about walking worthy. We're going to start in the book of Ephesians, but then we are going to hop around a little bit. And I want to share with you what the Lord's been sharing with me. Um many of you know, and I hope most of you know I've been the high school Bible teacher for a Christian school not too far from here this year. So Every day in some capacity, I'm reading the Word of God, presenting the Word of God, teaching the Word of God. And in doing so, isn't it amazing? When you go to the Word of God and say, Lord, I need to convey something to someone today, He gives you something. And He's been challenging me just as much as I believe through His Word, He's been challenging a lot of my students. And I've seen them grow, and I've seen some stall, and I've seen some regress. And it it hurts your heart To know that the Lord is knocking on somebody's door and and they're not answering. And they're putting up those barriers and reinforcing the door and saying, go away, God, I'm not interested today. But at the same time, it's an amazing blessing to have some students who they're getting on fire. They're excited, they're learning, they're coming and saying, Mr. Peterson, I've been dealing with this sin, and sometimes they don't tell me, sometimes they do. and they say, and I am ready to move on from this in my life. I'm saved. I know I'm saved. This is what I've been wrestling with with What what do I need to do? And of course I pointed them to the scripture. I said, here's some things, some practical steps and some scripture to help you begin to combat this. I've seen I had just one student that pops in my mind who they've gone and begin talking with their parents. That's always a big step for a student, especially a Christian, a young man, who's involved with with any kind of sin, not just going to a teacher, but then what? Facing their parents. Mom, dad, you've trusted me, but this has been in my heart and it's been festering here and I need to deal with this. And he's done that. And I look at that and I'm like, amazing. Amazing. The Lord is still working in hearts today. He's working in my heart. And I see all of this, and it brought me to a place where I began to question. I said, Lord, I see them growing, and I see them Turning away. And for some reason, Lord, I feel like I'm somewhere in the center. I feel like you're you're show you're showing me things I'm beginning to walk in things, but I know I'm still struggling in areas. Lord, you know, make my path clearer. Show me more from your word. Lord, I see this amazing growth, and I want that kind of growth again And the Lord challenged me and he said, listen, sometimes I have these conversations with God. I would love to say they're not one-sided. I am talking to Him. And then I have to go to his word and see his reply. Or I have to sit in church and hear someone preaching and hear his reply. Or I have to have the Holy Spirit tap on my heart and I hear a reply. But I have to be sensitive to that, right? I have to be where I'm supposed to be. And what the Lord has been showing me is not everywhere in my life have I been walking worthy. You say, well, what do you mean by that? Well let's look in Ephesians starting in chapter four, just the first two verses to start, and then we'll move from here. I therefore, of course this is the Apostle Paul speaking to the Church of Ephesus. I, therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, he wrote this from prison, from jail, he was under house arrest, I beseech what, uh prisoner of the Lord, beseech you that ye Walk worthy of the vocation wherewith ye are called, with all lowliness and meekness, with long suffering, for bearing one another in love. Now I need to give this some context. The whole book of Ephesians was written, and it was written to the Church of Ephesus, and it was dealing with unity within the church. One body in Christ Jesus. All of us together as brothers and sisters in Christ, fulfilling our God-given roles within the body of Christ. so that God could be magnified. Now I don't know per se exactly what problems may have been going on in the Church of Ephesus, but I know if Paul is writing on unity, that implies there was some disunity It implies that some people maybe felt left out. It implied maybe some people thought more highly of themselves than they should have. And said, and looked at another member and said, I know my role here in the church, but what do they contribute? It ought not be so. Every believer within the body has a role to fulfill. And we should be walking worthy of the vocation, of the job, of the idea, of the position that the Lord has called us to. And so I I looked at that and I and when I saw the word vocation, I realized it was one way to look at it in my mind, being a guy, I don't know, maybe maybe being a lady, but what, what Uh uh it's a it's a it's a it's a job, which in my mind means there's clear criteria of things I'm supposed to be fulfilling. Do you get hired for a position and they just say, here's a paycheck, just show up? No. They tell you What's expected of you? Well you're gonna have these responsibilities, you're gonna have this time, this is your boss, this is what's going to be happen. Hopefully that's what happened when you got hired. I don't know, maybe you're situation, but somewhere along the way, someone told you and laid out, here's the position you're going to be filling. So then I looked at the Lord and I said, Lord, am I walking worthy? And he said, Well, here are vocations. You have a vocation. You have a position you're supposed to fill, right? And I said, okay, Lord, if I'm supposed to fulfill some positions, what are the positions I'm supposed to be fulfilling as a Christian? Because I want to make sure that I'm being everything you expect me to be. Where am I perhaps falling short? I I feel that I've removed my known sin from my life. I've got that. And I've and I've maybe got this. But Lord is there may be some area of my life, a vocation, a calling that I may be neglecting inadvertently. Is there something I'm missing? And now this isn't every position that the Lord has called us to as believers, but he kind of drove home three for me. And so that's hopefully what he'll do for you this evening. Turn back just a page to Ephesians chapter two. And we're going to do a little bit of scripture reading here. But I want you to see the first position, the first vocation, the first job, the first place where the Lord has called us as Christians to be walking worthy in. Now, I realize this is a good bit of scripture here, but let's start in verse in chapter 2, verse 1. And we'll wrap up in verse 19. I won't read every single verse, but I want to lay the foundation here. He says, and you who? You believers. Remember, he's writing to the church. He's writing to saved people. You. And you hath he quickened who were dead in trespasses. and sins, wherein in time past ye walked according to the coerce of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air. The spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience. So here in this passage, he says, listen, before you met Jesus Christ and were saved, You were under the control of the Prince of the Power of the Air, of Satan, and fulfilling his role for you. He used you to fulfill his purposes. It's a sad thought, but it's true. Satan can move us and manipulate us. Maybe as Christians, but certainly as an unsaved individual, he owns us. But, but we've been made alive. But we're different now. Look in verse 5. Even when we were dead in sins, have quickened us together with Christ by grace. Ye are saved. And hath raised us up together and made us to sit together in heavenly places. in Christ Jesus. Verse 8, for by grace are ye saved through faith that not of yourselves it is the gift of God, not of works. Lest any man should boast. So let's let's I mean it always starts here, but for you to be fulfilling your God-given roles in life and what he wants you to walk worthy in, what's step number one? Be saved It starts there. It always starts there. God's will for every single human being starts at salvation. What is this will? That all the world should be saved. Now you look at me, and hopefully tonight on a Thursday night, every one of us can look and say, Amen, brother. I'm saved. I believe in Jesus Christ for my salvation. I trust in none other but him and him alone. I can contribute nothing to my salvation. He's done it all. I just believe that he's done it. And amen. That's all that's required. Faith. That's all that's required. And so now with that, let's move forward a little bit, and let us now go all the way to verse 18. For through him we both have access by one spirit unto the Father. Notice, God is now the Father. Now, therefore, ye are no more strangers and foreigners, but what? But fellow citizens with saints And of the household of God. Verse verse prior, he's our father. What are we now? In the household. What are we? Children. Sons and daughters. So what is the first place in our life where we where it's our calling? It's where we're supposed to walk worthy. As his son. As his daughter. In the role of a child beholden to the Father. Isn't it amazing when God has a place for us to fill? He gives clear instructions for how we're supposed to behave elsewhere in Scripture. Do we not know the role of a child within the family structure? What? To love? To obey? To respect? To honor And I had to examine myself and Lord, Lord, as a son, as your son, am I behaving biblically as a son to a father? Because I just turned w we were singing uh um the the song Sweeter as the years go by and I'm like are you singing that because I turned older this week? I turned twenty-six this week. Right? And but but I'm at the point in my life where my father's will always be my dad, right? He'll always be my dad. But what? I'm married, I'm outside of the house. I'm kind of out of the mode of thinking as a son because hopefully, not we don't know when, but hopefully the future pastor was trying to scare me to death this past Sunday. In a good way. But what? I'm supposed to be w moving towards a father role, right? Now, brother Glover, you've been a father for many years. No. Okay, never mind. A good while. A decent amount of time. Forgive me, I might be overstepping. I don't want to insult your brother. But one in college, I think a little, a decent while, right? When was the last when was the la I had to stop and say, Lord, when was the last time I looked at myself and said, Am I being an obedient child? Because I've got in my head I'm the father and I'm now the head of my house, but am I still obedient like a child? To my heavenly father? Or have I allowed that relationship to deteriorate a little bit? Am I fulfilling that role properly Do I allow that relationship to wither and to fade and what? And allow something to come in between me and my father There's only been a few times in my life, but they have happened, where I was terrified to talk to my father. Why? Because of decisions I made. As a 26-year-old man now, I can be honest and say, yeah, I've made some mistakes in my life. That caused a strain on the relationship and the fellowship I was supposed to have with my father because of my own poor decision-making and quite frankly, sin. Where are we at? How's your relationship with your father? Is there aught between you? You know, 1 John 1:9 is there in the Bible that says, if we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Do you know why I've memorized that verse more recently in my life? Because I need it. Because I need to be reminded that my relationship With my Heavenly Father needs to have that level of priority in my life that when I sin and when I knowingly sin, I need to immediately confess that sin so that it does not distance me from my Father. Because if I allow myself to be distanced from my father, I'm not fulfilling the role of a son. I'm starting to be more like a stranger and a foreigner, not like a fellow citizen in Christ, and certainly not in the same household of God. So the first theory the Lord really hit me on was, Jacob, are you my son, or are you just kind of in, you know, the extended family? Now listen, the Peterson clan is large. You go over to Carroll County and you kick a bush and you're gonna find a Peterson or someone vaguely related to a Peterson. We're everywhere. We can all be in the family, but there's a special relationship between a father and a son, or a father and a daughter. Am I starting to be more distant? Or am I keeping my father close Am I walking worthy of the position of a son? Because that is what he has granted me. That is what he has blessed me with. That is what he has called me to be his son. Am I fulfilling that? And honestly, brothers and sisters in Christ, in the last few months, I had to look and say, no, I've been allowing that relationship, that closeness that should be there to strain. And I was hanging on to sin a little longer than I probably should. I wasn't keeping that short account with God. I said, Lord, I gotta fix that. How am I gonna fix that? You know what? I really I know that verse is there. I'm gonna memorize that verse. First John 1 9. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Why do you beat that into your brain? Because that's what I need every single day. That's what I need when I'm dealing with dozens of teenagers that are not my children. When what you would do biblically you can't do legally. Why? I love my students to death And then sometimes I see see stuff in their life and I'm like, if you were my child But I'm not your parent. I'm just your teacher, so I can curtail your behavior while you're in this room. But what? So the first the first area, am I walking worthy of being a son? Being a child of God? Do I have that relationship? Do you know how many examples there are in the Old Testament of bad sons? Oh my goodness. Absalom, Adonai, oh horrible sons. But we also got good sons. Now listen, before he officially became king, David, when he was serving Saul, Acted like a true son. At Saul's Beck and Call. Something was going on. David was there. Even when he was unwanted, David was there because that was his position, and he acted like a true son to Saul. Now our Heavenly Father is certainly not Saul. He loves us, He cares for us, He would never harm us. But I had to look at that and I had to say, Am I that close to my God, to my Father? No, I need to work on that, Lord. I do need to work on that. I need to work on my relationship with you because I'm not being a proper son The next area that we see, turn with me to Revelation. Now, when you think of Revelation, you don't really think of this, but these struck me just a few weeks ago when I was reading this. And then I heard it again in a message I was listening to when it was referenced, but it really hit me and I I said, wow, this is really interesting. When you think revelation, what do you think? Apocalypse, the end of the world. And in the first few chapters there's some warnings to the churches, right? There's some warnings to some churches, and then there's the end times. You're right here, snuck in the very beginning of the book of Revelation. is an amazing little thought that John puts in here, that the Holy Spirit guided him to put here. And I saw this and I'm like, wow, whenever, every time I've read this, I always try to skip through the first few chapters to get to the good stuff. And I missed it. And the Lord just kind of hit me upside the head one day and said, Look at this. In Revelation, look at chapter 1, verse 4. John to the seven churches which are in Asia, grace be unto you, and peace. from him which is and which was and which is to come, Jesus Christ, of course, and from the seven spirits which are before his throne. And from Jesus Christ, who is the faithful witness. and the first begotten of the dead, and the prince of the kings of the earth, unto him that loved us and washed us from our sins in his own blood. Look at verse six. and have made us kings and priests unto God and his Father, to whom be glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. It's snuck right in here in the greeting, but what does he tell us we are now in Christ? Jesus Christ has elevated us as believers to this position, kings and priests And I read that, and I immediately knew some areas in my life where I looked at the Lord and said, Lord, I've been looking for areas to grow, and you just showed me. A whole new vein of growth that I haven't I haven't pursued at all. What? Being a king and being a priest. You're like, wait a second, wait a second. You're talking about the Levitical. No, no, no. Of course, we are in a new priesthood. What? Jesus Christ is our high priest. We are now what a part of a royal priesthood? We don't have all the clothes to wear and the ceremonies to perform, but what do we have? A level of holiness that is expected from us as priests. And as kings, what? This this this was the one that hit me in the gut. Kings. Am I, listen, he's the king of kings, but am I behaving As if one day I will have a position of authority, because I will. He's going to reward us for our service one day, and we will rule and reign with him. So am I preparing myself to be a king. And you're like, whoa, well, how do you have that? Well, it's amazing. There's this amazing book in the Bible, who would have thought, that tells us Sign up some good thoughts on being a king. And it's it's you might have heard of it. It's this handy-dandy book filled with all these wonderful sayings and great wisdom. And it it goes a little something uh like this All the way, you might it's this it's this really, you know, kind of almost hidden one. It's called Proverbs, um, an amazing book. that starts with this, the Proverbs of Solomon, the son of David, King of Israel. So what is this whole book entit entitled? Um I don't know. This is the king telling his son how to be a proper king. What do you mean? I mean, if I'm gonna rule and reign with Christ one day I think I should at least start conducting myself like I hold the office. Because if you read that verse in Revelation, it doesn't say one day he's going to make us kings. It says right now you are already. Christ has elevated you to that position already. And I look at myself just as Solomon looked at himself and Lord, I need wisdom. I need intelligence. I need guidance. I am living this life, and you're telling me one day I'm going to be ruling and reigning with you. I'm not ready for that. I need to grow. How can I grow in this? And the Lord hit me upside the head and said, it's almost like there's a whole book in the Bible describing how a young man is supposed to grow and be a proper ruler. Oh yeah, there is that, isn't there? Proverbs. And I started reading Proverbs daily. And I realized once again, Lord, I am failing in walking in this vocation. I'm not walking worthy to be named a king. I'm not seeking godly counsel everywhere I should be. I am sometimes seeding myself with the scornful I am sometimes ignoring what you have said and instead are following my own wisdom and that's condemned to the book of Proverbs. I'm a fool. A fool. Perhaps I'm not conveying this properly, but one day I'm going to be rewarded for my service in Christ. Not at the great white throne judgment, but at the judgment scene I will be not judged for my sin, but rewarded for my service for Him. And some of those rewards He's made it clear are positions of authority in his future kingdom. Am I genuinely living like that's a reality one day, or am I just kind of piddling around? Either the Bible is true, and I will one day hold a position of genuine authority. Or it's not, and there's no really point in living like this, and there's no really point in being in this building, there's no really point in me doing any of this. And I looked and I said, Lord, I've not conducted myself. I mean, there's a level of Weight gravitas that a king is supposed to have. Not cold and hard, but what? Seriousness? Wisdom And I looked at that and I said, Lord, you know, I I crack jokes all the time, I'm fine with that. Like I can be humorous, but I need a little bit more seriousness in my life. I need to not neglect the things of the Lord like I have been. Because I can look at the history of kings And see every single one that failed miserably at being a king Why? Because they forgot the things of God. Because they got distracted with temporal pleasures. Because they built a harem for themselves for crying out loud. Now that's not going to be happening in God's kingdom. But poor Solomon, who had the whole book of Proverbs and was reading and practicing, well, it still fell away. And I look at that and I'm like, if the wisest man ever to live Fell that way, what chance do I have? And the Lord just reminded me. He said, Yeah, he left me. All that wisdom did nothing for him. Read the book of Ecclesiastes. For crying out loud, the man was on his deathbed miserable. Why? Because even though he had all the wisdom, he didn't have the relationship Guess what? He had taken his position as king seriously, but he forgot his position as a son of God, and so his relationship with God withered and died. So I can't just be a son, and I can't just be a king. I have to be fulfilling these vocations simultaneously. Or one will overrule the other. At the same time as I'm preparing myself to be a king with wisdom and discretion and judgment, I still need to be his son with a tender heart and obedience. And willing to come with him, we'll come to him for everything, because he's my father. These aren't things that I can just pick up and put, I'm going to put on my son hat today. and then take that off tomorrow and put on my king hat today and put that down. And then I'm going to pick up my priest hat and put that on. These are things I need to be doing together. And the Lord look the Lord's been working on me for months on those guys. I had the very arrogant thought right as I was getting married Right around that time. Lord, I've gotten married and I'm I'm I'm content where I'm at in my spiritual life. Never think that God has a way of showing you how wrong you are. He has a way of dissuading you of that. And I thought to myself, what more, you know, what more do I have to grow, really? I mean I'm gonna fulfill and serve more positions for you, Lord, but we're we're really more I'm where I need to be, right? Oh no, Jacob, oh no. No. God's over the last few months showed me, he's like, oh you you think you've arrived. Son, let me inform you of every failure. And this is what he's been doing. These positions that I've not been walking worthy of. His son. One day, a king. Now he's the king of kings, but one of his kings. And thirdly, I take it from that passage there in Revelation 1. 6, but one of his priests. Revelation 1. 6, he's called us to be what? Kings and priests. Priests, priests, my goodness, what I thought being and living up to the expectations of a king was going to be hard. Priests. Who did the people look to when they needed to talk to God? Priests. Why did the tribe of Levi, and I know we're not of the Levitical priesthood, but why did the tribe of Levi not get land, but get cities situated all throughout all the other tribes? Because they were supposed to be the shining light. Of what God expected and wanted, so that when the people needed to look to an example of what they were supposed to be as a child of God, there was the priest Throughout the land, ever present, removed from sin, serving and focusing on God, knowing His Word. And presenting his word to other people. Those same expectations apply to you and me. And oh my goodness. The Lord looked at me and said, You you've called yourself a priest, really. I thought, no, Lord, I'm not I'm not walking worthy of that vocation. Do you know what happened when the priests failed? I just taught it to some kids in Old Testament class. We just read it in First Samuel. What happens? The sons of Eli, the high priest, perverting the worship of God And I read this verse in 17, and I read it to my Old Testament class, and when I was studying for this message, it hit me like a wall What? Verse 17, uh you don't have to turn there, but first Samuel two seventeen describes all of the things that they've been doing, and it leads up to this thought in verse seventeen. Wherefore the sin of the young men was very great before the Lord For the men, for men, not those men, but all of Israel, for men abhorred the offering of the Lord. They hated going to worship God. Because of how fraudulent and sin-filled his servants were. Isn't this The most common thing you hear from an unsaved person who doesn't want to go to a church, they're hypocrites. When we fail to walk properly in our role as a priest, yes, a priest, someone set apart from the world, someone set apart from sin, someone who's holding themselves to a higher standard. Than the world around them. Someone who knows the Word of God. When we fail in this duty, what do we do? People look at us and say, Why would I serve that God? Oh god hit me with that. I praise the Lord that I'm surrounded by more mature Christians in this church and in my life. And yes, everyone stumbles and makes makes mistakes. But do you understand that we are priests? Yes, men and women alike, in this weight and responsibility that is on us. And for a normal person to stumble, yeah. But for a priest, it carries an extra level of harm and weight If a normal person was doing the things these two Hoffney and Phineas were doing, people would have been disgusted. But They would have, you know, they were just normal men. These were the priests. These were the people who were supposed to represent God. Am I representing him properly? I know it's a small verse in a really small book, but Malachi 2. 7. I read this just the other day. It's amazing when the Lord just But in Malachi 2. 7, for the priest's lips should, should, note, should keep knowledge, and they should seek the law at his mouth, for he is the messenger of the Lord of hosts. I should be doing those things. But as the book of Malachi lays out, they most certainly weren't. I'm a priest. And how much of his word do I actually know? I'm a priest. How much does my life actually reflect the Savior and my God to the people around me? I'm a priest. How much filth have I allowed to get on my hands and in my life? I'm a priest. People are supposed to look at me and not see me, but see my God through me. Do they look at me and say, that guy's different? That guy actually knows God. Or do they look at Hoffney and Phineas? I what abhor serving their God. I would never step foot in whatever place he goes to. Now listen, there's a gradient between those two, admittedly. But I look at that and I say, because of my role that I'm supposed to be fulfilling, I'm supposed to be walking worthy as a son And I was supposed to be walking worthy as a future king, a king now presently, but with land to come, and a priest. These were three areas that the Lord hit me upside the head and said, Are you walking worthy in these vocations? I'm not perfect, I never will be perfect until I see the other side. But am I even trying? I see these positions. I see the requirements that are laid out for me. And I, of my own free will, stepped into God's employ. And chose to become his son and a future king and a priest. Am I ignoring some of the requirements of my vocation? Don't you hate it? Y'all you got a coworker and it is in their job description. You know how some people say it's not my job description. Not my job But what if it is? And they just neglect it. I know it's a part of my duties But I'm so busy doing this. I know, but this is part of your job. This is your vocation. This is what you're required to do. This is what is expected of you. If you got an apprentice on the job, Matt, and it had in his job description, these are the things you're supposed to be doing, and he refuses To do some of them or just neglects to do some of them, at what point do you look at them and say, What are you doing? Why are you here? I need someone who's going to fulfill at least the minimum of what your job outlines. And what are we supposed to be? Just minimum? Just minimum Christians? We're supposed to be profitable servants. How can we be profitable to our Lord if we're not even meeting the minimum? I've neglected some of these roles in my life far too long. And not to but through his power and through his word, I aim to correct that. This was not a, I see someone in the church and they need to change. This was, yeah, I see someone in the church and they need to change methods. I looked at all of this and the Lord just kept hitting me and hitting me and hitting me and said, Jacob, what are you doing? You are supposed to be growing. You are supposed to be maturing. And I'm like, you're right, Lord, these are areas I have neglected. But in his word, praise the Lord, he's got the solution. I've got the book of Proverbs. I've got all the books of the Kings. I've got all the passages that have to deal with the priesthood, and you know what a a modern priest equivalent, yes, we're a child of God. But what? All of the things in the New Testament as Christians that we're supposed to be, like in the book of Ephesians Like in the book of Galatians, like in the books of 1st and 2 Timothy and Titus, where things are outlined as Christians that we're supposed to be following. It's not like you just said, now this is your job requirement, but I'm not going to tell you how to do it. It's all right here. And I was failing to see that it was here. I thought, oh, those stories about the kings, well that's interesting history Those proverbs, well, those are nifty sayings. And God was like, no, you're supposed to be a king. I'm giving you the instructions on what to be and what not to be. You're supposed to be my son. I've given you instructions on what you're supposed to be, what you're not supposed to be. You're supposed to be my priest, a representative of me to the world. Here's what you should be, and here is what you definitely should not be. And I'm like, Lord, I I missed this. I missed it. I don't know what the Lord's speaking to your heart about, but he tore me up over this That passage with Hoffney and Phineas scared me because Eli knew he had a problem and refused to deal with it. And I said, Lord, that is not a priest I want to be. Do you know what do you know what he do you know what he said? Do you know what he said? Go and read that passage when Samuel delivers the message that his whole house is going to face judgment. You know what he said? He didn't beg for mercy. Didn't cry out. Because God is full of mercy. What did he do? He said, let the Lord do what he wants to do. It's paraphrasing slightly, but it's literally what he did. He threw up his hands and said, well, if God's got a problem with my family, he can fix it. I don't want to be that kind of Christian. Well, if God's got a problem with the way I'm living, I'll let him fix it. Inviting the judgment of God into my life, or into your life, is not the smartest court of action. I've seen far too many prophets and priests and kings and sons face the judgment of God not only in this book but in my life and people around me. where I'm like, you know what, I really should be taking this whole thing a little more seriously. Forgive me, I've gone long tonight. But this is what the Lord laid on my heart. Am I walking worthy? of these roles, these positions that I am currently. I'm not one day going to be his son. I'm his son now. Not one day going to be a king. Revelation 1, I am a king now. He's elevated me to that position already. Yet to be fulfilled on, but I'm in that position. I am a priest at this moment. I'm part of the royal priesthood, according to 1 Peter 2:9. I'm part of the royal priesthood. He's my high priest. Am I fulfilling my obligations? Am I walking worthy? Or am I letting some stuff slide? I looked at this and I said, Lord, it's going to be hard to juggle these. I can maybe work on this and work on this. I'm not good at multitasking. The Lord looked at me and said, listen, this is where you're at. This is what's needed. This is what's necessary. And I said, Lord, wherever you require it, you provide the means to accomplish it. It's that simple. If God tells us to do something, he will supply what we need to do it. If God calls you to speak, he will give you the words and the voice and the presence of mind to do it. If God calls you to witness to somebody, he will give you the words and the presence of mind and the knowledge of Scripture to do it. But there has to be the level on our side of the effort to to meet it. I can't God can't say this is what's required, and I say, well, that's neat. I'm just going to focus on this instead. And expect to grow as a Christian. Everyone's at a different stage, everyone's at a different level. But these are positions we already fill. Are we walking worthy of them