Follow along as I read our text. Matthew chapter 14, verses 22 to 33 is our text. This is a familiar passage of scripture, especially as we get into it. We start reading this, you're going to recognize it. Not just because it hasn't been that long since we've read it together in our devotions, but uh it will uh be a passage that we're familiar with because this story is uh definitely one that is told and repeated. He says in Matthew chapter 14, verse 22, And straightway Jesus constrained his disciples to get into a ship and to go before him unto the other side, while he sent the multitudes away. And when he had sent the multitudes away, he went up into a mountain apart to pray. And when the evening was come, he was there alone. But the ship was now in the midst of the sea, tossed with waves, for the wind was contrary. And in the fourth watch of the night Jesus went unto them, walking on the sea And when the disciples saw him walking on the sea, they were troubled, saying, It is the spirit, and they cried out for fear. But straightway Jesus spake unto them, saying, Be of good cheer. It is I, be not afraid. And Peter answering him and said, Lord, if it be thou, bid me come unto thee on the water. And he said, come. And when Peter was come down out of the ship, he walked on the water to go to Jesus. And when he saw the wind boisterous, he was afraid and began to sink. He cried, saying, Lord, save me. And immediately Jesus stretched forth his hand and caught him and said unto him, O thou of little faith, wherefore dost thou doubt? And when they were come into the ship, the wind ceased. Then they that were in the ship came and worshipped him, saying, Of a truth, thou art the Son of God. I want to speak to you this morning a message walking on the water. Walking on the water. You know, this passage of scripture, this story, this Peter walking on the water. Uh you know, it's it's an amazing story and to think about uh e walking on the water in a calm sea I don't know if any of you have ever been on a rough sea, uh, but it's not pleasant uh at all. And uh you know, to get out of the boat uh that only source of security that you have. And and Peter there asking to to walk on the water. He said, If it if it be thou, bid me come unto thee. Does he think nobody else would bid him to come? I mean, nobody else would say, sure, come on, Peter. Uh you know, they thought it might be a spirit, but You know, Jesus, of course, answering, meeting them there. There's so many things as we look at this passage of Scripture that I want to talk to us this morning about our life as Christians. And the life we live, the storms we enter, the faith that it takes to continue to be faithful to God and do what God wants us to do, to trust Him in the storm To walk on the water, to have that kind of faith. We want to talk about that this morning. Let's pray. Lord, we come to you this morning. I ask you to give me liberty to pray. Lord, would you open those scriptures this morning? Would you give us understanding? The Bible says that the Spirit of God guides us into all truth. And I pray, Lord, the Spirit of God would come into the heart of every person present this morning that the Spirit would speak to them, would take the Word of God and apply it to their life, to their heart. There's some people here This morning that may need to be encouraged, they're going through a storm, they're facing a struggle, and Lord they're just wondering if they're going to make it through and they need your help this morning There may be some, Lord, that have never come to you for put their faith and trusted you at all, and they need to cry out as Peter did and say, Lord, save me, Lord, that they might know for sure that they're on their way to heaven. that their sins are forgiven. Lord, I pray that if there's one here like that today, that they would do it before it's eternally too late. And Lord, we ask you to to guide us through these thoughts this morning, that you would speak to our hearts and challenge us from your word in Jesus' precious name. Amen. The disciples, these men of God, these people who had given their life to serving the Master. had just experienced a great miracle. They had just watched Christ do the impossible They had been walking with the Master, talking with the Master. They'd been serving with him day in and day out. They had gone with Jesus to a desert place, the scripture says. In this desert place, they had tried to find a place to get alone for a few minutes. They wanted to just have a couple of minutes, a little bit of time by themselves, but the multitude Found out where Jesus was. And when the multitude found out where Jesus was, they came to him. They pressed him. They wanted to be with him. And so Jesus ministered to them. The Bible says that he healed the sick. He served them. He ministered to them. And the disciples were there with Jesus. You know, this took place before the passage we read, but I want you to have the context. I want you to see what happened in the background. And they had just experienced the amazing feeding of the 5,000. That had just happened. After a long day, the scripture says actually that when it was evening The time was now past. That is, the time for all reasonableness had gone. Have you ever had anybody that overstayed their welcome? Like the time had now passed, like they should have left a long time ago. This is how the disciples felt. They felt like these people have been here long enough. Lord, would you send them away? And and Jesus says, No. And then he he says the disciples are saying, Well, they've got to eat. Look at all these people. The time has passed for dinner. The time has passed for all reasonableness. Jesus sent them away and Jesus said, Give ye them to eat. And of course they like, how are we going to do that? We only have five loaves and two fish. And Jesus says, bring them to me. And you know the story that they He parts the fish and the bread and feeds five thousand. Well, the reason I give you this context is because I want you to see in the progression of the story that immediately following that, the Bible says straightway, that is, right after the feeding of the 5,000, they enter a storm. And that is the course of life. You see, you experience a victory, and can I caution you, can I warn you to be ready for a storm? You know, we enjoy the mountaintops. We enjoy being up there. It's the fun times, the mountaintop experiences of life, those are the experiences we have pictures of. Those are the experiences that we talk about. Those are the experiences that we reminisce about. It's fun to climb up to the overlook and to see that beautiful scenery. But you know you don't live up there. At some point you've got to turn around and come down. So I don't know that it's just the ebb and flow of life or the lessons that Christ wants to teach us. But understand it seems to be true, and it's true in this passage of Scripture that immediately following a great victory When you were experiencing a mountaintop, you're like, man, isn't life good? Boy, God is great. Boy, these things are exciting. Look at what the Lord is doing. As soon as you experience that, just be ready Because it's very likely that a storm is going to come. That's what happened here. The storm came immediately following the feeding of the 5,000 Jesus wanted to find some time to get alone and pray, and he tells the disciples, he says, Hey, get ye in a boat and go to the other side. I want to go and pray. Can I say that if the Son of God, Jesus, God in the flesh, needed to find time to pray? If Jesus wanted to spend time on bended knee, then you and I need that for sure. Amen. We need to be spending time in prayer. We need to be finding that time alone. Jesus had Then, I mean, they they had required of him over and over and over again. They had all people around all the time, but Jesus had to find a time to get alone and to go and to pray. The disciples, verses 22 and 23, the disciples set sail. Jesus goes to pray. They find their ship in a storm. 25, Jesus goes to them walking on the sea. The Bible says in the fourth hour, the fourth watch of the night. They think he's a ghost and they cry out in fear, but Jesus says, Hey, be of good cheer. It is I. Be not afraid. Afraid. And we know the story. Peter asked, Lord, if it's thee, bid me come into thee. The Peter's, the ambition. He's always the one ready to open mouth insert foot. You know, I mean he's the one that's gonna try it no matter what Peter did. But you know what? There's some positives in that. Nobody else got to walk on water. Peter got to walk on the water. recorded for us all down in history. Walking on water, beloved, is a picture of the life of faith of the Christian. Christian. You know that the storm is a picture of the struggles that we face. The storm is the challenges, it's the burdens that we deal with, it's the heartache that we face. It's the bereavement and the loss, it's the storms of life. We understand that. But walking on water is is an exercise, a display of the faith that Peter had. This morning I want to talk to you about that walking on water of exercising faith, of having faith to go through the storm to Continue to walk even though it's hard to endure the struggle and to see God come through in a miraculous way where He comes to you personally and says, Fear not, it is I be of good cheer Jesus will come to you in the storm. I want you to understand several things, beloved, about this. First of all, is that God knows where you are in the storm. God knows exactly where the storm is. I've entitled this first point, The Resistance God knows where the storm is and he sent them. The scripture says that straightway Jesus constrained his disciples to get into the ship. And to go before him to the other side. Now, how many of you think that Jesus had no idea that a storm was coming? We know that Jesus knew the storm was coming Yet he said to them, Get in the ship and go to the other side. Jesus knew there was a storm coming. Jesus knows, beloved, where the storms are in your life. The disciples were following Christ. They were acting in obedience to their Lord, and yet they found themselves in a middle of a storm. In the midst of obedience, they were in the midst of a storm. I just want to remind you this morning that a storm is not necessarily a sign of God's displeasure with you Although that has been preached actually, Job's friends said it to him. That's been taught the the man uh lame since his birth. They said, well he must ascend or his parents must ascend. Somebody sinned or he wouldn't be lame. But that is not true. That passage of scripture tells us that that the reason he was lame was so that God would be glorified. So just because you're in the midst of a storm, just because you're going through something in your life, because you're bearing burdens that are too heavy to bear, understand, beloved, it's not necessarily a sign of God's displeasure with you. There are other reasons. Sometimes I think about Job. Job didn't go through it because of sin. He went through it because of Satan. Just because Satan wanted to attack him. It wasn't something that Job did. I think about there's times in life that we go through these just because God wants to be glorified. I believe sometimes God sends us through a storm because He wants to keep us from sin. He wants to keep us from sin. Sometimes he's building strength for the future. You see, God knows where the storm is. And he knows what you need. And he's building strength for future ministry For future possibilities. You know, you don't go out and run a marathon the first day. You have to build up to that. Matter of fact you go out the first day and try and run and decide, forget this, it's not worth it. Uh you have to really push yourself to get that first mile done and then you get the second mile done and you keep training and you keep You keep working and you keep working and you you build up and God knows what you're going to need down the road and and he knows that the storm or the struggle that you're going to be facing later in life, you need some strength for. So you're gonna work out. The storm's to help you work out, to build strength for the future. Sometimes it's to get us to look at him Just like Peter did when he began to sink. He looked back at Jesus and said, Lord, save me. And sadly, but there's times in our lives where we get so distracted by the storm, or we get so distracted by the life that we're living, that uh we're not looking at God. We're not looking at Jesus And God has to bring us into that point where we begin to seek before we'll look up and say, Lord, save me. And it takes that to get us just to look back to God. So there's different reasons or purposes for the storms we might be in, but I want you to know that Jesus knows where the storm is. And Jesus Orchestrates. He designed. You know the winds and the waves, they obey his voice. That was his wind that was contrary to their ship. That was his waves that were buffeting the side of the ship. He orchestrated, he designed that for them. Exactly what they needed to build their faith. He set the resistance. You know, when I was in college we had a I don't know if they use these much anymore, but many years ago it was very popular to have these universal weight systems. where they have one stack of weights in the center of a machine and you could go around the outside of the machine and all the all of the you could do leg lifts and bench press and arm curls and and and uh poles and all of it work off the same stack of weights. And then you just go in and you grab the pin and you put the pin wherever you want it to be. Now, you go in and you pull the pin out, and it's not much of a workout, because you're just pulling the strings, right? The strings and the little bar that holds the weights, you're just that's all you're lifting. And man, that's not too hard. Just kind of enjoyable workout here pulling that. Yeah, arm curls, you know, doing some leg lifts and uh you're doing all not much of a workout, but you you set the resistance. To push yourself a little bit, to build a little bit more strength, so you come in and you put the pin down a little further, right? We had a uh One of our professors in college is pretty physically fit. We don't know when he worked out because he seemed like he was always studying. But he worked out. He would come into the weight room, all the skies would be in there working out, you know, and he would be in his suit and he would sit down with the bench press, he'd pull the pin out, put it all the way at the bottom. He would do the whole stack in a suit, put it back down. He'd say, boys, keep trying. He would walk out, give us something to shoot for. You know, Jesus knows exactly where you need the pen to be. And he's setting the resistance. He's orchestrating the storm. He knows the storm is there. He knows exactly what you're doing. He waited, beloved, until they were in the midst of the sea. Verse 24 says, But the ship was now in the midst of the sea, tossed with waves, for the wind was contrary. Weirsbury said this, he may not come at the time we think that he should come, because he knows when we will need him most. He waited until the ship was as far from land as possible, so that all human hope was gone. He tested the disciples' faith. And in order to do this, he had to remove every human prop. You know, if the ship was still close to the shore, the disciples would have been, forget this, just bailed out and swam back, or they would have just thrown us a rope, or just they would have seen hope somewhere else. And as long as we're holding on to hope somewhere else, we don't see Jesus Christ. There's many people holding on to hope for heaven. Because they've got hope in religion, or they've got hope in church attendance, or they got hope in baptism, but I want you to understand the Bible's clear that there's no other name given among men whereby a man must be saved except Jesus Christ. You put your faith and trust in him and him alone. Just like Peter said, Lord, save me. If somebody's going to know the forgiveness of God and know eternal salvation, it's because they put their faith and trust in Jesus and in him alone. And sometimes all of the other props got to be moved out before we really look to him. That's got to be removed, and that's what God did. God put them in the midst of this storm, and I don't know where you're at this morning. We could change some of the words. Maybe you're in the midst of a storm of death And you're tossed about by many creditors. Maybe you're in a storm, you're in the midst of illness, and you're tossed about by many doctors' appointments and struggles physically. Maybe you're in the midst of a storm in your relationships and you've got troubles in your relationships and it's ongoing battles and you're tossed about by continual struggles with family or friends or these relationship issues. Maybe you're in the midst of a storm of so many ongoing burdens, and you're tossed about by every problem. It seems like it just keeps. This problem and this problem and this problem. They just it these waves, like one problem after another, keep buffeting your life. But it's in the midst of the storm, beloved. You're reminded that God knows where the storm is, and God knows where you are, and that is when we get to see The revelation. The revelation. Beloved God hasn't forgotten you in the midst of the sea. Jesus knows you're there. Can I tell you what Jesus is doing for you in the midst of that sea? In the midst of the storm that you're facing, would you look at verse number 23? And when he had sent the multitudes away, he went up into a mountain, apart, to pray. Uh Jesus may have been praying for a lot of things, but I believe Jesus knew that these disciples were about to go into a storm. Their faith was about to be tested. They were going to need courage. They were going to need strength. They were going to endure some things. They were going to learn some life lessons in Jesus. Jesus went apart on purpose to pray. What Jesus is doing for you in the midst of your storm, beloved is Jesus is praying for you. Jesus is praying for you. Hebrews 7. 25 says, seeing that he ever liveth and make to make intercession for them Jesus is praying for you even now. He knows the disciples were in this storm and what they needed to learn, and he was in prayer for them. And beloved, when the time is right, he will reveal himself to you. He will reveal himself to you. Verse number 25 says, And in the fourth watch of the night, Jesus went unto them walking on the sea. He revealed himself to them. He might not reveal himself at the place where you think he would. You know, we think about, oh, we're going to see Jesus at Church. We're going to see Jesus. He's going to reveal himself in a powerful way in God's house. And I hope, beloved, that we see Jesus at church But you might think, oh, I'm going to see Jesus here, or I'm going to, you know, on Easter morning when the choir is lifted up in song and the day is perfect and everything's just right, that's when we're going to see Jesus. But you know the times that Jesus is the most powerful, when Jesus is the most real to you, is when he meets with you personally. When he comes to you in your hour of need, there is no church service that will ever come close To the night that I spent in the hospital praying for the life of my wife In the storm is when you see God It's when Jesus reveals himself to you. He comes to you personally because he knows the storm you're in and he knows exactly where you are And he comes to you in that hour and reveals himself to you in all of his power. He says to you, You don't have to run. He says, Be not afraid. He says, you can rejoice. Be of good cheer, because it is I. It is I. God comes to you in the storm, in that hour of need, and It brings you to the place where you can, like Peter, walk on water. It's not natural to go through loss. and be able to still have a smile on your face. It's not natural to experience great pain and still be able to have joy in your heart. It's not natural to walk on water, but as a Christian, when you're walking with God and Jesus is with you and you're walking hand in hand through that storm It's like you're walking on water because you have faith in God and you know you can trust Him no matter what you're going through, no matter how hard things are Praise God that we're gonna one day, every storm's gonna be removed, every burden's gonna be gone. We'll be with Him in glory, and we know we can trust Him I hope you can trust him this morning. I hope that he's revealed himself to you. And I don't know what you're going through, but I'm encouraging you this morning to walk on water that is to have faith in your God. Peter, request of Jesus. And Peter answered him and said, Lord, if it be thou, bid me come to thee on the water. Lord, can I come to you? Can I walk on water? There's times, beloved, you're going to be going through something in your life and you're going to think, I can't do this. But you request of God and say, Lord, if you can help me. If you can just give me the strength, I will go through today. I will make it through this trial. Lord, with your help, if you'll walk with me, I'll do it. And God will give you what you need to make it through that struggle. God will do it for you. When you request of Him, as Peter did. You put your eyes on Jesus. We know that when Peter saw the wind. You see, they took his eyes off Jesus and put it back on the storm, put it back on the heartache, put it back on the burden, put it back on the trial, and he began to feel like he was sinking again. But the joyous thing, beloved, is the moment that you call out to God. He just says, Lord, save me. And straightway Jesus reached down and lifted. Peter. You call on God this morning straight away, He will be there. He will be there. He will lift you up. Immediately Jesus stretched forth his hand and caught him and said unto him, O thou of little faith, wherefore dost thou doubt? I know we doubt sometimes. I know the waves seem big. The trial seems heavy. The storm seems to be too much. And sometimes we we doubt. But Jesus is still there. Jesus is still there. Peter actually got out of the boat. He walked on water. It's amazing. Think about this, beloved. Had Peter, had the storm never come, Peter would have never had the opportunity to walk on water. Now for all of eternity is recorded in Scripture. Jesus walked on water. And Peter walked on water. He got to do that because He went through a storm. I know sometimes we look at our lives and we think, man, I just wish I didn't have to go through the storm. I just wish I didn't have to deal with this burden. But beloved, it's only in the storm where you get to experience walking on water. It's only there where you get to experience the hand of God in a very powerful and precious way reach down And pick you up. You get to know your master personally. In the storm, he walked on water. You can have faith and trust God whatever you're going through. And it's only in that struggle, beloved That you get to experience God. The miracle here is not that Peter walked on water. The miracle is that Jesus Was there in the storm. That's the miracle. Now I know we look at what Peter did, and it's a magnificent thing, and it's recorded for us in all of history, and Peter got to explain. That because of the storm, but the miracle is that Jesus is there. And Jesus is with you in whatever storm you're facing, whatever struggle. you're dealing with. We see the result of them looking to Jesus in verses 32 and 33. 33. He says, and when they were coming to the ship, the wind ceased. Then they that were in the ship came and worshipped him, saying, Of a truth, thou art the Son of God You know, beloved, it's just as important what you do after the storm as it is what you do in the storm. You know, going through the storm, we we look to Jesus. That's that's a motivating factor, man. That's that will make you Turn to God, the storm. But when things are calm, it's just as important that we remember who got us through the storm. They got in the boat, and the reason I say the miracle was that Jesus was there because you see, verse number thirty-three says, Then they that were in the ship came and worshipped him. saying of a truth, thou art the Son of God. There was none of the mariners in that in that boat that came up and said, man Peter, look at it! Look what you did! You walked on water! You're amazing! Look at you, Peter! Oh man! Let's worship Peter! By the way, there are some people confused about who they should be worshiping. Christ is the chief cornerstone. Not Peter. You'll see that although Peter got to experience this, that when they got in the boat, everybody looked at Jesus. He's the one that is worshipped. And sometimes in our lives when we get to experience magnificent Things we need to remember, beloved, it's not about us. It's about Him. He's the one that is worthy of all Worship. The result is that the storm ceased and victory was wrought. They worshiped Jesus. I can't help but mention the fact that Hunt Valley Baptist Church has been in the midst of a of a storm, it seems like, for years. And Jesus just gave us the victory. Jesus gave us the victory. We need to remember it's about him. He's the one that brought us through. I know there's times in the midst, and you you better believe it, there's times in the midst of that storm. that I would see the next bill comes come in and I would be sick to my stomach thinking Lord We need you. And if it was up to me, we would have w the storm would have ended a long time ago. I I uh you know, like about four and a half years ago I mean we would have ended this thing right away. But God knows where you're at, and He knows what you can do. You know, sometimes in the weight room we would be joking around and we would take the pin and put the pin all the way on the bottom. And Just well, we couldn't move it. You know, I mean just you have to get two guys on the end and they pick it up, you know. Uh just you know if you're setting a pin sometimes you don't set it right. But God always sets it right. God knows exactly what you need. And He knows when the storm needs to end. And His timing is always perfect. The faith comes in when we just trust him. In the midst of the storm, we request of him where we're at. And we get to experience the glorious result of walking through that. And in the picture that we looked at this morning, we get to experience walking on water. We get to do what is necessary. Not naturally done in and through the power of God. Could I encourage you this morning? I don't know. I d I know some of your stories. I know some of the burdens of people in here are carrying. I know some of the struggles. that you're facing. I just want to turn your eyes towards Jesus this morning. Would you trust him?