Familiar passage of scripture this evening, but one I'm going to uh take a slightly different direction uh than what you would uh think as This passage of scripture, you know, is dealing with the prodigal son. In Luke chapter fifteen, if you're there, say amen. All right, beginning in verse number eleven, reading down, follow along with me to the end of verse number thirteen. And he said, A certain man had two sons. And the younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the portion of goods that falleth to me. And he divided unto him his living. And not many days after the younger son gathered all together, took his journey into a far country. And there wasted his substance with righteous living. I want to speak to you for a few minutes tonight on wasted substance. Wasted substance. Would you pray with me? Lord, I ask you tonight that you would guide my thoughts, that you would take this Vital and important message. Might not be one here that needs the heart of this message tonight But I know that it comes to all of us at one point or another, and I pray, Lord, that the heart of it would speak to us. It would be something that if we don't need it right now, we would store in our heart and mind and save for the day and hour when we do. I ask you just to bless the time we have together. Lord, don't pass us by tonight. Don't pass us by. Speak to us in Jesus' name. Amen. Beloved, just here as the prodigal took all that he had and wasted it when he went and ran from his father to live a life of sin. I would proposition for you this evening that the way of the wicked is a wasteful way. Let me turn that around and to say to be wasteful is to be wicked. I think there are many places in the Word of God that we could draw this from and talk about and show how the Lord expects us to be good stewards of that which He's given us. In 1 Chronicles chapter 17, don't turn there. I just want to reference a verse, but God talking about his children. And he talked about how he was going to put them into a place and he was going to establish them there, that they were going to be uh uh in that place and they're gonna grow and they're gonna prosper, and he says, about them that are round about them, he says, neither shall the children of wickedness waste them anymore. It is the habit or the way of a wicked world to be wasteful. One night this last week in our family devotions, there was a thought that touched my heart. It struck a chord, and I began to ponder and think about that throughout the week and From that came the message I'm bringing to you this evening. Now, this message I'm going to take a long time to draw back. I'm going to take a long time to maybe take aim. And I'm going to let it go right at the end with the heart, the thought. That I want you to take home. So stick with me and ask God to speak to your heart. I want to remind you this evening that we live in a throwaway society. The wasteful nature of modern life has just about ruined our current generation. Every fifteen point five hours Americans throw out enough plastic to fill the largest NFL stadium in America. Almost twice a day. We throw away enough plastic to fill the stadium. Our current way of living incentivizes waste. Our modern society, all these things incentivize and almost promote or push the idea of wastefulness. Consider just a throwaway diaper. Disposable diapers are the third largest consumer item in landfills. Now when I read that I thought that's a big diaper. Ninety-two percent of the disposable diapers will ultimately get buried in landfills. No I'm not sure where the other 8% go, but you figure that out. Disposable diapers, they they believe will take about 500 years to decompose I don't know where that number comes from, but they believe or they have established that the average family on a single baby will spend $840 a year on diapers. That a baby will use around 6,000 diapers during their first two years of life. It's some mom saying, I believe it. Yep, that's expensive Six thousand diapers. Now you take that in comparison to what I grew up on. Cloth diapers which are reused and in those two years you may use about thirty to fifty diapers. Saving that eight hundred and fifty dollars. You say, well, I'm not gonna do that. That's gross. You would rather spend money. You would rather do what's convenient. Just gonna take this and throw it away. It's faster, it's easier, it's not as disgusting, even though it costs a lot of money, it's what's convenient And we live our lives this way. 4. 9 pounds of garbage is what the average American throws away every single day. You understand that's approaching a ton. Two thousand pounds of trash, they believe, each individual throws away in a year. This ranges from the banana field that you discarded to the things that we deemed broken beyond repair and simply want to discard, or the things that We just want to get rid of because we want a new one. Whatever that might be. Now I'm a capitalist at heart. I'm a capitalist through and through. I wish they would get out of our economy and let capitalism run. But I want you to understand that it's capitalism and greed that has brought us to the place that we're at. We don't keep things anymore. In fact, things are not even manufactured to last. They are quite literally engineered to fail. They're designed to fall apart, to promote more sales. Beloved, there is a light bulb running in the Livermore fire station that has been burning continually since it was installed in 1901. A light bulb that is still burning. It was turned on the first time in 1901 and has never gone out. You see, in 1924 in Geneva, a meeting was held by the top light bulb manufacturers. This included Phillips and GE and many brands from other countries. They formed the Phoebus Cartel because of the drastic declining of sales. They decided to cut the lifespan of their bulbs by more than half to under a thousand hours. They agreed amongst themselves that we will no longer manufacture at that time they had bulbs that could live that had a lifespan of around 2,500 hours And they said that is too long. People's bulbs are lasting too long. They're not buying new ones. We need to stop this. We need to manufacture bulbs that will only last an hour. And these companies agreed to that And they set up this feeble cartel and what they discerned is every batch of bulbs that came out of a plant, one box had to be sent to a central location. Those bulbs were put in a testing facility, and if those bulbs lasted than a thousand thousand hours, the company that manufactured them would have to pay substantial fines. And there are records of companies having to pay fines Because they manufactured a bulb. Do you know we were just now getting, before the LED movement, we were just getting back to bulbs that could last 2,000 hours? Now they're LEDs and they're supposed to last seven years. Nope. Lifetime. Nope. I'm telling you they're designed to fail. They don't want a bulb that will last We are conditioned to function in this realm so much that often new products are outdated as soon as we buy them. We are barely halfway through 2022 and you can already buy a 2023 vehicle. And they're promoting the upgrades in the 2024 model. It's actually federal law that a company cannot sell the next year's car until January 1st of this year. They could literally sell you a 2023 model for January 1st of 2022. That's our mindset today. The upgrade movement is costing us in more ways than just financially. This American materialism has permeated every part of our life. The pursuit of the newest, the latest, and the greatest has caused us to completely forget about what we already have. Now, I'm not preaching on contentment tonight, although that's certainly applicable to this ever-increasing and insatiable desire to have the next best thing. But what I'm getting to is wasteful substance. Wasted substance. You see, this is the way of the wicked Proverbs 18. 9 says, he also that is slaughter in his work is brother to him that is a great waster. We shouldn't have this mindset, although it's acceptable in society, although it's permeated every part of our life, it should not be the habit or the pattern of a Christian to be so wasteful. The Bible is chalked full of the priority of stewardship and caring and protecting for that which God has blessed us with. Brother Valer's here and he's counseled and given advice and talked to people all over the country and probably the world about their finances. And brother Vallier can probably need to correct me if I'm wrong, brother, but the the issue 99% of the time is not how much they make. The issue is what they're wasting it on. He said it this morning in Sunday school. He said, You want to get out of debt? Stop spending money. It seems so simple, but in our society and in our life we've come to the place where it's acceptable. We live off a plastic. So that we can have the next thing that we can afford and throw away that which we already have. Now don't shoot me, and I'm not here to debate this tonight, but the recycling hoax is literally capitalism at work You see, because now we can feel good about throwing away that perfectly good item because it's going to be recycled. It's going to be recycled and so we can it's not it's not wasteful. It's okay. We can just recycle it. That's fine. And great marketing programs have been launched to convince the consumer of these things. Large manufacturers and large companies, including Apple, build a lot of their sales off of the fact that they build with recycled goods. You want to hear something amazing? The latest iPhone, they have convinced consumers through marketing to pay for an item that they're not going to get because it's better for the environment. In the in the new I don't know if you know this, but the newest iPhone, you don't get a charger with it. And in their keynote speech they told everybody, well, here's what we're going to do to reduce our our impact on the environment. We're no longer going to put chargers in our with our cell phones and everybody chapped. I mean clapped. I was chapped. They clapped They're not going to put them in there because this will reduce our I can't the word the carbon footprint. This will reduce our carbon footprint by this much So you can pay us to sell you a product that you're not even going to get. You talk about marketing. The real problem Today is the idea that we don't want to take the time to fix anything. We just throw it away and get a new one. There's not even repair shops available. The cost to fix something is greater than it's worth. Just junk it. Just throw it out How many of you have been shocked at how little damage it takes on a vehicle for the insurance company to say that's a total loss? You're thinking, what? Can I have it? I drove a car around with worse shape than that a long time. They're like, nope, that's a total loss. We're gonna write it write it off. What? You can't even get stuff fixed today. I have a projector downstairs that costs fifteen thousand dollars. A video projector like it's on the ceiling in here It costs $15,000 and I can't find anybody to work on it. I even wrote the company and I said, this cannot be a throwaway projector. This costs fifteen thousand dollars. You're telling me we can't get it, it can't be worked on? It's just trash? They didn't even respond. You just can't get things fixed today. The problem is is We've decided it's just not worth the effort. It's not worth the money. It's not worth the time. It's not worth the energy. Just throw it away and buy a new one. Where does it stop? You see, it doesn't stop. That mentality has permeated the thinking of the last few generations to the point that I believe it's infiltrated every part of our life. You see, the problem that I was struck with earlier this week in our family devotions. I believe the greatest travesty that's been inflicted upon our society today because of this throwaway mentality is that spirit, that throwaway mentality. has crept into our relationships. It's crept into our relationships We've gotten to the place where we will discard a relationship as easily as we discard a phone. Trade in, trade up. Get a new one. Just let that one go. It's not worth the effort to try and build that relationship. It's not worth the time or the energy or the expense that it's going to take to mend those broken bridges. No, just throw that relationship away. Just discard that person and go on about your life. You can always get a new one. Here is the problem. But beloved, our relationships are worth fighting for. Our relationships are worth keeping. Our relationships are worth investing time, energy, and effort to maintain. Okay, so there's something broken. There's something rubbing where it shouldn't rub. There's something that's causing friction in that relationship. Don't discard it. Invest some time to figure out what it is and try and fix it. It's not time to get a new friend. It's time to figure out what's wrong, what's causing the problem, and bring healing. You see, love, beloved, will not just throw away a relationship. Don't answer me this evening, but have you ever written somebody off? It seems to be more and more common today. Oh, I'm just done with that person. I just writing that person off. I'm just not I'm not having anything to do with that person. I'm through with that relationship. It's not worth the effort. Beloved, that's not how love responds. Your family is worth fighting for. Your friends are worth investing time and energy in maintaining and keeping a right relationship with them. Yes, it's arduous at times. Yes, it takes energy. Yes, there are people that are a little harder to get along with than other people I'm not going there. But you know what? Every relationship is worth the effort. You know, it's sad that today w we've lost There's no longer the pride today is in the new thing that I got, where the pride in my grandfather's day was in the thing that I have kept for twenty, thirty, or forty years and maintained and look at how well it's been cared for. But today the prize is just oh look at this new thing I got. Look at this new friend I got. Look at this new family I got. Look at this new that I got. Oh yeah, the the old I just discarded them. It's a lie of Satan when he says that it's not worth the effort. Your husband and your wife is worth the effort. Don't let this world throwaway mentality convince you that it costs too much to fight for your relationship. The other night in our devotions, my wife read 1 Corinthians 13, 7. I think she was preaching at me. 1 Corinthians 14, 7 says, beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things. And of course, this is talking about love. And I said, yes, kids, love bears, it believes, it hopes. I said, but when everything else fails, you can at least endure. And I said, boy, do I know a lot about enduring. And and my kids after the uh-oh's and the oh After those quieted down, I said, because she has had to endure me for so long, that's how come I know a lot about enduring And I tried to recover. I'm not sure. Uh uh I still sleep in the living room, but we're pray for us. Amen. That's what love does. It doesn't give up, it doesn't quit. Beloved, many times we are guilty of taking time for a co-worker, somebody that really doesn't matter in our grand scheme of things, that may be a business partner or a contact Maybe somebody just to win a contract or maybe to make a sale to somebody like that. You take some time with them and you have patience with them and you laugh at their stupid jokes and and you do all of this just to work on that relationship a little bit so hopefully you can make a sale. But then for our own family you hardly have the time of day. Whether we're talking about your life's mate or a friend that you've had for just a short time, we need to stop. wasting this blessed substance that God blessed us with. We need to start working on repairing our relationships. Take the time to fix it. Pay the price to fix it. It's worth it. In God's house, these are your brothers and sisters in Christ. This is your church, what's the word? Family. Church family. And you know what families have squabbles. But you shouldn't discard them. You should figure out what it takes and do what you gotta do to be a good brother to be a right sister To be a loving friend. Because the relationships are important. The Bible tells us to love one another. We were in Romans 12 this morning. Would you mind turning back there? Romans chapter 12. We're gonna go down a little bit. I just want the words of this passage of scripture to speak to your heart. Romans chapter 12, beginning in verse number 9, he says, let love be without dissimilation. That word is hypocrisy. That word is real. Let your love be without hypocrisy. Let it be real. Let it be something that you don't you don't just say, hey brother, I love you. And then you walk away and have no time for them. Listen to the words here. Just follow along. Just think about your relationships. Think about what Christ asks of us to be towards one another in these passages. He says, abore that which is evil, cleave to that which is good. Be kindly affectionate one to another with brotherly love, in honor, preferring one another. Not swallowful in business, fervent in spirit, serving the Lord Rejoicing in hope, patience in tribulation, continuing instant in prayer, distributing to the necessity of the saints, giving to hospitality. Bless them which persecute you, bless and curse not Rejoice with them that do rejoice, and weep with them that weep. Be of the same mind one toward another. Mind not high things, but condescending to men of low estate. Be not wise in your own conceit Recompense to no man, evil for evil, provide things honest in the sight of all men. If it be possible, as much as lieth in you, live peaceably with all men. Dearly beloved, avenge not yourselves, but rather give place unto wrath. For it is, for it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, saith the Lord. Therefore, if thine enemy hunger, feed him, and if he thirst, give him drink, for in so dealing thou shalt heap coals of fire on his head. Be not overcome of evil, but overcome evil with good There's not a lot of room in there for us to say, oh well that person's not worth the effort. This goes all the way down to your enemy. I mean I would encourage you maybe just to read those passages of scripture later and ponder and think about your relationships. Just yesterday I was talking to those in Grief Share about one aspect of our lesson, and that is the U factor. You see, especially in our society today, so many people feel that if I just Had a new job. If I just had a a a new place to live If I just had a new church to go to, if I just had a different family, if I just had a different situation, but what people don't understand is that if they leave their current situation and they go into a new situation, what they don't tend to think about is they're still the U factor You have brought your problems from here to here. And so many people in our throwaway society think, well, if I just get rid of that I could get something new, and if I just had a different mate, or if I just lived in a different place, or just got a different church, or if I went to a different job, or earned more money, whatever circumstance you want to plug into there, I want you to understand there's still the you factor. You're still carrying your problems with you, and what we need, beloved, is we need internal remodeling, not external. We don't need a new situation. We need internal change. And the exciting thing about that, beloved, is when we allow God to come into our lives and change us from the inside out, Wherever we go, we're taking that new heart attitude with us. We're taking that new spirit with us. We're taking that new joy with us. We're taking that and carrying that change with us. So let's not just discard and throw away our relationships. Let's look up at heaven and ask God to change in us what needs to be changed. that we can have a right relationship with those whom we love. As I bring this to a close, can I remind you Of that marvelous fact that God didn't throw you away. God didn't throw you away. Well we love to sing the song He didn't throw the Clay Away. He's still working on me. Beloved, I praise God that when I couldn't go to where he was, he came I praise God that when I was unworthy, when I had no hope, when I was really could have and maybe should have just been discarded, God still loved me. And he was still there for me. In Matthew 12, verse number 20, the Bible says, a bruised reed shall he not break, a smoking flax. Shall he not quench? You know, he takes that bruised reed and he brings healing He doesn't he doesn't come and say, oh, that that reed doesn't won't stand up on its own. That reed is bruised. We're just gonna hew that down. We're gonna get rid of that. I think of a bruised reed in the form of a woman who was standing at a well one day. And society was ready to discard her as a piece of trash. And the religious crowd was ready to stone her as a sinner. But Jesus saw a bruised reed, and he gave her living water and brought healing to the reed. That idea of a smoking flask, I think of somebody that had fire, somebody that was burning hot for God. And maybe the fire waned. There's just a little smoldering smoke left. God doesn't just discard you. He comes back, the heat of his love, and burns again in your heart. Like those men on the road to Emmaus who said, Did not our heart burn within us? And he lights that fire anew. I think if somebody in the Bible like that, we could say it was Peter. Peter, but you think of somebody that burned hot. Peter burned hot for God. But didn't he deny him? He denied his Lord. But God didn't just discard him, didn't throw him away. God used him And listen, we live in a wasteful society. The heart of the message tonight is don't let that mindset. Permeate your relationships. Realize they're worth effort. Invest time and energy. in maintaining and keeping a right relationship with your family and inside of God's family.