Well, turn your Bibles to 2 Kings chapter number 7. Well, in 2 Kings, chapter number 7, follow along with me as we read here the beginning. of this the first nine verses where our story takes place. Then Elisha said Hear ye the word of the Lord. Thus saith the Lord, Tomorrow about this time shall a measure of fine flour be sold for a shekel, and two measures of barley for a shekel in the gate of Samaria Then the Lord, on whose hand the king leaned, answered the man of God and said, Behold, if the Lord would make windows in heaven, might this thing be And he said, Behold, thou shalt see it with thine eyes, but shall not eat thereof. And there were four lepers, men. At the entering in of the gate. And they said one to another, Why sit we here until we die? If we say we will enter into the city, and the famine is in the city. And we shall die there. And if we sit still here, we die also. Now therefore come and let us fall unto the host of the Syrians. If they save us alive, we shall live. And if they kill us, we shall but die. And they rose up in the twilight to go into the camp of the Syrians. And when they were come to the uttermost part of the camp of the Assyrians, behold, there was no man left. And there. For the Lord had made the host of the Syrians to hear a noise of chariots and a noise of horses Even the noise of a great host, and they said one to another, Lo, the king of Israel hath hired against us the king of the Hittites and the kings of the Egyptians to come upon us. Wherefore they arose and fled in the twilight, they left their tents, their horses, their asses, even the camp as it was, and fled for their life And when these lepers came to the uttermost part of the camp, they went into one tent and did eat and drink, and carried thent silver and gold and remnants, and went and hid it, and came again and entered into another tent And carried thence also, and went and hid it. Then they said one to another, We do not well, this day is a day of good tidings, and we hold Our peace. If we tarry till the morning light, some mischief will come upon us. Now therefore come, that we may go and tell the king's household. This evening I'm going to preach a message in regards to our focus today with focus on missions and the emphasis our need to get the message of the gospel to the world. And this message is a familiar one. If you have been saved for any length of time and been in God's church, at least any church that preaches about the message of the gospel and about the need to get it to the world, I am sure that you all at one point or another have heard a message from this passage of Scripture. And probably even titled the same as this evening's message is, We Do Not Well. We do not well. This is something that is God's people that we've got to be very careful about. We've got to be very careful that we in our mind don't disengage or we don't say, oh, I've I've heard a message. from this passage. Or I've heard I know where he's going with this. I've I've heard this this before and and uh we kind of disengage and we think about oh it's I don't have to listen as intently because I've already ascertained the truths that are in this passage and So tonight this might not really be for me, it might be for a younger Christian or might be for somebody else, but I know because I've been in church a long time that sometimes we disengage Like that. Especially when we get to a passage of scripture, if somebody stands up to say, I'm going to preach this morning or this evening on John 3. 16. Oh, okay. The love of God. Yeah, we know. Beloved, we've got to be careful. We've got to ask God to speak to us, even if we have studied and learned and gleaned from a passage of scripture. Maybe tonight I could take you back to when you first heard this story. The first time that the truths from this passage of Scripture were presented to you. The message of it was so powerful and real. The very depth of it hit you like a Mac truck. You were staggering under the weight of the responsibility that was laid upon your shoulders in light of these truths from this passage of Scripture. Maybe if we could go back and let God's word hit us like that again Our text was written during a time of spiritual decay, during a time when a nation Was in great social turmoil. Obviously, there was a famine in the land, and the city was under siege. They were suffering The state of the nation was in great physical suffering as well as spiritual. If you read the chapter before this, you see some truths that are just Unbelievable. One lady literally gave her child to be eaten But they would have food to eat. And then she was mad because the other mother wouldn't give up her child You think about the wickedness and you think about the turmoil in the city. You think, how could things get so bad? And then you you take a minute and think about America and think about our world and where we are right now. You think, wow, things are bad. The situation and the turmoil that's in our nation, the state of things The God is still on the throne. Could we walk through the text as we get to our text verse tonight, which is verse number nine? But first of all, I want you to see that God is waiting. He was waiting to use four lepers in verse number three, and there were four leprous men in the entering of the gate, and they said one to another, Why sit we here until we die? These four lepers were there and God used them. These four Were used to bring literally salvation to the city. They were used to bring all that the city needed to them. Did you realize that the lepers were the outcasts? The lepers were those that had the least amount of means. The lepers were those that had the least amount of ability. And yet God used the lepers to bring the message to the city. Beloved, tonight I want to remind you that it's not about your ability, it's about your availability. It's about your availability. These lepers were sitting Their availability ultimately become became because they said we don't have much other choice If we sit here, we die, and we go into the city, that's a famine. There's nothing there for us. We're going to die there too, so why don't we go ahead and go? I want you to understand that God can use, and He always has used, the weak things to confound the wise the strong. And the simple to confound the wise. Beloved, it's not about your the amount of your substance. It's about the ability of your Savior. You know these these men had nothing to save the city with. They were the least capable to provide anything that the city needed. And you say, well Pastor Caleb, what can I do for missions? I I don't have anything. Can you do what that boy did that we heard about in the message this morning? Come down and give yourself. You see, we're good at talking about what we don't have. But what do we have? You see, if we just take what we do have and say, okay, God, it's yours, he would take it and multiply it. He would use it in ways that we can't even fathom or understand. Great and miraculous ways. They said, why do we sit here until we die? You see, there's something worse than dying. There's something worse than trying. And failing. And that's not trying at all. That's just sitting there. Why do we just sit here till we die? Beloved, there's churches all over America today that are just sitting until they die. They're just slowly dying I don't want that for Hunt Valley Baptist Church. I don't want us to sit Until we die. I want to remind you, as was said this morning in the message at different points, but the idea is that God is still working in the world. God is still changing lives. God is still saving souls. God is still repairing homes. God is still saving the sinnered and curing the drunkard and and and uh enabling the the sluggard, God is still working. He's working even sometimes and we don't see him working or we don't think he's working. You see in our passage of scripture here, verse number six, it says, For the Lord hath made the host of the Syrians to hear a noise of chariots and a noise of horses, and even a noise of a great host. They said one to another, Lo, the king of Israel hath hired against us the kings of the Hittites and the kings of the Egyptians. You see, God had already gone ahead of them. God had already gone ahead and prepared the way. God had already done the work. He just needed somebody to carry the message to the person that needed it. God is already doing the work, but it's by his plan that God's people would carry the message to the world. I think about Brother Brown and the update that we just got from him, our missionaries to Madagascar, and how he said that COVID came and He thought, oh no, the church is down. It's going to be nothing. There's nothing, no way we can minister during this time and the struggles and the problems that happened. But you know the update that he gave. It was COVID itself. God was already working. He went and said, Hey uh mayor, can can we distribute some food and he says I think that would be great. You can distribute some food. Why don't you go ahead and preach to everybody too? Really? Okay. God was already working and then they they got to preach and then and then the mayor said hey people are asking me where your church is He's like we don't have a church yet There's people want to come. Where are they going to come to? So he says, Well we've got to get a place. So that it the very thing that was what they thought a problem actually became the catalyst to launch their church God is already working. God is working out there. Beloved, if we would have faith and we would step out and we would do what God wants us to do, we could see miraculous things. Because God is working already. These lepers became willing. They were willing to go So we see in verse number 9, and they said one to another, We do not weld. This day is a day of good tidings, and we hold our peace if we tarry. Till the morning light. Some mischief will come upon us. Now therefore come, that we may go and tell the king's household. We do not well. First of all, they realized the harm that was being done if they just sat On the knowledge that they had. You see, God had opened for them a door of opportunity. God had provided for them food. And we read the story, and you You you you followed along as I read it a few minutes ago, they came in and I mean like Scrooge McDuck, they're swimming through the gold, man. They're they're just they they're coming into the tents and look at all this. Oh man, and they're taking all this gold and this food and they go and they hide it. And they come back to another tent and look at all this and they get some more and they go and they hide that. And then it hits them. Oh. There's a whole city full of people starving. There's a whole city full of people starving to death, and we do not well if we do not carry this message. And tell them what's out here. We don't tell them that there's just just right here outside the city gates is all the food that they could possibly want. It would be such a great sin and offense if we don't go tell them. I can imagine the initial discussion. The first guy says, man, we ought to go tell this the city. We ought to go tell the king. And one of the other guys, what? You remember when they kicked us out of the city, right? You remember they don't let us they don't let us in the city. Oh, when they have good food, they don't give it to us. They throw their rotten food at us. Why should we carry this to them? Oh, we do not well. We've got to tell them. Boy, the harm that is done. I mean, there's people dying. We've got to carry this to them. We've got to give it to them. Do you remember the kids making fun of us? Do you remember the kids laughing at us, mocking us, and playing games at our expense? Why should we carry that message to them? Because we need to. It hit them all. What they had And how wrong it would be not to go chair with the city. Beloved, we as Hunt Valley Baptist Church do If we don't carry the message of God's provision and God's blessing to the city. If we are not involved in getting the gospel to the world, we do not well. God has so richly blessed us. He saved our soul and he loves us and we have the privilege of a relationship with him. We've got a home in heaven to look forward to. We've got protection and provision here on earth. What a great offense indeed if we were to keep this to ourselves. The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life, and he that wineth souls is wise. We do not well if we don't share this message with the world. Beloved, if we had the means as a church to send one more missionary, To one more town that does not right now have a gospel witness, but if we as a church could support a missionary that would get them to that place so they could be a gospel witness. We do not well if we hold back and don't send them. We do not well if we hold in reserve and try and keep this and and and hold it here instead of sending one more missionary out or enabling one more person to go or giving towards one more ministry that they could grow and flourish. We do not well, beloved We do not well if we become complacent in our Christianity or comfortable in our situation, satisfied here. Man, beloved, we've got a beautiful building. Almost everybody that comes through the back doors right there. We just had Brother Frazier here with the ensemble from Commonwealth. The first thing both him and his wife said when they walked through the world, the back doors right there, they're like, man. This is a beautiful auditorium. I've had many people tell me this is one of, if not the most beautiful auditorium that they've seen. In churches all over the country. But beloved, we do not well If we're comfortable with a beautiful auditorium and aren't ministering and giving the gospel out and reaching this world with the truth. It's a sad thing if we've traded a beautiful auditorium for the power of God. I would much rather have an auditorium that was half this nice and have God's presence and God's power and something happening in the pew and in the pulpit than to have a beautiful building. Beloved, we are so richly blessed. We have the truth. We have facilities. We have the ability. And we do not well if we do not carry that truth forward and tell the world about what Jesus has done for us. God forgive us if we, as these four lepers said, hold our peace. We've got to realize how great of an offense it is to the world, for it is God's plan for us to be witnesses. But ye shall receive power after that the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and ye shall be witnesses unto me, both in Jerusalem and all Judea and Samaria and the uttermost. It is God's plan. Then they saw the revelation of hope. He said there one to another, we do not well. Why? Because this day is a day of good tidings. They had good tidings Isn't it amazing how God's word ties together? Good tidings of great joy. How can you hear that phrase all the way back here in the book of Kings and not tie it to the birth of Jesus Christ? Amen. The good tidings of great joy. This is a day of good tidings. They they said, Hey, look at what we have. We have a message of hope There's provision here. There's food here. Everything they need is here. And all we've got to do is go tell them it's here. Can you imagine when they went into the city, the lepers? They probably went into the city and they saw some guys outside of their local shop standing there talking about how bad things were. And the lepers came up and they said, hey Listen, I want you to know something. There's all the food you could possibly want right outside that gate. And you know those guys sitting there probably like, would you go away Okay, I do not I do not believe anything you're saying. You guys stop pestering people. Get out, get out of the street. You're not even supposed to be in the city. You guys go Listen, beloved, some people are going to reject the truth. You carry the good tidings of great joy, and you would think they would be, oh man, there's food? Okay, great. And you think they would be, wow, Jesus loves me, wow, I can be forgiven of my sin. I can I can have a home in heaven? Hallelujah! But they don't do that a lot of times, do they? But hey, but we still gotta tell them. We still gotta tell them. Because we have a message of hope for them Just like the king didn't believe. Just like the king didn't believe. The prophet of God said, Hey, tomorrow you're going to be able to buy food in the gates They're going to be almost giving it away. And the king's like, if God opened windows in heaven and the food just fell, these things wouldn't be. He's basically saying, listen, that's not happening. And God did open the windows of heaven, didn't he? You see people in the world like to explain things like this right here in in a natural way and say, oh the the the army left all their food and so the army provided it. No God provided it. God provided it. We need to see God doing that. We have a message of hope for them. They don't have to live in bondage. to their sin. Love it, I I mean uh just read chapter six. And it it'll break your heart just reading and thinking about how wicked things are were. And how the people were driven to the point they would kill their own child You think about our nation and our world and how wicked things are. And how sin is destroying lives once One after the other. People have no hope. They're living their lives in fear Afraid of everything. COVID is just one more thing they're afraid of. They're afraid of not having enough money to make it to the end of the month. They're afraid of losing their job. They're afraid of their relationships going haywire. They're afraid of being addicted to this and being stuck on that and not being able to get over. I mean, they they have no hope But we have a message of hope. For the God of all hope loves them. He wants to forgive them. Beloved, the tomb is empty. Jesus is alive and heaven is real. We have a message. of hope. We've got to carry that message to those nearest, to our neighbors, and to all nations We carry that message to those nearest by first of all living as a Christian. Living as God wants us to live and listen, beloved. Your what you say doesn't hold near as much weight when your life's not backing it up. But our witness needs to go beyond just what we're living. Yes, it starts there, and I believe we ought to be living right, and I believe that is a testimony, and people see it. And they value it. It means a lot to them, even if they don't say anything. But that's what opens the door for you to say something. And then they say, oh yeah, I noticed. You go to church. I notice I I see you leave for church all the time. I I I notice I've never seen you cuss and throw a fit and I've never heard a bad word out of your mouth? I've noticed this. What's different about you? But you've got to open your mouth and tell them about Jesus. That's how you minister witness to those nearest, to your family, your close friends We carry that message of hope to our neighbors by putting John and Romans out, by being part of the mail out, the gospel message that we mailed out here a month and a half ago. By talking to those that you come into contact with. And we get it to all nations by getting We carry the message of hope to all nations by maybe going on a mission trip, as long as they have Wi-Fi. Amen. Just kidding. I'll have to put that on my questionnaire for my next mission trip. Do you guys have Wi Fi? We're not coming unless you have Wi-Fi. Yeah. Hey, go on a missions trip. Invest in a ministry somewhere in another part of the world Those are ways we can do it, but really the the method of the church that anybody can be involved in, from the youngest to the oldest. I don't know what your means and what your ability is, but if we're going to get the message to all nations, it's going to take some people that are dedicated and committed to just faithfully giving week after week after week because they believe it's important so that we can continue to keep missionaries like the Dekus The Sassers and the Browns on the mission field. Beloved, there's a requirement for haste here. A requirement for haste. They said, if we tarry till the morning light. Some mischief will come upon us. Now therefore come that we may go tell the king's household. He said, if we tarry, hey, we can't wait till morning I mean, finally they convinced the other three that they needed to go tell them. And everybody agreed, let's go, we need to go tell them. And then the guy turned around, let's go, and the other three were probably back there. Wait, wait, right now? Yeah, right now. Wait, wait, wait. It's the middle of the night. We can't go into the city and wake people up right now. It's the middle of the night. And they said, hey, if we wait, if we tarry till morning We may lose the chance to tell them. Some mischief may befall us, and whether that is That they might perchance die before daybreak or trip and fall and be unable to get into the city or some type of that, or maybe they thought that Listen, if we don't go and tell right now, we're gonna be judged. God's not gonna be happy with us and if we don't go do this right now, our opportunity's gonna be it's gonna be gone, it's gonna be too late. There is a necessity for haste. We can't wait till daybreak. Beloved, I know it's the middle of COVID. It's the middle of the night. And I know you don't know if somebody's gonna be willing to receive a track. Because you have the plague. I don't I know you don't know how people are going to respond just walking up and talking to them. Y you don't know and I understand that apprehension, but beloved, there's a necessity for haste, and we cannot wait till daybreak. We can't wait until COVID's over, until this thing passes, before we start again being a minister and reaching into the loss of our communities and to the world There's a necessity, a requirement for haste, and we've got to get busy because if we don't, some mischief may befall us The opportunity to be a witness will be gone, it'll be missed. The chance will be over, because it's appointed unto man once to die, and after this the judgment. Whether our chance is gone or somebody else has already passed on, that the opportunity to give them that message of hope is passed. And we've got to do it. Beloved, will there be a mission field that's not reached? Because somebody at Hunt Valley Baptist Church wasn't doing their part. Would there be a missionary that we're supposed to be supporting that we're not because somebody said, Oh, I I I can't do it right now Listen, it's not about how much you have, it's just about having faith and trusting God and saying, here's what I can do. And God takes it and multiplies it in miraculous ways. Just like God providing for them a piece of property that was on the market for what'd you say one one half one quarter of the value? One quarter of the value and then they and then they're in the meeting and she's like, hey can we lower the price? That's God, beloved. Taking the gifts of God's people and multiplying it To do far more exceedingly above what we thought possible with the small gifts that were given. How many miraculous things has Brother Weirick seen? He endeavors to do what seems to be an impossible task, to build a hospital on a foreign field, a hospital that preaches the gospel of Jesus Christ. Reaches people with the truth. God will multiply the gifts if we do what we're supposed to do. Beloved, you know what? There's a household waiting. They said, we may go and tell the king's household. There's a household waiting for you or I. There's a household waiting on some mission field. that that missionary has yet to get there. And as we as a church commit and we give and we're able to support and take on more missionaries, we send them out. And they reached those households. And you hear missionaries come back and say, When I got there, I was in a hardware store and I told them I was a missionary From America, and the worker began to cry and said, I've been praying for five years. For somebody to come to preach the gospel in my tongue. There's households waiting. There's necessity for haste. For us as a church to do our part. And listen, God's people have been faithful. The missions program here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church, even though we weren't able to have missions conference, has continued to go strong. I wanted this Sunday just to really kind of be a shot in the arm. As I said this morning we're not taking up commitment cards. We're not we're not reevaluating where we're at. I'm just encouraging you to keep up if you've been giving to just be faithful until next year we'll have have another missions conference and do it again. But I I wanted to encourage you in what you've been doing been doing and maybe you haven't been or maybe you when we reached our commitment s uh in last March and you said hey well we didn't have conference and I I I'm not sure what to do. I'm not gonna recommit at this point Listen, I just say do what God wants you to do. Then God will meet the need. God will meet the need. Minister to more people, we can reach those nearest, our neighbors and all nations. I want to see God do great things in our midst.