And we had a great time and uh after softball I was feeling a little sore, not too bad, but then uh we did capture the flag And I did some running on that and I uh next morning I told a little bit more sore, but then we did that land navigation thing down through the sticks and all that and and uh that kind of finished off and brought all my soreness to the surface And uh so I'm a little gimpy and a little ginger and and kinda slow in my movements, but hopefully the don't have to move a ton to preach, so Hopefully I won't pull a hamstring or something and be on the disabled list. Revelation chapter number one. Revelations chapter number one. I did think when when uh the boys were singing, my brother in law used to have a thing where he would give us what we call a horse bite right in the back. of the the thigh, right above the knee, and he'd go, hamstring. And I thought about doing that the farm boy up here that was singing a high tether. He'd probably he probably screeched so loud that the windows would have broke And I was just resisting the temptation and and I've known Caleb Royalty for a little bit, I think that could have lit him up too. And uh But anyways, we'll behave ourselves and Revelation chapter 1, verse number 6 is where we're going to start from this morning. I appreciate Brother Barker's message And a reminder of knowing the Word of God, that is my Achilles heel, is I've got verses committed to memory, but knowing the reference where to find them. And that's like the key to unlock it all. And and without the combination you can't get into the safe. And um But I appreciate that challenge, looking forward to what he has for us tonight. Revelation chapter 1, verse number 6. The Bible says, and hath made us kings and priests. Unto God and his Father, to him be glory and dominion for ever and ever Amen. Let's go ahead and pray this morning. Father, we thank you for this day. Lord, we thank you for the privilege that we have to be adopted into your family. If we're saved in here this morning, Lord. We understand so many precious truths that the Word of God teaches us about our eternal standing with you and our current standing with you. And Lord, this idea of when we get saved, you've made us kings and priests. And Lord, I pray as we look at the other passages this morning, Lord, that you would stir in our hearts. Lord, we live in a trying day. We live in perilous times. We live in uncharted waters, so to speak. And Lord, as we go through this year and we face challenges ahead, Lord, I pray that we learn some lessons and some truths from your word this morning. that would help sustain us in these darkening days. Lord, I ask for your help, the filling of your spirit this morning as I preach, we ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen. That Revelation chapter 1, verse number 6 is a verse I looked up. I'm like, I know the Bible calls us kings somewhere, and I didn't know the reference. But I looked it up and I came across it just to reassure myself and I had actually been reading as we go back to 2 Samuel chapter number 2 this morning, 2 2 Samuel chapter number 3 this morning. And we're going to begin reading For sake of time, in verse thirty-one. Second Samuel chapter number three, verse number thirty-one. David was an incredible man. David was a warrior. God himself describes him as a man after God's own heart. He saw tremendous victories. We think about Goliath, we think about defeating the lion and the bear, and we think about his stands against the Philistines and all the conquests that he saw in battle. And as we arrive here in 2 Samuel chapter number 3, we're going to see David describe, self-describe an attribute about himself that we probably would not A tribute to David. We would think of boldness, bravery, righteousness, godliness, musical ability, the heart of a warrior. being steadfast, being God that could see down and plan ahead. All different things we think about David. But David used a description descriptive term here that if I gave five people a chance this morning To give me one word to describe David, I'd venture to say all five of you would not get a passing grade. Because we don't think of this word, how David describes himself as something That fits David. Follow says verse 31. David said to Joab and to all the people that were with him, Rend your clothes and gird you with sackcloth and mourn before Abner. And King David himself followed the buyer. And they buried Abner in Hebron, and the king lifted up his voice and wept at the grave of Abner, and all the people wept. And the king lamented over Abner and said, Died Abner as a full diet. Thy hands were not bound, nor thy feet put into fetters as a man falleth before wicked fet men, so fellest thou. And all the people wept again over him. And when all the people came to cause David to eat meat while it was yet day, David swear, saying, So do God to me and more also if I taste bread or aught else And all the people took notice of it, and it pleased them, as whatsoever the king did pleased all the people. For all the people and all Israel understood that day that it was not of the king to slay Abner, the son of Nur. And the king said unto his servants, Know ye not that there is a prince and a great man fallen this day in Israel. And here's where we find the phrase, and I am this day weak, though anointed king. And these men, these sons of Zariah, be too hard for me. The Lord shall reward the doer of evil according to his wickedness. David's sitting there, and he's saying, I am this day weak, though anointed king. We see in the book of Revelation where the Bible says that He hath made us kings and priests, but don't you and I wake up some days not feeling very royal? Not feeling very priestly. We don't act much like royalty. And some days we don't exhibit much righteousness. You ever felt that you know that you should be better. You should know you should be more on top of your game. You know you should be more spiritual than what you're feeling at the time. Maybe just this morning has been a reminder that you should be acting more royal, but yet you feel run over. I think a lot of the guys, old older guys coming off the thing, feel a little run over. You know, I was telling Brother Connor, I said, man, I said, we were both kind of gimping up the hill back to the the the uh the uh cafeteria where we ate And we were both kind of feeling it a little bit. And I said, you know, if we did this more often, for us older guys, we wouldn't feel as broken down in between epic events like land navigation You know? That that that's really not a high intensity activity. We're just following a compass through the woods, you know You and I know we should be living more priestly, but instead we're feeling pretty puny. We should be more holy. The Bible tells us to be holy because our God is holy. But yet we come up carnal. As I came across that in my devotions a while back, that phrase just jumped out at me. I understand weak. though anointed king. And I'm like, wait a second, God, what do you have here? And I was reminded and I looked and I found that passage. He hath made us kings and priests, but yet why do we find ourselves feeling so weak? Understand this. David knew that he was anointed. David knew that he was fulfilling his purpose in life. He was fulfilling God's will. He was sitting rightfully on the throne He was in the right place at the right time doing the right thing, but yet he felt totally inadequate. Totally weak, totally incapable. What brought him to this feeling? I'm going to give you three things this morning. That weakened the king. The weakening of the king. Look with me back to chapter number three, the beginning of the chapter, verse number one. We'll see some of these events that lead up, that contribute to David feeling weak, though anointed king. And guess what? God's got some applications for us this morning. Chapter 3, verse number 1. Now there was long war between the house of Saul and the house of David. But David waxed stronger and stronger, and the house of Saul waxed weaker and weaker. Here, God gives us an account of what's going on. Saul the previous king, and yet because of his rebellion, because of his disobedience, I feel because of his pride also. God had said, You're done. And I'm going to choose me a man after mine own heart. And so he went outside of the kingly line. And went to a young man of humility and love for the Lord, and he said, You're next. And now David has ascended the throne. But there the Bible describes this long war between the house of Saul and the house of David. And David and his men waxed stronger and stronger, the house of Saul waxed weaker and weaker The first thing that brings David, I believe, to this weakened state is number one, the burden of the battle. The burden of the battle. It's a long war. You understand sometimes we think, man, if I could just just have it easy. You know that that smiley TV preacher that thinks makes everything sound hunky-dory. You know? Well, guess what? You were driving around a Ferrari, driving around in a private jet, flying around, getting your hair done three times a day. Your life might be hunky-dory too. You know, he probably has a staff orthodontist to keep that smile up, you know. But you know what? That life that he describes does not line up with the life of the Bible. The Bible says we're in a war. Old Lester Olof used to sing it's a battlefield, brother, not a recreation room, a fight and not a game. And sometimes the burden of the battle, and when I say that, the spiritual battle of endeavoring to hold the line and stay the course and stand steadfast and unmovable wears on us. A few years back my oldest boy had come out there to Idaho and and and uh we were trying to figure out how to elk hunt and we we had some close calls and one time we we slip slipped into this small little cluster of timber. And we snuck in from from the downwind side, which means the wind was blowing from the elk to us, and we had no idea if there was elk in there, and we stopped and And it's pine trees there and a lot of the branches from like about here down are all bare. They're just, you know, just twigs and stuff like that. And and we stopped and and we pulled our binoculars out and we're glassing. Guess there's nothing in there. And we took a couple more steps, and the timber just exploded with two bull elk that were bedded 40 yards away that neither one of us saw. We're like, oh man, so close. We're bow hunting. You know, they ran off and and so we came up with another play of attack. We went up on another part of a different mountain. We went up there and and That morning, we start out in the morning early. We left the house at 4 15. We drove around, unloaded the ATVs, rode them up to a point. From there we hiked on up. We got to the saddle. It was an hour plus hike to the saddle. We we he glassed up some elk. We end up splitting up. He ended up shooting a bull, a six by six bull with his bow. Shortly after we split up, I called him, I said, okay, because I heard a crash. Well the crash was the bull toppling over, rolling into the timber. I said, are you okay? He goes, yeah, we got a bull to pack out. I'm like, yeah, whatever. And he goes, no, Dad, seriously. I said, what do you do? Shoot a little spike? or a or uh or a cow elk? He goes, No, it's a six by six bull, it's belly up, right below me right now, dead. I was like, oh So I hurry down there and I'm like, look at the size of this thing, and I'm understanding where we're at. You know, there's a difference between hunting and getting We always say, I'm going hunting. Well what we should be do is be more positive and say, I'm going getting. Well now we done get an elk and we gotta figure out how to get that critter down off the mountain Well we had uh come up, rode, hiked, over the saddle, and now we're on this side of the mountain. I'm sitting there thinking, we gotta pack this Joker, the hindquarters Back up over and gain that elevation, my legs were already exhausted just from getting to where we got And I said, son, guess what? We're not taking them to the machine. We're going to take them down this side of the mountain. There was only one challenge there. It was the steeper side. He shot that bull at 1145. By 2. 15, we had it skinned, gutted, quartered up, and we began the descent down the steep side of the mountain. I called some men from the church. They met us and we finally sat down. We left where we had got it. That side of the mountain is um it's been a while since I looked at it, but I want to say it is a thousand feet of elevation gain In I can't remember the distance, but it translates out to about a 35 degree angle. And so, and it was wet and slippery Got a got a hindquarter on my back and I'm sitting there going, this is absolutely absurd. I I I I love hunting. I grew up hunting, but man, my body was at its limit, and I'm going, this is ridiculous We got down to where it finally started to level out just a touch. I knew we were in the home stretch. I started to recognize some of the area around me. And I and I and I told Colton My middle son, he was about thirteen at the time, I said, I gotta stop and get this pack off my back a minute because everything from like here up was hurting and aching and numb all in one wonderful dose. I said, I just got to get some relief from this pack. He goes, Dad, maybe I can carry it. I said, son, you weigh like 130 pounds. This hind quarter in the pack's probably 90, 95 So I he helped me get it off. I sat it down. I'm having I'm trying to get some feeling up in my extremities. And uh I heard him rustling around and he goes, Dad, I think I can carry this. I looked up and he had the pack on. Because I think I can carry this. I said I I I think you might be right I knew we only had maybe about a half mile to go at the best to get down to where the truck was. But you know what it was? The burden. Bearing that burden. I was just done. When I got in Brother Lewis's truck and I sat down on the seat, it dawned on me. We had left the house at 4 15 in the morning. It was now, what would that be, about uh 16 hours later, and I hadn't drank anything all day. I was so thirsty, probably dehydrated. I hadn't followed that rule, because out there you don't sweat like you do where it's more humid And man, that burden here just wore me out. You know, Ephesians chapter 6 talks about the spiritual battle and tells us, you know, the only way we're going to stand is if we keep ourselves armed. And we keep standing. The burden of the battle made David feel weak, though anointed king. Look with me to verses 12 and 13 of the same chapter. And Abner sent messengers to David on his behalf, saying, Who is the land? saying also, Make thy league with me, and behold, my hand shall be with thee to bring about all Israel unto thee. And he said, Well, I will make a league with thee, but one thing I require of thee, that is, that thou shalt not see my face, except thou first bring Machal, Saul's daughter, when thou comest to see my face. What he's talking about here is him and his wife have been separated And he said, you know what, we'll we'll talk business here, but first I want to get things back together with my wife. Second thing I believe was bringing David to this point of weakness. Not only was the burden of the battle, but the bond with his bride. The bond with his bride. And listen, listen, understand something. The devil wants to divide and conquer. And when he can drive a wedge in our marriages, when he can drive a wedge in our relationship, it'll bring the strongest man to a point of weakness. You understand how much we need our wives? Every once in a while my wife will uh be able to go somewhere without me. She she spoke at a at a a uh mother daughter uh banquet thing one time And um you know that's happened just a couple things along those lines. One time she went back to see her family. I'm like, yeah we'll be fine. Me and the boys will be fine. We'll be fine without you. Yeah. We'll be fine. We only got like two restaurants in town. Okay. And then there's that thing called the washing machine and the dryer. And pretty soon you start running out of socks. And you can only re we rewear a shirt, you know, like once before somebody notices. You know, I say that we all laugh. Maybe you've been in that situation. But David, here, the bond with his bride is wearing on him. And because things aren't right, things aren't what they should be. He's like, you know what, we'll talk royal things, we'll talk business, we'll talk the kingdom, but bring me my wife first. You can write this down. We don't have time to go there. Proverbs chapter 5, verse number 18. The Bible talks about rejoicing with the wife of your youth. And back right around Valentine's Day, the Sunday before Valentine's Day, the Lord brought me to that passage. And gave me a message. Are you rejoicing with or repulsing the wife of your youth? Because that phrase is used two different times in the Bible. And one time it's d used in a good light, the other time it's not so good light. And this is the conclusion I've come to when the Bible reminds us as men to rejoice with the wife of our youth. That doesn't mean necessarily to keep her pump full of vitamins and herbs and minerals and and and and make her take a faith face bath and oil volley all the time and you know, wrinkle remover and uh you know you get on at HGTV and get the latest, greatest, you know, Hollywood Sparkle Jazz stuff. Okay But I really believe it means to us as men to rejoice with her, with our wife, the wife of our youth, is this. If you and I treated our wives like we did when we were trying to win her. It'd be a whole lot easier to rejoice with her when she's older. That's not the good that's not the word of God saying Well, if she was what she used to be, it'd be a whole lot easier to rejoice. Well guess what? You ain't what you used to be either. I was telling these guys, all these guys, you know, they put miracle grow on their hair as they're traveling And uh, you know, and you believe it or not, believe it or not, when I was young I'd go to the barber as a teenage boy, and the barber would go, You have a model head of hair. I love cutting your hair Well I had to take you to barber school and let the guys practice on your hair. You would never know that now, would you? It was so thick. Ask my wife. I Bible College it was thick and full and it it had the whew to it, you know. It had some elevation to it and stuff, and now it's it's desertion. You know? I was helping him load his stuff the other day. He had one of those Milwaukee leaf blowers. And I said, brother, if you'd stop using this to blow dry your hair, maybe it would stay longer I'm just saying that because he's a little worse off than I am. God's probably gonna judge me. The next time you see me, I'll probably look like Kojak. Okay. Revelation chapter number three, verse number twenty-seven. Bible says Navner was returned to Hebron. Joab took him aside in the gate to speak with him quietly. He's like Hey, Abner, come here. I gotta tell you a secret. He gets him in nice and close, and the Bible says he smote him under the fifth rib. That he died in the blood for the blood of Asahel his brother. And afterward, when David heard it, he said, I and my kingdom are guiltless before the Lord forever, from the blood of Abner the son of Nur Lest it rat, let it rest on the head of Joab and on all his father's house, and let there not fall from the house of Joab One that hath an issue, or that is a leper, or that leaneth on a staff, or that falleth on the sword, or that lacketh bread. These are not compliments David's dishon out here He's speaking about Joab, who was one of his loyal men, and he's saying this: I was not on board with him killing Abner. I did not order this. I wasn't part of it. And it was not on my heart. But Joab went ahead and took the matters into his own hand. Look over there also. To verse number 39, right after he makes the statement, I am this day weak, though anointed king, and these men, the sons of Zariah, be too hard for me. Joab was a son of Zariah. And here not only do we see as the king is weakened, the burden of the battle, the bond with his bride. But we see thirdly the betrayal of the brethren wearing him down. You know about I don't know about you, but I'm tired of quitters. Yeah, yeah. I'm tired of quitters. Oh, it's just so hard, Pastor. I I just feel so burned out. When's the last time you read your Bible? Oh, I don't know. When's the last time you prayed? Well, um Well it's no it it's no real mystery when the Bible says that our inward man needs to be renewed day by day, and if somebody isn't taking time to have their own personal devotions and read their Bible and pray and get the inward man renewed, that the inward man is going to get weak and wimpy and wore out. And then it's gonna be, I I just can't make it. The spiritual battle is so hard. Like living for the devil's easier. I mean really like working for that taskmaster is easier? No, no, no, no, no And sometimes we look around and what a blessed thing, and that's why Hebrews 10. 25 says, not to forsake the assembling of ourselves together. As a matter of summ is, but exhorting one another. And so much the more as we see the day approaching, otherwise, this, the closer we get to the return of the Lord Jesus Christ, the more we're going to need to be in church. Because it encourages us, it strengthens us, and helps us forget about the battles out there. It helps forget us about it helps us forget about the wounds out there. And it's in here that we receive strengthening and encouragement. And listen, the devil wants his best to bring the battles out there into here and divide the brethren and the cistern. And don't let him get that way. Don't let him win that. David sits there on the throne. He knows that he's I mean, I'm sure it's not that he's forgot the day that Samuel came in front of his father and his brothers and poured that anointing oil on his head. He even says it, I know I'm anointed. I know I am sitting in my God-given place with my God-given responsibility. With my God given ability to perform the role of king. And notice, notice, right previous to this The Bible says, as he set the example of a godly leader in regards to the death of Abner, what the king did was pleasing the people. If they'd have ran a poll in the kingdom before David made this statement about feeling weak, though anointed king, he'd have probably had 80, 85% of the people on board with him at least. If not a hundred percent. What more could you ask for? I mean it'd have been three or four times what our president's got right now. Okay? It wasn't that the poles were trending away from him. It was all this stuff was building up and accumulating and making him feel weak. Hopefully this morning you've identified maybe some of this. The burden of the battle, the bond with your bride, the betrayal of the brethren. You can just listen to John chapter 21 and verse number 20 through 22. Jesus is talking there, and somebody asked the question: what about him? What about him? With regard to one of the other apostles. And Jesus says, what is that to thee? What's his walk with God have to do with your walk with me? Alright? I don't want to leave you just with bad news this morning. Obviously, David did not stay in this weakened state. I want to give you four things the Word of God shows us in the following chapters: the strengthening of the king. We looked at the weakening of the king, the burden of the battle, the bond with his bride, the betrayal of the brethren, brings him to this point of weakness. What brings him out of that? So that you and I can learn and apply it to our lives. Look at me, 2 Samuel chapter number 5. 2 Samuel chapter number 5 Bob says then came in verse number one, then came all the tribes of Israel to David unto Hebron and spake Saying, Behold, we are thy bone and thy flesh. We are thy bone and thy flesh. All the tribes come to David and say, We're yours. We're yours. We got your back, David. We're supporting you, David. You're our man, David. You're the king, David And David is surrounded by this fellowship of people that believe in him. And guess what? God brings us to his house to a fellowship of people that believe in him to strengthen us. First thing that will help strengthen us is this. Relish the fellowship. Relish the fellowship. Don't resist the fellowship. Don't resist the fellow. And praise the Lord for livestream technology. Okay? Livestream technology is a truly amazing thing, but don't allow it to be your crutch. God gave me something a few weeks ago. I don't know where I heard it. I probably borrowed it from somebody. But um For those of us that want to try to believe that sitting at home, and I understand when you're sick, praise the Lord, you're getting something. Okay? But it's not the same as being here in person. Okay. It doesn't say not forsaking the broadcast of yourselves together. Okay? It says, not forsaking the assembly. So the term live stream church is an oxymoronic statement. Okay. Church means assembly. Livestream means disassembly. Okay? And and here's something that hopefully will resonate because it's kind of a carnal illustration. But Jesus used carnal illustrations. They were called parables. Earthly stories with heavenly applications. And and if Th you wanna think that sitting at home watching livestream is the same as being here in person, then brother, do you guys ever do potlucks Where where the whole all the sisters and the brethren put on the grub and bring it here. Our favorite service of the church calendar is the last Sunday of every month. It's potluck Sunday. We have the Sunday school morning service, potluck, afternoon service. Everybody loves it. So I presented to them the idea that we'll have livestream potluck. If it's the same, I can broadcast me stuffing my face at the church And talk about how good all the food is that's at the church and it's the same as what's not on their plate at home. They didn't like that idea. We didn't even ask for a second motion. We didn't ask for a first anyways either, but okay. Relish the fellowship, thy bone and thy flesh Look at me to verse number two. Also in time past, when Saul was king over us, thou wast he that led us out and brought us in Israel. You know what's being happened here? He is being reminded. You and I need to remember past victories. When we're feeling weak, remember the past victories. God uses his people. From the nation of Israel to come to David and remind David that he needs to pause and reflect on. Even when Saul was in charge, you were the guy winning the battles. You were the guy seeing the victory. Don't sit here wallowing your self-pity, David, being a weak though anointed king. It was you that God was working through. Even though Saul was the figurehead of leadership at the time, God was winning the battles through David. Remember the past victories. Look at the end of that verse, verse number two. And the Lord said to thee, Thou shalt feed my people Israel, and thou shalt be a captain of the Israel. Over Israel. They turned back his mental clock, and they said, Even when Saul was in charge. You were the one that was winning the battles, and at that time in your life, God promised you that you're going to be sitting in this role right now. You and I, when we're feeling weak, though anointed king, we need to relish the fellowship. We need to remember past victories. We need to thirdly reflect on God's promises. Reflect on God's promises. You know, this blessed old book is full, chalk full of promises. There's more promises in here that you could sit at Brother Barker's feet as your spiritual mentor for the rest of your life. And probably still have a hard time memorizing all the promises in this book. And you and I need to be reminded of them. And God used his people here to remind the king. Why? Because God did not want David to stay in this weakened position. He did not want him to to sit there and wallow in self-pity and And weakness. He wanted him to be reminded of the past victories or be reminded of his promises. And listen Look at me at 2 Savior, chapter number 5. We're there already. Verse number 3. And we're going to get the last one here. And if you've got nothing else today, tune into this one. It will help you tremendously. Bible says in verse number three, So all the elders of Israel came to the king to Hebron, and King David made a league with them in Hebron. Before the Lord. They anointed David king over Israel. David was thirty years old when he began to reign. He reigned forty years. In Hebron he reigned over Judah seven years and six months. Jerusalem he reigned thirty-three years. Thirty and three years over all Israel and Judah, and the king and his men went to Jerusalem unto the Debusites, the inhabitants of the land, which spake unto David, saying Alright? The king and his mighty men. We were talking about at the men in boys' camp. They go to Jerusalem. The Jebuzites are occupying Jerusalem. And they spake unto David, saying, Except thou take away the blind and the lame, thou shalt not come in hither, thinking Because they said it, David cannot come in hither. I studied that out, and the general consensus I could come up with was that the Jevezites would post as sentinels on the wall of Jerusalem Blind and wounded captive soldiers that they had taken in battle, and they would post them there as sentinels And they said, unless you can come up and put such a whooping on us that you take out our guards, you're not getting in Otherwise, we they felt so self-secured and so assured there in their position, in their stronghold that they didn't need. Non uh uh uh uh the they didn't need people there that were not injured. Alright. Nevertheless, David took the stronghold of Zion, the same is the city of David. David said on that day, Whosoever getteth up to the gutter and smiteth the Jebuzites And the lame and the blind that are hated of David's soul. Now, who is saying that in the verse? David. And he's saying this is here's a challenge. Whoever gets up to the gutter up there and takes out the lame and the blind Please forgive me. Please forgive me. I saw a man up here with a cane. But I'm just saying David's words. David said, I can't stand lame and blind people. Well, that's the man after God's own heart, and that's kind of a little little bit of heavy duty prejudice, don't you think, David? Now listen, it's going to get better, okay? It's going to get better. David himself said that. He said he shall be chief and captain. Wherefore they said, The blind and the lame shall not come into the house. So David dwelt in the fort, called it the city of David, and David built roundabout from Milo and inward. And David went on and grew great, and the Lord God of hosts was with him. It's interesting because if you were to read that passage, you get this perception of David. But God's already given us a brief appetizer, a little commercial back in chapter 4, verse number 4. Something suddenly comes onto radar in this narrative about David. It's like whoop And then we don't see it again for a little while. Alright? Chapter 4 verse 4 Jonathan Saul's son had it Jonathan Saul's son had a son that was lame of his feet. He was five years old when the tidings came of Saul and Jonathan Then out of Jezreel and the nurse took him up and fled. Came to pass as she made haste to flee, that he fell and became lame, and his name was Mephibosheth. We get into chapter 5. We read about this prejudice of David. I don't like the lame. I don't like the blind. Alright? Go to chapter 9. Because I'm sure that as I read that passage where David is expressing his dislike Probably there's more than one individual in this room who had the thought, well wait a second. What about Mephibosheth? Alright? And David said, is there yet, verse number one, David said, is there yet any left of the house the soul that I may show him kindness? For Jonathan's sake. And there was of the house of Saul a servant whose name was Zeba. And when they had called him unto David, the king said unto him, Art thou Zeba? And he said, Thy servant is he And the king said, Is there not any yet of the house of Saul that I might show the kindness of God unto him? And Zebah said unto the king, Jonathan hath yet a son which is lame on his feet. And the king said unto him, Where is he? And Zebah said unto the king, Behold, he is in the house of Machir, the son of Amiel. Then King David sent and fetched him out of the house of Mature, the son of Amiel, from Lodabar. Now when Mephibosheth, the son of Jonathan, the son of Saul, was come unto David, he fell on his face and did reverence and David said, Mephibosheth. And he answered, Behold thy servant. And David said unto him, I can't stand you because you're lame. No, that's not what the Word of God records, he says. Just a couple chapters earlier, David's like, I can't stand the lame. And now the lame son of his best friend Jonathan is brought before him. David said unto him, Fear not, for I will surely show thee kindness for Jonathan, thy father's sake, will restore thee all the land of Saul, thy father. And thou should we eat bread at my table continually? And he bowed himself and said, What is thy servant that thou shouldest look upon such a dead dog as I am? And the king called to Zeba Saul's servant and said unto him, I have given unto thy master's son all that pertain to the house To Saul and to all his house. Thou therefore and thy sons and thy servants shall till the land for him, thou shalt bring in the fruits that thy master's son may have food to eat, but Mephibosheth, thy master's son, shall eat bread always at my table. Now Zebah had fifteen sons and twenty servants. The last thing I want you to grab a hold of this morning is this. To strengthen the king, you and I need to relish the fellowship. We need to remember past victories. We need to reflect on God's promises. And lastly, we need to realize that God is always working to build us and make us better. See, God did not. If you understand the heart of God from the scriptures, God was not on board with that prejudice attitude. That David was displaying back there when they were taking Jerusalem. But between chapter 5 and chapter 9, an incredible work had taken place in David's heart. You know, sometimes God has to bring us across the things that bother us the most to get us to grow past them and through them. Sometimes God brings us and makes us confront our worst fears realized. Eight plus years ago, when Brother Lewis called me about the church in Idaho I did everything humanly possible to tell him I was not going to be their pastor and I was not interested in it. But somewhere along the line I learned, don't ever tell God no. So I didn't flat out say no, but I said I've left you about 000. 1% chance I'm going to be your pastor. And I believe the Lord was up in glory saying, Oh really? Oh really? He had the angels say, get a load of this guy down here. Yeah, he doesn't know it, but in less than a year, uh he's gonna A little over a year actually he's gonna he's gonna be there pastoring. You know why pastoring was my worst fear realized. I was in evangelism I'd sit across on the other side of the pastor's desk and listen to all the problems and the stories and the heartaches and the heartbreaks. Yeah, pastor's son down here laughing, you know. Yeah. And I'd say, well, it stinks to be you. Inside I was like stinks to be you. I'm an evangelism. Eat, drink, and be merry. I'm on to my next meeting. Yeah. But the Lord had to bring me to a point where he said, I don't like that in you. I don't like that in you. I want to build you. I want to make in you something better than where you're at right now. And I don't say that to brag on myself. I say that to remind myself. But the days I'm feeling weak though anointed king, the days I wake up on a Sunday morning and I don't feel like standing in the pulpit and preaching. You say, man, Pastor, what's wrong with you? The same thing that's wrong with every pastor that's under the burden of the battle. There's some days you just don't have it. You don't feel like you got it. You may have the notes, but boy, you don't want to open your mouth. And say today, we've got to cry out more than ever and rely on the strength of the Lord and His help and His power. And say, God, help me to love that one that's stabbing me in the back. You know what? Boy, we can find ourselves so easily, weak though anointed king. But hopefully this morning God gave you some clues and God gave you some helps from his word. Relish the fellowship. Remember past victories. Reflect on God's promise, and realize God is always working to try to build and better you. He wants you to grow beyond where you're at. Don't ever plateau out spiritually. You ever read 1st and 2 Peter? You understand how many times that Peter in the Gospels was just a flat-out knucklehead? I mean, said the wrong thing at the wrong time in the wrong way with the wrong spirit. In the wrong crowd. One time Jesus even said, quit acting like the devil. Get thee behind me, Satan. And then we arrive in 1 and 2 Peter, and we're like, is this the same individual? My little children, a beloved. Wow. Where'd he learn to talk like that? The old redneck rough shod fishermen, you know, whacking servants in the Garden of Gethsemane, lopping off ears and Stuff like that. And then we see him at the end of the Word of God and we're like, what happened? He had a little meeting with Jesus right there before Jesus went back to glory and he said, Lovest thou me more than these? I don't know. The Bible doesn't exactly expressly explain what these were, but they're right by boats and they're right by the largest straw of fish that Peter had ever probably brought in in his life. 150 and 3 great fishes. I personally believe Jesus was pointing back to the lake and said, Do you love me more than these? And he goes on to say, Feed my sheep, feed my lambs. You know what he's saying, Peter? Do you want to spend the rest of your life filleting fish? Or are you going to feed my flock? And you know what? God had a role for David to play. God had a mission for David to do. And the New Testament says he served his generation by the will of God. He could not have him remain sitting on the throne weak though anointed king. He had to build him up and bring him out of that. And he used God's people and he used reminders to help him out. So bow her head and close her eyes. How about it this morning? Even if one person showed up this morning feeling weak, though anointed king. Are you relishing the fellowship God's given to you? You remember the past victories? Are you reflecting on God's promise? Do you realize that God is always working to build and better you? We stand with our eyes closed in Him invitation.