Bibles this morning to Deuteronomy chapter thirty. Deuteronomy chapter thirty. This is a very unusual Sunday morning message. It is not typically something that I would handle on a Sunday morning Uh I typically would use this maybe on a on a Sunday night or even a Thursday night where we kind of look more systematically at biblical truth and uh doing a Bible study like this, but the more that I studied this and the more I learned about it and the more questions I had asked from some of you, the more I realized that this has impacted more lives than we think. If you're here this morning at Hunt Valley Baptist Church and you have been impacted, uh affected by uh somebody you know Friend, family, somebody, your your life has been impacted or affected by somebody that has committed suicide. Could you would you be willing to raise your hand just show all over the room today pretty much in every area all over the auditorium. This is something that so many people uh deal with and have dealt with and if uh things continue uh in the pattern in which they are uh we may very well all be impacted by it in the future. So I think it's important that we understand a biblical view and a biblical perspective of suicide and how God looks at this. The real this problem has reached a pandemic proportions in our modern society. Suicide deaths among veterans is now greater than those that have died in battle. It is the tenth leading cause of death in the U. S. That's up from the 11th leading cause just a few years ago. Over a million people a year take their own life every year. Among kids ages 10 to 14, suicide rate has tripled. It tripled during the years of 2008 to 2018, and it has only gone up since then. For people aged 20 to 24, those in the prime of their life, suicide has increased 63% from 2001 to 2021. It is now among those in 20 to 24 the second leading cause of death for them. This morning I want to give us a biblical view of suicide, along with help for the surviving. And hope for the struggling. That's a tall order to try and address all three of these areas. In preparation for this, in the last several weeks, I have read three books on the topic. I have talked to five other pastors that are knowledgeable on the subject. I have listened to messages from Pastor Chris Starr and Pastor Aaron Rogerson on the topic, all in an effort and effect to Be as effective as I can in sharing and communicating with you the biblical truths of this and hopefully being a help to the congregation concerning this very serious topic. What does the Bible say about suicide? So we want to begin and look first of all at suicide in the scripture. Suicide in the scripture. In Deuteronomy chapter 30, if you're there, verse number 19, says, I call heaven and earth to record this day against you that I have set before you life In death. Beloved God is the giver of life. He should be the one who takes life. He says here, blessing and cursing, therefore, choose life The admonition for all mankind is that we would, in every situation, choose life. It should be the go-to hard and the pattern of mankind Realizing and acknowledging that we are in the hands of a gracious and loving God, and in every situation, regardless of how tragic the situation or how much turmoil or how great the storm is We know we are in the hands of God, and therefore we choose life and trust Him. I would tell you this morning that the term suicide is not found in the Bible. That word, the term suicide is not found anywhere in the Bible, although the act of suicide is seen in several places. I would tell you that all the people who committed suicide in the Bible, not one of them is portrayed in a favorable light. In every situation, there is a derogatory or a negative aspect to the fact that they took their own life. Understand this morning that the reason that I tell you this is because one author that I read said the one who commits suicide should not be looked on any less favorably than the one who dies of cancer. Okay, I have a problem with that statement. We want to be careful that we do not remove, there is a stigma with the person who committed suicide and took his own life And we don't want to remove that. We don't want to ever get to the place where this is normal and perfectly acceptable. You see, what has happened in modern society, they have removed God They've removed the creator of the universe whom we all answer to, the giver of life. They've reduced man to a microorganism. Who has no higher power, there is no God, there is no heaven, there is no hell, there is no judgment to come, you're just And whether it lives or dies doesn't matter. They want to reduce man and his life to that, but I want you to understand that's not biblical. All life matters. All life matters. And the fact of the matter is, is we Know that there is a God. God tells us to choose life. There are some cultures, beloved, where suicide is even heroic and honorable. Such as Japanese soldiers who would take their own life if their platoon or uh they themselves failed in battle to accomplish what their goal was, they would look at their failure as something they couldn't live with. And so it was looked at as honorable, commendable, if they took their own life. That is rooted in paganism. We do not want to get to the place where suicide is looked on favorably I think one of the reasons why there's such an increase in suicide today is because of society removing God and our responsibility before Him. And therefore men feel like, well, I'm just going back to the ground anyway. I'm just just dirt. It doesn't really matter. There there is nothing after this, so I'm just going to take my own life, but I want you to know that that's not true. We know that there is a God. Kids from the very youngest of age need to be taught that they are a special creation of God. They need to understand that. The destructive nature of what young people are being taught with regards to evolution Is removing God out of their life and saying you're no more important than the bug or the ant on the street. And when they value their life like that, why wouldn't they say, well, it's hard, I don't enjoy it, I'm going to just end it We need to understand that there is a God, and that each and every one of us are a special creation, uniquely and wonderfully made in the image of God, and God has a purpose and a plan for every one of your lives. Make no mistake, beloved, that the act of suicide is taking a precious life. Now there are three situations in the Word of God where God gives the approval for the taking of a life. The three situations are first of all in self-defense. In defense of your person or property In Exodus chapter 22 and verse number 2, the Bible says, if a thief be found breaking up and be smitten that he die, there shall no blood be shed for him. So on one hand, we know that there in Exodus, when he's given us the law, he says, hey, if a man sheds a man's blood, his blood is to be shed. A light for a life. But here he says, wait, if somebody comes in and they are a thief and you are in the process of protecting your property, kill him, then your blood doesn't have to be shed. So in protection of property or person, the Bible says that it is uh you are not held accountable for taking that life. Secondly, we know the Bible teaches capital punishment. In Genesis chapter 9 and verse number 6, if a man takes somebody, a man's life, his life shall be taken. Romans 13, verses 1 through 7, are the powers that are given to governments, and this is not something that we do we vengeance is not ours, and we're not to go out and take vengeance ourselves. God ordains government and given them the power, provided through due process they are found guilty of having committed this crime, then I want you to know that capital punishment is biblical. We would be far better off if we stopped putting them in a jail for sixty years and just followed the biblical principle. There would be a lot less murder. So in defense of property or person or in the case of capital punishment. Thirdly, in defense of your nation. In service to your nation. The Bible is very clear that in the service of your nation, in protection of your nation You can be involved in war, and I don't have time this morning to get into the the ethics and the morality of war. There are lots of ramifications that go into that, but I want you to know that the Bible is clear that you as a soldier in a duty to your country, fulfilling the commands of your commander in chief, uh that you personally are not held accountable for the lives that are taken. Though there are veterans in our midst today that I know carry scars, that I know carry regret and weight from the lives that they had to take in the duty of battle. And I just would tell you today to know that God does not hold you accountable for that. In his book, Issues Facing Christians Today, John Stoughton sums up seven conditions for just warfare There must be a formal declaration, a last resort, there must be just cause. There must be right intentions. There must be proportional means There must be non-combat immunity and reasonable expectations. I'm not going to dig into all of those. I just want you to know that as you go into battle, these are the three places where the Bible declares or says, listen, the taking of a life is acceptable. You're not held accountable for that. But in all other situations, it is the taking of a life is murder. It is killing somebody. And we know that the Bible still says, thou shalt not kill. Thou shalt not kill. So I would tell you this morning, if you're looking at a biblical perspective, what does the Bible say about suicide? The Bible says, thou shalt not kill. So not only is suicide selfish But suicide is sin. I just want that to sink in. I want you to understand that it is sin, that it is not right. Thou shalt not kill, even if you kill yourself. You are taking a life and you are held accountable for that. Now, although it is sin, I want you to know that it is not the unpardonable sin. You see, this is a heresy that has been taught and promoted by the Catholic Church. The Catholic Church historically has excommunicated suicides Anybody that committed suicide, they were excommunicated from the church, thereby losing their right to heaven, even after they were dead. They would not allow families to hold Christian funerals for them. They would not allow suicides to be buried in the church cemetery. And uh I'm gonna put this in quotes for Bob and Carol, uh but uh uh so they and they know what I'm they can't see my hands. So they wouldn't allow them to be buried in consecrated ground. Which, when you have a wrong perspective, when you've been taught false doctrine and you don't understand how a soul goes to heaven You may be greatly offended that your body is not put in consecrated ground, but you know what? I don't care what happens to my body. Because you could bury me anywhere and it's not going to make any difference when the Jesus comes back, I'm going to be reunited with my body. And where this old uh body is, this vessel is stored, makes no difference You can you can bury me uh you know, in Germany they there was a period of time where they took those that were suicide and they put 'em in barrels. and put them in the river, allowing them to flow out of the city, all as an act of punishment to say, listen, they will never be able to return back to this city. But we're not coming back here anyway, beloved. We're going up there. Amen. We're not going to be in this earth, so it really doesn't matter. You can put my body in a barrel or Or uh there was a time when many any suicide was buried not in the church cemetery, the consecrated ground, but they would bury them outside the city in the ground where the criminals were buried Bury me with the criminals, I don't care. Bury me in your backyard. I don't care. Whatever's cheapest, that's what I want to do. That's what I want to do. Whatever's cheapest. Uh because listen, this body is just a vessel that I'm stored in for a period of time, and when the Lord comes, uh I'm gonna be reunited with this body, and it's not gonna make any difference where it's stored. This mindset, beloved, this teaching has so permeated our society that it is readily and often portrayed on movies and TV programs Where they are taught that, well, this person committed suicide, so they're not going to go to heaven. I want you to know that that is false. There's no biblical basis for this teaching. Many religions follow this same pattern. In Islam, suicides are guaranteed eternal damnation. Muhammad said, one who commits suicide will be denied paradise and spend his time in hell forever repeating the deed that ended his own life. Albert Hushun, in his book Grieving a Suicide, one of the books I read in preparation for this, he read from a rabbinic text which lets us know that Judaism is also against suicide. In this book he said, he who destroys himself consciously, we will not engage with them in the funeral in any way. We will not hold Shiva. We will not, and it goes on to talk about in the ways they will not observe or recognize the death of the individual because they took their own life. Beloved, I want you to know that these teachings are not found in Scripture. This is not the unpardonable sin. The teaching is based on the fact that The Catholic Church believed in a final or last confession, sometimes maybe referred to as last rites in which a person has to confess all their sin before they go to heaven, or before they die in order to go to heaven. And so they say, since the individual can't confess of the sin of suicide because they killed themselves, so they would not be able to confess of it, they are essentially Guaranteeing themselves eternal damnation. But that is not true. That is not true at all. Listen, there is nobody that enters heaven completely pure of heart. You can never confess all of your sin. Even if you sat down today and tried to remember all of your sin, you couldn't remember all of your sin. There's no way that you could confess all your sin, even if you had the opportunity to. What about the individual who was killed in a car wreck? They didn't have a chance to confess their sin. Why would that be any different? It's not, because that's not how one's eternity is determined. The church needs to be less worried about the morality of suicide and more worried about the spirit of those that are still living, about winning them to Jesus Christ so their soul can be secure in heaven. It is not unpardonable. In Hebrews 10:10, the Bible says, by that which we are all sanctified, through the offering of the blood of Jesus, once for all. In verse number 14 he says, For by one offering hath he perfected forever Forever them that are sanctified, those that have put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ and His shed blood on the cross, can I tell you that whether you die by your own hand or somebody else's hand, I want you to know your eternity is secure. You are on your way to heaven. Your loved one or your friend or somebody that you know that they if they have put their faith and trust in Christ, regardless of how they died, they will go to heaven. But I really need to mention those that have not put their faith and trust in the shed blood of Jesus Christ. At the moment of their passing, they will wake up in a place called hell. Regardless of how they died. It's not dependent upon whether you took your own life or somebody else took your life. It's dependent upon whether you believe on the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. And trust his shed blood for your forgiveness of your sins. If you're willing to do that, you can be assured of your home in heaven. You can be forgiven of all your sin. There are many who in their mind they think, well, I'm just going to end it all. But can I remind you today, beloved, that this is not the end? You may end your life and think I'm going to end it all, but the Bible says it is appointed unto man once to die and after this the judgment. Can I tell you that as soon as we pass off into eternity, that that's not the end, your body may go to a place of rest here on earth, we lay it down in its final resting place waiting for the soon coming of our Lord and Savior, where we will be caught up together with them in the clouds and and where Jesus is going to come again, those that are saved will be reunited with them. But can I tell you, beloved, like the rich man In Luke 17, 16 that he the Bible says he died and he lifted up his eyes in hell being in torment. So it doesn't matter what you how you pass off this stage onto the next, what matters is whether you put your faith and trust in Jesus. I want you to know that if you are saved, if you have been justified, beloved, you are in the family of God. You're born into his family, and nobody can remove you from that. Turn your Bibles to Romans. That's in the New Testament, Romans chapter 8. I want you to see this verse because it's very uh powerful in illustrating or teaching this truth that this is not the unpardonable sin. As a child of God, we are put in the hand of God The Bible says no man is able to pluck them out of his hand. Look in Romans chapter 8, verses 37 to 39. He says, Nay, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him that loved us. For I am persuaded that, what are the next two words? Neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature. shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have Everlasting life. If you have believed on Jesus Christ, can I tell you that nothing, not even death, is going to separate you from that love? So the reason I'm spending time here is because this is something that by and large society and even many Christians who don't know the truth of the Word of God have come to believe that this suicide is a is a is a uh unpardonable sin It was one young lady whose brother had committed suicide, and for years she was a Christian. For years she thought that her brother went to hell. Because he committed suicide. Until she made that comment to a missionary one day and said, uh, hey, well, of course uh my brother's in hell because he committed suicide and the missionary wisely said, you know, you might want to look at that in the scriptures You might want to see what the Bible has to say about that. And then her whole perspective changed when she saw the Word of God and realized that her brother who had put his faith and trust in the shed blood of Jesus Christ was saved and thereby secure. So, although the word suicide is not mentioned in the Word of God, I want you to know that there are seven people in the Word of God who committed suicide. And so briefly we will look at these. I don't know that we'll have time to turn to all the passages, but I want you to see these are people that committed suicide in the Word of God. First of all, is Abimelech. The son of Gideon in Judges chapter 9. In Judges chapter 9 If you get to the first set first and second you went too far, you want to go back just a little bit. First and second Samuel, first and second Kings, if you're there, back up just a little bit the Ruth and Judges. And Judges chapter nine and verse number fifty-two we see here Abimelech kills himself. He says And a certain woman cast a piece, no, he's attacking this tower, this high tower. And uh here we see in verse number 53, and a certain woman cast a piece of a millstone upon Abimelech's head. and all to break his skull. So he's attacking, she's up above, she drops this millstone down to to break it. That's what she wants to do. She wants to kill him Then he called hastily unto the young man, his armor bearer, and he said unto him, Draw thy sword and slay me, that men say not of me, a woman slew him. I mean, can you understand that He said, boy, I sure don't want to go out of battle and the whole world know that some girl beat me. He said, I don't want to do that. Would you take me down? Now I remember one time in high school, I got beat miserably by a girl in a foot race. Uh, it was terrible. To this day I am scarred because this girl this girl beat me in a foot race, you know, we were racing and and she she beat me. It was terrible. I could still picture her crossing the finish line uh way in front of me. I'm like, how did that happen? Uh but he he said, Man, I don't want the world to know that uh I uh got got killed by a woman, so would you kill me? Now this might be looked at or considered uh assisted. suicide. And I want you to know, beloved, I'm not going to spend much time here, but assisted suicide is wrong. Euthanasia is wrong. Uh I know there's not much preaching on it today. It's not as prevalent maybe as it was when Dr. Kaborkin was in the news, but I want you to know that assisted suicide, even though it is becoming more prevalent and more popular, that it is wrong. We still must value life. Now, I also want to say there's a difference between someone who is dying and only has a few days to live or a few weeks to live and they have a terminally ill uh disease that has been pronounced, they know they're passing away, and you uh ought to give them palliative care or they go to hospice. I want you to know that that is not assisted suicide I do not believe that that is wrong. I do not there are some who might say that or teach that, but I want you to understand from my understanding of the scripture that I believe you're Doing them the most beneficial or kind thing that you can do for them the last few days or weeks of their life in which is sure to come to an end. If it's going to be filled with pain and agony and suffering, then giving them uh medicine that can ease that pain is not killing them I know the medicine weakens their body to be able to fight against it, but understand that the end result The goal here is the end result is the issue. So our goal is to provide comfort because the end result is inevitable. The assisted suicide, the goal is to end life Not to provide comfort. That's the difference. And so those that you maybe have battled maybe with your conscience or your mind when you have a loved one who is gone into palliative care or You've opted to allow them to be in hospice and you've maybe struggled with that in your conscience saying, I don't know, is this right? Is this okay? Um from my understanding of the scriptures and the word of God, I believe it is Again, what is the end goal? We need to understand, beloved, in modern society, it is possible for them to keep a body alive indefinitely. I know there are those in this room who, in their mind, they had to make the hardest decision of their life. To say, okay, turn the machines off. Let my loved one go. I understand that struggle, but I want you to know that that person was already gone Their life had already come to an end. Machines keeping a body functioning is not living And so you, at the best wisdom that you had available to you at the time, not in an effort to kill them, in an effort to do what was best for them. You instruct other doctors to let them go. And I know that's hard. And me even mentioning it this morning. It it drives right to the heart of some people and their situations that they've dealt with. And it is very serious, but I want you to know that God doesn't hold you accountable for having done anything wrong there. I believe maybe even actually to do the opposite would be wrong, because the Bible says to him that knoweth to do good and doeth it not, to him it is sin. So when we have the opportunity to do good for our loved ones, we should. So we see this first one here of Imelec, a type of maybe assisted suicide. Samson is the second one. We're not going to turn there because I think most people are familiar with the story of Samson. He, of course, had failed God miserably, was put into captivity, was blinded. was bound and set to grind the uh uh uh millstone there and in his repentant heart he said, God I failed you, I've done wrong, would you forgive me? He uh in the end of his life there he reached the end and he was standing there uh tied between those pillars and he said god if you would allow me one last measure of strength if you'd give me one one chance here I will push these pillars out and uh bring to uh a great victory for God and his people. And that is looked at as a suicide because he obviously the end result is he killed himself. But I want you to know that I don't believe that Samson could be qualified as a suicide. There's a couple of reasons. For one, he's mentioned in the hall of faith in the book of Hebrews in chapter eleven, I think in verse number thirty-two But uh secondly, I I see that as a sacrifice, not suicide, but a sacrifice for him to say, I want to go and win one last battle for the Lord. I'm going to give my life in order to win a victory for God here. And he sacrificed his life in order to win. We wouldn't look at a soldier who jumped on a hand grenade to protect the rest of his arms, army, the rest of his men, as somebody that committed suicide. No, he sacrificed his life to try and save the others. Somebody that went into a battle that was very likely they pretty much knew it was a one-way trip. They weren't coming back, but they knew they had to Win this battle in order to win the war, they sacrificed themselves, didn't commit suicide. And so that's how I look at the life of Samson, although If you do any reading, he will be listed among those that committed suicide in the Word of God. Now we see in 1 Samuel, if you want to turn there, 1 Samuel, just move to the right a little bit in your Bible. You'll get to the 1st and 2 Samuel chapter 31. 1 Samuel 31. We're looking at suicide in the Bible, so we want to see what it says here. Verses 3 through 6, we see Saul, and then immediately following that, his armor-bearer. He says, And now the Philistines fought against Israel, and the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines and fell down, slain in Mount Gibeah. And the Philistines uh followed hard upon Saul and upon his sons, and the Philistines slew Jonathan and Abinadab and Mecashaiu and Saul's sons And the battle went sore against Saul, and the archers hit him, and he was sore wounded of the archers. Then said Saul unto his armor bearer, Draw thy sword and thrust me through. Therewith, lest these uncircumcised come and thrust me through and abuse me. So he didn't want to fall into the hands of the enemy But his armor bearer would not, for he was sore afraid. Therefore Saul took a sword and fell upon it himself. So he took his own life. Then in verse number five, and when his armor bearer saw that Saul was dead, He fell likewise upon his sword and died with him. You see, here's the problem of teaching that suicide can be honorable. Here his his armor bearer said, man, I'll let my general die. I I might as well die as well. And so we've got to be careful about allowing that philosophy or mindset to permeate our current society, but I want you to know Saul was afraid that he was going to fall into the hands of the enemy. And uh that future he couldn't live with. Okay, do you understand? We're we're touching on reasons why people commit suicide today, and we see them in these people that committed suicide in the Word of God. What was coming down the road, he said, I'm not going to be able to bear that And so I'm going to take my own life. We see in 2 Samuel chapter number 17. So just turn a little bit over 2 Samuel 17. We see a Hippophel. Now in verse number twenty-three 2 Samuel 2017, verse number 23. And when Ahithophel saw that his counsel was not followed, he saddled his ass, and he arose and got him home to his house. to his city. He put his household in order, and hanged himself, and died, and was buried there in the sepulchre of his father. So Ahithophel here, Absalom, you know, was rising up against David and Absalom was going to take the throne and uh actually Ahithophel was a counselor of David's. Now Ahithophel was also the granddad of Bathsheba. So Ahithophel, when Absalom rose up against David, you can understand why David, why Ahithophel would say, you know what? I'm gonna go with Absalom. So Ahithophel went against David and standing against uh standing went with Absalom standing against David. Well, Absalom was going into battle against David, and he said, Ahithophel who was very wise many times what he said came directly to pass, and Ahithophel told Absalom, Here's what you need to do. This is what you need to do. And this is how you're going to win the battle Well, there was another prophet that had been there before that gave advice to Absalom, and Absalom and the men chose to follow this other prophet's advice instead of Ahithophel's advice. So Ithophel was offended. He was so offended, he was so hurt by this. Sometimes the hurts of life are so strong that people say I can't live with this pain any longer. And Ahithophel so offended, so hurt, that Absalom, after I left David, the rightful king of the throne, and I came and I joined up with you, and I told you how you were going to win this battle, and you didn't follow my advice. Ahithophel went home, he set his house in order, and then he killed himself. So we see Fourthly or fifthly here, Zimurai, you don't need to turn there. 1 Kings chapter 16, verse number 18, if you want to look at it later. He was king, Israel of king for just seven days. The city was taken captive by the enemy. The enemy was knocking at the door. The enemy was right there. They were coming in. And Zimurai said, Well, I'm not going to win this. the the future looks bleak, the battle is over, and he went into his palace and he lit the palace on fire, killing himself and all those that were inside the palace with him. Then we get to the New Testament. We have a familiar name, Judas. Judas in Matthew 27, verses 3 through 5. We're not going to turn there for the sake of time, but we know the story of Judas. He betrayed Jesus Christ. He realized what he had done. He had gone back to the Sanhedrin there. He says, oh hey, I want to give this money back. And they said, nope, it's yours. You took it. He threw the money down on the ground, and the Bible says that he went out and he hung himself because of remorse, because of guilt. And I tell you, sometimes the guilt and remorse over something that somebody has done in this life, when we don't have a correct perspective of God. And don't have a correct perspective of the forgiveness of God. That weight of guilt can be so much somebody says, I can't live with this guilt anymore. And they kill themselves. Man, we need to teach people about God. God's love, God's forgiveness. If they would understand that God is just, but yes, but God is loving, and God can and will forgive. There is also an attempted suicide, the Philippian jailer in Acts chapter 16. We're not going to read that, but Acts chapter 16, 25 to 28, if you're just keeping notes here on the message. Uh the Philippian jailer, you know the story, he was about to commit suicide because God had opened the jail and he thought all the prisoners were gone. Amen. All the prisoners are gone, and my life's over anyway, so he's about to kill himself. But then Paul says, hey, do thyself no harm, for we are all here. You see, beloved, he was under a false assumption. He thought something that was not true. He thought that everybody had gone. Surely the jail is open and the chains are loose. Everybody ran for the hills. But he was mistaken. Can I tell you that the devil is the father of lies? And the devil would like to sell every single one of us a lie? The devil tries to convince people of things that are not true, like you are of no value. Your life doesn't matter to you or anybody else. People would be better off without you. Can I tell you these are lies of the devil, the father of lies, and he is the one that's implanting those in your mind? He is the one that is giving you those thoughts. The goal of Satan is to try and deceive all, and he will do all he can to do so This Philippian jailer was about to fall on his sword. But Paul says, wait, you're mistaken. Everybody's here. What you believed was false. Now, there is a number of people in the Bible that wanted to commit suicide but didn't. We're going to look at them in just a moment, because I want to move on to solutions for the survivors. Matthew chapter 5 and verse number 4 says, Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. One survivor of suicide said, and when I mention or even you read or talk about the survivor of suicide That is talking about the family members, the loved ones, those people who are still here when somebody they love committed suicide. The survivor is the one still living. One survivor of suicide said, he did not just take his own life, he has taken part of ours too. He has taken part of ours. They say that the pain that that individual was carrying did not go away. It was just transferred to the shoulders of the survivors. The shoulders of those that are still living are now carrying the pain So don't think, beloved, and I don't know in this congregation today there may be somebody who is contemplating hurting yourself in one way or another. Don't think that ending it all will fix it or that it'll stop the pain. All it's going to do is transfer that pain to the survivors. In grieving a suicide by Albert Hush, he said, There may be one primary victim. But as with a bomb thrown into a crowd, the collateral damage is massive. And he describes the survivors as the other victims of suicide As the other victims. Those that are still here are carrying weights and burdens and heartache that they have to live with and deal with now. because of the one that is passed on. And you, by testimony that we began at least a third, maybe pushing uh more of the congregation this morning has been directly affected by suicide. With every suicide there are at less at least six survivors, oftentimes many more who would call them friend or family that are now carrying that burden. One survivor said it is the ultimate form of rejection One said, it is the cruelest way in which one could say, I'm leaving you. It is the most brutal form of divorce. It leaves a feeling of rejection that is eternal. These are things that the survivors are dealing with. Can I tell you there is a path to victory? God would have hope for you. There is help for the survivor. Now, grief is complicated in the best of circumstances, and grief surviving a suicide is intensified and made even more complicated. Know that the path to victory is not linear. It is not something that is a direct path of point A to point B. If I could get to C, I'm going to be okay. It's not linear. It's not a direct course. The problem with the view of a lot of counseling regarding this is that there are stages of grief that you're going to go through. The problem with that is the idea of presenting it as stages is that there's a step that you can get past and you go to the next stage and now you're past that one and you go to the next stage and you're now you're past that one. But those that have endured and gone through grief understand that oftentimes you find yourself all the way back here at stage number one when you thought you were long past that stage. It's not a stages is not a good way. You can experience all of the emotions of grief at the same time. And you can feel like you're doing pretty good today and then tomorrow or the next day be back in it. Be back-faced with the reality of it. Sometimes you'll be ambushed out of nowhere with a level of grief that you didn't even know you still had. You'll be somewhere And see something that was valuable to that person or something that they enjoyed. It could be something as simple as a coffee and they loved coffee and you'll see that. And it'll just take you back. Many of you know that Mary miscarried our first child. And It wasn't till years later that I even knew this, but sometime after we had gone through the whole process of removing the baby and dealing with all of that and we got got through all of that. It was sometime later she was in a Walmart and there was a little kid's t-shirt sitting there and it just said mom. That little thing, that little word, mom on a t-shirt for infant or a child, just immediately said, I'm a mom, but nobody knows it. I'm a mom, but I can't hold my baby. That grief struck her right there in that store It's something that ambushes you sometime. And so I want you to know that what you're dealing with, the emotions and the struggle of it, is not something that's just linear, that's just gonna you're gonna progress past and all of a sudden, oh, I'm better now But there is hope. There is hope. Can I talk about some of these emotions here? The survivors deals with regret and loss. Regret of what might have been, regret of what should have been said or was said and shouldn't have been said loss of what will never be. The future, always thinking about what might have been or who they were. Guilt, they deal with guilt We need to understand the difference between true and false guilt. There are many people surrounding grief that deal with guilt and it gets very heavy on them. But understand, beloved, there's true guilt and there's false guilt. True guilt is when we've committed sin and transgressed the law and sinned against God, and God sends guilt to our conscience because we've done wrong. Such as a man who has committed adultery, he should feel guilty for having transgressed the law, having sinned against his wife, and sinned against God. But how many of you know that oftentimes the woman feels guilty? She has no cause for guilt She should not feel guilty. She has not done anything wrong. But sometimes in our mind they feel, well, i uh if I was a better wife or if I was this or if I was that, then he wouldn't have trans, he wouldn't have done that But that's not true. You have no cause for guilt in that situation. And a lot of times Satan, who is the accuser of the brethren, will bring and impress upon you guilt that is not yours to carry. Because again, he wants to destroy as many lives as he can. In his book, Albert describes his own story. He writes from the perspective of one who Has endured great loss. His own father killed himself. And he was scheduled to go visit his dad the day after his dad killed himself. His dad had suffered a stroke and he knew that his dad didn't want anybody to see him in that weakened condition. So for a long time he carried guilt that because I told Dad that I was coming to see him, the day before he killed himself. So that I wouldn't see him in that weakened condition. Maybe if I just wouldn't have told him I was coming. Maybe if I just wouldn't have forced my visit on him, then he wouldn't have killed himself. If he would have lived a little bit longer, maybe he would have saw some improvement. He thought he'd have been okay. But you see that guilt's not on him. And that's something that survivors have to deal with. And with the grace of God and the understanding of the love of God, you can Remove that false guilt. Oftentimes there's feelings of failure, especially a parent who has lost a child to suicide will feel they have failed as a parent. Else why else would this have happened? A counselor, a pastor will deal with feelings of failure because now this church member, this this this person that I was trying to help committed suicide, so somehow I failed them. I did not accomplish what I should have done as a leader in their life Friends often will deal with feelings of failure because they weren't a good enough friend, or if they would have just called one more time, or if they would have sent a note, or somehow they could have been a better friend and kept them from doing that, and so now they're carrying that feelings of failure. Beloved, well we want to be careful not to remove the stigma around suicide because we don't want people to feel that suicide is acceptable or okay. We also got to be very careful that we don't transfer that stigma of suicide onto the survivors. That we don't push that guilt or or anything on those that are surviving because that is not who's responsible for it. It is solely laid at the feet of the one who took his own life. They'll deal with anger. One man was so angry at his loved one for killing himself, he said, if I could bring you back to life, I would kill you myself. Dealing with anger. How could you do this to me? How could you leave me? How could you leave me alone? How could you leave me with this mess? Albert says, the victim. Is the murderer himself. So at the same time you grieve the lost, you also are crying out in anger against them. They deal with anxiety and fear. What was something that only happened to other people, what was something that was distant in your mind, is now a reality in your life. Of fear and anxiety that you face. One person whose loved one had committed suicide had some friends come over and their friend went into the restroom and the friend hadn't been in there very long, but in their mind they thought, boy She's been in there a long time. She's probably committing suicide, and she went and banged on the door trying to get her friends of attention and her friend's like, what are you yelling about? Why are you, this is anxiety and fear that is now permeates the hearts and minds of those that are surviving. Why? Because they're living with the reality of it now. It's been brought into their realm and it's something that they have to live with. But what I want you to know, beloved, is that God has comfort for you. That God has a solution for you. To be comforted by our Lord, one must resist the regrets and the if-onlies. And realize your loved one's life should be remembered not as the tragic way it ended, but In the way it was lived. God wants to provide and give you comfort. Lastly, this morning, can I give you some support for the struggling? Maybe you personally aren't struggling, but you might know somebody that's struggling. I want you to know that there is support Remember, beloved, the silent enemy that's warring against the soul of those who are struggling is as real as this pulpit is here. Remember that isolation is the fertile ground in which suicide grows. We are made to be a social people. We must resist the desire to isolate and to be alone. That was seen in a very real and prevalent way in 2020 with the lockdowns and shutdowns where people were forced to isolate and the increase of suicide went up exponentially. There are men in the Word of God who were so discouraged that they decided they wanted to die. I don't have time to turn to these passages this morning, but you guys know the the story of Job? He reached the point of despair that he just did not want to go on. Elijah, living with such pain of unrealized desire, he preached and he worked and he labored for revival and and revival didn't come But he was wanted and hunted by the Jezebel for his life, and he said, Boy, I'm I'm done, and he went and crawled under a tree and just wished he had died. Moses Wanted the weight, the weight of life's responsibility was too great. Moses just couldn't bear it anymore and wanted to end it all. Jonah Of course, we know the story of him. Jonah understood that God was a merciful God, and when God provided mercy to that wicked city of Nineveh, you see, Moses didn't feel that justice was done. And he wanted justice against them, and so he wanted to die. These are people that desired it but didn't commit suicide. So we need to learn to recognize the signs. Recognize the signs. I know I've been talking for a long time. I've cut I've cut a lot of this out. This is such an important topic. Are we doing okay? We're doing alright. We uh we'll only be a few more minutes and we'll wrap we'll wrap it up. Um but we need to be able to see the signs of those. You remember the story of Ahithophel that we read? The Bible says there that he went home, he set his house in order, and then he hung himself. Can I tell you that over 80% of those that commit suicide have told somebody that they were going to do it? Over 80%. The signs were there. The evidence was present. They have communicated by their statements, boy, the world would just be better off without me. Oh, I don't think I can live with this anymore. We've got to take statements like these very seriously. Can I tell you, beloved, that as a pastor, that I'm a mandatory reporter? that if one of you come to me and communicate desire to harm yourself in even an abstract way, I'm required by law to call the police. Because I cannot you have given me the signs or you've warned me or you've told me that you possibly would uh be interested in hurting yourself and I have to inform the authorities that intervention can be brought into your life. So you so what I'm saying is this is very serious. When somebody comes to you you might not be a mandatory reporter, but you need to take it very seriously. You need to hear what they're saying. And maybe you need to dig a little bit deeper. You might have to ask them directly. You might just have to say, hey, have you ever or are you now thinking about hurting yourself? Just ask them, just say this is very serious because I love you and I'm here for you. I want to be what you need right now. Have you ever thought that your family or others would be better off without you? Dig in a little bit more, speak to them directly One must remember, beloved, that this is both a physical and a spiritual battle. There are people that err on both sides of this issue. We have one lady that's coming to Grief Share right now, and she said, I cannot believe that my counselor basically encouraged me not to come to Griefshare. My counselor told me that wouldn't help you. But it's giving me so much help. The reason is is because that counselor that is 100% humanistic looks at looks at it from a physical standpoint. just from the mental aspect of it wants to address all of the problem from the mental and let's medicate it. Right? That's how that's how the counselor was viewing it and saying, hey, I'm going to help you through this means. But I want you to know that there are also people who understand that there's a spiritual battle of it that err on this side, and they want to say all of life's problems are a spiritual battle, there is no physical aspect to it. To me that is just it's ludicrous. It's mind-boggling. Do you know how differently we look at things just when we're rested or when we're when we're tired? How many of you have had kids and you look at them and you say, You need a nap? Like this kid needs a nap. Like this kid is losing, I mean he's lost it. You need a nap Beloved, sometimes we need a nap. What I'm saying is there's physical aspect to these things. And some of that is beyond the pastor's ability to try and address You might need some actual help from somebody that has the capacity to diagnose and to administer or to help you with the physical aspect of it. So there's both sides of this And we would err greatly to try and lean it all one way or the other. Sometimes you need some help with the physical aspect, sometimes there are chemical imbalances. Sometimes there's physical things going on in the body that need to be addressed. But can I tell you as well, as much as we have a comforter in Jesus Christ Our comforter, I want you to know we also have a combatant, and that is Satan, who is coming to against you, and Satan who's trying to implant in your heart and mind and your uh uh ears things that are not yours. We need to remember that it's both spiritual and physical. Satan, beloved, came to steal, to kill, and destroy. John 10. 10, the thief cometh not, but for to steal, to kill, and to destroy. I came that you might have life and that you might have it more abundantly. Can I tell you that Satan came to destroy, but Jesus came to develop? Jesus is here to help you, to build your life. He came to give you life and give it more abundantly. Satan came to destroy your life, and these two are at war for your soul and your mind. and that battle that's going on in your mind, I want you to understand it is not all physical. Rick Carter Jr. Who is a doctorate in his book entitled Do Thyself No Harm on page number five says, many of the suicidal thoughts that people have are not actually their own They are hearing actual voices of those who wish them harm speaking as if it was their own. What he's saying is that Satan's coming to you and he's whispering in your ear, the world would be better off without you Satan is the one that is attacking you. There is a spiritual aspect, and we must be ready to deal with this. Satan will do all he can to destroy your hope and to bring you to what looks like a completely hopeless situation. But remember, Satan is a liar. He is real. Satan is real, but so is the Savior. And the Bible says, greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. Beloved, any discussion about Satan and his power in this world that leaves you without hope has not put Satan in his proper place. Under the foot of Jesus. You see, Jesus has already won the battle. Jesus went and went to the grave and fought against death and hell for you and I, and he rose victorious. Greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world, and yes Satan comes and he puts things in your minds and you might hear today if he struggling with your own self-worth and with your own value in this world, but you need to know who you are in Jesus Christ as a child of God. Don't listen to the words of Satan, listen to the words of God. Turn to Jesus Christ. He wants to reign in your life. Death could not hold him. The grave could not hold him. Jesus rose and won victory over death for you and I. You say, Well, beloved, as a as a soldier of the cross, as a Christian, were to put on the whole armor of God, and I don't have time to to to go down that line to help fight against the wiles of the devil, and you say, Well, what a What if I'm not a child of God? What if I don't know for sure that my sins are forgiven? Well, beloved, you need to begin there. You need to trust Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior and allow him to forgive you of all your sin and take away that weight and the burden of all the sin that you've been carrying for all these years. God can do it. Turn to Ephesians chapter 2, Galatians, Ephesians in the New Testament. We're coming to the home stretch. Ephesians chapter 2, I want you to see something. Ephesians chapter 2 and verse number 12, he says that at that time you were without Christ. So you see, here's a group of people that are without Christ, being aliens from the Commonwealth of Israel and strangers from the covenants of promise. What's the next three words? And without God, having no hope. Can I tell you that the number one declaration of somebody who is going to commit suicide or take their own life is they no longer have hope Jesus is the God of hope and he wants to bring and give you all hope. Romans 15, 13. He is the God of hope and he comes to give you hope. And that hope is there if you would but put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ. You don't have to turn there, but in 1 Thessalonians 4, verse number 13, he says, I would not have you ignorant brethren concerning them which are asleep, that ye sorrow not even as others Who have no hope. There are two groups of people mentioned in that verse. There are brethren and there are others. Brethren, that is those people that have put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ, they know their sins are forgiven, they know they're on their way to heaven And then there's others, those that have not put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ. And what is the defining difference according to 1 Thessalonians 4:13? There, what's the defining difference between the two? Hope. The brethren have hope, and we don't sorrow as those that have no hope. But those in the world who do not have Jesus Christ are living a life without hope. And they need hope today, and that we need to give them Jesus. Jesus stilled the storm and brought peace, and he can still the storm in your soul. He can bring peace and restoration to your heart. If you will but trust in him. A songwriter wrote, My hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and righteousness. On Christ a solid rock I stand, and all other ground is sinking sand. The chorus Is my hope is Jesus, the anchor of my soul The ruler of the universe, the one who is in control. He saved me and he will keep me till the end. The rock of my salvation on Christ, I will depend. My hope is Jesus. My hope is Jesus. My hope is Jesus. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed? I want you to know that our hope is Jesus Christ. Whether you are carrying the burden of surviving or you are contemplating Your own harm in some way, I want you to know that our hope is Jesus Christ. And he wants to help you today.