All right. Psalm chapter 51, if you want to turn to that, Psalm 51. I want to preach on a subject here. What happens If a Christian sins, or when a Christian sins. And you might ask the question, well, do Christians sin? Yes, they do. I've known a lot of Christians and I haven't met a perfect one yet. And uh as well as myself, I'm a Christian, but I am not perfect, I'm far from that. And um you know what um what happens? So uh David uh in the Bible, David um the one that killed Goliath, you've heard of him, of course, uh uh he messed up his life at one time in his life. You all have read the story and you know that he uh committed sin and he had a fellow murdered and and so on and it took him a whole year of being under conviction before he got right with God and But he did get right with the Lord and all of that year God was speaking to him and convicting him and so on and and he uh uh he did get right with the Lord, but he didn't get saved again Uh, you know, David was um a godly man. He was the Bible the Bible even says that he was a man after God's own heart. One time there was a man in in And I was dealing with him and his family and trying to help them with a problem that they had. And uh uh I went through the book of Psalms and I wrote down all of the chapters of psalm that David wrote after he committed sin with Bathsheba and then he got right with God, then he wrote a bunch of Psalms after that. And uh folks uh God used David in his latter life as well as in his earlier life too. He had some sweet times with God in the Bible. He was chosen as uh the king of Israel. He was known as the sweet singer of Israel. But David re remember he was uh what you and I would call a Christian. He put his faith and trust in the Savior that was going to come and give his life on Calvary's cross and raise again. We put our trust in the Savior that already came and shed his blood and and um uh forgave us of our sins. And so now maybe you're a Christian and you've gone into some sin. You've messed up your life in some way. Maybe you've been gossiping You say, is that bad? Well, according to the Bible, that's sin. And God does not say one sin is better than another one or one's worse than another one. If it's sin, it's sin. Maybe you've been gossiping. Maybe you've been lying Are you truthful? Do you tell the truth? Uh lying about something. Maybe you've been stealing things. Surely none of you are thieves. Uh you may be, because I see all of you wear masks today. Uh immorality. A lot of Christians get involved in immorality. And that's not good at all. That's wicked. That's ungodly according to the Bible and and uh uh David lived in sin, remember, a whole year before he got things right with God. But he did get things right with God, and thank God he did. And if you're in sin, then rather than trying to pull over a facade and pretend and b and make people believe that everything's okay, why don't you just get right with God? You could even do that tonight between you and the Lord and get things straightened out with God. But when you sin Number one, you don't lose your salvation. You don't. My son Caleb, he's my son. When he was growing up, he was not perfect. But when he was not perfect and he did something wrong, it didn't change his relationship of being my son. He never one time ever came up to me and said, Hey, would you be my daddy again? No, he never did. Because he was born into my family, and in order for him to uh be in a different family, he'd have to be unborn. And then born again. You know, you can't do that. And you can't be unborn again if you're a Christian. You can't do it. It's uh uh impossible to do The Bible says my Father which gave you to me is greater than all. No man is able to pluck you out of the Father's hand. My message is It's not on the security of the believer tonight. However, if you're saved, you're saved, you're born again. Now, uh let me just say that when my son was uh small, when he would do something wrong, that he would be disciplined for doing something wrong. And that's what God does to you and I, whenever we as a Christian do something wrong, we fall out of fellowship with God, and He chastens us. He says He chastens us. those who are his. And if you are in sin and living for the devil and not don't have a good Christian life, then And God does not chasten you for it, then the Bible says you're illegitimate, that you're not real, that you're a fake And so if you're in sin and God's not doing a thing to you, then I'd check my salvation out and I would make sure that I was born again by the blood of Christ. Now um As we look at our world today, we are becoming more and more insensitive to sin. Sin is so prevalent all around us. that things that used to be wicked and ungodly to you aren't as wicked and ungodly today as they used to be. We get used to things that are wrong and don't pay much attention to those anymore and it doesn't break our hearts like it used to. You used to hear somebody use God's name in vain and it used to break your heart. Oh man, did you hear the bad things that guy said? Oh that was awful. But then the more you hear it, the more you hear it, get used to it, and it doesn't become bad or wicked or ungodly anymore, pretty soon you just get uh to where oh it just goes in one ear and out the other and things like that and and uh y uh things that used to be wicked uh you've accepted uh liquor today and drugs and the wicked ungodly philosophy that the world has today. It just becomes part of our life We see things all around us in magazines and newspapers and billboards and and the radio and the television and online and all kinds of things that are just wicked and ungodly and we get used to those things And sometimes they even become a part of your Christian life and you uh aren't the Christian you ought to be and you have sin in your life. If we're ever ever going to have a revival in our churches and a revival in our own life, and we need to have the power of God upon our lives. And you cannot have the power of God on your lives if you have sin in your life. We have got to understand what the god what God says about sin and understand the biblical definition of sin. You know, we have our own particular definition of sin. There's some things that you think is wrong that I don't think is wrong, maybe, or some things I think is wrong and you might not think they're wrong. But the Bible has a definition of sin. And when God speaks to you and tells you something's wrong, doesn't matter if everybody's doing it. You need to quit it if God's told you that it's wicked and ungodly You know there's uh when you're a preacher, everybody watches you. I mean they watch how your if your shoes are shiny, they watch if your tie is straight, they watch if your tie is uh is the right length And so I I seen some preachers, you know they have ties out like this, you know, away up there I thought nobody ever taught that guy how to tie a tie You know, I mean good night. You know, uh but but uh everybody watches a preacher. They watch everything they do. They watch if their hair is combed and and uh they watch uh uh all kinds of things that they watch And so I have to be very careful what I do, what I say, where I go, what I do. All the time I have to watch it because I want to be a good influence upon people. And so I've maybe even mentioned it here before. But I don't eat uh uh Tootsie Roll lollipops outside. Well, preacher, I like 'em. What's the matter with those? Well the little stick sticking out looks like a cigarette And I don't want anybody thinking that I'm smoking. And so you so you don't eat lollipop. Yeah, I just break the stick off and throw it away, but uh and I go ahead and eat the lollipop, but uh uh I don't want people thinking that I've got a cigarette sticking out of my mouth. You say, well I don't care what people think about me, then you're not a good Christian. You're not a Christian. You don't care what people think. You don't care whether they go to hell or not You don't care if somebody looks at you and and sees a bad testimony. You don't care. And there are going to be people that are going to die and go to hell because of your bad testimony in your life Now I'm not preaching against eating a lollipop, and if you don't out under conviction, uh that's okay. You go ahead and eat all the lollipops you want. But there's uh but when God speaks to your heart and convicts you about something You ought to quit it. You ought to stop it. And start living for God. Now I pray that this message will be a message that will help you to look at sin and think it's exceedingly wrong and exceedingly sinful uh about sin. There's several things that happen though to a believer when a believer is sin uh sins. And one thing is immediately Spontaneously, right at the moment that you fall into sin, your fellowship with God is broken It's broken. You know, right at that time. Now I've probably mentioned this illustration. I've never preached this message here before, but I may have mentioned this illustration uh years ago uh here at church. And so if you've been here a long time, you may have heard this. But uh When I was about twelve years old, uh I uh had grown up on a farm and and uh loved to drive the things around, the cars and and tractors and stuff like that. And so when I was about twelve years old, uh I decided that I wanted to drive my dad's pickup truck. Well, mom and dad every Saturday night they'd go over to somebody's house and They would and uh this particular Saturday night I said, Hey, I think I'll just stay home tonight if it's all right, Daddy and he says, Okay. He said, You be good? And I said, Yeah, I'll be good and he said, Okay. And so they left and I knew they always got back about the same time, so after they left Well then I went and got the keys to the nineteen fifty seven green ranchero pickup truck that my dad had. And I went outside and started that thing up and backed it out the driveway and backed it in and And I'm going to tell a shorter version of this story tonight than I don't normally do, but I I drove it all the way down the road and drove it down to Doctor Fetcher's house and 'Cause he had one of those driveways that you drive around, drive out, and you don't have to back up. And I could barely see between the steering wheel and the dash, you know, and as I drove into the Fetzer's yard there, well then I saw Mrs. Fetcher look out the window. And she couldn't see anybody in the car, I'm sure. She probably thought the car was driving by itself. And I drove around and drove it back to my house and then parked it and turned it off and went in the house and and uh uh hung the keys back up. Mom and dad got home later and they said, Everything okay? I said, Yeah and they said, Do you have a good time? I said, Yeah, I had a good time. And uh okay. And then A couple of weeks went by and they went over to uh somebody's house again. I said, I think I'll just stay home tonight if it's okay and so I did, and as soon as they left I got on the telephone and I called up my friend Carlos, Carlos Edwards, and I said, Hey Carlos, I got the truck tonight. You want to go for a ride? And he said, Yeah. Amen. He was surprised though. He says, What is gracious? And so uh I said, I'll be down to pick you up. And I got in the truck and And I drove down to his house right on down through town, just pretended like I uh knew what I was doing and uh stopped in front of his house, he came out and got in a car We took off out to the country and I was going down the highway, down this uh black top road, and I was uh s really dumb. But I was going eighty five miles an hour down this This road. It was terrible. Uh I mean I could have killed him and me too. And all of a sudden there was a sign that said 25 and an arrow, 25 mile an hour curve came up and I didn't know it You know, I'd never driven down that road before. In fact I'd never driven down hardly any roads before. And and so uh got to that and and I didn't know what to do, but I knew that if I turned that corner that I was going to roll that thing over and it'd kill Carlos and kill me too. And I didn't have murder in my thoughts at the time, so I decided to just slam on the brakes and held the steering wheel uh straight and close my eyes And slid. And it slid all the way off the end of that road, and it just so happened that there was a driveway to a man's farm. that went straight ahead, the curve of the road went around the curve, and I was sliding down this hill and uh opened my eyes and there was a gate. But thank the Lord the gate was open. And I slid through the gate and all the way up and stopped about that far from the farmer's car. Man, there was a big pile of smoke from the gravel I was sliding through that was uh uh billowing through and uh the people pulled their shades back and were looking out and so on. I thought, oh good tonight we've got to get out of here. They're out there looking. And so we backed up out of the driveway and I took off. And I could tell you more about us driving around, but we we did that several times. I didn't go eighty five anymore, but uh uh but w we took the pickup truck several times. Then now when you grow up on a farm and uh and it rains, then you don't have to do anything because this was a grain farm. We we raised uh corn, wheat, beans and Milo and so on. And when it rains, uh, you don't have to work. So I was out on the farm and and we had a pond on the farm, and I was down at the pond with my brothers and we were getting ready to put the little boat, little rowboat that we had and go out to the raft that we had and we were gonna go swimming, have a good time on this our day off because it was raining. And so my dad though, he drove down with this ranchero pickup truck. One thing happened Is somebody saw me that knew me driving that truck? And they told my uncle And you know what my uncle did? He told my daddy. I never have liked my uncle since. Well he's in heaven now, so it doesn't really matter. But uh uh but uh anyway he told my dad and so my dad pulled the pickup truck up there uh by the pond where we're at down there and he says, Boys, get up here. Well I knew when my dad said it like that that it wasn't It's gonna be a good thing. I just knew something was wrong. Something was bothering Daddy. And so we get up there, my little brother, he goes and sits in the pickup truck. Dad just let him go. I thought about trying it myself, but I think he wanted to talk to us. And uh so he looked at me and he looked at my brother David and he said, Boys, You did something wrong and you know what it was. You go down to the river down there, there was a river about a quarter of a mile away, and he said, and you stand there until you t uh get ready to come back and tell me what you've done and then you come back here and tell me. So we started walking down to the river, and I looked at my brother David and I said, What'd we do? And he said, Not we, you And so we get down to the river and we sit and we set the thing is is I had to go back up and tell Dad what we did. But I sure didn't want to go back and tell him the wrong thing. That'd be terrible. And so so I uh head back up to my dad after we I said he must know about the truck. That's uh that's the only thing that make dad act this way, you know, I mean man. He must know about the truck and And so he I said, Let's go tell him. He says, not me. You did it. You do it. And so I head back up to my dad and I get right close to my dad. My dad always made me look him right in the face, right in the eyes, when I was talking to him. And so I looked my dad in the eyes and I says, well dad, was it the uh uh was it the um was it the uh the the Pickup truck and a big old crocodile tear came out of my dad's eyes on b one on both sides, running down his cheek And he looked at me with quivering lips. He said, son, I thought I could trust you. And man, I'll tell you what, that broke my heart. Because I spent my life trying to please my daddy I t I worked awful hard to try to please my daddy and now I've broken his heart and he can't trust me anymore. And I broke down and started bawling like a baby And man, I I I'll tell you that was uh the the awfulest day of my life when I disappointed my daddy. That was terrible. That was awful And whenever you sin against God, it's a terrible thing. And I don't know how often God weeps But I'm sure that when you fall into sin and get away from God, there are times that God looks down and sees what you're doing, and I believe that he weeps Because of your wickedness and your sin and the things that you won't get under conviction about and the things that the preacher preaches about and and you're sitting there and you let them go in one ear and one out out the other and don't pay any attention to God Now, let me just say that uh uh you can lose your effectiveness when you're in sin You can you lose your salt when you're in sin. Let me just say that that uh uh whenever I sinned against my daddy My daddy couldn't trust me anymore. And that was awful. And uh do you know that if the word got around of what Roger Battrell did to his daddy, then I wouldn't be trusted by hardly anybody And many Christians are confident to live without the beauty and the blessings of God upon their life. But let me just tell you something. If you have the blessings of God upon your life, oh it's wonderful. Oh it's a great thing. Oh it's exciting when the blessings of God are upon your life. You know, uh uh Somewhere along the line, your fellowship with God has gotten out of step because of sin in your life. It used to be that you could get answers to prayer Now nothing. It used to be that when you came to church, the Holy Spirit would just throw your heart with the Word of God as it's being preached. And now you get under conviction about it. What's wrong? It used to be that God's word was great to you, and God's ways were wonderful to you, and so on. But uh but what happened It started it didn't start with the major, major sins in your life. It started with little bitty things. Little bitty things. I mean, the guy that goes out and commits adultery and has somebody murdered, he didn't start with that. He started with not paying attention to the preacher when he's preaching. He started with being unkind to his wife. He started with not disciplining his children like the Word of God teaches that he ought to do. And uh he started with little sins in his life, little things that you and I would call little sins that you know, every great Moral catastrophe is always preceded by a toleration of little sins in your life. Do you know that when the Olympics uh uh they canceled, I don't know whether they canceled it or not, but over in Japan, but uh When somebody goes to the Olympics and they get caught taking steroids and drugs and stuff to enhance their abilities. Do you know that that didn't start the day that the Olympics started? That started a long time before that. They've been a cheater for a long, long time. It's just now they got caught. But you you have sin in your life. It probably didn't start today. It probably started a while ago and is building up in your life. And you know that's interesting that you can't see sin in somebody's life just by looking at them Now I've seen a few people that you could tell that they've had a life of sin, messed up in their life, but most people, especially Christians, you look at them, they look just like, you know, uh Sabrina, you look just as good a Christian as uh as uh Jennifer You all look like good Christian girls, you know. And if you had sin in your life, I couldn't tell it by just looking at you. You know, it probably is, but I d you know, I'm just kidding But um let me just say when sin comes into the temple of God, uh the temple of body, your your body's the temple of the Holy Spirit, then you're you're defiled. You're defiled, you're wicked. And uh uh do you know a year later after David fell into sin, Nathan came, and Nathan Didn't beat around the bush. He didn't talk about the weather. He didn't talk about the best sports teams going on and so on. He got right down where the rubber meets the road, and he told David, he said, Thou art the man. What a man of God Nathan was. Do you know that the king could have said, All right, take his head off? They'd have come in and cut his head off right like that But he told the man of God he he was in sin, and David got under conviction, and that was the beginning of him getting things right with God. And you read Psalm chapter 51 and you'll find that that that was David's uh example of what he prayed to God to get things right with God when he fell into sin. Uh this preacher standing nose to nose with the king, you'll not find a more beautiful picture of courage in all the Word of God than that. You know, uh uh he said, David, you have sinned. Thou art the man. And you know what we need to do? Quit preaching around sin, start preaching on sin. We need to start saying, hey listen, this is what the Word of God says. It says that we're sinners, it says this is wrong and this is wrong and this is wrong in the Word of God, and we need to just fess up to God and get things right with God and make things right You know, and if you're saved, let me just say that you have a greater preacher than Roger Battrell right down there in your heart. The Holy Spirit of God And you know God's not the author of confusion, and he will show you and tell you about what's sin in your life, and he'll tell you about that, and you'll need to get things right with God. The Bible says in 1 Corinthians 6 19, what Know you not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost, the Holy Spirit of God lives in you, speaks to you? He doesn't tell you that something's okay and tell me that something's not. You find that uh if someone is living in you, like the Holy Spirit of God, it makes it very important In the economy of God's plan. God's plan is for you to be clean. God's plan is for you to be separated God's plan is for you to be a good example. God's plan is for you to live in such a way that when your neighbors see you, that they see Christ in you. They see Jesus Christ in you when when they look at you. You ought to be so kind and nice and sweet to your neighbors. Even if they're mean and ungodly to you, you ought to be kind to them So that they can see Christ in you, so that whenever they have a problem and they have a burden, then they'll know who to go to to get help And folks, it's happened to me many times in my life that people have come to me and asked me for help, neighbors and friends and different ones, and so on. Now, if I have the Holy Spirit in me, then I need to watch what I take off of my body. I need to watch what I put on my body. I need to watch if I have the Holy Spirit in me, I need to watch what comes out of my mouth and what comes into my eyes. I need to be very careful if I if I had the Holy Spirit of God living in me. Now, let me just say that when we sin, it defiles your soul. It soils your soul It takes away the cleanliness in your life that you have. And David says that in verse number two there. He says, He says, Wash me thoroughly from mine iniquities and cleanse me from my sin. Verse number seven he says She says, purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean. Wash me and I shall be whiter than snow in Psalm 51. Verse number 10, he says Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me. Let me say that when you have sin in your life, it's it fills your mind Your mind is constantly burdened with that sin that's in your life, and you need to get that sin out of your life so that it's not on your mind anymore. The most miserable person in this auditorium tonight is the backslidden Christian. The one that's away from God. Why? Because David said, I acknowledge my transgression and my sin is ever before me. He's saying he's thinking about it all the time. God was convicting him all the time. When I lay down, that sin's been for me. When I wake up, it's before me. When I eat at breakfast table, the sin is before me. When I play with my kids, the sin is before me. When I go to work, that sin is before me. Just haunts me all the time. And God speaks to you about it all the time. And so sin fills your soul, uh uh uh uh uh uh uh fills your mind let me so say that also it depresses the heart I haven't seen too many Christians that are in sin that are jumping around and saying, Woo-hoo! Sure is good to be saved. It's hard for you to say amen when these girls are singing if you have a bunch of sin in your life. Have you ever been seen a Christian away from God that was in sin that was happy? No, they're not happy. They're miserable. David said in verse number eight, he says, make me to hear joy and gladness, that the uh bones which thou hast broken may rejoice. God wants you happy. God wants you to be joyous. God wants you to have the victory in Christ. God wants that for you. You'll never have it with sin in your life. Let me say that when sin's in your life, it affects your body. Does. He says in verse 8 again, there that the bones may rejoice. It affects you physically. It affects your mouth. You don't smile anymore uh or very much. You know, it affects you affects your countenance. You get tired quicker and all those kinds of things. And not only that, when sin is in your life, it sours the spirit, sour spirit, you become cantankerous. No tears for God anymore. I mean the preacher can preach His heart out, and you never shed a tear. How long has it been since you got on your knees and you prayed for somebody that was lost and they needed to get saved and you shed a tear over it? You say, well preacher, I can hardly get uh shed any tears anymore. It's because you don't care whether you go to hell or not. You got sin in your life, you don't care. You and you can blame it on anything. Sometimes you get sin in your life, you start blaming it on the preacher. It's all the preacher's fault. He doesn't preach hard enough. Well, if you read your Bible enough, you wouldn't need the preaching in order to stay right with God. You'd need preaching. But uh what I'm just saying is you'd be right with God. Don't blame it on your church. Don't blame it on your friends. Don't blame it on your circumstances. God doesn't change. Christ doesn't change. We change And when you're not right with God, you're running away from God and and uh uh so it affects the spirit. Let me just say that when you have sin in your life, it it uh it seals our lips You used to talk to people about Jesus. Now you don't talk to anybody about Jesus. Because you're not living for Christ yourself. David said, I used to tell people about Jesus. In verse number 14, he says, Deliver me from blood guiltiness, O God, thou God of my salvation, and my tongue shall sing aloud of thy righteousness Oh Lord, open my lips, thou my lips, and my mouth shall show forth thy praise. He's saying that. He says, Open my lips, Lord, I I'd like to talk about you. Now when you get right with God, you don't mind talking about the Lord. But when you're not right with God, you don't want the preacher to come by because you know he's going to talk about the Lord. Um, let me just say, what should you do? Well, number one, you should assure yourself That God loves you and He wants you to be forgiven. He wants to forgive you. And He says, we need to acknowledge our sin, admit it to God. Tell God you're a sinner and what it is and confess it to him and ask him to forgive you. And folks, I have quite a bit more to the message, but I'm about out of time tonight. Let me just mention this. I'd like to please my dad. And when I was disking a field a couple of months after this happened, I had been working all day and worked really hard. My dad stopped the pickup truck at the end of the field, the same one that I took for a ride. Got to the end and he said, Turn it off, son, I'm taking you to town. He'd never done that before. But I said, What for? And he says, You're big you've been working hard. I said, Oh, are you going to take the hired men too? We had two hired men out there And he says, no, sir son, you're the one who's been working hard. And he took me to the West End Grocery there in in Brunswick, Missouri. We went up there, had a Coca-Cola sign on the screen door. He opened it up, went in, he hollered at the men that were at the other end of the store and he said, Hey, I'm gonna buy this man a soda pop. I turned around to see who he's talking to And he was talking to me, called me a man. And he said, son, go over there and get any kind you want. And went over to that soda machine, and it had a big about this long and about this wide and The lid came up like that, all this ice cold water running around inside. Had about ten thousand kinds of soda, pop and dad said, Reach in there and get any kind you want And I reached in there and felt around, froze my hand, but uh got got a ice cold cream soda. I said, Dad, we're gonna drink it here, we're gonna drink it on the way to the uh out to work again. My dad always liked to work hard And I figured we're gonna we're gonna drink it on going back out to the farm. And he says, No, we're gonna drink it here and I thought, man, this is special And I took that soda pup and I opened it up and leaned back against that soda machine and and I tell you what, it's a whole lot better for my dad to say, Hey, let's drink a soda pup together, than for him to say, I thought I could trust you. Let me say it's a whole lot better when God looks down at you and says, Well done, thou good and faithful servant, than it is for God to look down with tears running down his eyes and say, I thought I could trust you. How are you living for God? Are you putting God first in your life? Are you being what God wants you to be? You have sin in your life. And uh are you keeping the the power of God from bringing great revival to Hunt Valley Baptist Church. What is it? You need to get I the the answer is not quit the church. The answer is get right with God. Get right with God And and so could we have every head bowed please and every eye closed? I saw on the paper outside on the door that the altar calls have been canceled for right now. But God doesn't stop quit speaking to people. Sitting right in your seat where you are, you can get right with God. You can ask God to forgive you. You can ask him to take that sin away, whatever it is in your life that you're messed up in, the Lord will forgive you for that thing, whether it be gossip or whether it be pride or whether it be wicked, ungodly sin That you don't want to even name, God will forgive you. There's not a thing you could do that God wouldn't forgive you of. So it's important that you, you that are listening, get right with God tonight. Get right with God. Put God first in your life. Be what God wants you to be. You'll be glad that you did. Heavenly Father, be with thy I pray, Lord, that you would help anyone that's in sin to ask forgiveness. Lord, we know that the Bible says, anyone that comes to you, you'll know You say if as Christians in First John one nine If we confess our sin to you, you're faithful and just to forgive us our sin and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Lord Jesus, help us as Christians tonight. To get right with you. Now, Lord, if there is somebody here that's not saved, after the services, Lord, would you help them to come up to talk to Pastor Batterel, my son, or myself, or one of the ladies on this Stringhaven group, or talk to somebody and Lord, we'd be glad to talk to them about their soul and help them to get saved. Please answer our request tonight and we'll be grateful and thankful. In Jesus' name I do pray. Amen.