What should I do now that I'm graduated? Uh you know, I'm done. I I finished this step, whatever that step may be, and and and what's next? And uh even, you know, John addressed that a little bit in his testimony, like taking that next step, what what should it be? And there's of course career paths that you might take. There's education paths that might be next for you. Obviously tonight we're celebrating with several who are uh you know taking other steps uh with Galena, which is I thought about saying she certified no. Um Certifiable or I I don't know. But she uh certified, got a you know, medical assistance uh degree and John uh uh with his uh journeyman s or uh completing this four years of of you know earning his uh that level of uh expertise and gaining and uh of course then all you know we got high school graduation and uh so the different stages of of life and each person's in a different place And uh that's okay, but look at Psalms chapter sixteen. I don't know who put the sign together. Maybe there's several people involved in it, I don't know, but in the foyer I just walked in the fellowship hall there where we're going to gather for fellowship and to rejoice with these in this stage of victory in their life. But in Psalms chapter 16 and verse number 11, it says, Thou wilt show me the path of life. And in thy presence is fullness of joy. Here's what I want to exhort you and encourage you is the step, the next thing for your life Whether that's an educational step or that's a career path or that's a decision that has to be made, uh ultimately the most important decisions are not based on money. They're not based on education. They're not based on that next job position that you might hold. The most important things are things that are based on the Word of God and what God would have you to do. I would implore you to consider the Lord, and he says, Thou wilt show me the path of life. In thy presence is fullness of joy, and at thy right hand there are pleasures forevermore. The greatest joy and satisfaction you're going to have in life, the greatest fulfillment that you'll have, is following the path that God has for you. Whatever that path is, I really found comfort in that as a young man because of course I had my own ambitions and desires and I thought, well, ultimately what it boils down to At the end of the day, what I really want is to be happy. Well, he tells you here, the fullness of joy, the greatest pleasures, the greatest blessings are when we follow the path that God has for us. That is where we experience the hand of God and see this victory come. Each stage of life really is a graduation. It is a commencement. Graduation is the completion of something. You have graduated, you've completed that, but it's also a commencement ceremonies that they have at graduation time. Why? Because now they are starting on something. We're having Men and Boys camp out very shortly. And uh I've always said for my boys the the They could go with me when they graduated out of diapers. They weren't going to Minnie Or's camp out with me if they're still in diapers. So uh Mary was very motivated to get them out of diapers so that they could go with me. Ah she got 'em out of diapers and like okay, they're potty trained, so they're going with you now and and that was a a level of commencement, a graduation But all through our life, each stage of life really is a is a graduation, and we move on to the next stage, and each stage has its own f joys. its own heartaches, its own challenges, but its own blessings. And I would employ you, encourage you as well to live in the stage you're in. Too many times, especially young people, look with anticipation at the next stage as if somehow if I could reach that next stage, boy, then I'll really be excited and then I'll really be happy. Boy, if I could just get to high school, or if I could just have my license, or if I could just be done with high school, if I could just get To college or through college, just always looking ahead instead of enjoying where God has you right now and experiencing what God has for you to experience in the stage that you are in Listen, I want to give you a couple of thoughts tonight and we won't be long. But I just um what to do now that you graduated, and this is not going to be uh about you know what your next step is for you, but regardless of what the next step is how to face it, how to deal with it, and how to be successful in the life that God has for you. Turn to 2 Timothy chapter number 1. 2 Timothy chapter number 1. Uh it was amazing to me uh we opened up tonight uh the first song that we sang, May the Lord find us faithful. And first verse is God has not given us the spirit of fear, but has given us strength to obey, with power and a sound mind, with love, the unfailing kind. Oh, be not ashamed of his way. May the Lord find us faithful. Can I tell you that if you're gonna really be successful, if you're really gonna enjoy life that uh you need to be found faithful by God. And in order to I want to encourage you in your life, the first thing to help you is that you need to face your fears. He says in 2 Timothy 1 and verse number 7, he says, For God hath not given us the spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of a sound mind. Face your fears. Timothy, a young pastor of this small church of Ephesus, and you know Paul was mentoring him. And Paul at the beginning of his ministry told, at the beginning of Timothy's ministry, he says, Hey, let no man despise thy youth, but be thou an example of the be a believer in word and conversation in deed and charity and in truth. Hey, you you need to be an example. Don't Worry about your your age and what people say about that. You do what's right, and God will use you to be an example to others. Now he steps it up a little bit and he says he tells Timothy, listen, don't be afraid Don't be afraid. You know a lot of times people at this stage of life, whatever that stage is, you get done with school, you get done with education, you get done with college, you get done with high school, and it's the next step. Like, oh no The unknown. You know, I took Timothy to the airport just the other day, and he's on his way to a summer internship and to a church he's never been to, and uh all of the unknowns there, and I could As independent as young men are, I could sense the apprehension in him. And there is a level of, yeah, yeah, I'm good, I got this, I'm fine, but Here he is, I'm dropping him at the airport, and he's going off to spend the summer somewhere else with people he doesn't even know. And there's that fear of the unknown And it reminded me of when I took him to Kentucky for the summer uh that he served at camp down there. And that was much greater. Of course he was younger And that was a stepping stone. That camp, the time it camp to go do that was a stepping stone, gave him strength, and now this is going to be a stepping stone. But the fear that we face can a lot of times keep you from doing what you should do. Could really keep you from experiencing great joy and great victory because the fear of I'm not sure if I should talk to that guy into plane or not. I don't know But if God, if you put them right in front of me where there's no way I can get away, then I'll say something, and boy, the joy, the excitement. Amen. Where did Melissa go? She was right here. Oh, she's over there. The excitement of of coming through and I spoke to him. Yay, you know, I don't know she was like that. I just uh I shouldn't be making fun of her. Um but That the fear, it keeps you from doing what you really want to do. From experiencing victory. And and you know, how many of you have been there before and you had that gospel track and in your heart and mind you're like, boy, I should just hand that to this guy Shoot me and call me stupid. A week ago I was getting gas and uh there was a guy filling up he had the t big tanker and he's filling up the tanks out front. He had the big hoses in there and he's dumping them in And I went up to him and I talked to him and I'm like, Hey, how's it going today? And my car's filling with gas, you know, and I said, How long you been driving a truck like this? You know, he said seven years and I said, how long does it take to like I mean those hoses were that big and I ought to dump it out of there pretty quick and he says, Oh, you know, about twenty, thirty minutes, you know, it empties the truck. And I said, Is it gravity fed or is it uh pumps? He's like, Oh it's gravity, it's just sucks it out of there, you know. And I said, How many gas stations do you get to fill up before you have to go back and get w get more gas? He's like, Oh one. It all goes in one station. He said I do five to seven stations a day. And uh he said now that the key bridge is down I have over two hour drive to fill up every time. And uh he says my days are crazy. He's like, but I get paid by the hour. So amen. So He's like, I'm okay. And he's like, I'm just doing what I got to do. And anyway, I talked to him that whole time. Got in the car and drove away, and the Holy Spirit says, man, you are a bum. You should have gave you had the perfect opportunity to give that guy a track and you didn't do it in out. I thought about it. I would have had to walk back to the car to grab it. I didn't have it on me, but I had him in the car. I could have grabbed one and went over there and and handed it to him How many of you have been there and you didn't do it? But when you did it, you're like, amen. I gave him, I gave him a track. And sometimes the amazing thing that God opens up a conversation, you get to be a witness, and you're like, man, I'm so glad I did it. I'm so glad I I took that step because look at what God did. And I I could have never experienced that if if God if I hadn't just had just if I would have faced the fear, if I if I wouldn't have got to experience that joy. And so whatever you're doing in life Hey, listen, Satan is the one that brings fear. Satan, now obviously there's good fears. You know, you don't want to burn yourself. You don't want to fall off buildings. You want to be careful what you're doing. There's good fear to have But there's also some fears that Satan uses to hinder you from doing what God wants you to do. I want you to know that any cowardice that you have in life, it did not come from God, because God has not given us the spirit of fear but of love and of a sound mind. Listen, perfect love casteth out fear. Perfect love casteth out fear And I will never in my life come across a more vivid and poignant illustration of how perfect love casteth out fear then the when I was climbing the mountain with my father and my brothers and we were going to drop over a hundred and sixty-foot cliff and the guide said, hey, somebody has to take the rope and go over this hundred and sixty-foot cliff. And I said, I'll do it And I got on the cliff and this little scrawny guy that we had, you know he's a little guy. I mean he's like Timothy size. And uh he stand there and I I said to him, uh I want my dad on the other side of that rope. Because I know that if dad is on the other side of the rope, dad will go off the mountain before he'll let me go. This kid's gonna be like, oh, he's too heavy. Let him go. Like he doesn't know me. He's got no vested interest in saving my life But perfect love casteth out fear. I stood on the edge of that cliff with that rope ready to go off, and I said, if my dad is holding that, it no problem I'm not worried about it. I know I'll be okay. We can trust our Heavenly Father, no matter what you're facing in life, because he has the other side of the rope for you. He has that and he wants to lead you and give you what you need to experience that ultimately the guide said he couldn't give the rope to the other guy, he had to do it. And so I made him prove that he could hold me and he had some device that he could hold me with two fingers. So I was like, oh okay. Uh he was not he was not w it wasn't muscle, it was machine that saved my life. So but um listen face your fears It's when you do so that you experience some great things in life. I recall uh we were on a young couple's retreat. uh in Branson, Missouri. And walking through down the street with a bunch of young couples and they had a hundred-foot swing there. And uh I told some of these young guys, I said, hey, uh I want to do that. Let's do it together. They had a uh a three uh a harness that three guys could get in and you guys could all swing at the same time a hundred foot swing and I said let's do that and I mean I was just mentioning it like made my stomach like you know and then and we're looking at that and we're going over to it and two guys said okay I'll do it I'll do it with you And so we go and then I tell the uh one of the guys, I says, hey, you have to pull the ripcord. I ain't pulling it. I said, we get to the top, because you have to release yourself. And uh so they pull you back a hundred feet in the air and then when you get to the top, they count down on the ground. The crowd, they count down three, two, one, and you're supposed to pull the cord. I told them, I said, you better pull it. I said, uh I'm gonna be chicken to pull it, but you pull it. So we went up and I mean we're we're laying flat, pulled backwards, a hundred feet up in the air, and uh you pull the cord. and and you swing down and a hundred feet. I thought it was gonna be like jerky. You know how when you take a swing too far and it you you you get like that that slam? Oh it was so smooth. It was it was awesome. And uh, you know what? That's when it was such an exciting thing, but I had to face my fear. I had real apprehension. And I thought this is not smart. If I had half a brain, we wouldn't be doing this. But I talked these other two guys into it. That's another thing. You need to have some better friends. So I talked these two guys into it and we went and swung and you know what every time we get together that's what we talk about. That time we rode the hundred foot swing And it was so much fun. But we had to face our fear to do it. And what I'm saying is sometimes you may have some fear or apprehension about taking that job or fear about taking that step for the Lord or being the witness that God wants you to be or teaching that class or uh serving in some capacity. Listen, face your fear. God has the other side of the rope and He will enable you to come through the other side and you'll experience such great victories. One of the biggest Fears. I guess let me say it this way: one of the battles you're going to face as you move forward is living a life of honesty. Honesty. You see, beloved, dishonesty is rooted in fear. From a child, I'm afraid I'm going to get spanked, so I'm going to lie. I'm afraid it might cost me my job, so I'm gonna be deceitful. I'm afraid what others might think, so I'm not gonna say what I should say. I'm I'm dishonesty is rooted in fear, and can I tell you that uh You have got to make it a principle of your life to be honest in every situation, above and beyond. I mean, just make it so very clear. And uh I know sometimes we we think about things and we say things and they're half-hearted or we think it's not that important, but there was a tinge of dishonesty there. The Holy Spirit will prick your heart if you're sensitive to that and make it right. Make it right immediately, because you don't want that to be a habit in your life where you allow, uh, it wasn't quite the truth. Like I didn't really lie, but I obviously didn't tell them the truth. You you want to be honest in everything. There was a rancher who asked a veterinarian about some advice. He said, Hey, I have a horse, and the horse walks normally most of the time. Uh but sometimes he has a terrible limp. What should I do? The veterinarian said the next time he walks normally, sell him. That is the mindset of most people today. I mean can you sell a broken down car and not say anything about it to the guy that's buying it? That's dishonest. As a Christian, you need to make it a point in your life and say, well, they just got what they got. You know, you know, you wouldn't do unto others as you would have them do unto you. Live your life by that principle. Dishonesty is rooted in fear. Face your fear, be honest in your actions, and God will bless you Another fear that we face is the fear of standing alone. Fear of doing what's right if we have to do so alone. There was a test conducted by a university. Ten students were placed in a room and three lines of varying lengths were drawn on the card The students were told to raise their hand when the instructor pointed to the longest line. Well, nine of the students had been instructed to raise their hand. At the intermediate line, not the longest line. And they found that seventy-five percent of students When they're looking at the line and they know which one's longest, and the teacher pointed at it, when they raised their hand but the other nine students didn't, they put their hand back down. And when they pointed at the intermediate line, and those nine students raised their hand, the one student raised his hand. Sa over seventy-five percent of the time this was done with groups of kids from kindergarten to college. And over seventy-five percent of the time people chose to go with the majority even though their mind said that's not right. But I'm saying is you might have to face your fear and stand alone. Do what you know is right according to the Word of God, even if there's not other people standing with you. Because right is right. Regardless, don't take your cues from the crowd Follow and do what God wants you to do. Face your fears. Secondly, you need to forget your failures. Turn to Philippians chapter 3. Some familiar verses. Many of you could quote them. Philippians chapter number three, verses 13 and 14. Philippians 3, 13 and 14, he says, Brethren, I count not myself to apprehend it, but this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind. and reaching forth to those things which are before. I press towards the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. You know, beloved, I've seen this as a teacher in a classroom over the years with students. That sometimes you'll get a student in their mind, they they will come to you and you're teaching them and you're trying to help them. And after a little while, they'll basically they'll come out and they'll say it and they'll say, well, it's because I'm dumb Who told you you were dumb? Why do you think you're dumb? And you dig into a little further and you'll find that they had some teacher a year or two ago or they had a a class that they were taking with somebody, a teacher that they didn't understand and didn't connect well with. And so that one scenario, that one situation imprinted upon their mind they had a bad semester and they they just said, okay, from now on, I I must just be dumb because I can't do that. When really it was just it was the teacher not able to connect with that particular student. And and uh Mary could probably give you particular examples because she spends a lot more time in the classroom than I, but I do recall students that were really pretty bright. They really had the ability to do what needed done, but they had it in their mind sunk in because of some past failure, I can't do this. And it's amazing when you can take the child and bring them to the point where they get it and they see it and they're like I can do this. And they're they don't be like, oh, I got that right. Oh well, I can do this. And that just it's like their whole countenance changes. Their face lights up and they get excited about the fact that they do have that ability. And what I'm saying is Satan's come and he's set on your shoulder and he says, You failed in the past and you're not going to be able to be successful in this area or that And if you're going to make it through life and continue to succeed for God and be all that God wants you to be, you've got to learn to let go of failure. Everybody fails. We all fail. We all come to the place where we've done something stupid or we did something wrong. And we we face some failure. But you've got to learn, as Paul said, forgetting those things which are behind. You've got to let that go and say, okay, I failed yesterday, but I don't have to fail today You can be successful at what God would have you to do if you purpose in your heart to let go of those failures. He refused to allow his past failure to dictate his future. Don't let your failure dictate your future. A lot of times we revert back to what we know, our experience from the past. But that doesn't have to be tomorrow's story The pages of tomorrow are still clean. They're still white. There's nothing written on them. You have the opportunity when you get up tomorrow morning to decide to take the right step, to make the right choice. You don't have to let yesterday's failures dictate your future. Lastly, turn this more this evening here to Hebrews chapter number twelve. Lastly, I would implore you, no matter where your path of life takes you Whatever path of life you're on, whatever job situation you're facing, whatever educational experience is coming next for you, whatever it might be, I would encourage you to follow your faith. Follow your faith. Hebrews chapter 12, verses 1 through 3. He says, wherefore seeing we also compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses. Let us lay aside every weight and sin which has so easily beset us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us. Looking unto Jesus, the author and the finisher of our faith. Who, for the joy that was set before him, endured the cross, despised the shame, and sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. For considering him that endured such contradiction of sinners against himself, lest ye be wearied and faint in your minds. Follow your faith. In the midst of World War II, Oxford University called upon the Prime Minister, that great orator Churchill to come and address that he spoke for the commencement exercises of the university, dressed in his finest suit. Arrayed with his typical garb, his cigar and top hat and cane. Churchill approached the podium The crowd rose in anticipation and applauding, standing there, looking as dignified as ever, he settled the crowd down. He stood quietly before them The audience waited in stillness, and with his authoritative tone He rang out three words never give up The crowd, I'm sure, thought that was some introductory statement and waited in silence again. And after a few moments, he said it again: never give up. They waited, and a few moments later he said it a third time never give up. And then he turned And walked off the stage, concluding his speech. But I'm telling you tonight, wherever whatever path that you're on, don't give up on your faith. Follow your faith. Stay in the house of God. Stay following God. Looking unto Jesus, the author and the finisher of our faith Beloved, all runners on the course of life need a point to look to. They need a finish line to shoot for. They need a goal. Well, our goal as Christians is the Lord Jesus Christ. He is our reference point. Tomorrow morning, going out to the to the camp, and I'm going to meet Jim and Pam Carbo there. And we're going to go out into the woods and we're going to do a bunch of hiking. We're going to go out there and we're going to establish some waypoints for the men at Men and Boys Camp Out. We're putting out there in the woods these these things that the boys are gonna have to find. And then we're buying a bunch of compasses and we're going to teach the boys about navigating in the woods and how to find waypoints and how to determine your paces and your distance. And uh they Pam and Jim work on a team of people that help uh children that are lost in the woods and they go out to help rescue them, and if there's somebody that's lost, they go out and do these search and rescue teams. And they've been trained on this. And so we're going to teach the young men on how to do that and how to how to find somebody who's lost or find something in the woods. If we're really brave, we may do it at night. But the goal right now is to do it during the day. Um they said that's the challenging part is to do it at night in the dark. Um but I said, well let's we're these are kids. We'll start with them in the daylight first and then we'll see. But here's the thing. All of that is based on an unmoving reference point. If you're ever lost and you don't know which way to go, you gotta find true north. From there you can establish your direction and determine which way you need to be heading. Well, beloved true north, for the believer is the Lord Jesus Christ. The unchanging point of reference for us in our lives. And I would encourage you, as I said this morning, you owe a debt of gratitude to those that have gone before you, those that have sacrificed for you and loved you and led you until you got to this point And I would encourage you, please don't throw away that investment. Don't disregard all that they've invested in you and all that they've taught you. And you get to that age of 19, 20, 21, and you say, well, forget it. I'm just going to go do what I want to do. You need to remember all that they've done for you. Don't leave your faith. Stay true to the faith that's been handed to you. Let God take you on this Christian life and lead you in the way that He would have you go. Yes, you need to be flexible in many areas of your life. You should be able to adjust when it comes to the truth. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. He is the point of reference. And I would encourage you tonight as you have opportunity, you're getting older. I know some a little older than others. I didn't look right down here. I mean we have a couple high school graduates and you're taking that step, you're reaching that point, you can kinda go out on your own and decide you you get to decide you're eighteen now, you're an adult, right? You could to decide what you want to do I would encourage you, don't leave your faith. Stay focused on that. You see, beloved, it's easy to get distracted. It's easy. Life has so many new decisions for you, so many new exciting things to experience. You're going to make a lot of new friends. You're going to face a whole bunch of new frustrations. But can I encourage you to continue in the things that you've learned? Hold on to that reference point. Don't throw away all that those that loved you most in this world invested in you. Hold on to those things. I want you to face your fears so you can know the thrill and the excitement, the joy of stepping out and doing what God wants you to do. Can you imagine the fear of any missionary that first time heading to the field? Saying, oh, it's all unknown. I don't know where we're going to be, I don't know what church we're going to have. I don't know, I mean, uh where we're going to I don't know all that they face. Face your fear Learn how to forget your failures. There's going to be some days that you don't do as well as you would like. Some days you're going to flat out fail. You've got to let those go. And with God's help, be victorious tomorrow. And whatever you do, follow your faith. Stay with God. Stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed