We've been praying for revival in our country, revival in our church, revival in our own hearts. We as a church were unable to have our scheduled services. We had services scheduled and they had been scheduled for quite some time. Probably over two years the the dates were set and uh the uh pastor that we had scheduled, Brother Ron Ralph, was planning to come. And then literally about three weeks before our own scheduled revival, he was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer. Uh and uh last I spoke to him, the doctors are optimistic. They believe that they're going to be able to w lick it, but uh it's gonna take an aggressive uh regime of chemo treatment, actually. six days a week I think they're gonna be doing that and so he has to be every day at the hospital and for uh a number of I don't remember if it's four or six weeks, so there was no way he could come. And so we were unable to to hold the planned, scheduled services, uh, but that does not mean that revival is impossible. What is revival? That is the title of the message this morning. What is revival? We're going to try and talk about it or define that this morning. Many people uh think about uh a revival as as services, the revival services that churches have that they put on the candle calendar and they schedule and say, okay, we're gonna have some revival. We're gonna have a revival this uh August or we're gonna have a revival. Maybe even a tent revival. We're going to do it out under a tent. We're going to have revival services. And they think about that time where an evangelist comes or somebody from out of town comes and preaches some some uh you know powerful messages and and we gather together and and that that is revival. Uh might last three or four or five days or sometimes three or four or five weeks. But uh Those, dear friend, are the meetings where revival can take place. We call it revival, but those are just the meetings are just an instrument. They're just a tool that God could use to bring revival to our hearts. So there's other means through which God could bring revival. He does use the foolishness of preaching. He does use a time where we gather and pull ourselves away from the world and kind of put an emphasis and a focus on spiritual things. And those meetings are important, but they in and of themselves are not what revival is. Revival is what comes to the heart of the Christian who is yielded to the Spirit of God. Habakkuk cries in Habakkuk chapter 3 and verse number 2, O Lord, I've heard thy speech and was afraid. O Lord, revive thy work. It's when a people humble themselves and pray. When they cry out to God and ask for revival and yield to the Holy Spirit of God, and God does a work in their heart. So this morning I'm going to attempt to shed some light on or remind us about revival. I'm going to be presenting or giving some facts and information that I gleaned from reading a sermon this week by C. H. Spurgeon called A Prayer for Revival. A prayer for revival. You can look it up and read it yourself. I would encourage you to. I certainly will only be able to share a smattering of the information that's there. Uh and I certainly can't do it as eloquently as C. H. Spurgeon did. So you look it up, it's available online. You can read it, read it for yourself. But I'm just going to share with you some of the thoughts that he brought from this text Psalm 85 and verse number 6, what he called the prayer for revival. He says, Wilt thou not revive us again, that thy people may rejoice? In thee. Would you pray with me and let's ask God to speak to our hearts this morning. Lord, I come to you now as a humble servant. Lord, unable to adequately preach the Word of God, but Lord, we know that your word is worthy and it's quick and it's powerful. We know, God, that the Holy Spirit would His promise to come and to guide us into all truth. And Lord, your people are gathered here today from all different walks of life. Some in the services this morning, hearts are heavy and burdened with trial and heartache. Some are excited about what maybe some blessings that you've brought into their lives. Others are dealing with great tragedy or struggles or financial concerns, or we don't know, but you know where each and every individual is. And God, they've come this morning to hear from you. I pray, God, this morning, as we turn our hearts heavenward and we Quiet our hearts for a few minutes, and we ask of you now that you would guide us under all truths, that you would speak to our hearts, that you would draw us into your presence, and Lord, may you for a few minutes be our hearts focus And may you feed us from your word. We ask in Jesus' precious name. Amen. So this morning, first of all, I would like to answer for you the question: who is revival for. Who is revival for? Revival is for the dispassionate. Revival is for the individual who once was on fire but now is cold. Revival itself, the word in and of itself tells us who revival is for. Revive comes from the Latin that has been defined to live again. To receive again life that was almost expired. We have in the foyer a defibrillator. I pray we never have to use it. But you guys know that that is to revive somebody, somebody who's heart has stopped functioning properly, somebody whose heart has ha is not uh beating correctly, and I'm I'm glad that technology allows that that uh defibrillator if they hook it up to you and your heart's beating correctly, it doesn't work. Okay, it won't it won't shock a good heart because that's not gonna help a good heart. But it'll it'll if it does if the heart's not beating, if it senses no heartbeat, then it will it will shock you so that it revives you, it brings back life to one that was almost expired. It can be said to rekindle into a flame that which has died to a mere spark. You know, one would not expect to revive something that was never living. You cannot revive something that was never living. This pulpit when we came to the church here, uh, these wings were not part of it. It was just this middle part right here. But we found it in the white shed that's on the corner of the property over there, and it was all damaged with rain, the bottom was rotting out, the the feet was all moldy and and it was in bad shape and we loaded it up in a truck and sent it to a woodworker and told them we wanted some pillars on it. He did not revive the pulpit. He rebuilt it. But he didn't revive it. He re he rebuilt it. You don't you something that is not alive, you cannot revive And so what I'm saying this morning, beloved, is it has to be something that once was alive. You would not apply the aspect of revival to the individual who is still lost. Who has not been made spiritually alive. Just this morning, I hope she doesn't mind me saying, Miss Joyce was asking me, she said, uh, um She said, who are the are in the Lord's Prayer? It took me a second. Because the Lord, our Father who art in heaven. She said, who are the R? I said, oh well that's all of the saved people, the people that have put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ. because they are God's children. Our Father, which art in heaven. Our Father, that's all the saved people. Because contrary to popular opinion, beloved, not everybody that's alive today, although all were created by God, not all men are God's children. John 8. 44 says that he says, wait, ye are of your child the devil. I mean sorry, ye are of your father the devil. He says, You're of your father the devil. So some people are the devil's children. So that are all the people that can legitimately call God their father. They put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ. The relationship with God has been restored. They have been what the Bible says, John talking to Nicodemus, he said, Marvel not that I say unto you, ye must be born again. Nicodemus says, what? Can a man be born a second time into his mother's womb? And he says, No, that which is born of flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the spirit is spirit. So what we're talking about, beloved, is those that have been given spiritual life. You've acknowledged your sinful condition before an all-thrice holy God and said, I am a sinner. Lord, would you forgive me of my sin? And because of what Jesus Christ did on the cross for you, your relationship is God, and you've been uh adopted into the family of God, you've been a made a child of God to to as many as believed on him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God. You became a child of God at that point at the moment of salvation. Those are the people that need revival. The people that were already made alive. You wouldn't talk about reviving somebody that had never been born yet. There are some young families in our church, and these young families will, at some point in the future, probably have some more children. You wouldn't speak of reviving the children that are yet to come. So there are people who are yet to become a child of God, they've yet to have been given spiritual life in the first place, and so revival, beloved, is not for them. Revival is for the Christian, for the saint, who has grown cold. Revival is for the living but listening Revival is for the breathing but brittle, for the walking, but weak. For those that are alive, but not awake Revival, beloved, is for those who had passion but are now dispassionate. They're displaced. They're discouraged. They're downhearted. They're delusioned. They're distracted. People who once were on fire for God but have lost that fervency. This is who revival is for. For you and I, who once had fervent worship, but now are cold and lifeless. Spurgeon asks this, and bear with me as I read to you his thoughts. Who thinks of reviving the noonday sun? The tree planted by the rivers of water, loaded with fruit, needs not revival, for its fruitfulness and beauty and charm is for everyone. Such should be the consistent condition of all the sons of God, feeding and lying down in the green pastures and led by those still waters. It is a sorrowful fact that many who are spiritually alive are greatly in need of reviving. It is sorrowful because it is the proof of the existence of much evil. He goes on and He says, it is to their shame for a church to be constantly needing revival is an indication of much sin. A church should be a camp of soldiers, not a hospital of invalids. But there is exceedingly much difference between what ought to be and what is And consequently, many of God's people are in such a sad state that they are the very fittest People for this prayer of revival. Wilt thou not revive us again? Beloved, are you in that position today? Are you in need of revival? Revival is for those that are overtaken by this world. You know, when I served on staff at Heritage Baptist Church in Lawrence, Kansas, I was the maintenance man and uh all around uh you know, handyman did whatever needed done. And part of my job was I had to maintain a state certification for wastewater management. So you're looking at a state certified wastewater management. uh consultant or whatever. Uh but my certification has expired. I've been in Maryland a long time. Uh part of my certification is I had to maintain that and every year I had to go through training And uh go to the state and sit down and listen to some very boring lectures and uh you know pass some tests and go through some things to maintain my certification. Well every year part of that is I had to be certified on confined spaces Because we had one uh what they call lift in our wastewater management where it flows into a low spot and has to be pumped up and and raised into another. So there's a confined space down in ground. And those confined spaces are very, very dangerous You're never supposed to go into a confined space. That's why you always see guys along the road. There's a bunch of guys standing up there and you're like, what are they doing? That's because there's one guy down the hole working and those guys are there just in case he falls dead, you know, in case something happens. In case he succumbs to the gases, because the gases are heavier than air and they settle down in the bottom of those confined spaces. And so they go down into that confined space and those toxic fumes, those toxic gases that are down in there will overtake them and they will fall down And you can't go down in there. You have to use the uh whatever you put on them for safety gear and you pull them to safety. You pull them out and get some fresh oxygen in order to revive them. Because why? Because they succumbed to the toxic atmosphere that they were in. Can I tell you, beloved, that a lot of Christians have succumbed To the toxic atmosphere of this world. We are down in the filth and the dirty aspects of this world, and it has overtaken us. We've succumbed to that and we have the church stands here as a guard, as a gatekeeper, as a safety to reach down into the pit of this world where God's people have trodden and to pull them back to safety. That's what revival is, to try and pull them back and say, Wait, you stopped responding. Wait, you stopped talking. I don't hear the amens anymore. Oh, I don't hear the praise of the Lord's anymore There's no fire where there once was fervency. You're cold and man you might be dead. So let's revive you. Let's pull you back from that old world, from that pit that you've fallen into, and let's get back on fire for God Revival, beloved, is for those who succumb to the world around them and they need to be brought back to a point of passionate, fervent relationship with Jesus Christ. Revival is for those who find themselves in a weakened state. We're talking this morning about Saul and Jonathan and We didn't get this far in the notes. I I I was encouraged to go slow, so I went slow, amen. We got through one point this morning, I think Uh but it was good. Wasn't it a good Sunday school? It was fun. It's good stuff. We didn't get this far, but uh we'll we'll talk about it next week. Jonathan goes into battle. And he fights and God gives them a victory and they're coming, they're they're on their way home. And Saul, in his pride and his arrogance, he decides to say, None of you soldiers are going to eat a drop of food until I'm avenged of all my enemies. So he tells them, oh, you can't eat. The problem is all the soldiers are in a weakened state. They have been fighting for their lives for an extended period of time, and they're very weakened. Well, his own son Jonathan did not hear Saul's command. And they come upon some honey that's upon the ground, and Saul reaches down with a rod and takes some honey and puts in his mouth, and his men are like, Uh-oh! Oh no You weren't supposed to do that. Your father said no. You can't do that. And Jonathan says, wow, see how my eyes have enlightened because I have taken of this honey? He was saying there, boy, see how I've been revived because I ate this? Have you ever been just completely wiped out? Just the end of a d long work day and you come home and you think man all I want to do is go to sleep and you sit down in the air conditioning and you eat a good meal and you just feel like wow I feel so much better. You get some good uh carbohydrates in you, you get some uh delicious meal in you, you eat get some liquid in you, and you say, Man, I I almost feel like I could go tackle the lawn or go get I mean, just an hour ago I felt like I couldn't do one more thing today, but now you feel much better. You see, revival is for those that find themselves in a weakened state. Can I tell you, beloved, you cannot live spiritually on Sunday morning alone? You would not live physically on one meal a week. On one little bit of sustenance, you say, oh well, I'm gonna eat every Tuesday whether I eat it, whether I want it or not. Well, in about a week or two you won't be wanting it. Because you you cannot live on that. If you can't live on it physically, why would you think you could live spiritually on it On one spiritual meal a week, on one time of feeding on the Word of God. Some of you are living like you're on a spiritual fast. Fasting six days a week from all things spiritual. Can I tell you you are in need of revival? That brings the church to a very pitiful state. Spurgeon said, every lover of souls should intercede for the declining professions. That the visitation of God may restore them, that the Son of righteousness may arise upon them with the healing beneath his wings. We need revival, beloved, if we find ourselves weak, if we find ourselves overtaken by the world, if we find ourselves dispassionate. Secondly, how will revival come? Revival will come through desire. Through desire. He says there in Psalms 85, verse number 6, the first two words are, wilt thou? There is in that a pleading, there is in that a prayer, there is a request there, wilt thou, there is a passionate desire, a call upon God to do something. Revival will come, beloved, to a group of God's people who desire it so much that they call upon him and say, Wilt thou not revive us again? Isaiah 44, 3 says, For I will pour water upon him that is thirsty and floods upon the dry grounds. You know, beloved, you don't ask for a drink unless you're thirsty. On Friday, we went down to the prison and Brother Joe and Brother John Dugan came over to the house and we met there and had a word of prayer before we drove to the prison. They came into the house and I said, hey, can I offer you guys something to drink here? Both of them said, no, we're fine. They didn't need a drink. If they're like me, they probably had one in their car, you know. Mountain Dew sitting right there, brought it with them. But they didn't they say, nope, I don't I don't need a drink, thank you very much, and that's perfectly acceptable, it's okay. Why? Because they weren't thirsty. But, beloved, when you're thirsty, when you've been out working in the yard all day, when you've gone for an extended period of time and your mouth is parched, and you're just, boy, I need something to drink Then you look for the water, you look for that sustenance, and he says, I will pour water on him that is thirsty. Only when there is a deep felt need do men call upon God. So could I ask you this morning, do you feel the need? Do you feel the need for revival, or are you saying, oh no, I'm okay. I'm alright. I'm doing fine. I don't need it, Lord. Or would you say, boy, I I need revival? And I'm not talking this morning about revival for our country, although we know it's needed. And I'm not talking about revival for our church, although it is needed. I'm talking about revival for the individual. For the individual, he says, I will pour water upon him that is thirsty. Beloved, it really doesn't count on anybody else in the room. You individually can say, boy, I need revival. I need this. And you call upon God because you're thirsty, and he says he'll pour water on you. Those special services are important. But that's not what brings revival to our heart. What will bring revival is thirst. Thirst for it. You know, we thirst for revival when conditions are not pleasant. Yesterday I was studying in the office and I was comfortable. Brother Keith comes over He says, man, it is hot in that house. I said, what? He said, well, it was 87 degrees when I looked. He was over there in the White House painting And I said, that's hot. He's over there working. So I went over to look at the air conditioner. I tinkered around with a little bit. I called up Frank. I said, Hey Frank, we got a broken air conditioner. No rush. Nobody's living in the house. No problem. Whenever you're free, next week, week after, don't worry about it. He says, I'm just a few miles from you. I'll be there right away. I'll be there right now. And I'm like, okay. So Frank showed up. We spent about two and a half hours yesterday out in that heat working on the air conditioner. Can I tell you that my comfort zone was was gone? Thank you very much, Keith. I was sitting in the office studying for today, getting a hold of God. Praying in the air conditioning, amen. And I had to go outside and I'm standing with Keith and that sun was beating down on us. And man, after a little while I said, hey Frank, I'll be right back And I came over here and uh I got myself a Mountain Dew and I got him a iced tea. And I took it out to him. I says, man, here's some something for you to drink. And he's like, Wow, thank you very much. And he was thirsty, I was thirsty. Why? Because we were no longer in comfortable conditions. The problem, beloved, is Christians have found themselves way too comfortable in this world. That we are not thirsty for the things of God. We're not in a hour of need. We're not in a place of discomfort where we call on God. Sometimes if you're going to pray and ask God to send revival, he might first have to send some discomfort. There might be a test or a trial around the corner. You remember the prodigal? He took his wealth, his inheritance. And he was having the time of his life. He was out living it up. Everything was fine while he had his means. of providing the party for everybody. But as the world will do, and your means is gone, they're gone. The Bible says he found himself there in the pig slop Eating the corn husk that was that was hardly fit for the pigs to eat. The Bible says he came to himself. He realized the condition he was in. And sometimes we've got to get out of our comfort zones before we realize the condition we're in. Revival, beloved, is only going to come when we reach a point where we cry out and say, Wilt thou not revive us again? We need to see that we are in a rough state. We are in a place of carnality that's not pleasing to the Lord. There is pleasure in sin for a season, we know that, but we also know that the end, it is death. Forgive me for mentioning it. It is just very much on my mind with all the effort we put into it. But you know, uh the guys down in the jail. They understand the end of just doing whatever you want to do. We're sitting in that room and ask them if there's any prayer requests they have and they're like, we're in jail. That's what we need. We need prayer to get out of here. Not only that, we need prayer that we won't come back. I told them it was last Friday, I said, you know, I can I can pray that, but ultimately you have to make decisions. You know the decisions that you made put you here. Now you need to make decisions to do the opposite. And in and of yourself, you can't do that, but with the power of the Holy Spirit, you can make right choices. You can make right decisions that will lead you down a new path Are you ready to identify the sin? Are you ready to confess the sin? The prodigal reached the point of confession. He said, I have sinned. He said, boy, look what I've done. I've sinned. He came to himself and he realized the state of his condition that he was in. And he went back to his father. Only when you're thirsty. Only when you stop making excuses. Only when you stop saying everything's okay, I'm doing all right. Will you then cry out for revival? Revival is for the one who's Dispassionate found himself cold. Revival comes through desire. When we reach the point where we realize our condition and know that we need revival and we're thirsty and we call on it. But can I give you this morning the results for revival? Revival results in delight. He says, Wilt thou not revive us again that thy people may rejoice in thee? You know, there's never yet been somebody that turned back to God as the prodigal of old. That got back to God and said, boy, things were a whole lot better over there in the pig's eye. There's nobody that got back to God and said, Boy, things were a lot better when I was living out in the world and doing what I want to do Every individual who's ever cried out for revival that God stirred their heart and brought them back to the presence where they were in right relationship with God, they rejoiced They were excited, they were thrilled, they were pleased, relationships were restored, and joy was given back to their hearts. The heart that was in the place of despair is now in the place of delight. The job that used to be a burden is now a blessing. Where you were just about to quit and give up, where you had no more energy to go another day after revival, you seem as though you've got a second wind. You found new joy in serving Jesus. Man, what a difference that little word makes. Revived. Revived. If you find yourself in a position where you're just about to quit, you say, I just don't know if I can keep doing this. I've been doing this for five years or ten years, fifteen years, twenty years. You know, I was sitting here this morning. Looking out over the congregation and just thinking about those that have been here for so many years. Faithful. Faithful. Praise God. You know, during that time there's got to be sometimes a revival. Otherwise there's no way you have the strength to keep on keeping on like that. We've got to get that second wind. You've got to get that energy from heaven that comes by revival. How different the preacher preaches when he's been revived. How different the people sing when they've been revived. How different we serve when we're serving from a place of revival, when the grace of God is flowing through our souls. The cold dead preacher is of little to no value to the flock. Spurgeon said this There is no sadder place to be than a mere signpost pointing the way, but never walking in it I can't read the whole context of the paragraph. He was talking about the pastors, a preacher who functions in his role without revival. Without God doing something first in his heart. And he says, you stand up as just a signpost to say, okay, you're supposed to go this way, but there is no passion in your heart There's no walk that matches what you're saying. God has at first done it in your soul. And he says, Boy, what a sad condition for the man of God to just stand and function as a signpost, something that a piece of cardboard could do. But revival takes you from the place of giving direction to giving hope to being able to say, Listen, I've gone down this road, I've seen God do this, and He can do it for you. The lifeless, lukewarm Christian is of little to no value to God and his church. Cold, dead bumps on a log But the soul that is revived has found new life in Jesus Christ. He is now functioning on a whole new level. Revived and ready to go again. I don't know how it started and I don't know why college guys would bother doing this because it seems awful childish now that I'm a couple years older. But You know, in kindergarten, every day you had to have a nap, right? So in college we had a little code. The guys who would be like, hey, I'm gonna go catch a candy And that meant we were going to go get a nap. So we're going to go get a candy. And uh, you know, sometimes when you're you're you're working Eight, twelve, fifteen hours, you're going to college, you you're studying through the night. You know, you went to bed at two and got up at six several days in a row. And you're just dragging into class trying to, you know, you got two thicks of tape to hold job balls open and you're you're I mean you're just barely functioning And you lay down, you're like, I got 20 minutes, and you set your alarm and you pray that you wake up because you you're gonna miss that class And then you're gonna fail, right? So you're like, Lord, please wake me up. I got twenty minutes. I mean I would I would lay down on my bed just like this, in a full suit. I would lay down, put my hands like this, and I could go to sleep and fifteen minutes later, twenty minutes later, wake up just like this But man, I would wake up and be so I'm like, wow, I feel so much better. I mean just that just to shut my eyes for a few minutes. Now m another little trick I would do is I would sleep during the song service at church. Because I wanted to hear the I wanted to hear the preaching. So I would just say, I'm tired. There's no way I'm gonna make it through this service. I would just go to sleep during the song service. I'd fall asleep, right? I just thought I'm sleeping right now. And then we'd reach that last song and I'd wake up and I'd listen to the preaching. Everybody would be standing and sitting and standing and sitting for the songs, and I'd just be sleeping But I I was catching the candy right in church. Some of you are doing that right now. But here's what I'm saying is that little nap refreshed me. It gave me new life. It allowed me to be able to do what I needed to do. Christian, we need some refreshing from the Holy Spirit of God. That joy that comes from reviving a heart that has been revived by God. Man, children are a blessing to their parents when they've been revived. A husband is a blessing to his wife when he's functioning from a place of revival. A wife is a blessing to that Proverbs 31 woman when she's functioning from a place of revival. A church is a blessing to its community when it's a church that's been revived. The revived soul prays more fervently. The revived soul witnesses more passionately. The revived soul works more consistently. It is all done in and through the power of the Holy Spirit, not by our might, but by his might Right. Because we've been revived. Can I tell you that the complete results of reviving among men is without description. We literally cannot define it. We couldn't hymn it in. We couldn't couldn't possibly describe how far-reaching the effects of one soul that is truly revived by God is. like a rock that's thrown into a pond, and those ripples continue all the way to the edge. So it is with the hearts that is revived in the midst of a congregation that ripple effect is felt. Through the whole congregation. And the impact in the family and in the church and in the community is so far beyond our ability, even To gauge this side of glory. Wilt thou not revive us again that thy people may rejoice in thee? We want joy, but we've got to back up to the beginning and pray that God would do a work in our heart. Would you stand with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?