Alright, it is that time you can grab your Bibles. You can turn to the book of Daniel this evening. The book of Daniel, chapter number one. Beloved, I believe that America was founded on biblical principles. Not that every person, every politician, every person in America was a Christian. Uh certainly not that they wouldn't all attend or go to a Baptist church, but uh I believe that there was a a predominantly Christian influence that they lived by and practiced Christian principles in their lives. There was a morality that was present in part. of the founding of our nation that is truly found in the Word of God. Even if some people that did not believe in God uh they still practice biblical principles that they would have been shocked to know came from the Word of God. Uh there are people today in America that are blessed Principles have brought prosperity to this country that don't realize that that's the source, that that's where it came from. And uh I believe that to be true. However, we have been in a cultural revolution in this country, not just a technical revolution, but a cultural revolution that has been for many, many years Where this society that was once shaped by Christianity is now in contrast to it the culture that has that now stands against Christianity It uh tries to undermine and undo and go against all that we hold dear. And anyone who would stand and Try and stay the tide of that, any church that would dare stand on biblical principles that just a few years ago were practiced by every church out there. is called a bigoted church, a legalistic church, a church that doesn't have any love. Even a church that's not not Christ-like, they would say. uh because of this cultural revolution that has so egregiously swept our nation I would like to speak to you for a few minutes tonight on what does the Bible say about culture and Christianity? Culture and Christianity. We're looking at the topic or some of the questions that people have had was what does the Bible say about this or about that? Well this idea uh is prevalent in society today. You have modern Christian authors writing books about uh how to be culturally relevant in today's world and how to preach and maintain uh your relevance in today's culture and they're trying to influence the pulpits. To be culturally relevant and thereby move the church. And you see it in churches today: this goal, this ambition to be culturally relevant. And they're quite literally leaving Christianity behind. They still call themselves Christians, they still have church on the front, but they're Gathering really more closely resembles a nightclub than the house of God. I literally saw this last week. In an effort to be culturally relevant, a pastor was vaping on the platform as he was preaching. This is what's accepted in society today. And certainly this church and many others would say, well, that's too far. Brother, we went too far a long time ago. The church is supposed to be way over here. And just because the world has waxed wor worse and worse, we are not supposed to follow suit. There's actually an awful lot that the Bible has to say about the culture. I know we look at it today and we say, boy, we're the first generation to face these problems. Well I want you to know that's not true. If you just think about it all through the pages of Scripture, there are many who dealt with the same type of thing, being a fish out of water, as it were, or in a culture that they did not understand or that stood diametrically opposed to what they believed. For instance, Joseph. What about Moses? What about the three Hebrew children? What about Esther? What about Daniel? What about Paul? Really, the large majority of the New Testament church This has been the way since the time of Christ. He said, listen, uh understand that when they reject you, they didn't they're not rejecting you, they're rejecting me. And they stood against Christ, and it's no wonder that they stand against the church today. But I want us to discuss or look at this idea of cultural relevance and what should we be doing or what shouldn't we be doing What is acceptable and what is not acceptable? What can we embrace and what should we avoid? Certainly I cannot go item by item and line by line in give you all that there is in facing the church today by by no means, but I want to try and give you some principles that'll help you as we look at the book of Daniel here. First of all, we need to be aware of their methods. We need to understand that we are not living in a vacuum. Beloved, that Satan has a plan. And that society as a whole is singing his tune, they might not realize it, but they do function under an agenda. It is part of the world system, and I want you to know that their plan, first of all, is a desire to assimilate. Their desire is to assimilate. They want the church. They want everybody to join in. They want you to come and to be a part. They despise and reject anybody that is not willing to be a part, that's not willing to affirm their actions. We see here in Daniel chapter 1, we're going to read down through let's say verse 4. We'll begin here just reading down through verse 4. He says, in the third year of the reign of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, came Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, unto Jerusalem, and besieged it. And the Lord gave Jehoiakim, king of Judah, into his hand with part of the vessels of the house of God, which he carried into the land of Shinar, to the house of his God, and he brought the vessels into the treasury house of his God. Notice he took What belonged in the house of God, the King of Kings, the Lord of Lords, the creator of the universe, took that and assimilated it into his house, where his gods were. This is all the same. Everybody loves everybody. We're just all going to be together here. Here's the mindset of the world and of Satan They don't want to leave the world and come behind and be what God would want them to be, but they want the church to be what the world is. We see in verse number three, and the king's fake unto Ashpanaz, the master of the eunuchs, that he should be bring certain of the children of Israel into the king's seed and the princes. Children in whom was no blemish, but well favored and skilful in all wisdom, cunning in knowledge and understanding, science, and such as had ability in them to stand in the king's palace And whom they might teach the learning and the tongues of the Chaldeans. Understand they wanted to instruct them in the way of the world. Don't be fooled, beloved, that Satan has a plan. He has an agenda. And he has some tactics that he wants to use. The goal is to assimilate and to bring into the world all that he can. I would like to just encourage you or remind you that Public education is not simply secular education. There is no education that is presented in a vacuum without a foundation, without a means of indoctrination They are indoctrinating those that they have the ability to teach. One of two philosophies, beloved, is being taught when you teach young people. It's not just a matter of learning all the elements of the periodic table. It's about learning who created those elements. And where they came from, and the power in which crafted them and made them just so. It's not just knowing English, but knowing the language that was given to us by God and given to us to communicate His love to a lost and dying world is not just knowing about five plus five equals ten. Is knowing that the consistency and unchanging rules of math are in line with an unchanging God You cannot teach these simple truths, simple principles of math and English and science outside of a foundational philosophy. They're not just teaching them science, they're teaching them that millions and billions of years ago, the world came into existence by whatever method of evolution they would like to portray. And evolution is a religion. The philosophy that's being taught in the classrooms is diametrically opposed to God. And if you think differently, you're simply ignorant. And I'm not being mean. Ignorant just means you don't know. And I would encourage you as a parent to learn what they're teaching your children. Learn what their objectives are, learn what their agenda is. Their desire, ultimately coming from Satan, is to assimilate to bring, to draw in, to educate your children into their methods and philosophies I know that not every teacher out there is that way. By God's grace, there are some who know Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior that are teaching in the public schools. But can I tell you that their hands are tied? They are restricted on what they can do? They don't have liberty to share the gospel in the classroom or to teach about creation. They are forced to teach things that they don't even believe are true. As though they were in fact a very hard thing for somebody who loves and knows God. To be faced with that challenge. But I want you to know that the schools function with an agenda. John Dewey, the professor at New York Columbia University, who's known as the father of modern public education. He said this. He was motivated by a belief that Christianity was the principal problem that must be overcome in all public education. Okay, he's he's the founder, the father of modern education. And he said Christianity is the problem that must be overcome. And that is a mindset that is prevalent and and permeates Public education today. Society has the desire, just like they said here in Daniel chapter 1, let's bring in. Notice who they went after. Look at the text we just read there. Look at verse number three. And the king spake unto Eliphaz, the master of the eunuchs, and he said, Bring certain of the what's the next word? Children. Verse number four, first word. Children. Let's get the children. Hitler said, Let me control the textbooks and I will control the state. You understand, beloved, it's with an agenda. I appreciate the parents that uh strive to give their kids a Christian education, whether that is through a Christian school or the effort of homeschooling. It's something that I bel believe very strongly about. And this is not a lesson just on Christian education. We could spend the entirety of the time we have on that, but I want you to understand the m the method or the motive behind what they're doing is their desire, Satan's desire to try and assimilate them. Notice the technique that they used here. They removed them from their parents. They removed them from their parents. From parental authority. That is a big thing in society today. How many of you have heard that they're starting or wanting to launch a a uh before school program or school program for toddlers for infants. Parents can start giving their children to the state when they're babies. Beginning to influence them from the very earliest of of uh days in in their life. Remove them from the parent parents, remove them from parental authority. The state has the authority, the school has the authority. Parents are too ignorant. And you know what? One thing that really bugs the fire out of me is this whole mentality today and Christians have bought into it that the accredited schools are the schools that are giving a good education. You know in in Baltimore School's one of the worst school districts in America? We got high school graduates that can't even read at a first grade educ uh level. Oh but those schools were accredited. There's something that has been put into the mindset of people that well if the government has put their stamp of approval on this that it that it must be good and schools that aren't accredited why they're just winging it. No, that's not the case. That's not the case. They go after the children, they remove them from their parents, they remove them from their established principles that they that they know that the young people know to be true. They remove them from their personal identity. Look at verse number six. He says, now among these were the children of Judah, Daniel, and I, Meshel, Azariah. Unto whom the princes of the eunuchs gave names, for he gave unto Daniel the name of Beltashazzar and Aniash Shadrach, and to Meshao of Meshach and Erazah Abendigo. He says, hey, they they changed their names in an effort to get them to forget what they once were To remove them from the principles, from their own identity, from what they know to be true, they wanted to forget family and home and just be part of the society that they had been brought to. Beloved, can I tell you that when man forgets God and his mighty works, it very rarely is an intentional act. It very rarely is an intentional act. It happens over time, gradually, because we did not make a point to remember. So we see first of all their methodology here that they had a desire to assimilate. We see also the worldly mentality, culture, is a domination of appetites. Look at verse number five. And the king appointed them a daily provision of the king's meat, and of the wine which he drank, so nourishing them three years that at the end thereof they might stand before the king. Do you understand, beloved, that culture is all about satisfying the appetites? Whatever the appetite is, if it feels good, do it. If it's what you enjoy, go ahead. Satisfy yourself, fulfill and meet whatever appetite that you have. It is all about pleasure, not about responsibility. It is self-satisfaction. Can I ask you tonight, beloved, are you fighting for your appetites or for God's will? You see, a lot of times, even in a church, Pastor, tell me what's wrong with it. Tell me why I can't do that. Show me a verse that says, What are you fighting for? You're fighting for your appetite, the carnal nature, the old man, the fleshly desires Those things that you want, as we talk about, okay, what what part of culture should we embrace? What part of culture should we allow to influence us Should we allow us to be a part of? And what part should we say no to? Well, think about it. What are you fighting for? Your appetite or God's will? The adoption, beloved, of fads and fashion in this world needs to be guarded against. Are all fashions sin? No. Is it okay to partake in the latest fad? Uh You need to be careful. The Christian should not be chasing after the world. Christians shouldn't be up on the latest fads. You're like, but we want to be culturally relevant. You're chasing the world. You're chasing what the world does. It's just gonna pass anyway. Yeah, oh I gotta I gotta get my skinny jeans so I look cool. I don't think you look cool, but that's just about gone. You know bell bottoms are coming back. They are. They're coming back. You're gonna see these young people all over wearing these big baggy bell bottom pants You're gonna see young people in the church starting to dress that way. Why? Because that's what the world's doing. Well we shouldn't be chasing. Is it a sin to wear a pair of bell bottoms? No, if you would have done it four or five years ago, that would have been fine. But now that the whole world's doing it, I don't care if you've always done it. If the whole world's doing it, I don't want to do it. Because I don't want to be associated with the world. I really have a problem with beers. Pastor Dell. No, here's the thing. I th what I I what I mean by problem is I struggle in my mind because there can be nothing more manly than a beard. I mean in that respect it's like A man grow beard, amen. I mean So I don't I don't I don't have a problem in that regard, but what I don't like is that for many, many years, like people would never have a beard And then all of a sudden all these people want beards. Why? Well, because it's popular today. It's kind of been in thing. No, I'm not it's not sin. I'm not kidding on you guys. There's a bunch of our men. There's people in here that have beards. And listen, you've had a beard, whatever. My own son has a beard. Pray for me. God help me Got some rebellious kids in the house. No, no no I'm saying it's not a sin, it's not wrong. I'm just saying okay, what is our motivation? Is our desire to be like the world, is our desire to fit into the in crowd? Um, listen, th there's some some guys that just They shave their beard and you're like you need to grow that back, okay? Like they just do not look good without a beard. That's just it's just a fact And so, you know, that's something that may be the case and you need to do that. And so it's not sinful. I'm just saying we need to guard how much we're chasing after this world's culture. That we wanna adopt and be like the world and fit in and know the latest styles and the latest fads and we know just what kind of uh shoes we're supposed to wear. Now you guys know I always wear Cordobaan shoes. I've been wearing Cordobaan shoes since I was a teenager and uh always have and I always will. That's just what I like. I think every Bible should be read. Amen. Okay. That's that's just me. Uh but you know A lot of guys like the brown shoes today. Is it sinful? No. Well, it it's just it's the modern fad. It's just our are we chasing the world. You know ladies, I don't know a lot about ladies' dress styles, but I just want to encourage you to be modest. That includes how tight it is. Just because it's a skirt doesn't mean it's a modest. How how tight is it? How how short is it? How low is it? You know, just because it's modern, I know in today's world it's harder and harder to find modest clothes. Last time I was shopping for those, you know I don't I don't shop for 'em obviously. Uh I just know from talking to my wife it gets harder and harder to find modest modest clothes and so it's a challenge that you face, there's no question. And and listen, you don't have to wear a gunny sack, you don't have to look You don't have to look like you, you know, walked out of an om Amish uh compound, okay, that but you ought you oughta be modest, okay? You oughta be modest. You oughta, you know, look look nice, look beautiful. I mean that's wonderful. But think about what it is. Are you trying to just wear the latest thing that You know, some some movie star war or something, you're chasing the the fashions of the world or are you chasing God? Beloved, I'm a child of God, a chosen generation. A royal priesthood. This world is not my home. I'm just passing through. And beloved, as a citizen of heaven, I ought to look a whole lot more like I belong there than I belong here. That's the way it ought to be. You know, you can, Miss Lisa, you can put me in the Philippines. You can even put a barong on me. And you can still tell that I'm an American. There's nobody wondering, yeah I mean I'm wearing a Filipino, traditional Filipino man shirt, you know, but there's nobody wondering If I belong there or if I just came over from America. They know, they can tell by looking at me where I belong. Then I tell you the world oughta know. They ought to know that heaven's our home. We've got to remember, beloved, it's human nature always to chase after the latest and the greatest. To always want the upgrade. To always want the newest thing. The newest fad. That doesn't mean that it's wrong. But if we're following Daniel's example and some biblical principles, they can help us make a wise decision. Ask yourself, by participating in this will it violate my conscience or any of God's commands? We are to live with a conscience void of offense before God and man. Will it violate my conscience to participate in this? Or will it violate any of God's commands? We know the Bible tells us we're to abstain from all appearance of evil, 1 Thessalonians 5. 22. It might not be sin, but maybe it's going to give the appearance of evil. I don't want to be associated with certain things. You know, there's these root beer uh bottles that you can get maybe at uh Cracker Barrel or some of these others sometimes that you can get these root beer bottles. uh that look a lot like a beer bottle. I would dump it in a glass and uh not drink out of that thing. Because I just would hate for some church member to pull up in front of Cracker Barrel and be like, man, of course I don't think Cracker Barrel actually they're gonna start, aren't they? Serving alcohol? I heard that Cracker Barrel was gonna start serving alcohol. But uh I'm just saying the appearance of evil. It ought to be something that's part of our thought process. Is this something and and you can say, well, that's God. I don't care what they think. It's not a right spirit. We're called to live before men. The Bible says, uh glorify your Father in heaven. Okay? And the verse just skipped my mind, but That they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven. That they may see your good works. We're to live before men. Men see what we do, and it impacts and influences them. So Abstain from the appearance of evil. The Bible tells us to be not unequally yoked. In that passage of scripture in 2 Corinthians, we're not going to turn there, but he says, What fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness? What fellowship do we have with the world? With the things of this world. We shouldn't be seeking fellowship with those things. Will it be a stumbling block to other believers? Is it going to cause somebody else to fall? Maybe you can do it and it'll be okay, but are you going to cause somebody else to sin? Somebody else to fall or stumble? We've got to be conscious of that. Well, not all fads and fashions are bad. We need to be careful what we're chasing after. Let me ask you this, would it bother you to give it up You see, if if you're gonna get mad about giving it up, then maybe there's a bigger problem there. You see anyone involved in something that's they should not do, they get very upset when they're confronted with it. Proverbs 1712 says, Let a bear robbed of her whelps meet a man, rather than a fool is folly. And somebody's involved in something that's foolish, just saying you'd be better off letting introducing him to a bear than than dealing with that. So Lastly, this evening, uh we have a duty to arise. In Daniel chapter one and verse number eight, we see that familiar passage of scripture where Daniel purposes in his heart. He says that purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself with the portion of the king's meat, nor with the wine which he drank, therefore he requested of the princes of the eunuchs that he might not defile himself. There's lots of teaching that we could give on this passage, but I just want you to know that God calls us to a higher standard of living. As God's people, we're called to a higher standard of living. Just like Daniel and his friends, they the purpose should be to please God, not please self. If Daniel just wanted to enjoy life or just please himself, he would have just took the meat. He would have said, man, this is delicious. This is good. Mary and I went to Fogo de Chao for our anniversary dinner. They raise their prices, so don't go. I had a hundred dollar gift card. It still cost me thirty bucks to get out of there. Uh so yeah, you don't want to do that. But it was a delicious meal. I love meat. And uh that's like one of my favorite places to eat 'cause it's all about the meat, you know, it's the steak and the filet and uh you know, just so much to keep bringing it to you. And uh it it's delicious, you know. But Daniel said, Hey, I I'm not gonna do that. He just perfect why? Because he wasn't worried about pleasing himself, he was worried about pleasing God. And so that goes back to the question, what are you fighting for? Fighting for your own appetites or fighting to please the Lord? God calls us to a higher standard of living. Would you turn your Bibles to 1 Peter chapter number 4? We're just going to look at a couple of verses. In the beginning of this chapter, and we're going to be done. 1 Peter chapter number 4. You see, beloved, the purpose should be to please God, not self. We see in 1 Peter chapter 4 and verse number 1, he says, For as much then as Christ hath suffered for us, with this understanding because of, or therefore, because Christ hath suffered for us. Arm yourselves likewise with the same mind. He that has suffered in the flesh ceased from sinning. He says, you and I are to be armed with the same mind. We are to think like Christ. We know Philippians 2. 5, let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. Let this mind be in you. We are to be armed. That's one way we fight and defeat Satan is being armed with the mind of Christ. Is it about our minds? Is it about our will, or are we trying to please the Lord? Or are we striving to be Christ-like? The problem with the church today, by and large, is that they're more concerned with Hollywood than they are with the Christ, the mind of Christ. That's why there's such this emphasis about being culturally relevant. Beloved, the church the world doesn't need more of what they've already got The world knows they're looking for something different. We've had numerous, numerous people come to this church. From non-denominational churches that are not preaching the Bible. We just had somebody visit last Sunday Stood in the foyer and told me, you would not believe how hard it is to find a place that just preaches out of the Bible He said, I have visited many churches in this area trying to find one place that preaches out of the Bible. You see, the world is the world doesn't need more of what they got. They need the truth of the word of God. We see in verses two and three here. That the desire is God's will. We must seek God's will. He says that he no longer should live the rest of his time in the flesh to the lust of men, but to the will of God. For the time past of our life, many uh suffice us to have wrought the will of the Gentiles. When we walked in lasciviousness and lust and excessive wine, revelings, banquetings, and abdominal idolatries He says, there was a time when we walked after all these things. The will of the Gentile, the will of the carnal man, the lost man. But now, as followers of Christ, our desire, our goal should be to follow the will of God. It's not a matter of can I do this or can I go here or can I can I wear this? Can I listen to this? Fighting for those things that our flesh wants, it's seeking the will of God. No Look down at verse number four. He says here that the world's going to see it and think it strange. He says, wherein they think it strange, that you run not with them. to the same excessive riot, speaking evil of you. He says the world's gonna look at you and say, that's different. You're different. You don't you don't go to the the work Christmas party. You you don't participate in the the standing around the the drink cooler and talking about the latest filth on television or discussing these you know you don't you don't participate in this they're gonna see that and they're gonna think it's a little weird. You might have family members that think you're a little weird for going to church on a Thursday night You might have people that say, Why why do you do that? You know, Andrew and Tim uh working and the guys there they're they're always talking to them and and about church and and the Lord stuff and they're like, Man, you got church on Thursday You got church on you got church, you know, they're always giving 'em a hard time about that stuff. They think it's weird. This Word here that says strange. He says they think it's strange. That doesn't l literally mean weird as I've just been saying. That word literally means foreign. What you're doing is foreign to them. Why? Because this world is not our home. And how the Christian should live should not fit into society. The world and society at large should look at you and say, Boy, that's foreign. That doesn't quite fit in this culture. That's a good thing. That's a good thing. The Christians shouldn't fit into this culture. We should literally be a fish out of water. I remember one summer when I was working for a leisure company in Chicago, Illinois. And we I installed pool tables and gazebos and and swimming pools and uh foosball tables, all kinds of leisure equipment all over the area of Chicago. Well one year this huge company, I don't know what it like Oracle or something like that. They rented the Lincoln Park Zoo. And they had us bring six foosball tables, six poop pool tables, uh I don't remember all. We we had a whole bunch of equipment that we brought that uh we had to set up all different places around the zoo for them. And then we had to stay on site to make sure everything was functioning and it worked. Well this was a actual, you know, a a Oracle or whatever. They had a huge live band. They had all that you would expect at these at this kind of a party. And I just remember like trying to find someplace to hide. Like I I do not I I had never been around anything like that. And I never went to anything like that. And I'm like, this is this is not where I'm supposed to be. I did not feel comfortable at all. And Christian, we should not feel comfortable in those places. There are some restaurants you walk into you need to turn around and walk out. The restaurants that are a whole lot more bar than they are restaurant. You know that atmosphere that you know is just like, uh, this does not feel good for a Christian. I'm gonna I'm out The culture says, you know, enjoy yourself. Do what you want to do. The culture has a message continually that's contrary to what God says. But Christianity should stand in contrast to that, not in conjunction with it. I'm not sure how clear I was tonight on this But I want you to just understand, beloved, that culture affects every part of our life. It does so without even trying. Culture is everywhere and it affects how we think and what we do and every part of our society. But I wonder, is Christianity affecting them? Is our life impacting culture at all? Or are we just letting it change us? We want to fight to please the Lord, not fight to please and get our own appetites. Let's stand together with our heads bowed and our eyes closed. Culture wants to tell us that there's no absolutes.