Amen. Well again, it's a joy to be here. I'm not going to be long tonight. I just wanted to share a little bit with you of something that's been a real a reality in my wife's life and mine. I've never been to Bible college. I just run one. Go figure. And and we're we are nobody. We're Iowa farm kids that early on in our life just said, Lord, whatever you've got for us to do, we'll be willing to do that I don't know that I've even been called to preach. But there's nobody in our church that preaches more than I do except our pastor And it's a testimony to doing what you can when the opportunity arises. So I want to share with you of this passage in Exodus just a thought to challenge you perhaps tonight with something along that line. Exodus chapter 3. Verse 7, and the Lord is speaking to Moses and sharing with him how he wants Moses to get the children of Israel out of Egypt. And the Lord said, I have surely seen the affliction of my people which are in Egypt and have heard their cry by reason of their taskmasters. For I know their sorrows, and I am come down to deliver them out of the hand of the Egyptians, and to bring them up out of that land into a good land, a large And unto a land flowing with milk and honey, unto the place of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Amorites, the Pharizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebuzites. Now therefore, behold, the cry of the children of Israel is come unto me, and I have also seen the oppression wherewith the Egyptians oppressed them. Come now, therefore, and I will send thee to f unto Pharaoh, that thou mayest bring forth my people, the children of Israel, out of Egypt And Moses said unto God, Who am I that I should go unto Pharaoh? Want to focus on that phrase right there when Moses said, Who am I that I should go unto Pharaoh? Let's have a word of prayer and we'll keep on going on tonight. Father, we just pray that you'll challenge us with a message. Thank you so much for the boy, just the little illustrations that we run across every once in a while that can be so real to each and every one of us. And so Father, I pray That will challenge all of us in the room with a message tonight. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Well, let me just give you a little bit of background that let that will help chat about this a little bit here. In Judges chapter 3, we won't turn there for the sake of time, but in Judges chapter 3, we have the story of the third judge who is called Shamgar. In that particular passage, the Bible says that Shamgar slayed 600 Philistines with an ox goad. What's an ox goad? Basically, it's a stick. So here, this judge, the Bible says that he slayed 600 Philistines with an ox goad. Didn't have a lot of friends there, didn't have any kind of heavy artillery or superior tactics. didn't have any big game plan, but he had a stick and he killed six hundred Philistines. Now folks, too often we give some kind of supernatural aspect to some of the Bible characters that we read about. They were human beings just like we are. And I understand that in many cases they they surrendered their life to be used by God. God was able to use them But they are no different than most of us in this room. Human beings that when the time came, God used them to attain for a task like this. Six hundred Philistines, one guy kills with a stick Go ahead, go ahead now and take your Bible and turn to Judges chapter 4. Judges chapter 4. In Judges chapter 4, we have the fourth and fifth of the judges, Deborah and Baric. Judges chapter 4 In Judge chapter four, we'll be looking at verse twenty-one. Then Jael, Hebrew's wife, took a nail of the tent, and took a hammer in her hand, and went softly unto him, and smote the nail into his temples. and fastened it to the ground, for he was fast asleep and weary, so he died. So what's this story? Well this is the story where the Canaanites are after the children of Israel. They have a a king by the name of Jaban And they have a general by the name of Sisera. Deborah and Baric were the judges at this time. Back in these days, the biggest and baddest of the soldiers rose in rank. So this guy was probably the biggest, strongest, toughest of all of the soldiers that were there, this captain by the name of Sisera. Well, Deborah and Baric and their forces have him and his forces on the run So what happens is Sisera is heading down this path. He sees a tent, and there's a little gal standing in the door, a young wife, and he says, You got to help me out. They're after me, you got to help me. And she says, Oh, I can help you And so she calls him into the tent, has him in there, gives him something to drink, he falls asleep, and when he does, she picks up what is actually a tent peg And drives it through his head to the ground. This little young wife takes on the strongest, mightiest of all the Canaanites and kills him with a tent peg. Now again, just stop and think about this for a minute. If it were one of you ladies that were standing in the door of that tent when this guy who could have been seven feet tall, we don't know, but obviously is uh imposing as far as his his strength was concerned What do you think he would do? Invite him in intending to kill him? I don't know. But this little gal did. Her husband wasn't around wherever he was. There weren't other people around. She didn't have some secret weapon that she was using. When he came in there and fell asleep, she looked around. There was a tent peg. She picked it up and drove it through his head. A tent pig kills the commanding general of the Canaanite army. Go now to Judges 15. Judges 15. And you'll know the story of Samson Judges fifteen and take a look at verse fifteen. And he, Samson, Found a new jawbone of an ass, and put it forth in his hand, and took it and slew what? A thousand men. Well, yeah, that was Samson. Everybody knows Samson, okay, but Stop and think for a minute. In all the little kids' cartoons that you color in a coloring book or any cartoons you see of him, what is Samson? He's this massive guy, strong guy, right Well, if he was so obviously strong, why did they constantly ask him where his source of strength came from? Repeatedly they're asking him, well, where's your strength? Especially Delilah, where's your strength come from? I don't believe he was any bigger than anybody else or looked any stronger than anybody else, because they kept asking him where his strength came from So, what does that make him? A human being, just like the rest of us in this room. But what did he do? He took the jawbone of a donkey and killed by himself a thousand Philistines Folks, a thousand Philistines. Again, he didn't have any help. He didn't have any kind of secret weapon. He didn't have any kind of big plan. He looked down. There was the jawbone of a donkey. He picked it up. As the Philistines are coming, he slays a thousand of them. That's the story of Samson. Now take your Bible, go to 1 Samuel. 1 Samuel verse 17. Most of these stories are familiar to us. 1 Samuel chapter 17 And go down to verse 49. This is the story of David and Goliath. And in verse 49, and David put his hand in his bag, took fence a stone, and slang it, and smote the Philistine in his forehead. That the stone sunk into his forehead and he fell upon the face to the earth. Upon his face to the earth. Most people think that David was probably a young teenager at this time. Wasn't even fully grown as a man This giant of a man, Goliath, was taunting the children of Israel and said, There's no need for us to fight army to army. Just send out your best guy, one-on-one, winner take all. And the Jews were, even Saul, who was the biggest of the Israelites, the strongest, and the king, who should have been the guy responding to it, was scared to death. Little David comes on the scene and he's got some food and he's going to give it to his brothers. Of course, they give him a hard time for showing up even. And David says, Well, isn't there a cause? He looks out there and he sees this Philistine out there and he's going I can handle this. Any of you could have handled this. But since I'm here, all right. So David goes out, and it makes Goliath so mad they just about in a frenzy Wanting to kill the best you guys can do is send out a little guy out here to take me on. You gotta be kidding me. And by the way, Glass was probably nine to ten feet tall. That's what they estimated that he might have been. This was a big guy And here's David, a young teenager. So David goes out there and what does he have? His M16. His light anti-tank weapon with an Emron Abrams tank right behind him, right? No. He goes out there and all he's got is a bag, a sling, and five smooth stones And he goes out there, he takes the stone, wham! It goliath. Boom. Well, he had five smooth stones, so does that mean he just in case he missed, he's got an extra? No, if you read a few chapters into this, Goliath has four brothers. I think David was concerned that when he killed Goliath, the four brothers would come after him. Not only was David confident he'd go one for one. He was confident he'd kill all five with just five stones. And he nailed Goliath dead. No special army, no special background. He wasn't even fully grown. And here he is taking on the champion of the R of the opposing army and ends up winning and because it's head office like, eh, no big deal. Go to First Kings. First Kings chapter seventeen. First Kings Chapter 17. Again, you'd be familiar with this story. It's the story of Elijah. Elijah's been fed at the book of Cherith. Now it's Zarephath, and while he's there, first Kings chapter seventeen Verse number 10. So he rose and went to Zarephath, and when he came to the gate of the city, behold, the widow woman was there gathering sticks, and he called to her and said, Fetch me, I pray thee, a little water in a vessel that I may drink. And as she was going to fetch it, he called to her and said, Bring me, I pray thee, a morsel of bread in thy hand. And she said, As the Lord thy God liveth, I don't have cake. All I've got is a handful of meal in a barrel, and a little oil in a cruise And behold, I'm I'm gathering two sticks that I may go in and dress it for me and my son, that we may eat it and die. And Elijah said unto her, Fear not, go and do as thou hast said, but Make me thereof a little cake first, and bring it unto me, and after make for thee and for thy son. What happened in this story? Here, this woman is ready to die and knows her son is going to die also. The last of the food that they have, no hope of finding food anyplace else. She's reconciled to that happening Elijah comes and says, Well, I understand you're going to make yourself a cake, but you make me a cake first. She explained to him what the situation was, in case he didn't know. He said, That's okay, but just do what I asked you to do. Now, was there any complaint on her part mentioned whatsoever? It wasn't. She heard what the man of God had to say, and she said, okay. In obedience, she did that, and the Bible says that their meal lasted For days and days and days after. She didn't have a special supply of uh of a food pantry someplace that she could draw on Didn't have the opportunity to borrow from somebody else. She just did what was asked of her. And we don't even know what her name was. Well, don't bother turning there, but in the New Testament, John chapter 6, we have the story of the little boy and five loaves and two fishes. In this particular story, Jesus has been performing miracles. This little fella, obviously bored, nothing on TV. And she says, Mom, can I go out and see what this guy Jesus is doing? I just wanted to say, No, you can't go out. Oh come on, Mom. But you gotta take a sack lunch with you. The little guy goes, Oh Mom, you know how they Um mom, come on, no, you if you're gonna go, you're gonna take a sack of lunch. Okay. So she gives him five loaves, two fishes, off he goes Gets up there and they see everything that's going on. It's approaching lunchtime. And about then he's kind of glad mom gave him his his little lunch to take up there with him. And Jesus and the disciples are having everybody sit down And he's getting ready to open up his bag and eat, and he looks up, and there's two legs right in front of him. There's one of the disciples. And he says, help you, mister. And the disciple goes, son, uh see you have a couple of loaves of fish in there. Can we take that to feed all these people? Now stop and think for a minute. This is just a little kid like any other little kid. He didn't go, oh yes, I know that the Lord God above will multiply this food. What do you think he did? Probably looked at the guy and goes Sure, mister. This I gotta see. And he gave the disciple the five loaves and two fishes, and five thousand were fed All of these stories had some things that are different about them. And we can go through many, many more in the Bible. In each case, there was a different need. In some cases, they were fighting groups of Philistines like Shem, Gar, and Samson. In some cases, it was a single enemy that they were fighting, like Jael was with Sisera and David and Goliath. Somewhere, it's just a great need that was facing them, like the widow woman and the little boy. In each case, the need was different. The need was great, but the answer to that need seemed to be hopeless When Samson's standing there and a thousand Philistines are coming at him, and he looks at the jawbone of the donkey that he's got in his hand, he's got to be thinking, oh boy, I've got to see how this is going to come out You gotta know that that's what they're thinking in each one of these cases. Different people were involved. In one case, we had a boy. In jail probably was just a young wife. Some were older, like perhaps Samson or Shamgard, the judges. Some were educated. Deborah and Beric were judges and probably were very educated. Some were probably not educated. The widow and jail. Some were well known like Samson and David, and some we don't even know their names, like the little boy and the widow woman In each case, different people, different walks of life, different ages, different sizes, colors, genders, yet each one, its own way, was used in a mighty fashion. Different tools were used in each case. Not what you would necessarily think. It wasn't some vastly superior weapons. It wasn't some great number of people helping them out. In each case, it was a little bit different. We had a stick. We had a jawbone of a donkey. We had five loaves and two fishes. And on and on. Each case it was a little bit different. So with all these differences, different need, different people, different tools, what thing was in common with all of this bunch? Go back now to Exodus. This time Exodus chapter 4. Exodus chapter 4 Moses has been going back and forth with the Lord, and of course Moses was a highly educated individual. He was in Pharaoh's court. He studied. Some people have historical accounts have the possibility of him being like number three in line to be the Pharaoh if something happened to the other two. That's the position that Moses was in Highly educated, probably very articulate, very charismatic, he had to be charismatic if later on he's going to lead a million people around the desert for forty years So that's Moses. And Moses is here complaining and saying, God, how am I going to do this? What am I going to do? What am I going to do? They're not going to listen to me. Verse number one of chapter 4. And Moses answered and said, But behold, they will not believe me Nor hearken unto my voice, for they will say the Lord hath not appeared unto thee. And of course, what was the biggest complaint Moses had? Well, it was the number one thing that he said. I'm slow of speech. And by the way, let me just mention this. You don't get too many chapters beyond this, and who's now doing all the talking? Moses. So I personally think it was a cop-out on his part. But how's he going to aspire to the position that he's at without being articulate? How is he going to lead a thousand or a million people without being an articulate individual? I think he was plenty articulate. I think he was just chicken And in verse number two, the Lord said unto him, Of all the things that you have going for you, intellect, education, size, power, charisma, speech. And the Lord said unto him, What is that where? In thy hand? And he said, Arod. Of all the things that God could have used that Moses had going for him. What did God use? What was in his hand? God didn't have to give him anything special. God didn't have to give all the folks that we mentioned earlier on. In each case, what was it? It was something that was already there at hand that was able to be used to meet the need that was there The common element in all these stories, what's in your hand. And folks, the challenge for all of us today is those things that come up in our lives, and we worry about if we can handle it or not. God is in it and has already put in your hand the means to succeed. One of the biggest battles I personally have And a lot of us on the faculty there, but especially me, because I really try to keep my thumb on the spirit and attitude of some of our young people. There's so many of them that don't believe that God can use them. They just never just never considered that God might be able to use them. And they're terrific young people. Folks, the way I got saved, I came from a lost home. As far as I know, my parents never got saved. A neighbor lady knocked on the door of our home. I was eight. My little sister was five, and she asked if she could take us to daily vacation Bible school. And my parents said, sure, and any of you know if any of you work bus routes, it's how long can you keep them, right? Sure. And at that daily vacation Bible school, I got saved. And and I knew I was saved. You can't tell me the eight-year-olds don't know. I knew I was saved. There was something that was different. And I understood that A couple years later, my sister ended up getting saved as well. Never went to church much. Lost family. Go every once in a while, but not all that often. So how in the world do you think this neighbor lady had any idea that one day what she had in the backseat of her car, that little eight-year-old and little five-year-old, do you think she had any idea that that was the future vice president of Providence Baptist College. And folks, I'm nobody, don't get me wrong, but what I'm trying to tell you, she did what she had at hand. I don't think she ever sang in a choir. I don't think she ever sang a special. I don't know that she ever went door-to-door soul-winning, but she did what she could. She was about 75 at the time And she could get two little neighbor kids, put them in the backseat of her car, and take them to daily vacation Bible school. Why? That's what she had at hand. And when I talk to some of our young people at the college, they don't understand that whatever God's got for them, He's already put in their hands, and all we're trying to do is fine-tune it while they're there, to be honest with you. Now, can I get a little personal? The same thing is true of church members. God has given every one of you something to do in the body of Christ and in the local church. Folks, if God's done with us, why are we still here if heaven's such a hot place? The fact of the matter is, if you're saved and you're still here, God's got something for you to do. And it's merely a matter of you saying, okay, Lord, what is it? And you may be scared to death to go to your preacher and say, okay, preacher, what can I do? I want to do something. If your church is like ours, you probably have a couple of needs in different areas, nursery workers, bus workers, choirments, whatever the case may be. Your job is to find out what it is that God's got for you. Now, last I checked, God's not asking any of us to kill a thousand Philistines. Right? God's not asking you to take your your five loaves of your McDonald's and feed a whole church crew, right? See, folks, God just wants to use what's in your hand. God wants to use what He's already given you. God wants to use that which He has prepared you for. And in a body of believers like this God has a role for every person. Years ago, no, not that many years ago, um, I really I messed up my right shoulder. I pitched when I was in high school, tore my rotator cuff, and it never really healed completely, even while I was in the service But I really messed it up just a while back. So I had to go ahead and have surgery on it. And I had to keep my arm like this for six weeks. They said if you move it, we start all over again. I said of a thousand of these that I've done, you're probably in the top five as far as severity. Not something I really wanted to be known for. But I had to keep it just like this. Now I'm right-handed I do a lot of music in our church and a grade a lot of papers. And what did I say? I'm right-handed Which arm is this? You got it, right arm. So at the time I was a song leader at our church. I travel a lot now, so another fellow does that. And so I go I go to my pastor, kind, sympathetic Carrying. Bill Gomez, I don't I can't lead saying he says use your left hand. Aye. So I use my left hand Grading pay, it's the spring. I have three concerts I'm conduct. I have about 50 students whose papers I am grading. And my right arm is like this. I handed papers back, and wise acre students are going, you write like a three-year-old. And I said, I can put a zero on your paper just as easy with either hand. Now let me ask you a question. Did the concerts get done? Yeah. Did the papers get graded? Yes. Did the song reading get done? Yes. But was it as effective as it could have been if this arm was okay? It wasn't. And folks, the same thing is true with this body right here There are some functions that are not being done because somebody's laid up and maybe not as they should be. God's got a person for every function in this church. And your job is to find out what that function is. It's the body of Christ. I'm a Chicago Bulls fan. Back when Derek Rose was a part of the team, we were on. We were headed to the championship. This guy is the MVP of the league, and he blows his knee out. What happened? Team didn't get anywhere. Why? Because one of the members wasn't functioning like it should And the difficult thing in the body of Christ is when all the members aren't fun. The Bible says in many cases, God's will will not be set aside. The job will get done, but it won't get done as effectively as it could have been. And it won't, the blessing of that job won't go to the person it was designed to use. The illustration I use, a lot of you ladies in here probably worked in nurseries before. They have these little boxes like this that in the top have holes that have different shapes. Star, circle, square, you know that. And the little kid is supposed to take the blocks that fit and put in the holes, right? And and what do they do for starters? Wham wham wham because they put in a star and a circle hole, right? Wham wham wham we'll go in there Our lives are the same. God has a hole designed for your shape. And all you have to do is find that right hole for your shape, and it drops in there. Our problem is, is we take the wrong shape and or the right shape and try to put it in the wrong hole and when it doesn't look it doesn't fit then we're going bam bam bam start trying to force it That's I don't care folks, I don't care how old you are, how young you are. If you're still here, God's got something for you to do. He's got something In this church, in this manager, well, bro, I don't know what I can do. That's why I gave you a pastor. That's why I give you assistant pastors. That's what they're here to help you with. But I'm scared to death. Don't you think That jail was scared to death when this massive Canaanite general comes demanding that she hide. Don't you think she was scared to death? Sure she was. But the job had to get here's another one. How about Esther? Little Esther, probably teenage girl, gets carried off into captivity The Jewish nation is about an evil guy named Haman is about to try to get the nation of Israel wiped out by having a law passed where that could happen. Mordecai, who's actually, I think, her cousin, Esther's cousin, sends a message to her and says, You've got to do something about this. And Esther goes, Yeah, right, what am I supposed to do about this I'm a young teen girl. I'm in a castle here. And besides, there's a role uh there's a law that if you go into the king without being asked to come, you're You're dead. Unless he holds the scepter out, which he never does. So I can't do that. And Mordecai says, listen, one, don't think you're going to escape anything just because you keep quiet. But two Have you ever stopped thinking? Maybe God brought you there for such a time as this. And what happened? Little Esther goes out, goes into the king, and saves a nation. By the way, it's a little hard to track because the kings, Xerxes, and R. Xerxes, all those guys, the names are kind of intermingled sometimes. But it also looks, it looks like a couple of generations later The men who rebuilt the wall of Jerusalem and rebuilt the temple, they were given permission to do so by kings That could very well have been the sons or grandsons of Esther. They so respected her that when these Israelites came in and asked permission to go back and rebuild Jerusalem, they gave them permission. So not only did she save one generation of Israelites, she was a benefit to others after that. Why? Because she did what was in her hand. All she could do is to try to go in and explain the situation, and God says, I gotcha, I got you, you just do what I'm asking you to do. And so folks, the simple fact of the matter is All we need to do is be prepared to do what God's asked us to do. Find up. And as we challenge young people, the challenge I have for them always is: find God's will for your life. Find God's will for your God's will for my life, folks, was 15 years in the Army. Every time we moved, praying that God let us go into full-time service, God said no. But for 15 years, I gained experiences that have helped me in the role that I play now more than any Bible college possibly could have done it. That's because Cindy and I just said, Lord, whate whatever whatever you want us to do, that's fine. We'll we'll do it. We'll be willing to do it. I'm no super Christian. I'm traveling with six women in a van Being unchristian sometimes fits. Although I gotta tell you, they're great to travel with. God's got something for every one of us to do, and he just wants you to be surrendered to do it. How about it for you? Well, I don't know what to do. Again, that's why you got a pastor. And folks, by the way, when you stop being needed, not needed, when you stop filling needs. When you stop looking for ways that you can be a blessing, a help or involved, why should God keep you here anymore? He's not obligated to keep any of us here. He's not obligated to give any of us one breath. But he's got something for all of us to do. And all he does is look for you to do it. And I'm here to tell you I got out of the service in 92, and for over, well over 30 years, we have had the greatest time of our life. I've jumped out of airplanes and helicopters, we've been to Korea and Germany, we've seen the world, we've traveled, but I've never had as much fun doing what we've been doing for the last thirty years because we simply said, Well Lord, whatever you got, we're in How about you? Do you want to be that round peg in a round hole? Or do you want to be that round peg constantly bumping up against that square hole because you haven't found God's will for your life? And the challenge isn't just to young people, it's to every one of us in this room