Turn to John chapter four. Appreciate it, preacher. Thank you for inviting me. I've had a great time. Enjoy the fellowship with believers. No matter where you go, man. I love traveling out and preaching because you get to meet believers all over. Southern some of them speak English, others are from the north. Do you want to be like Jesus? Do you want to be like Jesus? You see, his goal for us is to be like him. Now, obviously things are going to be different in heaven in a great way. We're not going to have this flesh about us. We're not going to be facing sin around us. Thank God heaven's going to be free of all that. And we'll be able to glorify his name. In the meanwhile, we do represent him down here. So do you want to be like him to be a good representative of the Lord Jesus Christ? Now I'm going to read three verses to get us started, but we're going to look at a number of different events in the gospel to give us an idea of what Jesus would really do. But in John chapter 4, beginning at verse 25. Jesus is talking to the woman at the well. It says, and the woman saith unto him, I know that Messiah cometh, which is called Christ. When he has come, he will tell us all things. Jesus said unto her, I that speak unto thee am He. And upon this came his disciples and marveled that he talked with the woman Yet no man said, What seekest thou, or why talkest thou with her? I get the impression from verse 27. That if you would have asked the disciples when they were in the city of Sikar, do you think that maybe when you walk back out of the city to where Jesus is at, do you think that he'd talk to a Samaritan woman? And no doubt they would have said, absolutely not. No, he wouldn't have done it. You see, they marveled. They were shocked. They were surprised. That he talked with the woman. Well, let's pray. Father, we come to you now in the name of the Lord Jesus. And I pray, Heavenly Father, that you use this time together. To help us examine our lives and allow the Spirit of God to examine our lives and see if we're doing that which Jesus would do Lord, we are his representatives on earth. We are ambassadors for Christ. And we do want to be accurate representatives of our Savior. So, Father, I pray that you can meet with us in a powerful way. As we get to close out the revival meetings, we trust not closing out the revival. God, please do a continuing work in our lives, and we'll thank you for it. In Jesus' name, amen. Now, if you were to see the letters WWJD, you would probably think, what would Jesus do? And that's because they've been around for a long time. As a matter of fact, I remember when I first began seeing people wearing the bracelets. that had WJD on it. I didn't have a clue what that meant. Did not have a clue. And I remember that in Chicago, Illinois, there was a country radio station, WJD. And I thought somebody had messed up the call letters and added an extra W. But then I found out, no, that's not the case. And the basic idea is that people When you got something, a decision you need to make, you ask yourself the question, what would Jesus do? And then you do what you think Jesus would do, and that's bound to be the right thing, and it'll be good Well, that sounds wonderful. But do you realize most people don't have a clue what Jesus would do? As a matter of fact, I I did a little internet search on WWJD. And I found, of course, there were Baptists that had the websites, Methodists had the websites with WWJD Episcopalians had the websites, Presbyterians had the websites, what would Jesus do? Lutherans had the websites, what would Jesus do? Several of the cults. Also had websites, WWJD. There were Mormon sites that had WWJD on them, Catholic sites, Jehovah's Witness sites. Matter of fact, there was one female evangelist that had on her website what would Jesus do. And of course when I saw that I thought, I know what Jesus would do. He told her to shut up. She never visits us out there preaching in churches. But you know that's by the way. What I just said was was put in the sword of the Lord when Dr. Smith printed one of my messages, and boy did I get some nasty letters over that one. Anyway, but I hastened to move on There was another site. Jesus was a vegetarian. Well then I wonder who fixed those fish on the side of the Sea of Galilee in John chapter 21. Another site belonged to Jack Daniels, but they weren't referring to what would Jesus do. Here was one, Barney Online. Had what would Jesus do? How about this one? Welcome to Hollywood Jesus. Had what would Jesus do on it? Here's one. Islamic city in cyberspace. had what would Jesus do. There was another one, Satan Net, had what would Jesus do. Another site, Atheist for Jesus. Now, that site I went to Because I mean it sparked my curiosity. Atheist for Jesus? Really? And ru you know I I read their front their opening page, their home page And what they said was that they believed in the teachings of love by Jesus, but they believed that the Apostle John, when he referred to 666 was referring to the Apostle Paul, who he said, or who they say perverted the teachings of the Lord Jesus Christ on love. There's a lot of craziness out there. Now all these people were using what would Jesus do? And obviously for a number of those sites they have have absolutely no clue. What Jesus would do. But then in verse 27, the disciples are shocked that Jesus would be talking to a lost woman in Samaria. I mean, they've been walking with Jesus for a while now. They've been with him. It doesn't shock us when we read the story that Jesus is talking to a woman. Now, perhaps It's because the Jewish rabbis had said that it was a waste of time to talk to a woman. Maybe that's the reason they felt that way. I don't know if they were I I didn't say I believe that, I was saying maybe that's what they were thinking. Maybe it was because she was a Samaritan and the Jews had no dealings with Samaritans. And the fact that she was a woman in a Samaritan, that might have a lot more to do with it. I doubt that the disciples knew her lifestyle. But that would have even shocked them more. Regardless of that, they didn't have a clue what Jesus would do. Now my Bible says in Hebrews 13, 8. Jesus Christ the same yesterday and today and forever. May I say that Jesus, faced with similar situations, would do exactly the same thing that he did in the Bible. You want to know what Jesus would do? Go to the Bible, find out what he did, and that's what Jesus would do. Now I'm just going to show you some places from the Gospels where you see things that Jesus would do And if we're going to be like Jesus, these are things that we would do also. Number one, he would go out of his way to win the lost. In this very story, back in chapter 4 and verse 9, or verse 4, it says, and he must needs go through Samaria. Now, why must he needs go through Samaria? Even though when you look at a map, going from Jerusalem up to Galilee, it would appear the shortest route would be to go through Samaria. Quite often the Jews would go over to Jericho, cross over to the other side of the Jordan River, and then would cr then go on up to the Sea of Galilee and cross back over at the southern edge of the Sea of Galilee and go around that way. It was not their usual route. to go through Samaria. You see, Jesus went out of his way to win the loss. Well we know that. He did that just by leaving leaving heaven's glory to come to this earth to die for our sins. He went out of his way to win the lost. Jesus said of himself, for the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost. Luke chapter nineteen and verse ten. And again he says it basically the same thing in Matthew chapter eighteen and verse eleven In 1 Timothy 1. 15, Paul writes, this is a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptation, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners. of whom I am chief. Do you realize he is all about winning the loss? Well he says in Philippians chapter 2, when the scripture says Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus, who being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation took upon himself the form of a servant, was made in the likeness of man, and being found and fastened as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death even the death of the cross. Well why'd he do that? Well because he's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. He came to this earth to provide a way for us to get saved. And by the way, before he left the earth, he said, go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. And just before he ascended up into heaven, he said, But ye shall receive power after that the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and ye shall be witnesses unto me, both in Jerusalem and in all Judea, and in Samaria, and unto the utmost parts of the earth. He went out of his way to win the loss. And if you're going to be like Jesus, you're going to be telling others about Christ. You're going to go out of your way to tell others about Christ. You're going to be passing out tracts. Think of the benefits that we have today that the New Testament Church did not have. At Madison Baptist Church, we purchased thousands upon thousands of dollars of tracts every year. And we purchase all those tracks so that our people can give them out. And we give them out all over the place. As a matter of fact, we travel. We take them, we pass them out there. Now, but that's just one way to witness Obviously, the disciples didn't have tracts to use. By the way, they didn't have the book of Romans to use. That's not done until some twenty years after Jesus Christ died on the cross, almost 30 years. after Jesus died on the cross. That's when they finally got the book of Romans. So they weren't able to go around and show them the Romans wrote. And yet they were bold in their witness for God. I'm just simply saying, if we're going to be like Jesus, we're going to be willing to go out of our way to win the loss. Let me give you a second thing. Jesus would tell the truth about their sin. If you look at verse 16, after he's talked about, I've got water that you'll never thirst again, in verse 16, Jesus said unto her, Go call thy husband and come hither. The woman answered and said, I had no husband. Jesus said unto her, Thou hast well said, I have no husband. For thou hast had five husbands, and he whom thou now hast is not thy husband. In that saidest thou truly. Now, Jesus is the one who brought up the subject of her sin. But I want you to notice that he just didn't say your sin. I mean he named her sin. You understand? He named her sin. Well, I'm just too afraid of doing that. I'm afraid it'll run him off. You know, it's just like, for instance, when when I deal with a drunkard, a drunkard. That's what the world calls and alcoholic today. I don't find the word alcoholic in the Bible. I don't find it there. You see, this term alcoholic has the idea that the person is not responsible. That they've got a special chromosome or gene or hormone or something that makes it so they just got to take it. No, they don't have to take it. People don't go to hell for sickness They do go to hell because of sin. Yeah, see I tell folks that this Bible has absolutely no hope for alcoholics, but it has the answer for drunkards. It will help them. You've got to be honest about their sin. Jesus was always honest about that. He was honest about the sins of the Pharisees and the Sadducees. He was always honest about their sin. We owe them to be honest about their sin. You remember the woman at the well, not the woman at the well, but The woman who was taken in adultery by the Pharisees in John chapter 8. And they brought the woman to Jesus. And they said, Now, uh, we caught her in the very act. And Jesus, what do you say we ought to do? Now you remember, Jesus wrote something in the sand. Now it always kind of uh I get a little joy out of the preachers that think they know exactly what Jesus wrote Because the scripture doesn't tell us what he wrote. Whatever he wrote brought some conviction on the people that brought this lady to Jesus. to be stoned. Now you can think of some possibilities. He might have wrote the scripture that told the Jews that when uh two people committed adultery, they were to be brought together and both of them were to be stoned. He might have simply wrote, Where's the man? Not only that, he might have started listing the sins of the people that were there that had brought the women to it. We don't know what he wrote. But we know that when Jesus was done writing and he said, now who condemns this woman? There wasn't anybody left. They were all gone. Now there are some people who think that even though this woman was guilty of adultery, Jesus let her off the hook. No, he didn't let her off the hook. Jesus obeyed the law completely. It took two witnesses. To put a person to death. Two witnesses. There weren't any witnesses left. No matter what she had done, no matter what sin she had committed. Jesus could not have her stoned. And Jesus always obeyed the law. But he didn't want that lady to think that he was letting her off. He said, Neither do I condemn thee. Go and what? Sin no more. He called what she did exactly what it was, sin. We are so afraid of offending people. But I've got news for you. People don't get offended, they don't think about what you just said. They get offended, they'll go home thinking about it. You say, what if it makes them mad? They get saved, they'll get over it. But I mean one of the reasons why the Christian church, why born-again Bible preaching preachers are cursed in this country, is because we don't let people off the hook about their sin Jesus didn't let people off the hook about their sin. And he went right to it. He's the one who brought it up. So first of all, they'd go out of his way to win the loss. Secondly, he'd tell the truth about their sin. Now, I hope you're with me on this. He'd tell the truth about their false religion. Now it's amazing, right after this takes place, the woman tries to change the subject. It says, the woman saith unto him, Sir, I perceive that thou art a prophet. It's amazing you start pointing get putting someone in the corner about their sin, how they look for an opportunity to change the subject. And now she's trying to sound spiritual. I I perceive that you're a prophet. Now notice Our fathers worshiped in this mountain. Ye say that in Jerusalem is the place where men ought to worship. Oh, yeah, our fathers worship. I see. Alright, you may have caught me on that, but I am a spiritual person Jesus saith unto her, Woman, believe me. The hour cometh when ye shall neither in this mountain nor yet in Jerusalem worship the Father. Ye worship ye know not what. We know what we worship, for salvation is of the Jews. You know what he just told her? He told her that her worship was in vain. You don't know what you worship. Salvation isn't of the Samaritans. Now see the difference between the Old Testament and the Samaritans And the Old Testament of the Jews was that the Jews had the right uh mountain of cursing and the mountain of blessing. Samaritans had changed that all that around. They had changed some other things around. And so their worship was in vain. It was empty. It didn't count. The Savior comes through the Jews, not through the Samaritans. Salvation comes through the God of the Bible, not through the God of the Bibles that people are messing with. Whether you got the Jehovah's Witness God, the New World Translation, or any of those other strange things that are out there, you understand. So he tells the truth about their religion. Ye worship in vain. Jesus didn't pull any punches about false religion Many people today think that the preacher needs to keep his mouth shut about the cults and those who preach another gospel. Now, personally, my definition of a cult is anybody who preaches a different gospel. That is a cult. There are several religions, so-called part of the Christian religions, that are considered Christian and they preach a totally different gospel. They preach a gospel of works. They preach a gospel of being good. They preach a social gospel. But they don't preach the gospel of Christ. Book of Galatians, Paul writes, he says, if we are an angel from heaven, preach any other gospel unto you than that which we have preached unto you, let him be accursed. Now that's pretty plain. As a matter of fact, turn back for a moment, keep your hand here, and turn back to the book of Matthew, chapter 23. Matthew chapter 23. Here Jesus is preaching to the Pharisees and the scribes, Sadducees, and so on. And in Matthew chapter 23. Jesus is simply telling them the truth. He says, for instance, beginning in verse 13, Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites. For ye shut up the kingdom of heaven against men, for ye neither go in yourselves, neither suffer ye them that are entering to go in. Do you hear what he just said? He said, you're not going into heaven. You're lost. Well, these were religious people. They prided themselves in their religion. I mean these were Jews. And he said, you're not going into heaven. And everybody you convince to go your way, they're not going either. Do you understand why they wanted to kill him? Yes, it makes people mad. All around this world today, people are being killed by false religions. I mean murdered By false religion. Jesus said the day will come when he that killeth you will think that he doeth God's service. You can't get anybody madder than when you attack their religion. So Jesus doesn't stop though. He doesn't say, oh, I'm sorry. Verse 14, he says, woe unto you, scribes, Pharisees, hypocrites. For he devour widows' houses, and for a pretense make long prayer, therefore ye shall receive the greater damnation than the next verse. Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites For ye compass sea and land to make one proselyte, and what he has made, ye make him twofold more the child of hell than yourselves In verse 16, he continues, woe unto you, ye blind guys. In verse 17, ye fools and blind. You see, in verse 19 again, ye fools and blind, I would say Jesus was telling the truth about their false religion. Later, Paul would write of the Jews in Romans chapter 10 when he said, Brethren, my heart's desire prayed to God for Israel so that they might be saved. For I bear the record that they have a zeal of God, but not according to knowledge, that they, being ignorant of God's righteousness and going about to establish their own righteousness Have not submitted themselves to the righteousness of God, for Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone that believeth. You say, what would Jesus do? Well he'd go out of his way to win the loss And when he went out to win him, he told them the truth about their sin, and he would tell them the truth about their false religion. Now that's not the only time that the Lord Jesus Christ did that. As a matter of fact, Jesus was so pointed about this That in Romans chapter 8 and verse 42, he said to those Jewish religious leaders that were standing before him, You are of your father, the devil. And the lust of your father he will do. He was a murderer from the beginning and abode not in the truth. For there is no truth in him. When he speaketh a lie, he speaketh of his own, for he is a liar and the father of it. Now imagine telling some priest, Hure of your father the devil. Do you think he'd get upset? How about if you went to an IMO? You think you'd get upset? You betcha, man. People don't like hearing that, but didn't stop Jesus from saying it. He'd tell the truth about their sin. He'd tell the truth about their false religion. Man, people, you want to get people upset with you? You just tell the truth about Catholicism. They'll get mad at you. Mary can't take you to heaven. Mary needed a savior herself. She admitted her sinfulness in Luke chapter 1. She talked about God, her Savior. Her savior. Well, only lost people need saviors. Amen. Boom, they get boo that get people upset right there. So, not only that, he preached more about heaven or about hell than he would about heaven. Now I'm not going to go through all the verses on hell. We covered that this morning. Also on the first night that I was here, we talked about hell a lot But you understand that nobody in the Bible spoke as much about hell as did Jesus Christ. It's amazing how we have forgotten the subject. We think somehow it's not appropriate for church. It's not appropriate for God's people. How are God's people going to grow if they're preach uh if they hear about hell all the time Maybe it'll keep them motivated to do what they're supposed to do, go out of their way to win the loss. You see, this is important, man. They say, well, preacher, I've witnessed to my family several times, and I'm afraid I'll run them off. Where to? Hell two, hell three, hell four? They're already going to hell. Maybe the reason some of our loved ones don't get saved is we don't act like it's that important. They need to see from us that it is that important. So he'd go out of his way to win the lost. He would tell the truth about their sin. He'd tell the truth about their religion. He would speak more about hell than he would about heaven. Let me give you another one. He would tell the truth no matter the outcome. Turn over to the book of Matthew, chapter 19. The other day, I believe, we looked at at Mark chapter 10 with the story of the rich young ruler. This is the story of the rich young ruler in the book of Matthew. And in verse well, in verse 16, he says it says, And behold, one came and said unto him, Good master, what good things shall I do that I may have eternal life? And he said unto him, Why callest thou me good? There's none good but one, that is God. But if thou wilt enter into life, keep the commandments. We read that the other night, and this young man thought he had kept them all So Jesus put the great commandment and he put it into the practical sense. He said, If thou will be perfect, go and sell that thou hast and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven and come and follow me. But when the young man heard that saying He went away sorrowful for he had great possessions. Now Jesus knew that that young man would go away before he ever said what he said. Then why did he say it? He said it because he never compromises the truth to keep some lost people there listening to him He always told the truth. We need to be careful lest we get so nice and so milked toast and so un I'm trying to think of the word unspecific That we have people standing before us who think we're nice guys instead of realizing that they are sinners in the sight of God. Totally bankrupt spiritually, and their only hope for heaven is Jesus Christ. In Luke chapter 6, the Lord Jesus Christ, talking to disciples that were following him. He uh gave them some very difficult sayings that they murmured at about even when he said, If any man, except a man eat my flesh and drink my blood, he hath no life in him. The disciples were murmuring at it, so Jesus, he responded to them. And when he did, the Bible says in verse 66, from that time, many of them went back and walked no more with him. Didn't Jesus know they would leave before he said what he said? Yes. I remember when I went to a church to uh, I just started in the church. And uh there was a man in the church who had been a member of the church for quite a while. And I just got up and just preached the truth about a couple of things. And man, that man left just Matter and Hornet. He swore to everybody he wasn't coming back to church. I had another man come up to me and he asked me this question. He said, Pastor, would you have said that If you'd have known it was going to make that man so mad. And my answer to that was, I hope so. Yeah I got this, I I I love my people, I love you folks. But you know when I stand the pulpit, I've got one person I'm supposed to please. And that's God. And I do that by telling the truth. If it stings, deal with it. We got a lot of people that can't handle finding out that they're not as spiritual as what they thought they were. I look out at my congregation and I can look in the mirror. I still haven't found anybody that's perfect. I find as long as you preach the word, you're gonna hit somebody, you're gonna hit everybody eventually. And what they need to do is deal with it. Get right with God. We do what Jesus would do. That's the way we'd act. What would Jesus really do? He'd go out of his way to win the lost. He'd tell the truth about their sin. He'd tell the truth about their false religion. He'd tell the truth about heaven and hell. He'd tell the truth No matter the outcome Let me give you a sixth thing. He would rebuke his disciples when they were wrong. One of the most amazing passages to me in the New Testament is Matthew chapter 16. In Matthew chapter 16, Jesus asks the question in verse 13. He says, Whom do men say that I, the Son of Man, am? In verse 14, and they said unto him, and they said, some say that thou art John the Baptist, some Elias, and others Jeremiah or one of the prophets. He saith unto them, To whom say ye that I am? Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. And Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou Simon Bar Jonah, for flesh and blood had not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven. Now, in verse 18, powerful verse, and I also say unto thee that thou art Peter, and upon this rock I'll build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. Now think with me for a moment Who did Peter just say Jesus was? He said, thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. What a powerful statement. Truth. Truth. It's right. But wait a minute. You then get down to verse 21. And it says, From that time forth began Jesus to show unto his disciples how that he must go into Jerusalem. And suffer many things of the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and be raised again the third day. Now look at this. Then Peter took him. And began to rebuke him. Now wait, I've got a computer glitch going on in my head. Who did Peter just say Jesus was? He's the Christ. He's the Son of the Living God. Then who does he think he is rebuking him? Notice verse 23. But he turned and said unto Peter, Get thee behind me, Satan. And I'm sorry, I don't picture him saying this with a smile on his face. Get thee behind me, Satan. Thou art an offense unto me, for thou savorest not the things that be of God, but those that be of men. What a rebuke! He did it in front of all the other disciples. What a rebuke. I'm just simply saying that Jesus would rebuke his disciples when they were wrong. In Matt Luke chapter 24, on resurrection day, you've got two of the disciples walking to the city of Emmaus Jesus comes up on them. They don't recognize that it's him, even though they had heard that there was news going out that Jesus had raised from the dead, but they weren't believing it And they were disappointed, they were discouraged. And the Bible says in verse 25, and he said unto them O fools and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken, ought not Christ to have suffer these things and entered into his glory? And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them all the scriptures, the things concerning himself. I'm simply saying he rebuked his disciples when they were wrong. It's interesting that when the Apostle Paul tells Timothy how to preach, when he says, I charge thee therefore before God the Lord Jesus Christ, Who should judge the quick and the dead as appearing in his kingdom? Preach the word. Be instant in season, out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long-suffering and doctrine. The reality is most Christians can't handle it. They hurt my feelings. He talked about my favorite football team. He said I ought to be in church. I ought to be in church instead of watching the doubleheader football game. The truth is, we need rebuke once in a while. And for the most part, we're scared to death to give it to our people because they're not like Peter. Peter didn't go running off crying, he stayed with Jesus. Now we can say, my, it's amazing he would have been so dumb to say what he said. He'd have been so rash with his mouth to say what he said. But when he got rebuked, he stayed with Jesus. Listen, preacher gets up and preaches a message where you get skin, take it. Show us you're a good Christian. See, church didn't know it's fun. That's why he gave the definition about preaching that he gave. Now, it's interesting to me that later on in Acts chapter 8, you remember Simon the sorcerer gets saved. And Peter comes down there and he and John they're getting people filled with the Holy Spirit of God. And Simon the sorcerer, who's no longer a sorcerer, is now Simon the believer. But unfortunately he's still known by Simon. And he says to Peter, he says, Hey, how much can I give you to do that? Then that looks neat. Now, you understand that Simon was a brand new believer. He had been a sorcerer all of his life. Everything about any kind of spiritual power, which was demonic, he got by money He's a brand new believer. Can you think back to when you got saved and these stupid things you said? Oh my Simon the sorcerer. Oh. What did Peter do? I perceive that thou art in the gall of bitterness. Tells him to repent. He didn't go running off crying. Well, I thought that's supposed to be a loving church. It is a loving church. They told you you were wrong. He got right. He said, pray, pray that these things don't happen to me. We have become so soft today. Absolutely amazing. He'd rebuke his disciples when they were wrong. Let me give you something else. Go back to John chapter 4. Jesus would put the will of God first. The will of God first. Notice in verse 31. In the meanwhile, his disciples prayed him, saying, Master eat. But he said unto them, I have meat to eat that ye know not of. Therefore said the disciples one to another, Hath any man brought him aught to eat? Jesus saith unto them, My meat is to do the will of him that sent me. And to finish his work. To do God's will first and foremost. Why am I here? Do the will of God That's why I'm here. That's why I'm on earth. My job is to do his will. Aren't there a lot of other things you'd like to do? Not as much as to do his will. I want to do his will. I don't know how many trips, I think five or six trips I've made to South Korea to preach. And had some good revival meetings over there. I'll be honest with you, I hate to flight. The flight is horrendous. I mean 14 hours. Think about that. Here you are, you're on the plane for six hours, you take a nap, you sleep for two, you wake up, and you still got another six hours to go. And the older I get, the harder that is on my body. Two years ago I was able to go to the Philippines for the second time. That's even farther. On top of that, we were on the island of Los Negros. Now God blessed in a powerful way, and we literally did get to see thousands of people saved in just a few days. Matter of fact, I was preaching in a public school that had about 2,500 teenagers in attendance. When I got done preaching and the invitation was given, this is not on me, this is on the Holy Spirit of God. He did it That's the only time I've ever had this kind of result in any preaching I've ever done. But we had over 700 young people come and get saved in the invitation We had twelve teachers at the school come and get saved. And the principal took Christ as his Savior as well. What a tremendous thing. If I hadn't gone, I wouldn't have got to see that. I wasn't crazy about flying over there. I wasn't crazy about trying to drive and survive around Manila If you've been in Manila, you know what that's like. You think it's bad in in Washington, DC, or New York City. You don't know anything about traffic now. They're crazy people. The thing is, they're actually better off if they don't have any stoplights because somehow they make all the turns and they never hit one another That's something I really don't get at all. But anyway. I'm just simply saying I I believed it was God's will for me to go We went, we got to see God do some great things, praise the Lord for it. Yes, I was deadbeat when I got back, but what's that got to do with it? I'm here to do the will of God. God called me to preach. Let me tell you why I'm here this week. God called me to preach. Even though I've not had a voice, God called me to preach. The reason I didn't follow my doctor's advice or the advice of the doctor in my church, God called me to preach. That's why. The will of God must come first. Not only that. Are you ready? This is tough. And I think with this one, we'll close. I've got a bunch more, but I'm giving you the really big ones. And that is that he would make the requirements for true disciples high. I want you to turn over to the book of Luke, chapter 14. Luke chapter fourteen. We'll close with this one. You want to be like Jesus? You're a representative of Christ on this earth. You're an ambassador for Jesus Christ. Go out of your way to win the lost. Tell the truth about their sin. Tell the truth about their false religion. I want you to notice verse 26. The scripture says, Jesus is speaking, if any man come to me, and hate not his father and mother and wife and children and brethren and sisters, yea, in his own life also. He cannot be my disciple. Now that's an astounding verse right there. I mean Jesus is talking about the kind of commitment it takes to be a disciple, not the kind of commitment that it takes to be saved. You understand that salvation is free, but discipleship cost. There are a lot of people who have salvation who are not disciples. God must come first. Jesus must be number one if you're to be a disciple. He's got to be above your family. As a matter of fact, the way Jesus words it is amazing. He says, if any man come to me and hate not his father and mother and wife And children and brethren and sisters, yeah, in his own life also. He cannot be my disciple. But doesn't the Bible say, husbands, love your wives, even as Christ loved the church? Do we have a contradiction here? No, I don't believe we have one at all. It says just that Jesus is to be above it all. He is number one. Whatever he says, that's what we do. Whether it pleases mom or dad, doesn't matter. Jesus comes first. Whether or not it pleases the children or you get to spend the time with them. Now I've got a daughter on the mission field. I'll tell you, as a daddy, it really hurts me. We've always been close. We never had a problem when she was a teenager and problems with fighting and rebellion. We never had any problem like that. We were a super close family. And having her gone and having her you know, it wouldn't be so bad if they had all the grandchildren come live with us. But Not worked out that way. But I want her to be in the center of God's will. I would not want her to be where we're at. If God weren't so where she's at, I want her to be in the center of God's will. It's got to come first. Now this matter of comparative love. There were a couple years ago I was preaching up in Jackson, Michigan. And as I was closing that night, my wife and I were leaving. I tried to get like at least four hours knocked off the drive home And I thought if I could just drive four hours, then the the rest of the drive the next day would only be like seven hours and and that wouldn't be so bad And so I'm going to uh I'm driving I want to get to Indianapolis, hopefully. And so we get to Indianapolis and I'll tell you what, it was it was bedland. They were had construction all over the middle of Indianapolis. it seemed like. We couldn't go anywhere fast. Well I'm driving along and I'm getting tired. We had already pulled off at one place where there was a motel and they didn't have any rooms And so I am really tired. And suddenly while I'm driving along, I hear, And then boy and it woke me up. I mean it scared me. And then I heard, meow, meow, meow. I looked down my speedometer. I was driving, oh I dare not tell you what I was driving. But I'm going to tell you what, to those motorcycles, it was like I was standing still. It didn't look like I was going fast. Comparatively speaking. Yes, I'm going to love my wife, and yes, I love my children, and yes, I love my mom and dad. But Jesus, my love for him, is so great that it makes my love for them Look like hate. When he says, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice wholly acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. Yes, you can be a believer, you can be going to heaven and not be a disciple. I'm simply saying that when the Lord Jesus came along to talk about discipleship He made the standard for discipleship extremely high, but he's not done. In the next verse, and whosoever doth not bear his cross and come after me cannot Be my disciple. The reality is if you're going to serve the Lord, there's a cross you're going to have to bear. It's going to be different for different people. There's a cross you're going to have to bear. You can't bear his cross. He bore his own cross. You can't bear that. You've got to bear your cross Whatever it may be, got a good preacher friend who's blind, faithful to preaching the word of God. It's his cross. He bears it, doesn't complain about it. Praises God that God will use him. Thank the Lord. I know a preacher that had a couple of his children killed by a drunk driver. Man, that's a tough cross right there. But he's still faithful to preaching, still praises God, still leads his church to love God and serve him Bear his cross. And then one other thing in verse 33. So likewise whosoever he be of you that forsaketh not all that he hath, he cannot be my disciple. Would you leave everything behind to go and do what Jesus would call you to do? If not, you can't be a disciple. You can go to heaven. But you can't be a disciple. Jesus would make the requirements for true discipleship high. I really believe, preacher, I'm I'm convinced of this. The thing that I have done the worst in the ministry is I have tried to make serving Jesus as easy as possible for people. That's not what Jesus did. You know, we try to have service times and convenient time. We try to make it so that if they're going to go so winning, we try to make it as easy as possible and even to get an hour out of them. And the New Testament church, they just expected believers to give themselves completely to serve him without trouble. But we try to make it easy. A few years ago, I mentioned the other night I started that service at 11 o'clock in the morning on Wednesdays, and that was to help people who could not be in church on uh on Wednesday night. And so I did that. And if there's anything that disturbs me about that now, is that I do have some people that use that service as a service of convenience. And not necessity. I'm just simply saying where I've messed up with people is I've tried to make service to serve the Lord as easy as possible. We try to make it fun They didn't make it fun in the Bible. But we almost got this idea, if it's not fun, people are going to come, they're not going to want to do it. Well, if they're not, they're not disciples. He would make the requirements for discipleship high. Alright, now. Do you still want to be like Jesus? You know, the Bible says whom he did for know, he also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his son. He's trying to make us like his son, Jesus Christ. And yet we won't even go out of our way to win the lost. We won't get honest with them about their sin. We won't tell the truth about their religion. We won't speak bluntly and clearly about the hell that they're going to if they don't get born again. Matter of fact, we don't take rebuke very well. And we preachers are scared to death to rebuke a Christian When they say something really out of the way, instead we try to smooth it over and make it as easy as possible because we know most Christians today can't handle it. But Jesus just simply hit his disciples with it straight And he'd make the requirements for true discipleship high. Now let me ask you, are you like Jesus? What would Jesus really do? Are you one open to do the things that Jesus did? If not, you might want to come tonight in the invitation and say, Lord, forgive me. Forgive me. I'm presenting a false view of Jesus. And I see that for me to be like him, I'm going to have to get serious about some spiritual things. Father, you have your way in our life tonight. I've given this as a challenge to be a help. Lord, I pray that we'd be willing to take it and allow you to use the Word of God. To deal in our hearts and lives. Lord, this church has been so good. They've listened to some really pitiful preaching here this week as far as actual preaching goes. They've been open to the Word of God, and I thank you for that. They treated this preacher. with kindness and respect. But Lord God, tonight, may they allow the Holy Spirit of God to search out their hearts. I'm reminded of David's prayer when he said, Search me, O God, know my heart, try me and know my thoughts. And see if there be any wicked way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting. Dear God, may your people respond tonight to do your perfect will. For I ask it in Jesus' name.