Well, praise the Lord and shame on the devil. Amen. It's good to be here in church this morning, and uh it's good to see some of the icons around here that have been faithful to God over uh year after year after year uh people like brother and sister gambrel here in the front and praise the Lord they're in their place there and that's uh exciting to me to see people that are Uh still here, still serving God, still putting God first in their life. Some of you are new, but uh that's okay. I'll get to know you and then I'll look for you next time I come here and hope that you're here uh also and uh growing in the Lord and being what God wants you to be in your life. There's a lot of things in introduction that I would uh be uh giving this morning. But um I'm gonna save some time. Turn to John chapter 3, please. John chapter 3, uh one of the most familiar passages in the Word of God. And uh we're gonna preach out of this passage of scripture But uh uh I wonder how much you're worth. I wonder What God would give for you. If you went to an auction and you were one of the items being sold at the auction, and People were bidding on you, bidding on your soul. What would somebody offer for your soul? In John chapter 3, verse number 12, I want to read 12, 13, 14, and 15, and then I want us to quote Verse number 16 altogether, or read it if you don't know it by heart. But I'm going to start with verse number twelve, and it says, If I have told you of earthly things, and ye believe not, how shall ye believe if I tell you of heavenly things? And no man hath ascended up to heaven, but he that came down from heaven even the Son of Man which is in heaven. And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up That whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. And then all of us together, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. One way of determining what worth is It is by finding out what somebody else would pay for it. Let's bow in prayer. Heavenly Father, please speak to our hearts Lord, this is a simple message today, but one that I pray that will touch the hearts of every person here, saved or lost. And that saved people would be drawn closer to you and fall more in love with you today than they were before they got here today. And that lost people Would repent of their sin and trust you as personal Savior. Lord, I pray that you would answer this prayer in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Something is worth what someone else would pay for it, and God placed a value upon you. Actually in Mark chapter 8, verse number 36 The Bible says and puts it in a little bit of per perspective for us, for what shall it profit a man if he shall gain the whole world and lose his own soul? Whatever you accumulate in this world may be a lot of things. You may have a big house, you may have a big car or an expensive car. You may have a lot of clothes in your closet, a lot of possessions in your yard. You may have a boat and a four-wheeler and all kinds of uh other things around the place, but guess what you're gonna have when you die and breathe your last breath. Nothing. You're not going to have any of that? None of that's important. One of the things that kinda bothers me a little bit and the in the Christian life as I'm a preacher around the country. I meet a lot of people, a lot of people that are born again, a lot of people that are saved, and uh most Christians today I asked him, hey, how's your family doing? He says, Oh, my kids are doing great. They both they all have good jobs and and they have a nice house and they have a nice car. I thought, good night, you're a failure. If that's your goal in life is for your kids to grow up and have a get a good education and get a good job and get a lot of things. You are m you're messed up in your mind. That's a bad goal to have. The day that my daughter, my oldest daughter, was born I took her out of the little bassinet when we got home from the hospital ten hours after she was born, laid her on the bed, knelt down beside the bed, took my wife's hand and to and put one hand on my little girl. And I said, Oh God, we don't know what we're doing. But we need your help. And I pray, Lord, that you would give my wife and I wisdom to raise this little baby in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. And I said, Lord, someplace in this world there's an ugly little boy that's born. And I don't know who he is. And won't meet him for a long time, but my daughter's gonna meet him one of these days and fall in love with him. And I pray, Lord, you'd put a hedge about him and guard him and watch over him his life. And the goal has been from day one for each of my kids that they would grow up and live for God and serve God and put God first in their life. And if that's not a goal for you parents, you're all messed up in your mind and you need to get things right with God and start getting your goals what God would have you to have them. And you know uh What are you worth? What are you worth? There was a father, had a daughter, and uh he bought a present for her a long time before she graduated from Connell high school. And at her graduation, her dad came up to her and said, Sweetheart, I bought you a gift. But actually I bought it a long time ago, several years ago, and she was probably thinking, Oh man, an old old gift that's already out of date and everything. So oh man. She was kind of worried about what it might be. And he gave her a set of keys And he says, Now I want you to take this vehicle, and I want you to take it down to the car dealer, the used car dealer, and find out what they would give you for it. And so she got up and she got the car and went down to the used car dealer and the used car guy said, We'll give you fifteen hundred dollars. for a car. It's a pretty old car and it's got some rust on it. And so $1,500, that's what we'll give you. She came home. Her eyes were all bugged out and said, Dad, they said that they'd give me fifteen hundred dollars for that old car, that old junk heap that's out there And he said, Well we're not done yet. I want you to take it down to the pawn shop and I want you to check with them and find out what the people at the pawn shop would give you for it. And so she goes to the pawn shop and uh Uh she asked the question and says, uh, uh, how much would you give me for the car? And the guy said, Well, w it's an old car. It's not worth very much. We'll give you five hundred dollars So she went back home and told her dad that, man, it's only worth $500 to him. The price is going down. He says, Well, we're not done yet. I want you to take this car uh on Saturday. I want you to take it down to where they have uh all of those old cars that all these people show up with, all these uh old antique cars And just see if it generates any interest. So she went down there and when she got back home, my she was excited She says, Dad, Dad, uh down there at that uh used car place, I mean that old car di uh place there where they have those old cars, there were several men came up and wanted to give me more than a hundred thousand dollars for that old junkie out there. Man. Uh she was surprised at that. And um uh she said, um, well, uh sweetheart The right person will value you in the right way. So don't be angry if someone doesn't put a high enough value upon you. Who appreciates you more than anyone else in this world? Well, let me just say, here in this church When you find out what God has paid for you, you'll fall in love with this place. You'll start loving Hunt Valley Baptist Church and You'll start loving the pastor of Hunt Valley Baptist Church and you'll fall in love and this is a place where you you'll find out how much God values you and how much Heaven values you and you'll say uh you'll say in yourself, I want to be faithful to God, and I want to do all I can to honor the Lord with my life, and uh God will change your life. And uh let me just say, were these people That uh we were talking about a minute ago that this girl took her car down to them and one said 1500 and another said 500. Were they trying to scam her Well, some people might be trying to scam you, but there are also others who will try to mess with the value of your life And then there are others who just don't know what you're worth. Maybe they went to school and they were taught evolution. And they were told that you came from a tadpole that crawled out of a pond somewhere, and then he evolved into a monkey, and then now that's you. Well, no wonder you don't think much of yourself if you think you came from a from a tadpole out of a creek or something like that. But of course we believe the Word of God Where it says God took of the dust of the earth and formed man in his own image and breathed into the nostrils of Adam the breath of life, and Adam became a living soul. So we don't believe in that. Then he put God put Adam to sleep, and he took one of his ribs and he made Eve. I think it's interesting that he married the most beautiful woman in the whole world. He did. Now, you need to find the place that values you and truly understand your value and stay there and make it part of your life. That's the Bible and a good Bible-believing church like this one right here We just quoted John 3. 16. Who was it that loved you so much that he sent his only begotten son? God. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. I would love to tell you what I think of Jesus, since I found in him a friend so strong and true. I'd tell how he changed my life completely. He did something no other friend could do. No one ever cared for me like Jesus There's no other friend so kind as he No one else could take the sin and darkness from me. Oh, how much he cared for me If you want to value others while you're on this earth, then that's what you ought to be doing. The Great Commandment says, love the Lord thy God. With all thy soul, with all thy heart, and all thy mind. And the second one is like unto this one: Love thy neighbor as thyself. You cannot even value other people like you should till you find out how much God values you and the price that He put on you. Not long ago there was this thing going around the the the United States and so on called Black Lives Matter. Well, yes, they do matter. They really do. Perhaps there are some out there who who are not being valued like that they ought like they ought to be valued. But someone else cried, Blue Lives Matter Uh that's police officers. Well, you know, police aren't perfect, but I'm glad that there are police because if I get in uh in trouble or something and I need help, I can call the police and they'll be there and they'll come and help me. And and so I I love them. Except that when they're behind my car with their lights on, I I don't like that too good, you know, but but all the other times I love 'em, you know, they're pretty good people and so on. But you know, there's others people that say all lives matter. Let me just say, you matter to God. Do you know when God made you, He threw away the pattern And did not make anybody else in all of the seven or eight billion people in the world like you. You are an individual And God loves you. And God made you. And let me say that you matter to God. God loves all lives, and we need to value all people. I was in Africa one day on a on a missions trip and I made a comment to the uh missionary and I said As people were walking up and down both sides of the road, hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of people, and I said, every one of those souls are a it's a soul for whom Jesus died. And the missionary said, Yeah, that's true. And we went down the road about another we were going about three hundred and fifty miles, but about another ten or fifteen miles later, God started speaking to my heart and convicting me uh in my heart for uh He says, Roger Batrell, you lived in America all these years. And you never one time driving down the road Looked at the other people driving the other cars and things like that and saying, every one of those people are a soul for whom Jesus died. Guess what? When I got back to America, it changed my outlook and realized that when I stop at a gas station, every one of those people at the gas station They're a soul for whom Jesus died. When I stop at a grocery store, every one of those people they're a soul for whom Jesus died, and they're all important. And you matter to God. You do. So what are you worth? Well, they used to have a TV program. I might even still have it. I don't I haven't watched TV in so long. But they had a uh program called the Antique Roadshow. And what they did is they opened up and they had a bunch of people in the area where they were who would bring down old things and uh and find out what they're worth. And uh sometimes they would be very discouraged and sometimes they'd be very impressed, but they would uh uh find out what they're worth. And there was a girl named Clara Beckman, and she was at a garage sale and she saw a little table And uh the guy had a price on it of thirty dollars. She didn't want to pay that much, so she uh got a hold of the guy that owned it there and and said, Hey I I'll give you twenty-five, and he said, Okay, I'll sell the two for So he she bought this table for twenty-five dollars. Well she heard that the antique roadshow was coming to town. And so she thought, well I'll just take it down there for the fun of it and see what it's worth And so she took it down there and got in line and finally got up to the p head of the line and and uh they uh the guy that was appraising that thing said uh it had a had a sign on it that says it was uh a John Seymour and Sons table uh from uh Boston, Massachusetts, made in the seventeen hundreds And he said it's worth two hundred and fifty thousand dollars. Whoa, bought it for twenty-five and it's worth two hundred and fifty thousand? dollars and so she took it to auction in New York City and guess what? The auctioneer or the guy that uh praised it was a little low. It brought five hundred and forty one thousand five hundred dollars. Wow, for one table. I hope the guy that sold that for twenty-five never found out, don't you? You know, uh he'd have been sick. But um uh there's a couple of other illustrations about that, but one in Minneapolis, Minnesota, they had the roadshow go there and There was a guy had this pocket watch. It was a Patek Felipe pocket watch. I don't have any idea what that is, except it was double faced and so on, and even took kept track of Leapier and all those kinds of things and it was still working. Um and he had it appraised fifteen years before he took it to the roadshow and somebody appraised it for six thousand dollars Uh well the appraiser at the antique row roadshow, they must be stuck on a particular figure because they appraised it also at $250,000 And uh she uh this guy took it to the auction at Southpees in New York City, and it brought $1,541,212. Wow. And here we are today at at uh uh Hunt Valley Baptist Church. The heavenly appraiser is here today. And you say, What am I worth to the heavenly appraiser? Well, God takes a look at you He knows you. He knows your faults. Better than your wife does. Better than your husband does. Better than your mom and dad do. You know, he knows about your sins. Actually, God knows everything about you. Today we want to answer that question. What are you worth to God? Well, according to the Word of God, you are worth the exchange. Of God's greatest treasure, Jesus Christ, who came to the earth to die for you. Well what's the reality of that? You know, pretend the birds could talk. It'd be interesting to go outside and have the birds talk to you. They of course sing and things like that, but And a bird singing, you go outside and he looks at you and he says, Hey, I'm just a bird. And God doesn't put very much value on me, but He puts a lot of value on you, a lot more value on you than on me. So you should be the one singing, not me. And in the Bible it says Matthew 10, verse 29: are not two sparrows sold for a farthing? You know what a farthing is? One quarter of a penny. Means it'd take eight farthings to equal a penny. And one of them shall not fall to the ground without your father. But the very hairs of your head are numbered. Fear ye not, therefore. Ye are of more value than many sparrows. Sparrows worth a half a farthing You're worth a lot more than that. Listen to how much God values you in Romans chapter 5, verse number 6. For when we were yet without strength, in due time, Christ died. For the ungodly. For scarcely for a righteous man will one die. Yet peradventure for a good man some would even dare to die But God commendeth his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. You know If it was a wonderful person that Christ died for, we would understand. Oh, I understand. But it wasn't a wonderful person. It was you. A sinner. A vile person compared to God. Let's just assume that there's a railroad track running right down the center of the church auditorium today. And just before it gets to me, there's a a switch in it Railroad track goes both directions. And we bring up to the railroad track on one side, and we place one of your children on that railroad track and tie them down. On the other side We place maybe the guy that invented a cure to cancer. Be a very important guy. And here comes the train, but you're standing at the switch. What are you gonna do? Kill the guy that cured cancer or let your child be killed? Let's change the scenario just a little bit. Put God the Father on the switch. Put Yourself on the other side and you be tied to the tracks. And put Jesus Christ on this side. Jesus Christ, who has never committed a sin in his whole life. The whole eternity all eternity. Never done anything wrong, never told a lie, never thought a bad thought, never did anything wrong. And You on the other side. And here comes the train. And God the Father pushes the switch to allow his son to die For you. And you get off the track and don't even appreciate what God did. God the Father loves you more than you can you can even imagine He never sinned once Jesus didn't, was perfect. But he let him die in your place That's the reality of how much you are worth to God. You are worth living for God if you're a Christian. Uh let me say that that God is worth You living for Him if you're a Christian, if you're saved, to give your life for Him and put God first in your life and be what God wants you to be day in and day out throughout your life. But what reaction do you have? One reaction for one who has known God for a long time. Maybe he sat here this morning and listened to the beautiful singing. I listened to my grandkids and my daughter in law sing that song earlier and you enjoyed that. Listen to the wonderful violin and the uh A cello, I think, that was played. Is that what that was? And uh uh today. Um and uh man what a beautiful, beautiful song that was. And you listened to the music this morning, you were reminded of how good God is And you maybe said in your mind, I'm not going to waste my life just running after money and the things that money would buy. I want to run after the things of God and let Him take care of me. As the Bible says, seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. We should run after the things of God as a reaction To how much God loves you. He loves you so much. So much. God put you first when He sent His Son to die And so I want to spend the rest of my life, whether it's just a short time or a long time, and give him my talent, my treasure, and my time. To serve him. You might be saying, Well, preacher, I I don't value people the way that I should. And when we get away from God, we don't put the right value on others. You might be one who says, Well, I'm so valuable. People ought to start recognizing how valuable I am if I'm so valuable. All my life was filled with sin when Jesus found me. My heart was full of misery and woe. Jesus placed his strong and loving arms around me, and he led me in the way I ought to go. No one ever cared for me like Jesus There's no other friend so kind as he. No one else could take the sin and darkness from me. Oh, how much he cared for me A good parent has children, and he wants to develop that value in his children, and he wants to protect that value. And sometimes a child misinterprets this and says, my parents don't value me. They just hold me back and keep me from what I want. Children. You are valued by your precious parents. They recognize that value, and they're trying to help to mold you into what God wants you to be. God is worth you giving him everything. There's no one loves you like God does. No one Let God's love motivate you the rest of your life to be what God wants you to be. Surrender your life to Him and say, Wherever you want me to go, Lord, I'll go. Whatever you want me to do, Lord, I'll do. Whatever you want me to be, Lord, I'll be. Regardless of your age, surrender your life to the Lord. Romans 12. 1 says, I beseech you therefore, brethren. by the mercies of God that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. And be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind, that you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. Since God values you so highly, you ought to want to value Him with your life. Does God come first for you? I uh remember the story of a little girl that went to a um like a garage sale or something when she was a little girl and she found a uh a set of Costume jewelry pearls. She thought well those are pretty and the price was like think 25 cents. And so she bought this little set of pearls as a little girl. And her dad washed her by them, and so about a year later she was she really loved those pearls and she was playing with them one day, and dad came up and said Sweetheart, would you give me those pearls? Well, no, Daddy, they're my pearls. I bought them. They're my pearls. No, no, daddy, I can't give them to you. He says, okay. And he left. A year or two later he came back and she was playing with him again and he said, Sweetheart, would would you give me those pearls? And he said, she said, Daddy? You're a man. You're not a sissy. You don't need any pearls. Why would you want my pearls? No, I won't give you my pearls. He says, okay. He walked away, and a couple years later, finally, one day he came and he says, Sweetheart, would you give me those pearls? The thing is, is Her heart had been softened some over the years. She really loved her daddy. And so she reached down and she picked up the pearls and said, Daddy, if if you want these pearls I'll give them to you. And he gave her daddy the pearls. Somewhere dad produced a little box. And gave it to her and said, This is for you, honey. And she opened the box, and it was a set of genuine real pearls That's what God does when you serve Him. Give Him your life. Give Him your possessions. Give Him whatever He asks for. And then He'll give you back more. More. Give and it shall be given to you. Good measure and pressed down and shaken together shall men give into your bosom, and so on and so on. Every day he comes to me with new assurance. More and more I understand his words of love. But I'll never know just why he came to save me till someday I see his blessed face. Above. No one ever cared for me like Jesus. There's no other friend so kind as he. No one else could take the sin and darkness from me. Oh, how much he cared for me. If you're here today and if you were to die right now, Let me just say that God loves you and He does not want you to go to hell. If you die and you go to hell, you will go there despite all God can do to save your soul and give you eternal life in heaven. But if you die without Christ, you will If you are not born again, you will go to hell. The Bible says: except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God, as Derek brought out in the Sunday school class this morning. If you're not saved, you need to get born again by the blood of Christ today. You can get saved today. I got saved in 1969 on March the 21st. Today is July the something. Uh seventeenth? July the seventeenth, two thousand twenty-two. And if you trusted the Lord as your Savior today, this could be the day of all days for you by repenting of your sin and trusting trusting Christ as your Savior. If you're here and you're a Christian, you're saved. Are you just trying to accumulate stuff? Are you trying to obey the Lord and follow him? Oh man, surrender to the Lord. Man, he's worth it. He's worth it. He's worth it. I just don't have time to go in detail on how he's blessed my wife and I for Trying to do that in our lives. We're not perfect, but God has been so good to us.