We've been for some weeks, uh months now, maybe even since January or a little before, studying the book of Job. We just finished that up last week So again, if you have any questions specifically, well what does the Bible say about that? Throughout the years I've tackled a few of these harder issues or things that people wondered about, like what does the Bible say about demons or what does the Bible say about uh communicating with the dead, uh that's found in the scriptures. If you didn't know that, what does the Bible say about cremation? Uh you know, should Christians get cremated or not? What does the Bible say? about alcohol or what does the Bible say? So just questions that people asked and so we addressed those. Those are all available on Sermon Audio, the Sermon Audio webpage for the church. And so underneath the series, what does the Bible say? And uh you can look those up. But tonight we're going to look at what does the Bible say about Lent. You can turn your Bibles to Ephesians chapter number five, verse number one we'll begin with, but This time of year is very special for the believer. There's no question about that. There's it is very precious. I mean, just to be able to offer words of encouragement today at the funeral, here just a few days before the resurrection Sunday uh is just i it's kind of this is what it's all about, that the fact that Jesus rose. And so because he rose we know one day we're gonna rise in like manner. And and His resurrection gives us assurance of our resurrection. And we know that uh as we talked about last week with the cross of Jesus Christ and him going to the cross for us and and uh certainly uh the his death was necessary. But uh the resurrection, uh, you know, without that we don't have uh assurance of salvation. We don't have a home in heaven, we don't have assurance of res of r of rising. He he had to conquer death and the grave in order to give us victory. in that as well. And uh so this is a very precious time of year for us. But during this time of year you do hear a lot of different things. People talking about Lent. And uh I remember as a young person, people talking about, you know the age old saying, I gave it up for Lent. And I knew what that I I knew that phrase many years before I had any idea what it was. Like what what did I what do you mean you gave it up for Lent? I didn't understand that. It's just though I gave it up for Lent. uh you know people would say that and I didn't know what they were talking about, you know. Um but uh this idea of Lint uh promoted during this time in many many different ways you'll see it promoted if you i if your activity online has anything to do with religious things, uh then I'm sure you're getting Facebook ads or uh you know YouTube promotions, different things around that, uh that talk about it. And uh, you know, one website put it this way, it's a 40-day challenge where the participants reluctantly wave goodbye to their guilty pleasures in order that they might get their spiritual buff on before Easter. Okay, now that quite literally is a mindset of many people with regards to Lent. That's what it is. Uh and so that kind of setting the tone there, you know, just uh the way that it is. I read a story about John Smith who was a Baptist and he moved into a predominantly Catholic neighborhood. And uh this you know was the first weekend of Lent and uh he went out back, it was beautiful outside and he cranked up the grill and he was cooking some steaks and Man, it seemed like every week during Lent he's out there grilling up steaks and this all these guys in the neighborhood were like, okay, this is just terrible. We can't handle this temptation like this. We gotta talk to this guy. And so they went over and they met with them and they said, uh, hey, uh, you know, this is pretty important. Um, you know, what can we do about this And he, not being a very devout Baptist and wanted to be neighborly, he decided he would be willing to convert. And so he said, Well, I'll just become Catholic, you know. So he went to the Catholic Church on the first first Sunday they had Mass and The priest brings him down front and the the priest says, Man, this is great. We're glad you're becoming Catholic and so he stands down front and the priest throws some water on him and says, Man, you were born Baptist, and he throws some water and says, You were raised Baptist, but now you're Catholic. And uh, you know, they said, okay, and they they're leaving and the whole neighborhood's excited, like that temptation's gone, no longer, you know. Well the next year Lint came around And uh sure enough, they're all there uh, you know, with their fish, eating fish, and and they're hearing or the this this just rich aroma of grilled steaks is coming over the neighborhood, you know, and they're like, what in the world We thought he'd converted, you know, and so the he went the the neighborhood, the guys, they got together and they're like, We're gonna go see John. And so they go over to John's house and they'll they get together and they walk around back, they go through the gate And they see him there and he has a bottle of water and he's sprinkling the steaks. He says, You were born a cow, you were raised a cow, but now you're fish. uh uh hu humorous uh story uh about Lent, but what it does is it does really give you uh the heart of the matter is that it has always been a Catholic tradition to observe Lent. This is its foundation. This is where it came from. And so if I was to just put it out there straight, the Bible does not say anything about land. All right, let's pray and go home. That sums it up. That's done. The Bible doesn't say anything about Lint. Matter if you as a matter of fact, if you look up the word Lint, uh in the Bible it does appear uh does appear a few times but it's talking about loaning somebody something like when Hannah lent her son to to God. Like here's my son, I'm going to lend him to you to raise or to do, you know what what you want to do. So that is in that context that that word is found in scripture in that regard But in in no other regard is it. Now the practice or the idea of fasting or of giving up something obviously is found in the Bible, and we're going to talk about that a little bit. Um but let's look specifically here. Let me give you a little bit of the origin and history of Lint. Now I do not uh in any way want to be offensive to uh uh not even just people here, but people that may one day tune in and listen to this or to somebody that is watching tonight that might come from a Catholic background. What I want you to know is that the stuff that I'm giving you under under the history of Lint comes directly from catholiceducation. com It is directly from their website. These are quotes and stuff right from their website. It's how it was presented on the website. I did not color it or change it at all. Just giving you what they say the history of Lint is. This is where it came from, okay? So we want to just be informed about it. The word lent itself is derived from an Anglo-Saxon word meaning spring or springtide. It also, a derivative of that word, literally means March, and which most of Lent is observed during the month of March. And so it kind of just is a spring practice is where it comes from Now there was in the church some, I say church, I'm talking about the Catholic Church, there was some practicing of preparation for Easter in the early, early Catholic Church. What it began as is the priest would begin to start to observe a time of of uh you know separation and a time of uh preparing himself before So he would be ready spiritually on Easter morning to partake of what they called a The, let me see what they specifically, it's the Eucharist, but they had a particular the sacrament of reconciliation during the Eucharist on Easter Sunday. So the sacrament of reconciliation through the Eucharist given on Easter Sunday. So it was his personal like preparation time, so he would be worthy to partake of the sacraments on Easter Sunday. And uh then that kind of spread and got to be more and well known, more and well practiced, people would begin to do that. And so it was during the Council of uh Nicaea In 325 A. D. , that is the first official record in Catholic Church doctrine, tradition, that they stated there would be a 40-day preparation period prior to Easter Sunday. this was established officially, that's the first official record in history that they have of it. Now Pop Pope Saint Leo in 461 A. D. uh preached that the faithful must fulfill their fast of apostolic institution in 40 days. Again, a record of this, the 40-day time period that they were supposed to use. uh to set aside for observance of what became known as lent. Now how they arrived at the forty days obviously Tradition says with regards to the scriptures, there are a lot of things that are presented in the number 40, 40 days and night. Jesus fasted, 40 days he was in the wilderness. Forty days uh you know, over and over you see that mentioned with different areas, and so it became forty days, except the observance of the forty days varied a lot depending upon where you were in the world and whether you were Eastern Orthodox or whether you were Western or or uh you know came from a different area and they had some real variance on that and that is some people observed Lent or what wasn't quite Lint yet, but it was something they did for 40 hours. They used the 40, but it was for 40 hours. And then some people did it for 40 days except they took off Saturday and Sunday. So it ended up being just weekdays, but for about eight weeks. Uh then they said, well, let's do it Saturday as well, and it depends on where you were in the world and how they observed that, but the the idea of 40 kept coming up. And so what they did is they uh by the fourth century they established Ash Wednesday. And Ash Wednesday was the institution of the beginning of the 40 days. And so Ash Wednesday was the beginning of it, and that's where everybody kind of getting everybody on the same page. Okay, that was their their program, so everybody was following it. Now, what did they fast from? Okay, I know many of us are familiar with the idea of fish Fridays and that they fasted from meat on Fridays. So what they fasted from and the extent of fasting changed drastically throughout the years. Initially, according to Pope St. Gregory in 604, writing to St. Augustine of Canterbury, he issued the following rule We will abstain from flesh, meat, and from all things that come from flesh, such as milk, cheese, and eggs. So that was initially what he was saying the period of Lent should cover, the abstinence from all things that come from flesh, including including flesh. Then they of course decided uh that well we're going to allow m uh fish and so you could go ahead and have fish but but not I guess land animals. Uh and so they said you weren't gonna allow that. Now, according to the website, today, this is right from the website, today only the most dedicated still fast at all. And they do so only on Ash Wednesday and Good Friday. So now just the fasting is only Ash Wednesday and Good Friday instead of 40 days, and it's only from meat. It goes on and says they are allowed one full meal each day, as well as smaller snacks, so they may keep up their strength. That's what they fast from on those two days in the observance of their Lent. Um and they give up meat on Fridays Obviously there's other people that give up other things specifically. And as I'm presenting this, I want you to understand that there are many people who are very sincere in their effort to try and be more spiritual during this time, uh to try and give up some things. But the what I'm talking about is as a Christian, should we as Baptist, as Bible believers, should we be observing and going along with this practice of Lynch? The Catholic Catechism says, by the solemn 40 days of Lent, the Church itself unifies itself each year in the mystery of Jesus Christ in the desert. Okay, so what I'm saying is that this is and always has been promoted by and taught by the Catholic Church. Furthermore, when you understand the doctrine of the Catholic Church, which is a works-based doctrine, you understand that the idea behind the lint itself is a work. In order to make oneself worthy to be part of the religious ceremony or the Eucharist on Easter Sunday. And that is not biblical by any means. So as Baptists, we do not practice or observe Lint in its modern form or in any form in history. Partially because it is specifically and predominantly, always has been, a Catholic practice. The Catholics, their doctrine is a false doctrine. They teach works salvation They they pray to Mary. They teach about purgatory, which is not found in this book anywhere at all. It's not there. The list of false Teaching that the Catholic Church portrays is is endless. It's not up for debate or questionable. If somebody believes and practices Catholic doctrine, they're going to die and go to hell. Because it does not matter, beloved, how many Hail Marys you say, it does not matter how much penance you do. No amount of penance and no priest can forgive you of your debt of sin. Only Jesus Christ can do that. And so w we love them, but somebody needs to tell them the truth. They need to hear the truth of the Word of God from Jesus Christ Himself, that He is the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by Him. So, this idea, this work that is demanded by the church to make you holy, that you might be able to participate in the Eucharist on Easter Sunday. Now what they do is they try, they they specifically, and I'm telling you this from history, from my own knowledge. A good Catholic will involve himself in as much wickedness as he can before Ash Wednesday Because that's the deadline. That's the point in which he's got to start to give up things. And I don't know how many of you know the history of this, but you know Ash Wednesday is also Fat Tuesday And that the Fat Tuesday, the whole idea was to consume and get as much as you can. before you go on the fast, right? And Ash Wednesday, which is the last day of Mardi Gras, which is the last day of the carnival season. That starts on January sixth. So on January sixth, this carnival season starts, where the goal and ambition is to participate in and satisfy the flesh in pretty much any way that you can. Why? Because Ash Wednesday's coming when you can no longer satisfy the flesh. The whole idea between all of this together is preparing or trying to get you to say, okay, and listen, I grew up in El Paso, Texas, my teen years. Almost all of my friends were were bilingual. Their parents were just Spanish speaking. They were Catholics. And I'm telling you, their their mom and dad. would uh participate in whatever before Lent. Then we're observing Lent. We're not drinking right now, but as soon as Lent is over, they would go right back to drinking The literally Easter Sunday evening, after they have observed, they would throw a party and everybody would get drunk. And and have this big party. And that's what they would do. So the whole idea is not about being holy. It's about giving up your sin for a season. The mask that they wear during Mardi Gras is specifically so that one can partake in as much wickedness as they it please and do so in anonymity. That is without anybody seeing them. Things that you might normally be ashamed to do in public, now you can do it because you're wearing a mask and people don't see you as well. People don't really know who you are. And you can partake in that wickedness and that field, and I don't need to tell you how how wicked and ungodly Mardi Gras is. It is quite literally the manifestation of all the works of the flesh that we are told to avoid. in Galatians chapter 5. So we are commanded as God's people to come out from among them and to be separate. We're not to partake of this wickedness. Now there are many good people, many sincere people. And their desire really is to uh try and be holy during this time. And I'm not specifically saying every single person has this mindset. I'm gonna get as much wickedness in as I can so that I can go. But I'm telling you as a whole, the idea and the practice, this is where it came from, this is what it's for. This let's let's participate in as much wickedness as we can. And I saw this as a young man in the in the homes where I had friends and they would they would do this, but we're going to give it up for Lent, and as soon as Lent was over, they would go right back to it. So the demand to fast from meat sounds a whole lot like what Paul warned Timothy about in the last days. In 1 Timothy, you don't have to turn there. We're going to get to Ephesians in just a moment. That's where you're at. In 1 Timothy 4, verses 1 through 3, he says, Now the Spirit speaketh expressly that in the latter times some shall depart from the faith giving heed to seducing spirits and doctrines of devils, speaking lies and hypocrisy, having their conscience seared with a hot iron, forbidding to marry. Does that sound like the church, the Catholic Church, and commanding to abstain from meat which God hath created to be received with thanksgiving of them which believeth and knoweth the truth. So that sounds a whole lot like what Paul was warning Timothy about that was going to come in the last days. So the entire practice of not of fasting here is not about fasting for holiness sake, it's about fasting for salvation's sake, to try and earn your place so that you can partake of the Eucharist. so that you can get what you believe is going to give you that spot in heaven. And then as soon as you've got it, you can go right back to whatever kind of wicked lifestyle you want. As long as you take Mass on Sunday morning, you can live however you want, Monday through Saturday night. Now we know of course that's not biblical. That's not right. We're changed from the inside out. The Lord Jesus Christ died to save you from your sin and to give you victory over sin. We're no longer in bondage to that. So, some biblical principles that we as Christians need to follow this time of year and always. First of all, we need to remember that Christ is the one that purchased our redemption, and he did so completely. There is nothing you and I can do to earn our salvation. Giving up things In we've taught on fasting here at the church, there's no question we believe that you ought to be given to prayer and fasting And giving up things for a period of time for to for the Lord and to seek holiness or to get an answer to prayer. This kind cometh not, but by prayer and fasting. That is right, it's holy. Christians should be involved in it, but that does not purchase your redemption. Your redemption was purchased by Jesus Christ. We remember that without question. So we are not supposed to fast From a wicked lifestyle or from sin. W a fast means you give something up for a period of time. We're not supposed to fast from sin. We're supposed to give up sin completely. We're supposed to get it out of our lives Let it not be named among you. Now you're in Ephesians chapter 5. Let's read those verses there. And I apologize, I meant to read these in the beginning. He says here, but he says, be ye therefore followers of God as dear children And walk in love as Christ also hath loved us, and hath given himself for us, an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweet smelling savor. But fornication and all uncleanliness or covetousness, let it not be once named among you, as become a saint Neither filthiness nor foolish talking nor jesting which are not convenient, but rather give thanks For this ye know that no whoremonger, nor unclean person, nor covetous man, which is an idolater, hath any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ of God Let no man deceive you with vain words, for because of these things cometh the wrath of God upon the children of disobedience. Be not ye therefore partakers with them For ye were sometimes darkness, but now ye are light in the world. Walk as children of light. For the fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness and righteousness and truth, proving that was acceptable unto the Lord, and having no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather reprove them. So, beloved, these concluding verses of what we just read here, first of all, the beginning, talking about the fact that we as Christians are not we we don't fast from wickedness. We we get confess and forsake sin. You get it out of your life permanently. Not just for a weekend or for six weeks during a a period of the year that we call Lent. you get it out of your life completely and and by God's grace and with his strength it doesn't come back. And if it does, you confess it and forsake it again. You get it out of your life. That's that's the goal. Now we can fast. Fasting is to give up something you enjoy That's not sin. Like sleep. Okay, you give us some sleep. You give up some food. It's not sinful to eat A good meal. But you say, you know what, I'm going to fast today. I'm going to give up this meal. Wouldn't be wrong for me to go back to that meal next tomorrow, but for today I'm not going to eat so that I can spend that time in prayer and talking to the Lord. That's what fasting is. It's not fasting from something that you uh that is sin or that's wrong. But he says here, like in verse number seven, be not ye therefore partakers with them. Those that teach or preach or show or are part of darkness, false doctrine, you at once time did walk in darkness, but now you walk in the light, as children of the light. We were to prove what is good and acceptable unto the Lord and have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness. So what the Catholic Church, by and large, is teaching is false doctrine. We don't want to join up with them and participate in a annual uh event that is similar or close. or that puts us in the same boat as them because you don't want people to think that, oh, they're they're exactly the same. Because we're not the same at all. We teach very different things. And uh in recent years, more and more and more, they they they they're trying to blur the lines. Um for instance uh The Catholics forever they were called priests. But do you know the Catholic Church calls their leaders pastors now? Uh why? Because they're trying to blend the lines between what is a church like ours, a Bible-believing preaching church, and what they practice. Um but in a church like this, you're not going to confess your sins to the pastor. The pastor can't forgive your sins, and by the way, no priest can forgive your sins Only Jesus can do that. And we don't want to be put into an association with those that are doing wrong. And so we must draw a line and not promote it, participate in it, um, or be a part of it. Now, we also know that the Bible tells us, I mean, obviously fasting is good, but when ye fast, you should do so in secret. The Bible says in Matthew 6, verses 6 and 18, moreover, when ye fast, be not as the hypocrites of sad countenance. For they disfigure their faces, that they may appear unto men to fast. Verily I say unto you, they have their reward. But thou, when thou fastest, anoint thy head and wash thy face, that thou appear not unto men to fast, but unto the Father which is in secret, and the Father which is in secret shall reward thee openly. So I don't know how many of you guys have seen Mark Wahlberg and the guy who is playing Jesus on the chosen. Uh, you know, they've been on lots of news outlets recently and they have the Ash Cross on their forehead forehead, you know, marking their their observance. And uh Mark Wahlberg is promoting the the Halo app, which is a Catholic app, which I would not encourage you to get or participate in, but uh he's promoting that and uh observance of Ash Wednesday and promoting Lent and the season of Lent and all of those things. So that is goes directly contrary to what the Bible says. The Bible says when ye fast Wash your face. Make it so anybody looking at you would have no idea that you're fasting. You don't want this is not something you're doing that you would be seen of men. It's only that you'd be seen of your father, and your father which seeth in secret shall reward thee And uh so that's when we're observing fasting in a biblical way, we're doing it in secret, not in public, as this has come to be. And not just for Ash Wednesday or for Lent. We do it all year round When you make a decision for Christ, Christ says, be ye holy, for I am holy. We are to be holy all the time. Not just for Lent. Not just for this season. Now, is there there's nothing wrong with taking a season and having a season of prayer. There's nothing wrong with during this time of year, as we're coming into Easter, just getting our heart and mind back towards the resurrection and considering the cross and what Jesus did for us. spending some extra time in prayer and if you want to fast then then fast do so but uh the actual observance of Lent is not something that we as Christians do And uh you will see there are a number of Protestant churches that still observe Lent. Why is that? Because they are Protestant, which means they protested against the Catholic Church Hundreds of years ago, but they came out of the Catholic Church. That's where they came from. And that's why, as Protestants, they still have a lot of Catholic traditions In the church, because that's where they came from initially. They came out of the Catholic Church. They protested against some things, but they carried other things with them. As Baptists, we're not Protestant. We did not come out of the Catholic Church. The Catholic Church was not our origin. This church started with Jesus Christ. And Jesus Christ commissioned the disciples. The New Testament church went forth. And uh from that time until this there's been people we could call it I'm a Baptist today because As far as I can see, the Baptist closest to the Bible. We could say we're Biblicist. And I certainly like that word. We're biblicist. We try and stick close to the Bible. If by and large, and the day may come that the Baptists depart from biblical principle. I hope that I would have the ambition and the uh fortitude to say, church, we can't continue to have Baptists on that name out there. The Baptists have left. the teachings, the sound teachings of the Word of God. Because we're followers of Jesus Christ. We're not followers of a of a denomination. We're we're Baptists because the Baptists by and large, and the Baptists have their problems too. We could talk about those for plenty of time as well. We got we got our issues. Uh but by and large the the Baptists uh try and follow the Bible, and that's our goal is to follow Jesus Christ. not to follow a church or a set of catechisms or something that's put forth by man. So Thinking about this overall, with regards to Lint, obviously we as Bible believers want to follow the Bible, the Bible examples. And Lint is not found in the Bible The observance of a time of prayer and fasting is, and we can do that. I would wholeheartedly encourage you to have some time of prayer and fasting and let the Lord change you from the inside out. It's not a practice of giving up something uh to earn grace or to earn salvation It's that you might be in a right spirit and relationship with God. You might be drawn closer to Him because of your the focus that you're putting on spiritual things. And if you want to do that, you can do that. Um, but I would not call it Lint, because I don't want to be associated with that personally. Um so I don't know how many of you have that anything, any type of background with regards to that and have a very strong tie to some of that history maybe, uh, but I wanted the church to know uh Uh what the Bible says about Lent. Alright. A lot of teaching uh tonight. I don't know that uh We we had some other points that I never give them to you. We had the origin and history. Is that the only one I gave you? I'm sorry. Should we give you a point too? Okay, why why Baptists don't practice Lent? I gave you those, talked about the reasons why we don't. And then biblical principles to follow. Those were the three points I gave you tonight. It was not alliterated, so And I'm taking an admonition from one of my friends. He said, Pastor Caleb, you gotta try and preach for one month with no alliteration. That's what you need to do. I said I could do it, but I don't want to. Alright, I I don't think we need to have an invitation tonight, uh, but uh just some teaching for you.