Well, interesting topic tonight. Uh as we were studying the book of Job, there's several things that jumped out at me, and I thought, well, when we get done with Job as a book, we'll come back and hit a couple of these things. And uh one of those is what does the Bible say about dinosaurs? And uh it it is in the book of Job where dinosaurs are mentioned. And so we're going to uh look at that. What does the Bible say? You know, are dinosaurs uh just some fantastic creatures that are part of fairy tales and folklore? Or are dinosaurs Real? Did they exist? Does the Bible speak or talk about them? Uh there has been there have been hundreds and hundreds of skeletons of dinosaurs that have been discovered Uh some museums around the country, the Field Museum in Chicago, I've been in there and seen. They have a dinosaur on display uh and these are uh bones that have been found that they're able to reassemble and put back together to give you the structure and shape of those dinosaurs. Now there have been no complete Dinosaurs found as far as all of the bones and everything present, some of them declayed, some of them got hauled off by animals, who knows what But they have found large parts of it and all they had to do was uh you know, they have to manufacture and make some of the bones that are missing. And so they make a completed skeleton, but some of them are made out of plastic or composite material or something to to make a completed skeleton, but certainly they have found It's not something that was just made up in somebody's mind. It's not just something that was part of folklore, and so people drew renderings of it, and that's how they've come about. No, there's actual remains and uh bodies that have been found and the skeletal remains have been reassembled. The first skeleton remain that was discovered was in Sussex, England That is the first one that was actually recorded and uh put on file for us to be able to reference and that was in 1822. In 1822, that was the first little bit of remains that were found and and put on record for us. So as we looked at the book of Job, that's where the Word of God speaks about it, as well as other places. I really at that time thought, well, I'll come back and hit a couple things that Job specifically speaks about, and that is uh What does the Bible say about dinosaurs? Now the term dinosaur itself does not appear in the Bible, which if you've read your Bible, you know that. Because that certainly would jump out at you, you know Uh now it might appear in some modern translations. Uh you know, I don't know that. I don't typically read those, uh, but it it's not in our Bible, um, even though it does talk about dinosaurs. The Bible speaks to dinosaurs at least 22 times in the Old Testament. We're not going to reference all of those references uh today if you would like them and want to write them down to have them I can give you my notes later or show you my notes and you can write those down But uh we'll look at a number of them and uh reference them for sure as we go through the thing tonight. But the fact of the matter is is when this our Bible that we use, the King James Bible is the 1611 version, uh the term dinosaur didn't exist. That was not a word that could be used. It was non existent. It was actually in uh eighteen forty-one uh that the term dinosaur uh became into existence. And we're going to talk about that just a little bit here as we begin. As we start to talk here, first of all, about the existence of dinosaurs. So that term dinosaur is Greek for terrible lizard. It is a Greek word that means terrible lizard. And it was coined by the British uh autonomist uh Richard Owen in 1841. Now Owen, by his own testimony, said the purpose for creating this new tax anomical order called dinosaurs is to debunk evolution. So his whole thesis or goal of setting this group of animals together in what would be called dinosaurs was to debunk evolution. He said since the Monstrous creatures had gone extinct long, long ago, he argued that the gradual progression from primitive to advance claimed by evolutionist must thereby be false because of this whole group, whole classification of animals that is no longer with us. So this name, dinosaur, was informally given to that group of reptiles which has been widely thought to be extinct and uh no longer with us here on the earth. I have some differences about that, which we'll talk about towards the end of the lesson tonight. But um were these animals, the dinosaurs, were they just prehistoric animals that died in some ancient ice age as the evolutionists would want you to believe. Okay, is that is that what happened? That's what's portrayed in all the cartoons. That's what's portrayed in all the movies. That this ice age came and killed off all the dinosaurs and thereby we don't have them The evolutionist uh claims that dinosaurs lived some 70 million years ago, and then after a period of time, how many ever millions of years, they died out. Some cataclasmic event, ice age, whatever it was, killed them all out, and then several million more years came, and then men Slowly came into existence. Okay? But uh as with all evolutionary hypotheses, that is proven false with simple observance. It's amazing to me how with simple science one hypotheses after another of the evolutionists are proven wrong. You know, they use, I was talking to Rich and Carol uh about my message uh I think it was yesterday we were discussing this. Uh Maybe it was early this morning in my mind. I don't know. But anyways, I was talking to him about it and I said, you know, the way that they come up with their dating of these dinosaur remains is based they say the the uh uh forgive me the names of the guys that are in charge of like they they bring up the remains of these animals They would say, okay, they would go to the uh geologists, those are the guys that work with rocks, right? So geologists, they'd go to the geologists and say, oh, tell us uh when were these remains buried? And they'll say, well, based on the strata in which they're found, that's fifty million years old. Well, then You go to the geologist and you say, well, how do you know that this strata of rock is 50 million years old? And they say, well, because we found fossils in that level of strata. They use a circular reason. They're dating the strata, the level of strata, off of the fossils that are found there, and then they're dating the fossils off the level of strata where they found them. And uh it is a circular reason which is so uh easily disproved, and I'm not even going to get into the fallacy of carbon dating, uh, which has been proven false and Heretical over and over and over again. They they've tested live animals and they said they were, you know, a a thousand plus years old Uh they they put a carbon data on live animals and other tests. But anyways, the the the fact of the matter is is several human tracks have been found alongside or inside the dinosaur tracks So that whole idea that dinosaurs lived millions of years ago, died off the scenes, and then what I'm saying is that they existed together. Humans and din and dinosaurs lived on Earth at the same time. There is a riverbed in Texas that is the most well known, Glen Rose, Texas, where there can be found, and you can go look at the footprints of dinosaurs, and inside those footprints, there are human footprints So they existed at the same time. Turn your Bibles to Psalms 104 tonight. Psalms 104. I meant to tell you that much earlier so that when we got here, you would be there already. But the Leviathan is a dinosaur-like creature that's mentioned in Job. We're going to get there in a few minutes. But it's also mentioned in other passages like this, Psalms 104, verse 25 and 26. I want you to see he says here, so is this great and wide sea, wherein are things creeping innumerable, both small and great beast. Notice this next phrase, there go the ships There is the Leviathan, whom thou hast made to play therein. So God tells us right here that This Leviathan creature, which is believed to be a d dinosaur creature, was there not just in some prehistoric time where men ran around with clubs and were outside their caves, you know, pulling on the hair of their wives. Not that. This they they existed at a time where man was sufficiently advanced that they had ships. They had God says, hey, here's the ships and there's the Leviathan. So they existed together in the same place. So again, it's not just some prehistoric creatures that were so many millions of years ago. They existed in our time. in the book of Job, which we'll get to shortly, but God describes the Leviathan and the Bohemoth to Job and used them as an example of his greatness and his power with an understanding that Job would know what he's talking about. That, hey, consider this. And Job would know what it is. And so it existed at that time we know with Job's. Now dinosaurs were created by God. Like all other animals on the fifth and sixth day of creation. You can turn to Genesis and read that. We're not going to turn there. Um but Don't turn to Job yet. Why don't you guys turn to Isaiah? But I'm going to read a book read a passage for you in the book of Job. You can turn to Isaiah. We're going to be there in a second. But in Isaiah chapter 40, verse number 15, he says, Now behemoth That is another dinosaur-like creature that is found in the book of Job and mentioned. He said, Now behemoth which I made with thee. God describing this creature, which has very dinosaur-like descriptions, which he gives to us, and we're going to look at those in a little bit, but he says, hey, I made them with thee. And Job chapter 40 40 verse number 15 is where that is. So we made they were made at the same time. And the book of Genesis, like all the other animals, were were made. Now what about fire breathing dragons? Is this just folklore? Is this just something that is like just fairy tales and and you know, just these, you know, gar gargoyles that, you know, guard the the witch's castle or whatever, or were there actually fire dri vag and drink but e bide bidi I can't talk. Uh so uh the thing is is there were fire breathing dragons. Okay, uh the Bible talks about them. If you're in Isaiah, turn to Isaiah chapter 14. Isaiah chapter 14. You know, some people think, well, how could that happen? I don't believe it. Well, let me ask you this. If you had never seen a firefly on a summer evening And somebody described for you a bug that somehow had the power to light up his tail. Like turn a light on and just if you'd never seen that, you'd be like, well how no, that's that I don't think so I don't think I'd believe that. But we've seen it. We know that it exists. Brother Joe, this is for you. What if we had not had the privilege of hearing about and seeing the electric eel? You say there's a snake-like fish. that exists in the water and its defensive mechanism is that it can shoot out 860 volts That's a lot of juice. You've been hit by one of these plugs you accidentally touched something you're not supposed to? That's 110. An electric eel can give off up to 860 volts, and people will, you know, how in the world? Do you know the very first battery ever manufactured was bat was designed off of an electric eel? How is it the electric eel is able to hold that energy? They studied the eel and learned how the eel does that and they designed and built the first battery off of nature And look what's happened now. Look how far we've come. What I'm saying is sometimes just because we don't understand it doesn't mean it doesn't exist. And so I want you to see in Isaiah chapter 14, verse number 29, he says, Rejoice not thou, whole Palestine, because the rod of him that smote thee is broken. For out of the serpent's root shall come forth the cacatras, and his fruit shall be a fiery flying serpent. Doesn't that sound like a fire breathing dragon? A fiery flying serpent. Turn to Isaiah chapter 30 and verse number 6. Isaiah 30, verse number 6. Not only that, if you go through history, we have the Word of God on it. We're going to see another verse here, Isaiah 36. Let me read that to you. He says, the burden of the beast of the south into the land of trouble and anguish, from whence come the young and old lion, the viper and fiery flying serpent. So again, that fiery flying serpent is mentioned there in the book of Isaiah. Now, the Word of God is sufficient. That's all we need. The Bible says there was a serpent that could breathe fire, right? That's all we need to believe it and to know that there was one. But do you know down through history you have record of fire breathing serpents that in all different parts of the world, people describing very similar creatures That breathe out fire. I mean, how is that possible? That they all had a very similar description Of an animal that could do the same type of thing. Well, because at one point they did exist. There was animals that did that. I know that you all have heard of the Bombadere Beetle. this beetle that contains within its uh stomach two chemicals that when combined they let off this small bomb it that reaches 212 degrees So this little beetle has the two chemicals inside its own body that when combined explodes And that's his defense mechanism. And this little beetle can take these two chemicals and shoot out something that's 212 degrees. That's amazing. So it would not be very hard and I did not I I did some reading on it but didn't put it into my notes, but there have been animals carcasses that have been found, bones that have been found that the design of the stomach cavities have several different pathways toward towards the throat area. They have several different uh bodies or or bags for lack of better description that could have held some type of chemical and when those chemicals went up different paths could have created a like bomb or a fiery substance with that chemical that was combined and put together that was generated naturally in these in these animals. And so very easy to see as a possibility when you consider the uh tales that have been told, historical facts that have been mentioned, the uh bones and structures that have been found. Uh but not only that, the fact that it's been mentioned in the Word of God, these fiery uh flying serpents mentioned there. So they they were uh alive and were part of God's creation and we're here for a period of time. Now let me give you a couple of the examples that are given to us in a lot more detail, and that is the example of the behemoth and the Leviathan. So turn your book, turning your Bibles to the book of Job. The behemoth was a land dinosaur, very uh uh it was uh Not a carnivore, but a herbivore not harv herbivore. It ate and uh you know plants and things like that, um, but had a very strong, very long neck uh according to the word of God. We're going to see some of this description. So I mentioned already, let's start in verse number 15. You can see that. Behold now behemoth which was I made with thee. So we see that it was made with man at the same time. Now he eateth grass as an ox. So he's a herbivore. He eats grass. That was how God made him designed to do that He was a gigantic beast, having a tail that was huge and long like a cedar tree. Look down at sixteen and seventeen. Lo now his strength is in his loins, and his force is in the navel of his belly. He moveth his tail like a cedar. So describing this, the strength and the size of his tail. Um this uh was in the animal here was incredibly strong. Verse number 18 describes his bones, the strength of his bones. His bones are as strong pieces of brass. And his bones are like bars of iron. So just extremely strong bones that he had there. Then the behemoth uh was God's greatest land animal as far as was titled or called the chief of animals in verse number 19 He is the chief of the ways of God. He hath made him. He that made him can make his sword to approach unto him. So this chief animal there. He ate a lot of food. Verse number 20. Surely the mountains bring him forth food where all the beast of the field play. So the food coming from the mountains. He lived in the valleys or the swampy areas. We see that in verse 21 and 22. He lieth under the shade trees. and covereth under the red reeds and fins. Um the twenty-two, the shade trees cover him with their shadow, the willows and the brook compassed him about. So this area is where he liked to live because it was green. That's what he ate. He ate plants and so he liked living in that area. Is where he bedded down. The behemoth could drink large amounts of water. Verse number twenty-three. He drinketh up a river. That's a pretty large amount. You had some space in your belly for a lot of a lot of water. That's a lot of to take in. So he trusteth that he can draw up Jordan into his mouth. I mean that's pretty descriptive as far as the volume of water that he could take. Excuse me. So we want to see secondly here the example of the Leviathan. Now that's in chapter 41, so you can turn to chapter 41. The Leviathan is a fire-breeding dinosaur that lived in the sea. There is actually there have been well you guys have all heard of the Lock Loch Lochless Monster I don't know whether that's true or not. There's been many, many sightings about the Lochnet Loch Ness monster, but uh it is believed that the Loch Ness monster would be like this the Leviathan. Uh a animal that's supersized as far as volume and and size, but uh you know something that people are not familiar with today. And so don't know what to call it, but that's what they believe if indeed it exists, it would be a Leviathan. So the Leviathan could not be caught with a hook in verse number one. Canst thou draw out a Leviathan with a hook, or his tongue with a cord, which thou luttest down? He's saying, Could you trick a Leviathan? Could you could you catch a Leviathan with a hook? No, you're not going to be able to do it And you understand when Jesus was or God, when God was talking to Job, both in the last chapter and this chapter, you remember from our study in the book of Job that what he's trying to describe to Job is the power of God. And the strength that God has. And he's showing this one animal that God created and describing the scope of his power and strength and saying, and I just I just made that. I mean it Could could could you catch it? Like no, you have no power to do that. But I just made that. And and I could draw my sword against it very easily. This is nothing to me. So he's contrasting the power of this animal for Job in that of God's strength. So the Leviathan could not be tamed. or reasoned with. He says that canst thou put a hook into his mouth, verses number two through five, he says, or a bone his jaw through with a thorn. Will he make many supplications unto thee? Will he speak soft words unto thee? Will he make a covenant with thee? Wilt thou take him? for a servant forever? Wilt thou play with him as with a bird, or wilt thou bind him for thy maidens? He's saying, You you have any means of you're gonna tame this thing, or you're gonna somehow harness his power and make him play with you or make him do some work for you or be something this is not an animal like an ox that you can tame and put to work. This this is a animal that's living out there that you have no power or control over. It really you could read verses six through nine and see that he couldn't really be killed. The Leviathan was very fierce. Verse number 10. He says, None is so fierce that dare stir him up. Who then is able to stand before me? He says, there's nobody that's going to face Leviathan. There's nobody that's going to go up to Leviathan and take him on. And he says, why would you stand before God? Why would you stand before God Almighty? Again, showing that contrast there between Leviathan and God's power. God is greater than the Leather in verses eleven and twelve. Uh description of the Leviathan's armor in verses fifteen. He says, His scales are his pride shut up together as with a close seal. Uh just the the strength of his scales and the way in which you know, they're shut up together, they're sealed. You c you can't get in. The strength of his skin was very, very strong. Uh the Leviathan could breathe fire and Verse 18, verse 21, verse 31 mentions this, but look at just 21. His breath kindleth coals, and a flame goeth out of his mouth. So this creature, which is a water dweller, by and large, I don't know whether it ever came out of the water, but it was certainly described as a water dweller with the scales and other things, could breathe fire. So he had very uh hard muscular structure. Verse number 23 was very strong internally, 24, um a description is overall strength. And he says, he esteemeth iron as straw, brass as rotten wood. The strength of this Leviathan was like iron was like straw Just take it and break it. Brass like rotten wood, like there's no substance there at all. Uh I was working out here on the patio on Monday or Tuesday and uh the little post that the light control box mounts to. The light control box was hanging off and I thought, oh well I'll put a screw in there and I saw there was a screw in there already. But I went to pull that screw out and when I did my drill and everything just pushed right through the metal, right through the wood I mean. The wood was all rotten on the bottom side. I could push I could take it out with my fingers. There was nothing there. And that's what he's saying Brass was like rotten wood, no strength at all, compared to the strength of the of the Leviathan. So we see uh that really they couldn't even harm him. Verse number 29 Darts are counted as stubble. He laugheth at the shaking of a spear. You know, man would come before him with a spear and he would laugh. You know, he he's like, what are you gonna do with that? You know His scales were such and his strength was such that uh wouldn't something that they could do anything about. Um So he describes the power of his great destruction in verses thirty thirty-two, uh that he had no fear, thirty-three and thirty-four. Uh now the Leviathan is mentioned several other places in the Word of God. We looked already at Psalms Let me back up here and see where where it was. We were at Psalms 104, but it's mentioned a couple other places as well. So Psalm 74. It's mentioned, he says, thou dost divide the sea by the strength, thou breakest the heads of the dragons in the water. Thou breakest the head of the Leviathan in pieces and givest him to be meat to the people inhabiting the wilderness. So a description there of the Leviathan uh in the water, being found in the water. In Psalms 74, verse 13 and 14. In we reread already Psalms 104, 24 through 26. And then in Isaiah chapter 27, verse number 1, he is mentioned as well. He says, In that day the Lord with his sore and great and strong sword shall punish Leviathan. the piercing serpent, even Leviathan, that crooked serpent, and he shall slay the dragon that is in the sea. So again the description stating very clearly that this is a sea dwelling animal uh called a dragon in the scriptures and described as something that breathed fire. Um so I think it's pretty clear that the Bible Actually says a lot about dragons, a lot about what would be dinosaurs or dinosaur-like animals. So what happened to them? You know, we'll very briefly here give you this and we're going to be done. Um so why did they go to extinct? Okay, the evolutionary theory uh of survival of the fittest If it were true, the earth would be covered with dinosaurs. These were the strongest animals. The th they they did not have predators. Um they were the predators. You know, they they by and large uh these animals in their size and all that, which you guys understand that You know, God did not have a sixteen hundred pound Leviathan come to the ark. It it was a baby, a baby Leviathan, you know that as far as saving Now the Leviathan wouldn't even have to have been in the Ark 'cause it was a water dwelling creature, but the other the behemoth or other uh dinosaurs, they would have they would have transported baby uh babies in the ark, not full grown animals to maximize space and obviously food as well. A full grown one can drink up a river, you know, and you you go water the Leviathan. Oh no, not me. You know, you don't want to do that Uh not again. Uh you know, so they were all of the animals that were in there were babies, and it's very possible that God allowed them to be in some type of hibernation so they'd even take very a lot less. But uh as far as space it was very easy to do. But when they came out of the ark, the earth was in a much different pl uh place and uh the structure of the earth and the absence of what was the vapor canopy that protected man and all living creatures from the harmful radiation from the sun. By God's design, you know, he made what was like a greenhouse on the earth initially with the vapor canopy that existed over the earth. And when the flood came, the Bible describes those waters that rose up from the deep and the floods that came from the sky, and that vapor canopy fell. Fell to earth, so you no longer have that protection. And so men as well as dinosaurs don't live near as long. You know you had men live in in in the Bible five, six, seven, eight, nine hundred years, and who who knows how long animals would live. And these reptiles, uh, you know, even today, reptiles continue to grow as long as they are alive. As long as they're living, they continue to grow. They don't ever stop growing. The problem is is they don't live to be eight or nine hundred years old like they used to. And so we could very well have some animal that would be of a d dinosaur family that are alive today, but because they're dying in fifteen, twenty or or a hundred years or whatever They're not living to eight or nine hundred years or longer, so they're not growing to the size that they did at one time. And so some of those animals they've dis discussed and uh mentioned as far as what they were And if I get to my notes here, I'll mention them to you. But when they came out of the ark, obviously the conditions were different. The situation was much different. There was only two of each kind and they were young. And I think it's possible that God, on purpose, didn't allow some of the larger or more aggressive dinosaurs to continue to exist. Obviously ultimately God's in control of these things, right? And you just say, well, they didn't live because they weren't strong enough I think if God wanted them to be here, he could have had them live. But how many of you guys heard about the problem in Florida with the pythons? um that are just taking over, like they're going everywhere. Because people caught it and then it got too big and they're like, oh what am I gonna do with it? So they just let it go in the wild And now they're multiplying like crazy. They're taking over. They're they're they're paying people to go out and try and catch these things. And uh, you know, they're trying to do something about them that they're taking over. And I just wondered like You know, maybe the Lord knew that the situation with these animals that would continue to grow and would continue to populate and wouldn't have a uh a natural predator to control them. then they would just take over a region. And so maybe by God's design, that's my own thought processes. I don't know for sure that that's the case, but just thinking about Ultimately, I know God could do whatever He wants, so if He wanted them to be part of our modern life, He certainly could have allowed them to continue to live. But they were by and large wiped out during the flood. Um and the changes in the atmosphere with the absence of the canopy uh have removed that and so we don't live near as long anymore. Um There have been fossils found of rhinoceros, camels, bears, panthers, pigs, elephants, tigers, wolves. birds that o that these fossils that have been found are twice the size of any existing one of those animals today. Why? Because they continued to grow and they lived a lot longer than they do now. And so there are many other animals that, you know, these dinosaurs that maybe um What is it? Is it the kimono dragon? The the basically these big lizards? I mean if you let one of those things live. for nine hundred years. How big is it going to get? I mean how how how m strong is it going to get? Uh and so some of these things like that that are still around but they're very small um and not near as As I was talking to Brother Reggie before service, he's like, I don't like the idea of having uh insects that are bigger than me. Yeah, that's right. You know, maybe the Lord knew uh that we wouldn't do well in that, so he decided to change it. Um but you've got crocodiles and lizards and other animals of this that uh have adapted to their current environment and don't live as long as they once did, and so they're not near as large or I I read about a uh snake in uh the bush somewhere. I'm sorry, I can't remember, but it took ten men just to hold up his head. Uh the head of the snake for took ten men to pick it up. Uh and I don't remember the length. They they they they did stretch it out and they I I just was doing some research on some of this that have been found And what they've what they've even seen and captured in in the world today. And so it's certainly available. But that's uh the gist of what the Bible says about dinosaurs. I hope that at least You'll grab a hold about that. Now we believe in a young earth. Um you know we don't believe the earth is millions of years old, uh six thousand years, maybe ten thousand years, but Uh, you know, we believe in a young earth as Bible believers and that created the earth and so um he spoke the earth into existence. And so these things uh you know, and I'm not a creation scientist I haven't dedicated my life to studying these things, so there's many things more about that that you can learn from these guys that dedicate their life and time to it. But I wanted you to at least have confidence in the Word of God and when they start mentioning dinosaurs on a TV program or Somebody has a question about dinosaurs, you know, well yeah, there were dinosaurs. They were here. The Bible talks about them. Fire breeding dinosaurs, yes. Fire breeding dragons, yes. It's all in the scriptures. And uh here is very likely what happened. So I wanted you to have that.