I want you to turn to 2 Chronicles chapter number 20. You know, you get Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy, Joshua, Judges, Ruth, you got have all your first and seconds, first and second Samuel, first and second Kings, first and second Chronicles. So you get up there, Chronicles is the end of those, 2 Chronicles chapter number 20, is where we're going to be here for this morning. Have you ever been at a place in your life where you felt like you were stuck? Where you kind of felt like you just didn't know what to do, you didn't have clear directions, you didn't see any obvious answers or uh, you know, the what you were supposed to the next step was not clear to you. It's like being caught in a dense fog. You're traveling in that fog and you might come sometimes you come into a valley and it'll get a little bit thicker. Your hands grip the steering wheel a little stronger and your eyes try and focus a little more. You you slow down and try and be sure it gets harder and harder to to see ahead yet you gotta still try to move forward but you just don't know where the road goes. Like you're not sure where it's gonna start to turn and You're apprehensive realizing the danger that lies ahead because of the dense fog. On Thursday of this week I responded to a call from the Robinsons. Before uh before we hung up, I was uh in the car and headed to their house. I drove over to their home and The road the police had the roads all blocked off and I had to park half mile from their home because the police had it stopped off at each at each corner. The first officer let me through and he said we When you get to the next officer, just stop and walk up because there's too many I mean I had to walk past five fire trucks probably, uh first responder vehicles, uh ambulances, you know. I I don't know that they had anything else to do, so all the fire trucks just came out, I guess. They had everybody else was like, Hey there you know, uh there's something to do today, so they just all got out. But uh you guys know we've been of course in in prayer for them and uh we stood around and you know, looked at the damage from outside the house and were glad that family was okay, dogs were okay, nobody was injured, and the neighbor happened to have seen the fire and called and and got the process rolling so the fire department was able to respond quickly. After we were there for a while, uh, you know, I don't know I mean, I was there forty-five minutes, maybe an hour or something. The the chief fire investigator said, Okay, I'm done with my investigation. Here's what we've determined and Uh I'm I'm checking out, but I just wanna clear with the fire chief. If you guys are ready you can go back in the home. And so he went and talked to the chief, fire chief, and the fire chief said they're done, the house is safe, if they want to go back in, just be careful. And uh so we got the okay and so we started walking into the house and um walking in through the back door with Mary Ellen and Of course, we went through the destruction and the ceiling was all caved in and we're climbing over drywall and insulation and all of the mess and You know, Mary Ellen just looked at me and she said, Pastor Caleb, I don't I don't even know what we're gonna do. I don't know what's next. She said I don't even know where to start. What do we do? I mean it it really was overwhelming. We're literally standing in waterlogged carpet. and water dripping from the ceiling on our heads, looking at the at the attic as the drywall was all torn out, reaching that place I want to talk to you for a couple minutes this morning about what to do when you don't know what to do. We have recorded for us in the pages of scripture here this morning and Second Chronicles chapter 20, Jehoshaphat and his story. And God recorded for us some very honest words. From a man facing a very hard situation. Look with me if you would in 2 Chronicles chapter number 20 and verse number 12 He says, Our God, wilt thou not judge them? For we have no might against this great company that cometh against us. Neither Know we what to do. He said, I just don't know what to do. The pressure is great. The enemy is at hand. What are we going to do in the face of this oncoming challenge? The options were limited at that moment. He makes this statement in just flat reality, he just didn't know what to do. We want to talk about that for a few minutes this morning for our Sunday school time here. What to do when you don't know what to do. Would you allow me to pray and ask the Lord to lead us? Lord, we come to you now. We ask you to be uh Lord with the Robinson family today and over the coming months as they go through the tragedy and uh Time of putting things back together and trying to get life back to a semblance of normalcy, Lord. It's gonna be some challenges. But Lord, we praise you for the the safety that you gave and that there was no loss of life or no bodily harm. But Lord, they've got got an uphill battle and they've got some struggles to face. But Lord There's different things that come into our life that bring us all to a place where we're faced with or we just don't know what the next step should be. And I pray, Lord, that from your word this morning we might be challenged and encouraged to know what to do when we don't know what to do. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well we see here first of all that the crisis he faced, I want to just kind of lay the foundation for you. In uh look we're gonna back up to the beginning of the chapter now. Verses one and two we see here, and it came to pass after this also that the children of Moab and the children of Ammon, and with them besides the Ammonites, came against Jehoshaphat to battle. There came some that told Jehoshaphat, saying, There cometh a great multitude against thee from beyond the sea. And this side of Syria. And behold, they be, and Hazanon Tamar, which is in Geti, and Jehoshaphat feared, and he set himself to seek the Lord. And proclaimed a fast through all Judah. This crisis he faced, we see first of all, the the it was a sudden problem. This it came up upon him. Somebody ran to him and said, Hey, the armies have assembled. The the enemy is at hand and and they're on their way. They're already on this side. And and and they're here. You you better be ready, you know, sometimes and often the ones that really hit us the hardest or take us out is those sudden problems. Those things that hit us on the left field. Those things that you really didn't have any time to prepare for. You hadn't thought about it at all. You hadn't made any plans. You hadn't had time to brace yourself or prepare for it. It was a sudden problem and it brings to you a stark reality in your life that all of a sudden there's this is what I've got to deal with. There's a problem here. Those things that hit you unexpectedly. You don't have any time to prepare. And it becomes a matter of the stress and the struggle is just too much. It's hard to bear and sometimes the reality of these things are brought into our lives and uh the reasons that they come are as varied as there are people in here. If you were to study the story of Jehoshaphat, you'll find that the reason he was facing this was because he was not being obedient to God, and God was allowing the enemy to come in in judgment for him. But we know that that is not the re only reason that people face hardship. We know Job was as pure as a you know driven snow, that his heart was right with God. He was upright and eschewed evil, yet Job faced tremendous battle in his life. God was very clear that this was not something for him in that regard. And so things that come into our life, you you may be involved in a car accident. And all of a sudden the the car is destroyed. I was involved in an accident while I was in Bible college, and because I was in a Bible college I didn't have much of a car and I also didn't have any insurance on my car because I didn't have any money The officer was right there. Literally the officer didn't even have to move his car I I did it right. I crashed right in front of him. I mean he was sitting right there. He just got out of the car and walked over. And uh he said, Well, I I wasn't gonna give you any ticket because you don't you don't have insurance So uh he threw the book at me. I had to go to court for that, and the judge threw the book at me. The judge gave me everything the law would allow him to to put against me. Me except five days in jail. He said you're not gonna have to go to jail, but you're gonna have to do everything else. I mean I had six months of of community service and three months of license probation and six hundred dollar fine and And I mean that those are the things I can remember off the top of my head. But you know what? I lost my truck as well. My truck was total. It was gone. They hauled it to the dump from there And you know, y you're like, okay, what am I gonna do now? This is my vehicle. This is how I get back and forth to college and and uh here I am a young married guy, you know, just been married uh a year or so and it you know, lost the vehicle and and you're just like, what do I do? How d how am I supposed to respond in this this sudden problem that was unexpected and this is not part of my plan and Not realizing what to do and becomes a stressful reality that you've got to face and okay, here's where we are. This is what I got to deal with. That I don't have a truck and I've got these problems on top of the other things I had But what I want you to see is the chorus that he followed. The chorus that he followed. And we need to learn to respond as Jehoshaphat did when you don't know what to do. We see in verses 3 and 4, and Jehoshaphat feared, and he set himself to seek the Lord. And proclaimed a fast throughout all Judah. And Judah gathered themselves together to ask help of the Lord. Even out of all the cities of Judah they came to seek the Lord. Can I tell you the first thing that he did? He focused on God. He set himself to seek the Lord. You know, oftentimes in a crisis we lose clarity. We don't really we might have had a plan, but now our plans are you know up in smoke. Our our plans are are gone. Our our our agenda is no longer viable and all of a sudden there's no clarity for what we should do next. It's like uh the illustration I gave about driving in fog. When you're driving in fog and the fog gets thick, what do you do? You focus. On that little yellow line. You can't see down the road, you can't see down there what's gonna happen, but you you you're focused and you're looking for that line and just hoping you're gonna stay to the right of it. You know, or if there's not a line there, you you look for the other line, you look for a defining mark. And can I tell you that in a crisis what we've got to learn to do is we've got to find God and focus on Him Like Peter was walking on the water. What a magnificent thing to be able to step out of the boat. I don't know You know, we can give Peter a hard time for how bold and and you know he was a man of action, boy. He just did it, but hey, he got the experience walking on water. Nobody else but Jesus got to do that. But we know that when his eyes drifted from Jesus onto the storm, all of a sudden he began to sink. And what we've got to do in the face of hardship, in the face of trial, when we don't know what to do, the first thing is we've got to find something Stable to focus on. Jesus is the same yesterday, today, and forever. God, I am God and change not. He's as stable and consistent. loving and compassionate God that we've got to turn our eyes to and begin to focus on in the face of hardship. When you focus on God, you'll begin to see his strength. Well, let me point look at verse number 12. I didn't read this part of this verse when we first opened up, but look at verse number 12. He says there Wilt thou not judge them? Of course, he's talking about this this onslaught of army that's coming against them, for we have no might against this great company that cometh against us, neither know we what to do. What's the last phrase there? Our eyes are on thee. Our eyes are on thee. He was focused on God. And can I tell you, beloved, that when you focus on God, you begin to behold His strength. The strength that you do not have, the capacity that you're unable to muster, you can begin to see the strength of God. And we see in verse number six, he says, And I said, O Lord God of our fathers. Are not thou God in heaven? Rulest not thou over all the kingdoms of the heathen? And in thy hand is there not power and might, so that none is able to withstand against thee? You see, beloved, they didn't know what to do, but they looked at God, and when they began to behold God, they were reminded of how he brought them out of Egypt and how God was ultimately in control and that God had power over the heathen. And these nations that were rising up against him, it was a whole lot more than they could ever take care of themselves, but they realized it's not more than God could take care of. It's certainly an easy thing for him He is the creator of the universe and and this multitude that was arising against them is nothing at all in the eyes and the hands of God. You know, we at one point down the road we would love to build a building out on the new property I was meeting with a church uh uh in the last month about that wants to build a building and they want to build a small building and he was talking about it costing them he's hoping that they could build this building for five million. I said, Man, I would be looking at building that for one million. tops, not not five. He says, Well our estimates are beyond that. And I said, That's crazy. I can't imagine uh spending that kind of money on uh what they what they desire to build and then I'm looking at what we want to build and if we're taking his numbers we're talking about a twenty million dollar building. If you're looking at his numbers and I I mean I'm looking at five million for for our building and saying, man, that's an impossible task. But in God's economy it's not. I mean God that to to God that's nothing. You know, there's people within five miles of here that house costs more than that. It's just one or two people living there and they got a house that costs more than that. And what I'm saying is that's an easy thing for God. And when we get our eyes off of our problem and get them onto God, we begin to behold His strength. We begin to see somebody that's capable to carry us through. They understood that he was in control. And can I remind you, beloved, that God longs to show himself strong for his children? In in you don't have to turn back there, but in 2 Chronicles chapter 16 in verse number 9, he tells us, for the eyes of the Lord run to and fro through the whole earth. To show himself strong on behalf of them whose heart is perfect toward him. Loved God, God is longing for the opportunity to show himself strong on behalf of those that love him. And God wants to do miraculous things for you in the midst of your storm, in the midst of your battle, in the midst of your struggle. He wants to do some amazing things for you. If we would get our eyes off of self and get our eyes off of the storm. And look at him. God could do something miraculous. What to do when you don't know what to do? Begin to focus on God and let God renew your strength like David. Who encouraged himself in the Lord? He was so focused on God, he proclaimed a fast. Maybe this is something you need to do when you don't know what to do. Say, boy, this is a big problem. This is a hard thing. I'm really not sure what I what I should do here and They said, boy, we're so intent on getting a hold of God and getting God's help in this thing and letting Him see us through that, you know what we're gonna do, we're gonna We're going to give up some of our necessary food. We're going to take some time and we're going to put off our feeding ourselves so that we can focus on God. He proclaimed a fast. This is a method through which we focus more intently on God. We behold his compassion and his capacity. His consistency is he cares for us. Psalms 103, verses 2 and 3 said, Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits. Who forgiveth all thine iniquities, who healeth all thy diseases, who redeemeth thy life from destruction, and crowneth thee with loving kindness and tender mercies. Who satisfieth thy mouth with good things, so that thy youth is renewed like the eagles. You get to the place where your strength is just small, focus on God. And God can renew your strength. You can mount up with strength. Wings as eagles. These are promises that are given to us in the pages of Scripture, but it takes us doing our part. He focused on God. He fasted. We see the comfort that they found in verse number 15. He says, and he said, Hearken ye all Judah, ye inhabitants of Jerusalem. And thou King Jehoshaphat, thus saith the Lord unto you: Be not afraid nor dismayed by reason of this great multitude. For the battle is not yours, but God's. We see first a firm promise. He gave him a promise here. Hey, the battle is not yours, but God's. God's going to take care of this. Can I tell you, beloved, that God of the universe, the God of this Bible, He's the one that said, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. He's the one that said he's a friend that's to get closer than a brother. He's the one that said, My God shall supply all your needs according to his riches and glory We have back there uh just last week uh as a gift for our guest, we uh gave away the book we gave some years ago away in in the church here, The Promises of God. A book Just full of the promises of God. You open it and just page after page after page the scriptures laid out in one promise after another The promises of God. And those promises are true. And it's a firm promise that we can count on. And when we behold God, we're comforted by the promises that He gives us. They formulated a plan. Now God's plan that He gave them here was stand still. And see the salvation of the Lord. Sometimes God's plan is going to be like that. He's going to say, you know what? You've got nothing to do. You need to just stand still and see the salvation of the Lord. Sometimes God may formulate a plan and say, okay, here's what you need to do. You need a job? Well, what you need to do is you need to put in five applications every day until you get a job. Yeah y you know, you can't just sit at home and and expect God to have somebody call you out of the clear blue. You need a job. There's a there's a step that you need to do and I'm gonna I'm gonna give you the job that that you need You're gonna find it, but you're gonna find it by getting out. You gotta do you gotta do your part. But he formulated a plan. Through following and focusing on God, God gave him some direction. As you prayerfully consider, okay, what should I do when I don't know what to do, can I tell you that God will start to give you some clarity? In your heart and mind, you'll begin to get a peace about the very next step. And you may not see all the way down the road, the fog may still be there, and you may not have direction for all of the future. But at least you know, okay, God has told me, here's what I need to do next. I know this is my next step. I know that here's what I've got to do. Sometimes in life sh tragedies are so great and struggles are so small. You have no hope of of seeing down the road. But you know what you can do is say, okay, what's next? You have to function just on what's next. Okay, tomorrow morning I gotta get out of bed. Tomorrow morning, here's my plan. This is what I need to do. I need to wash the clothes I I need to uh plan to eat lunch somewhere. You know, sometimes you literally need to put it down on a piece of paper. And plan because your self-care won't happen either. You're you're so overwhelmed and you don't feel like eating, but you need to sleep You need to eat. You need to take care of of yourself. You say, okay, so I'm gonna I'm gonna plan to eat lunch tomorrow and here's w here's what I'm gonna have and and I'm gonna plan to call one person or I'm gonna whatever it might be, you need to say, Lord, what what do I need to do? And let God give you some peace and give you some direction so you know what to do, what's next. And as you pursue just what's next, God will reveal more. He'll open up the future for you and show you what his plan is for you and what he wants you to do. At a firm promise, he formulated a plan. Sometimes he's going to fight the battle for you. And sometimes he's gonna have you go into battle, but he's gonna be with you. Like David who went and faced Goliath. And he said, Well, you come to me with a sword and a spear. You come to me, but I come to you with God, the Lord God of heaven. And you go into you go into battle, because that's the direction God's given, you're going to do it, but you're going to do it with God. We need to trust Him. In verse number 20, 2 Chronicles 20, 20, he says, And he they rose early in the morning and went forth into the wilderness of Tucha. And they went forth. Jehoshaphat stood and he said, Hear me, O Judah, and ye inhabitants of Jerusalem, believe in the Lord your God. So shall ye be established. Believe his prophets. So shall ye prosper. Can I tell you what God wants you to do is trust him. God wants you to trust him. We've spoken about that recently, but have faith. Believe God, believe his promise. Trust him, function in the realm of faith. That he can and will do what he promised he would do. Listen, God can do anything but fail. God can do anything, anything, anything. God can do anything but fail He's the Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end. He's a bright, bright and morning star. I messed that song up. God can do anything, anything. God can do anything. but fail. Listen, God can do it. A lot of times when we're in a place that we don't know what to do, we've got to learn to rely on Him. But Let him carry us through. He stood up and he said, You need to believe God. Believe his words. Function in faith. And we'll see here the celebration that they experienced in verse number 21. And when he had consulted with the people, he appointed singers unto the Lord. That they should praise the beauty of holiness. And they went out before the army. And to say, praise the Lord for his mercy endureth forever. Can I tell you, beloved, that right here they're praising God before the victory They're praising God before the battle is even won, before the battle is even fought. They're moving forward in faith, trusting that God's going to take care of it. And praising the Lord for his blessing and his goodness. They're singing, they're lifting their voices up in praise and acknowledging the goodness and the blessings of God even before the deliverance was given. We can skip down to verse number 24 and we'll see uh the last part of verse number 24 that They went into the malt wellness and verse number 40, and when Judah came toward to the watchtower in the wilderness, they looked unto the multitude, and behold, there were dead bodies. They were dead, fallen to the earth, and none had escaped. God had won the battle for them. God had given them victory. This great multitude that they Stood in fear of that they had no hope of winning a victory over, and God gave them the victory Not only did they praise him and God go and fight for them, but they found provision. You know, God many times will take what we appear to be a great tragedy and turn it into a triumph. The children of Israel, Jehoshaphat here, looked at this and said, boy, we're in trouble. If this goes away, it looks like it's gonna go, we're gonna be wiped out. At the very least, we're going to be taken captive and put in and served as as uh slaves for the rest of our lives, but maybe we're all going to die. Boy, this is bad. But they turn to God, they function in faith And God turns the tragedy into triumph, and we see the provision that He provided in verse number 25. And when Jehoshaphat and his people came to take away the spoil of them, They found among them in abundance both riches with the dead bodies and precious jewels which they stripped off for themselves more than they could carry away. Okay, they didn't just find a few coins. The Bible says here that they went there to remove these bodies and to to to deal with What was going to be the battlefield there and God had given them victory, but in the midst of that they found more provision than they had capacity to even carry away. And when you function in faith and follow God, can I tell you that you will stand in awe at His provision? At His goodness, at His blessings on your life. It doesn't mean you won't have hardship. It doesn't mean you won't face a battle. It doesn't mean you won't know any pain. But in the midst of it You'll stand back and you'll say, Man, God has been so good. God has been so good. He's blessed me beyond measure. And more than I can bear, we will stand in awe of the goodness of God. We see that they walked away praising him, verses 28 and 29 and 30. They lifted up their voices, and they came to Jerusalem with salt trees and harps and trumpets unto the house of the Lord, and the fear of God was on all the kingdoms of those countries You see, beloved, not only did God win this battle, but God won the battles for the foreseeable future, because all the rest of the those enemies that might have risen up around them said, Hey. We can't. They may look like a small nation, they may not look like they don't have much ability, but can I tell you that they've got God on their side and uh w w it's not gonna help w there's no way we're gonna win against them God won all those victories as well. And they were praising God for it. So that the realm of Jehoshaphat was quiet. For his God gave him rest round about. God brought this victory. They experienced this time of peace and this time of rest that God brought. Listen, what started as confusion ended in clarity. What started and looked like defeat God brought deliverance. So what to do when you don't know what to do? Listen, focus on God. Turn your heart and mind towards Him. And maybe it's serious enough, you maybe even need to fast and make it something where you're dependent upon Him. Then allow Him with His wisdom to formulate a plan. So you can at least take the next step. Don't worry about trying to plan it all out. Don't worry about getting everything from here for the next five years, but you know, formulate a step. Take that next step that God leads you to do. God will bring comfort. You'll know that you're moving forward and with him, with his help. And in the end, you'll celebrate. The marvelous deliverance that God brings. Responding this way. The difference. Joseph had said, hey, we don't know what to do, but our eyes are on you. Our eyes are on you. That's what to do when you don't know what to do. Focus on God and let Him give you direction. Let's close in prayer and we'll end up Sunday school this morning. Lord, we thank you for this time and these thoughts that we learned from Jehoshaphat and how he responded and inconceivable uh battle, an unwinnable struggle that he was facing yet, Lord, you brought him through in a miraculous way, and we understand in our lives things that are overwhelming or are too much We don't know what to do. We know that your word and you will carry us through. We'll focus on you instead of uh normal human responses to focus on self or to focus on the storm itself and just be taken out of the battle, but Lord, we just pray that you would allow us to respond as Jehoshaphat did and we'll re enjoy the great victory that is wrought because of you and Lord believe thank you for it. We ask that you go with us as we go into our morning service or just speak to our hearts. Use the thought this morning. We ask this in Jesus' precious name. Amen. Thank you so much. You guys are dismissed.