Axe Axe chapter number four You know, we all have things in our life that we want. There's a probably pretty good want list that we have. Uh tends to grow and modify with age and time. Uh but then there's also some things in life that we we need. There's things that you really must have that you you can't live without. Right? You you gotta have it. And uh that's kind of what I want to talk about this morning with regards to the church, some things that the church must have, that the church needs. in order to succeed. We are going to see those in our text in Acts chapter 4, verses 31 to 33, if you would look at that with me. The Bible says in Acts 4. 31, reading down through verse 33, and when they had prayed, the place was shaken, when they were assembled together. And they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and they spake the Word of God with boldness, and the multitude of them that believed were of one heart, of one soul. Neither said any of them That aught of the things which he possessed was his own, but they had all things common. And with great power gave the apostles witness of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus. and great grace was upon them all. Well, beloved, there's things that a church would love to have and there's some things that the church needs. And if it's going to be a success, if we're going to be a church that's blessed and honored by God, there's some things that we must have, some things that are necessary. Throughout the years here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church, it's been our privilege to see God work. It's been our privilege privilege to behold uh God's hand of blessing and and watch as miracles have been performed and things have been done in the lives of of God's people. But we must never take that blessing for granted. We must never think that we somehow have uh acquired that and it cannot be lost. As quick as God put his hand a blessing on a church He can determine that that church deciding not to honor and glorify him with their activities does not deserve his hand of blessing, and he can remove it. We must be a church that is consumed with honoring and glorifying God. As we look at and consider our needs, some people might say, well, we have a need for some more space maybe in the nursery or for this particular class down here, or we have a need for Uh d a few weeks ago we met with our uh insurance company and they said you have a need for some lights in your parking lot. They said that's something just from insurance wise, liability, security, whatever, they said you need to get some lights out here. And we're like, we're all for it. Not sure how the community would feel about that, but We we're we're all for it. There's some things that you you look at and say, boy, these things uh would be nice, but what do we really need? Some people say, Man, we need some money. Amen. But you know what? Do we really need that? No, what we need is the power and the blessing of God. And this morning I want us to consider and think about this. Listen, uh a church that gathers together, it is not about the numbers. It's not about how many people. Some people say, well, we need the church to grow, we need more people. And listen, we we have as a church have always endeavored to reach one more. We want to continue to reach more people for God until the Lord comes back. That's the mission and the goal of the church. But beloved, it's not about the numbers. It's not about how many pe people are uh here present for a service. It never has been. We we don't make a big deal out of that. We don't, you know try and promote and say, oh we had this many last week or look at this. Now we we track it and we keep keep an eye on it. We want to know how we're doing and and where people are at and people that are coming or going. But beloved It's not just about how many people are present. We don't gather together in God's house as a social experiment or just because it's fun. This is not just a social gathering. This is a people of God that have committed to come together for the honor and glorifying of God. This last week Tim was at work and he was talking about uh well I gotta I gotta get off and go home and get changed because I got church tonight. And uh the guy he was working with was, you got to church tonight, you know, and a couple of weeks ago Tim texted him a picture when they were on their way to church on Sunday during that snowstorm. And he's like, You're going to church in the snowstorm he's like, Well, I'm the pastor's son, I don't have any joints here. So uh You know, it's that he's there, rain, snow, or shine, right? But we were talking in family devotions, really kind of how foreign that is in today's society How foreign it is for somebody to be that committed to church, but we we're not that committed to church just because we want to be here. We're not that committed to church just because we think it's fun or because it's nice or because, boy, that's what's accepted of the or expected of the pastor or his family. No, we're committed to it because this is the thing that Jesus Christ loved and gave himself for. Jesus loved the church and gave himself for it, and we as God's people love the church. The church should be filled with Christians who are hungry for the Word of God. Thirsty for the meeting meeting with God. God said, I will pour water on him that is thirsty. We are certainly in the last days, and that has brought us into the Laodicean church that church of of casual Christianity, the idea of very little ambition or passion for the things of God Beloved, we need people who are coming to church because their soul is longing for that sweet communion with the Father. Their heart is hungry for fellowship with the saints. They're looking for the conviction of the Holy Spirit. They're ready to hear the preaching of the scriptures. They desire to bow their head in unity and supplication unto the Lord. We have here in the verses that I read this morning some pattern given to us of the New Testament church, and the church that's going to succeed. Today, just like the church that was going to succeed in any time, need some things that are mentioned here in our text. First of all, I want you to see uh what is needed, not just a want, not just something that would be nice, but something that is crucial for the success of a church as first we need Prayer unto God. We see in Acts chapter 4 and verse number 31 there he says, And when they had prayed, Beloved, I'm not just talking about a a uh welcome prayer. I'm not just talking about, hey, let's uh thank the Lord for the offering or or uh uh uh a casual prayer as we close and dismiss. I'm talking about people that are are together in praying for God to do a great work. People that have prayed in advance in preparation as they come to God's house, asking God to do something in their heart, praying God that He would encourage the discouraged and that He would strengthen the weak and that he would challenge the casual or lazitical Christian, that he would convict the sinner of sin, that change would be brought We need people that are hungry for God to do something, hungry enough that they'll bow their head in prayer and say, God, will you do something today? We know Pastor Caleb's going to prepare and he's going to bring a message, but we also understand that all is vain unless the Spirit of the Lord comes down. We need a people that are committed and given to this idea of prayer. The Bible says, and when they had prayed, beloved, the Bible tells us That our prayers should be fervent, our prayers should be intense, the effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. That is a level of commitment to prayer that goes beyond, Lord, thank you for the bills, thank you for the meat, let's eat. We're talking about a purpose prayer that is drawn from the heart of man That has just stirred you down in the deepest part of your soul where there's a longing and a hunger there, and you're crying out to God to do something in your life To do something at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. To do something for the brothers and sisters in Christ that have gathered on that particular Sunday You never know, beloved, the burden that the person down the row is carrying. You don't know the heartbreak that they might right now be living with and they're just One word away from bursting into tears because they're so broken and you don't know what's going. But listen, they need somebody praying for them A church that's going to succeed is a church that is given to prayer, effectual, fervent prayer. That kind of prayer, beloved, takes time. That kind of prayer takes effort. Beloved, it's the prayer of a righteous man that availeth much. Not just any man, not the sinner Not the hypocrite, a righteous man, one that has been made righteous by the shed blood of Jesus Christ, and one that is in the process of being made more righteous or the scriptural term is sanctified through the power of the Holy Spirit as God changes us into his image. It is the prayers of a righteous man that availeth much Oh dearly beloved, there is power in prayer if we would be given to doing it. Do you know why their prayer was so intense here in this passage? I can tell you, it's because they were enduring persecution. If you look back in verses 2 and 3, in Acts chapter 4, there in verses 2 and 3, he says, being grieved that they taught the people and preached through Jesus the resurrection from the dead. And they laid hands on them and put them in hold until the next day, for it was now even tide. They had said, hey, the the the Pharisees and the Sadducees had come and said, Hey, you can't be preaching in this the name of Jesus. And they continued to do so, and so they laid hold on them and they said, well, the hour is late, we're just going to put you in prison, we're going to hold you until tomorrow. We'll deal with you tomorrow. They were under persecution. They were being attacked. And beloved, when you get persecuted, when something happens in your life, you're driven to some fervent prayer. Amen. You know when Mary calls me and she says, uh, hey, uh just call and let you know I'm running to the grocery store, gotta pick up some some eggs and uh some milk or whatever, I'm oh okay, great. Uh in enjoy. There's nothing in there that drives me to prayer. Some years ago we were just about to launch work party and uh I get a call from Mary and she tells me that she's uh on 83. This is when we lived in Pennsylvania still and we drove 32 miles one way to church every day and she's coming down for work party with all the kids in the car and uh she calls me to tell me she just had a wreck on 83. And uh can you come out here please? Okay, that's a different kind of call. Right All of a sudden, wait, wait a minute. And and there is a different level of importance there. There's a different level of fervency there. You know, one of the uh detrimental things to living in a society like ours where we have religious freedom and we have freedom to gather and worship and for by and large we really are not persecuted. The the the detriment is that we're not driven to pray. Because we can do it without any real effort. We don't have to worry about being imprisoned or attacked. Beloved, the fervency of their prayers, the intensity of their prayers was because they were enduring persecution. The power of their prayer was because they were praying in unity. Look at verse number 24. Acts 4 and verse number 24 says, And when they heard When they heard that, they lifted up their voice to God with one accord and said, Lord, thou art God which hath made heaven and earth and sea and all that in them is. Can I remind you, beloved, there is great power in unified corporate prayer When the Bible says where two or three are gathered together, there I am in the midst of them, when people gather together and pray in unity, their hearts unified in a common purpose. to to pray, whether that's for the souls of men or or or for the sickness of a brother or sister in Christ or the burden that somebody's carrying when we as a church bow our heads Together and we pray for God to do something, there's power in that. They prayed in unity, and beloved, we must be a church that are a praying church. Can I ask you, are you are you part of the prayer teams? You say, Pastor, I didn't know we had prayer teams. We do. It's every single person that calls Hunt Valley Baptist Church their home. You're part of the prayer team. At least you ought to be. We can we can all bow our heads when we have a prayer list. There's a copy of it on the Welcome Center out there. We have a prayer list that has a list of the burden. or your brothers and sisters in Christ, that their caring, their sick relatives, the home that they need, the job that they need to find. These different things. When Brother Taylor gives the update on the missionaries, he says, here's our missionary and this is what's going on and they need prayer because of this and this and this. That's listed on the prayer list. And when God's people purpose in their heart, whether they're at home or they're at work or they're on their lunch break to bow their heads, you're praying in unity with the rest of God's people to see that work done. There's great power in that. We must be a church of prayer. We have to need prayer too, God. I want you to see, secondly, that we need the power of God. He says, and when they had prayed, the place was shaken, where they were assembled together. The place was shaken. They saw God do a great work. Beloved, all is vain unless God. comes down. Unless the Spirit of the Lord comes, unless God works in our midst. We need the power of God to do His work. The work of the Holy Spirit in our lives cannot be overstated. The importance of having his power. And I'm not talking about the some Charismatic emotionalism where somebody gives himself over to you know falling out on the ground in in uncontrollable laughter or cannot stand still and they're jumping all over the place or you know, there's some very sincere people that are caught up in in this. uh charismatic emotionalism and and uh because their hearts long for an experience with God that's very uh appealing and and it draws on their hearts. But I want you to understand that the Bible says that God speaks to us through a still small voice. And God's presence, God's power is necessary for the work of God to move forward. The individual that is completely yielded to the leading of God will see his power. We have examples in the scriptures. If you care to, you could turn. Actually, why don't you turn to Ephesians chapter 5 if you don't mind? I'm going to ask you to tell me. These are some familiar verses in Ephesians 5. He says, and be not drunk with wine where it is excess, but be filled with the Spirit. And then he gives us some examples, some some kind of statements about what being filled with the Spirit is. So you tell me, be not drunk with wine, whereas an excess, but be filled with the Spirit. So what is the first thing as you read the balance of that there? What is the first thing you would say that is necessary or that is an example of somebody filled with the Spirit? Singing to God. Speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. Can I put it this way? Somebody that is filled with the Spirit is going to have a song in their heart. They're going to have a song in their heart. They're going to have that. There's going to be the joy of the Lord in their hearts. And and the question this morning is if if if You are the church, God's people. The church is not the building. The church is the people. And if if what we need is the power of God, that means we need the Holy Spirit on each and every one of the lives of the people that are present here So you say, well, if I do I have the Holy Spirit working in my life? Okay, well, do you have a song in your heart? Do you have the joy of the Lord even in uh you know when things aren't going as good as you would like Are you being led by the Spirit of God? This is going to be a testament of what it means to be filled with the Spirit, is that they're going to have a song in their hearts. Because God put it there. What would be the second thing in verse number twenty there? Yeah, they're gonna have gratitude in their heart. Because we understand, beloved, what God did for us. We are lost and undone and on our way to hell and we had no reason. We had no reason to be forgiven and to be on our way to heaven, but we see what God did by saving our soul, and we understand how God blesses us Day by day by day, his provision is present in our life, his protection is seen as we go throughout our days, and we stand in awe of his goodness to us. And so there's gratitude in our heart That's going to be a, you say, are you filled with the Spirit? Well, do you have a song in your heart? Do you have gratitude in your heart? Is that something that's coming out from you? What's the third thing we see there in verse number 21? Submitting yourselves. There's going to be submission in your heart. Because we know God's on the throne. And if we're living in subjection to him, yielding to him, we're not just yielding to him, but we have a spirit of humility. We were submitting ourselves one to another. A sign of being led by the Spirit. Somebody that's not led by the Spirit does not have the Spirit of submission. Beloved, if we it is critical, it is necessary that we have the power of God to do this great work. That means the Holy Spirit needs to be present in our lives. Here's some signs of what that is and what that means. Boy, we need prayer that gets a hold of heaven and we need power that moves earth for the church to succeed. Thirdly, I want you to see in this verse, and when they had prayed, the place was shaken, and when they were assembled together, they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and they spake the word of God with boldness. Beloved, we need preaching of the Word of God. This as well is going to be a sign of somebody filled with the Spirit. You see, they were filled with the Spirit, and they couldn't help it. They spake the word of God with boldness. And I just want to take a moment and encourage you to understand that this is not just speaking to the pastor. This is speaking to the church. Somebody who's filled with the Spirit of God is going to speak the Word of God with boldness. Let me ask you, what are you talking about in your free time? What is your conversation consumed with? Is it what God is doing? Is it his word? Is it uh what you're getting out of your devotions? Is it a sermon that you heard this week? Is it something that God spoke to you about? Is it a prayer request that God answered? I mean, I'm just saying, what is it that fills your mouth? We know in verse number 20 here. Look at Acts chapter 4 there and verse number 20. It says, for we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard. You're going to speak the things which you have seen and heard. What's going to come out of your mouth is going to be the things that you've been thinking about, that you've been reading about, that you've been listening to, that you've been consuming. Because what you put in is what's going to come out. This is what's so important. We be careful what we put in. Uh somebody that has a problem with their language. The best thing is to stop putting that foul language in. And you can start getting it to where it will stop coming out. Some of you I know work in situations where that is around you all the time and you don't have control over that. But some of you are consuming things on television and movies and things like that that's filled with that kind of filth and you're just letting it fill fill you up with that stuff. That's not what somebody filled with the Spirit of God does. That that pierces the Holy Spirit and quenches his work in your life So you've got to stop letting that stuff get in so that what comes out is something of eternal value. The Word of God. The Spirit of God. His His communication Yes, beloved, we need preaching from the pulpit. And as was said this morning, we need preaching that's the whole council of God. Oh, we we we need preaching about heaven, amen. But we need preaching about hell too. Yeah. We need we need preaching about hope. Boy, we need we need hope. But we need preaching about holiness too. Yeah. Well we need preaching about faith, for without faith it is impossible to please him. But we need preaching about faithfulness, too. Just being faithful. Faithful to your mate. Faithful to your family, to your kids. Faithful to God's house, faithful to your ministry, faithful to your task, whatever thy hand findeth to do, do it with all thy might. We need We need preaching of the whole council of God. You know, one of the problems with uh the seeker-sensitive churches that are uh just grow popping up all over our country is that it's not about what they say. The fact of the matter is, is for a lot of them what they say is pretty good. They're gonna say some good things. They're gonna a lot of them, you know May even preach the gospel where you can hear about the love of Jesus Christ and get saved. The problem with the seeker-sensitive church is what they will not say, what they do not touch. In that kind of a church, you will not hear that homosexuality is a sin. Beloved, the Bible calls it an abomination. And we are to hear preaching about the whole council of God, what God's word says, homosexuality is a sin, just like adultery is a sin. And both need to be confessed and forsaken, just like, by the way, fornication is sin. That's Physical relationship before marriage. The Bible still says it's good for a man not to touch a woman. That's what the word says. You see, we need we need preaching about holiness too. And there are things that are fun to preach about and things that are lift lift our spirits and that are encouraging, but beloved If we're going to be a church that's pleasing to God, then we need a church that has preaching of the whole council of God. And that means sometimes our toes are going to be stepped on. Sometimes the Word of God and the Holy Spirit of God is going to reach down into the pew where we're at, and you're going to feel like the pastor is just poking you in the chest. That is not my intention ever. You guys know sometimes when I get to a topic that uh that I know is gonna be touchy, that I I approach it with apprehension with hesitancy And some of you said, don't worry, Pastor, just let it rip. Well, I've never been one of these guys that says, like it or lump it. If you don't like it, you know where the door is. No, you're God's family, and I love you, and I hurt for you, and I want to see you succeed in your Christian life, and I don't want to ever be uh something that's used to discourage you or keep you from being what God wants you to be. And so when I approach a subject that I know might be getting close to home I do so apprehensively and I do so hesitantly and I do so hopefully with the power of Spirit of God that God would reach into your heart and do the work that He can do Because we need to kick the devil in the face and stop letting him win. We need to be able to turn to God and let him bring about that change in our life So we can succeed as Christians. And if we're succeeding as Christians, we'll succeed as a church. What we need is people given to prayer. What we need is the power of God to meet with us in our services. What we need is a preaching of God that reaches into our soul and touches us where we're at. Lastly, this morning, what we need is a presentation, a consistent presentation of the gospel of Jesus Christ. We see in Acts 4, moving on to verse number 32 and the multitude of them. That believed were of one heart and of one soul. They were unified together. Unity cannot be Its unity is so vitally important. Neither said any of them that aught of the things which possessed was his own. But they had all things in common. They had a unified spirit and working together to see God's work move forward. In verse number 33, and with great power gave the apostles witness of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus. And I ask you, what is the gospel in a nutshell? What would you say the gospel is? Yes. The death, burial, resurrection. Of Jesus Christ. Because the mission of the church has always been the reaching of the lost. We need the presentation of the gospel. And I want you to understand that that is not the only mission of the church. Because the Great Commission goes on and says, teaching him to observe all things, whatsoever I've commanded you. So the mission of the church goes beyond that. But beloved, the church family is supposed to be preaching the gospel. Not just from the pulpit. But from every heart, as we go out into this world, we're supposed to be speaking the Word of God boldly. To men and women that we come across, that they would see their need of a Savior and come to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. And then you bring them to the church where they can be baptized, follow the Lord in baptism and be obedient in that. Then they can begin to learn. All of the other amazing truths that are found in this book. But do you know? The message of the gospel is supposed to be carried on the lips of the people out into the community. I think sometimes churches have kind of forgot that and they think well the it's the goal of the church to see people saved and Boy, pastor preaches a gospel message and somebody in the church we and praise the Lord for when that happens. But we're supposed to be reaching them out there. We're supposed to be being a witness, speaking the word of God boldly, telling others about our Savior and what he's done for us. A church that's going to succeed, and what I mean about succeed, I mean honor God. That's where success is. Success is not in our eyes. Success is not in the eyes of the community. Success is not in how many people are sitting here. Success is if God looks down and he's pleased. That's success. If we want to succeed, we need to honor and glorify God. And He's given us a pattern here in the New Testament church, what they did. What did they do? They were people given to prayer. They were people that experienced the power of God. They had preaching of the Word of God that was done boldly and a consistent presentation of the gospel of God into the community that reaching the lost with Jesus Christ. If we're doing that, we'll be pleasing the Lord. Let's stand to our feet with our heads bowed and our eyes closed.