And so anyway, we're in Faith Baptist Church there. And so we're just we're having the time of our life. We really are. And uh and and so I just uh thank you for letting us Do that. It's a privilege. And this that's what we want to talk about tonight if you turn to your Bibles, Acts chapter 16, 7 through 15. share some of the things that God has done over these last few years there in Colombia. And I would like to, in a way, if you will, introduce you to some people who have trusted Christ as Savior. The the Bible makes it clear that there is a harvest, and you and I are working in a harvest. It's a harvest of souls Matthew nine thirty thirty thirty-five through thirty-eight really, but thirty-seven thirty-eight talks about pray ye therefore the Lord of harvest. The harvest is plentious, the labors are few. Pray that the Lord will send forth labors into the harvest. There would be no greater joy in my heart tonight than if God would reach down tonight and touch a young person's heart to say, you know what, and it may not be missions, but to say, you know what? I think God's calling me to serve the Lord in ministry. And you could the the the thing that God could call you to, it is unlimited what God might call you to in ministry. I I love talking with your pastor today and just hearing about some of his thoughts in uh years ago as he was being directed toward the ministry and as He was thinking about different things he might do in ministry and ministry helps and whatnot, things along that line. And the Lord directed him and he led him. You know what? You don't have to know tonight what you're going to do 20 years from now. Fact is, most likely, I don't think anybody here, including myself, know what we're going to do twenty years from now. You just You just give your life to God and let Him start using you. And God's going to get you where He wants you to be and doing what He wants you to do. You do today what He wants you to do, and you do tomorrow what He wants you to do. And guess what? Every day you do what God wants you to do, you're always going to be in the center of His will. And so you just keep living for him, serving him. But it but but it is true that we make decisions that impact the direction of our life, right? A young person can make a decision, you know what, I'm gonna I'm gonna choose this career, I'm gonna choose this this direction for my life, I'm gonna choose this person to marry this person, and you look at how that one decision begins to direct their life. And you look at them 20 years down the road and you're like, wow, how did that happen? And it was because they set a direction for their life. And so it's important for, especially for young people. But I would say for every person, every Christian, where are you right now with the Lord Jesus Christ? How's your life with the Lord Jesus Christ? What direction are you headed? Because the direction that your feet are pointed is the way you're going. So if you look at your Christian life tonight and you say, you know, I'm not where I was five years ago. I'm not where I was one year ago You know, I'm not as close to the Lord as I used to be. Things are beginning to slip. That's the direction you're headed. It's time to set the course right. Get in track with God's plan for your life and allow him to direct and change and use you. And so anyway, that's extra. That's not part of the message. It's not in my notes, but anyway, it's it's anyway. May the Lord use that in a in a special way. But Acts chapter 16, I would like to talk about this concept tonight. What happens When the gospel comes to town. What happens when the gospel comes to town? We're going to read verses 7 through 15 to start. And then we'll we're going to pray and then get into the message tonight. What happens when the gospel comes down? Acts 16, 7 says this, after they were come to Mycia. They essayed to go to Bithynia, and this is an interesting phrase to use when you're talking about missions in a missionary, and when you're talking about the gospel, it says this, but the Spirit suffered them not. Interesting. Is it that God didn't want the gospel to go there? No. Is it that God didn't want people to be saved there? No. Is it that it was just not right now? God has a different plan right now. And they passing by Mysia came down to Troaz, and a vision appeared to Paul in the night. There stood a man of Macedonia and prayed him, saying, Come over into Macedonia, and I love these words, and help us You know, I imagine your pastor many times says to himself, you know what, we need help. We need help. You know, it might be something physical, something small, it might be something big. We need help. Every church, it doesn't matter where you go, every church needs help. Every church needs helpers. Every church needs people to step up and do more for the Lord Jesus Christ, to carry the ministry forward, to go forward. to see more people saved, to see lives changed. But it's interesting, this isn't even coming from a church. This isn't coming from a pastor. This isn't coming from a missionary. This is just a vision at night. And Paul sees this Macedonian man saying, Come over and help us. And after he had seen the vision, immediately we endeavored to go into Macedonia, assuredly gathering. That the Lord had called us for to preach the gospel unto them. Therefore, loosening from Soroas we came with a straight course to Samothracia and the next day to Napolis And then we're going to read about the first convert here and then we're And on the Sabbath day we went out of the city by a riverside where prayer was wont to be made, and we sat down and spake to the women which resorted thither And a certain woman named Lydia, a cellar of purple of the city of Fire Tyra, which worshipped God, heard us, whose heart the Lord opened, that she attended to the things that which were spoken of Paul, and when she was baptized. And her household she besought us, saying, If you judge me to be faithful to the Lord, come into my house and abide there. And she constrained us. Let's go ahead and pray and ask for the Lord's blessing. Heavenly Father, tonight I need your help to be able to make this clear. Lord, I pray that you would please use this in a mighty way in our lives I pray that you'd please use it to encourage us in the things that you would have us to do, Lord, and encourage us to be able to see people come to Christ. To see people saved, to realize that there's still people out there that will come to Jesus Christ. They still will be saved. Lord, as you said to Paul one time, I have much people in this city. Lord, we don't know We don't know who it is that's out there that's looking, who Lord is wanting somebody to share the simple truth. They've been deceived all their life. They know they're deceived. And Lord, you want to save them. We know that you don't want anyone to perish. You want all to be saved. And Lord, you want to use us to be able to give the gospel out. Lord, I pray you'd help us to do that in Jesus' name. Amen. As I look at these verses here, I just want to cover and talk about three types of people. Three types of people that you find in the chapter 16 of Acts. These are, if you will, representative, if you will, of people that you and I know, that you and I might work with, they might be in our Community, they might be our family. It might even be you tonight. I don't know. But three types of people. The Apostle Paul here is seeking for God's direction in his life. He's seeking for the The next place to minister, and the Lord begins to direct him to this specific city. And as he comes to this specific city, he begins to look for opportunities to present the gospel. You know, I find it interesting as I come to this chapter of Scripture that the Apostle Paul doesn't go to a synagogue. And everywhere he went, he would go and he'd find the synagogue first. So you begin to study a little bit about this city and try to understand why it is that he's not in a synagogue. There's no synagogue. This is a city in that part of the world. At that time, this was a Roman colony. This did not have This did not have a synagogue. And so the apostle Paul gets there, and where does he go? He's got to find somewhere to present the gospel. He's got to find somewhere to talk about Jesus. And he hears about a little group of people And this group of people is meeting down at the riverside. I love it. I can just picture it in my mind. A riverside, probably a lot like rivers that you have maybe in Colombia. I don't know. Maybe maybe you have rivers here that you can think about. And it's just this little area. It's really tranquilo. It's really quiet. It's really the water's calm there. What I I don't know what it's like But the Apostle Paul hears about a group of ladies that go there every week and they pray. Well, hey, that sounds great. That's what I call a warm contact. That's somebody that's interested. You're like a warm contact. Like, what's that mean? Somebody that's alive? No, it's it's a little more than that. That's somebody that's not only alive, but they're interested in spiritual things. Right? And you and I have people all around us like that. We look at somebody and we say, yeah, but they the church they go to doesn't present the truth. Yeah, but they go to church Right? Yeah, but yeah, okay, so maybe they're they're confused. Maybe the place they go doesn't present the truth. You and I have the truth. We know the truth And they are trying to find the truth. We can take the gospel to them. So anyway, that that's that but we come to this, and I just want to say the first group of people you find in this chapter are those that are seeking the truth. Those that are seeking the truth, I realize in our day there's some people that they they say, well, that that you know we people don't seek after God. They're like, you know, there it's not it's God loved me first. Yes, he loved me, he died on the cross. He loved me first, but you know what? There's people all around this world who they don't have the truth, but they're searching for something. There's this vacuum in inside of us that needs God. It's this hole, it's this emptiness, it's it and there's people who who they look maybe in all the wrong places how to fill that, but there's people that just want to know the truth As I think about this, I think about the book of Acts. Acts chapter 10. Who was the first Gentile comfort? Cornelius. Who is Cornelius? He's a soldier. What's he doing? He's praying to the Lord. He's praying to God. He's somebody who gives to the nation of Israel And here is a man who didn't have the truth. And guess what? What he needed was the gospel. He needed Jesus. And if somebody didn't tell him about Jesus, he couldn't be saved. And you know, God sent an angel to him, and we hear this all the time in Columbia. Somebody will tell you, oh yeah, I had this dream, I had this vision, oh I saw an angel, or I saw normally they don't say I saw Jesus. That's not very common. But they say I saw an angel usually. And you know what the angel didn't do to Cornelius? He didn't give him the gospel. He said, Go down to such and such a city and you're going to find a preacher. You'll get the preacher and he'll come here and such and such a city. Well he didn't say I'll tell you about Jesus, but he said go get the preacher. And that's what he did. And he went and he got Peter, and Peter comes and presents the gospel to him. Well, that's an example, that's a perfect example of somebody who is seeking the truth. But he couldn't find it without a Christian. You know, there's people around you that are seeking the truth, and you're the key, you're the piece of the puzzle that God's put in their life so they can find the truth I think about also the Ethiopian eunuch in the book of Acts as well. He's riding in his chariot and he has a copy of the scriptures, and you know what he's reading? He's reading the book of Isaiah. Now I don't know about you, Pastor, but I get a kick out of that. I think to myself, he went and he bought Isaiah. Now, I mean I would if I'm a lost person Man, give me Daniel, give me Jonah, give me something exciting. I'm not going to necessarily go look for the book of Isaiah, and I'm not slamming the Bible. I'm not in any way being irreverent. But he's got Isaiah and he's in his chariot and he's reading Isaiah going back from Jerusalem, going back to Africa. And the the Holy Spirit sends somebody with the gospel to him, sends Philip. Hey, go find that chariot in the middle of the desert. Well, he didn't know that. He just said, go to the desert. So he gets to the desert. He sees a chariot. He hears somebody reading Isaiah And he says, join yourself to that chariot. And he joined himself to the chariot. He approached the man and he says, Do you understand what you're reading? And I love the answer. How can I, unless some man should Show me. You know what? What is that? Somebody who was seeking the truth. He went on a long journey from Africa all the way to Israel to buy a copy of Scripture because he wanted to know it. Why is it that the number one thing that's sold, almost number one book for sure that's sold is the Bible? And we could get into, you know, we use we use the correct Bible. I understand that. There's people that buy the wrong one, but why do they buy the wrong one? Because they're trying to find the truth. Can I just say this? You and I have the truth. There are those who are seeking Jesus. And sometimes we don't tell people about Jesus because we, I'm just talking about myself. So if you'd let me talk about myself, we don't tell people about Jesus because we're scared. Right? Or we're timid and you say I'm not scared. I'm a man. Okay. We're and you say, I'm not timid either. Just ask my wife. Okay? Well Uh we just we just can't get to that. I can remember the first time I ever went on door to door and pastor I have a confession to make. I didn't go on door door to door as a teenager. Our church didn't do it The first time I went on door to door it was at Pensacola Christian College and I had some guys that uh we were trying to figure out which which I don't even remember now because I've been in a couple different colleges, which it was Christian Service or extension, I don't remember what it's called. But anyway, you're supposed to go every week and you're supposed to try to reach people with the gospel. And so I somehow got And with a group of friends and they were doing door to door. And so we go on door to door. And I'm telling you, I'm scared to death. We're gonna go knock on somebody's door that we don't know. Like you're serious. We're gonna go knock on did they invite us? I mean I'm from Maryland. I mean we don't do that in every place in Maryland. I'm going to go to somebody's house, they don't know who I am, they didn't invite me, they don't know I'm coming, I don't know what they're doing, I don't know if they have a gun, and I'm gonna knock on their door and I'm gonna tell them about Jesus. And so I knocked on the first door. I don't know why. I think I got put first that day. I think it was the first door. Yeah, let's let the new guy do it, right? And so I knock on the door. A kid, 15 16 years old, opens the door. And I I mean I don't know what I'm doing. And I just I'm like, hey, we're out here from Pensacola Christian College and we're just sharing with people how they can know they're going to hell. heaven. Would you uh mind if if I took a couple minutes to share that with you? And you know what the guy said? Sure. The very first door I ever knocked on. Sure. And you know what? Over the next fifteen or so minutes, went over the gospel with him. And do you know the very first door I ever knocked on in my life, he trusted Christ as Savior Now I wish I could say the second and the third and the fourth and the sixth door were like that. But boy you talk about putting wind in my sails. That was exciting. And you know what that'll do? That'll give you a bug to tell people about Jesus. Can I just say this? There is nothing like seeing somebody come to know Jesus Christ as their Savior. You know, uh we were talking, I was talking with somebody tonight and just talking about how the mission field, and they mentioned how, you know, that's That's hard to go to the mission field. Yeah, there's things about it that are hard. And we talked a little bit about that, some of that today, but it's not all terrible. It's a blessing. And you know, one of the biggest blessings is to just see somebody that doesn't know about Jesus come to know Jesus as Savior. Why wouldn't you want to give your life doing something like that? Why would a Christian spend their entire life and never see someone come to Christ? Sometimes it's because we don't realize there's people that they really do want to know the the truth. They really do want somebody to share it with them. They just don't they just don't know how to get there. And you and I are the key. I think about Marcella down in Colombia. I wish I could I wish I could introduce you the Marcella. Frizzy hair, I mean it's just frizzy hair, big smile on her face. She was our immigration officer there in Colombia And Marcella, uh every time we'd go in and we'd have to have visa work done and our our paperwork done there in the in the in the migracion uh migration office, she was the one that helped us And so anyway, but but you know how it is. They promise you they're gonna come to church. I know that never happens here. Uh here, we're honest. If we don't want to come to church, yeah, get off my steps. Get out of here. No, I'm not coming to church. But you know what? A lot of places people will will say, Oh, I'm gonna be there at church. I'm gonna come. And you know what? You just don't wait at the door holding your breath because you're gonna be there. And Marcella always Oh I'm going to come to church and where is it? And so every time we would go into migration I would I would give her the service times and the address and here's my phone number and if you come you can sit with us and we'll talk about it Take it out to eat afterwards. We can have a great time. This is great. Come on. And Marcella, finally, last year, we were starting a third church plant there, a Faith Baptist Church, in the farmland town. Right? And so anyway, it was actually on a farm. And it's an open ended shack, really They that's where they dry their coffee beans. And so anyway, but uh we set up chairs there every week and all that. And so anyway, Marcella heard that's where we're gonna have our church and she got excited. She's like, Oh, I have two boys and they love they love farm animals and this is Great and uh and so I gave her the service times. I gave her the address, and you know what? She showed up. It was last year, tremendous. And you know the thing is, Marcella was trying to find the truth She wanted to know the truth. As a young girl, she had no greater dream than growing up and being a nun. Now I can't imagine dreaming for that. But she she just wanted to grow up and be a nun And she even joined herself to the convent. She was gonna, she began the process to be a nun. And she got there and she saw things that were going on that weren't right, and she realized this is not true. So she she left. Very unusual story. So then later on she got introduced to some people who are going to a prosperity gospel, you know, give God money and he'll bless your life and all that kind of stuff. Oh in that in that Just a trap, right? And so anyway, she began to go there and she realized this is not true. And so anyway, well the first time she showed up at her church, she came into church and she had this huge Bible in her arms It was a study Bible. And it was the same one we use. It's the same one you sell in your bookstore back here. And she said, Pastor, is this okay? Is this good? And I looked at it and I realized it's the same Bible we use. I said I said, that's great. I said, where'd you get that? She said, yes. She said, a friend of mine gave it to me a couple years ago. And she said, I've been reading it. She said, I just can't understand it. Well, we know how to take care of that. He'll start teaching you that book right there. But you know what Marcella started coming faithfully every single service. I mean she didn't miss. She's there. She'd come, she'd come in her because she works, you know, in for the government there, she'd come in her cargo, you know, khaki pants there, you know, with the big pockets and and her migracion shirt and she started bringing visitors and she's there in all the service and I'll never forget, right about where Pastor's son is sitting right here on the fourth row. She's sitting there and I'm preaching and we're going over for by grace are you saved through faith. And every single verse we are going over from the Bible is believing in Jesus Christ that saves us. It's not by works. There's nothing that we can do do. You can't work your way to heaven. And Marcella raised her hand and she said, Pastor, you mean what you're saying is the only thing that I have to do is believe in Jesus and He'll save me. And I said, Yes, that's right. She kind of cocked her head sideways with that that smile on her face and kind of was a little confused. And I said, Let me show you why. Let me show you why God made it that way. And we went to Ephesians. two eight and nine for by grace are you saved through faith and that not of yourselves it's the gift of God not of works lest. The reason God made it that way is so that we wouldn't boast as resident You know, she got that big grin on her face. She pulled out her highlighter. She began to highlight. For by grace you say through faith. And you know what? She put her faith and trust in Jesus Christ as her Savior. Can I tell you about two weeks later, Carlos, who helps us now, he's preaching tonight, right now, he's in San Juan. And Carlos about two weeks later is trying to win Marcella to the Lord. So he's going over the gospel with her, and he says, Marcella, if you were to die today, do you know where you'd go? She said, yeah, I'd go to heaven. And he looked a little bummed. Like, how does she know she's going to heaven? And he wanted to make sure, like, okay, so how do you know that? She said, Pastor said all you have to do is believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. And she said, I believe and I'm saved. And if I died right now, I'd go to heaven. You know, Marcella couldn't know when she got saved last June. She couldn't know that in October ish she would be diagnosed with In December she'd go in for a minor surgery on her knee or leg, and then in January she'd enter in the presence of the Lord because she got an infection. She left a ten-year-old boy Kevin. Can I just say this? Marcella's in the presence of the Lord because she believed on the Lord Jesus Christ. You and I have people all around us that they're trying everything, they're looking for something. trying this church and that church and the other church. They're turning on the TV. They're trying to find the truth. One of the saddest interviews I think I've seen was Elon Musk. Elon Musk was uh talking about uh being a teenager and basically having all these questions and wondering about God and reading all the religious material he could find. And the interviewer basically, basically, instead of getting him the gospel, said, well, hey, you know, do you want to just pray a prayer? And he, without even understanding about the gospel, without even understanding the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ, was like, well, that's all it takes. You know what? Here's somebody who all his life has searched for the truth. You and I have the truth, we need to give it out. Number two, I need to hurry up because we're we we gotta get through this tonight. There are those who are seeking the truth and they can't find it. There are those who are bound by Satan. We find this example in the next person here. It came to pass as we went to prayer, a certain damsel possessed with a spirit of divination met us, which brought her masters much gained by suspect. It's a demon-possessed girl. Somebody telling the future. Somebody who's being used greatly by those who own her. The same followed Paul and us cried saying, which show unto us the way of salvation. And this she did many days. But Paul, being grieved, turned and said to the Spirit, I command thee in the name of Jesus Christ, come out of her. And he came out the same hour. When her master saw that the hope of their gains was gone, they caught Paul and Silas and drew them into the marketplace to the rulers. You and I know the story. They get thrown in jail. They're going to have a praise service in the middle of the night. We'll get to that in a minute. What is this? This is somebody who is bound by Satan Can I say this? You and I, we live around, we know people, and by the way, sin in of itself binds us. But we're around people all the time who are abound by something, and the only thing that's going to deliver them is the Lord Jesus Christ. It might be some kind of addiction. It might be drugs. It might be alcohol. It might be pornography. It could be any number of things, but they're bound by sin and they can't get away from its clutches. Why? Because Jesus is the only one that Jesus is the only one that delivers, and Jesus is the only one that gives eternal life. Can I just say this? There's people all around us who are craving to be free. They want to be free, and you and I I have the key. It's in our hands. It's called the gospel. It's a message that's so simple. You know what? You don't have to have a theological degree to know it. You don't have to go to Bible college to know it. All you have to do is be saved to know it. Jesus died on the cross. He's the Son of God. He was buried and he rose again. And if you'll believe in him, you'll be saved. That's a message that'll change anybody. It doesn't matter what their background is, it doesn't matter what they're in, that's the message that'll change them. I think of, I believe it wasn't it, Meltrotter, and this just comes to mind, so I might might kind of mess the story up a little bit, but Meltrotter back in, I believe it was in the 1800s. He was an old drunk, I forget what city he was in. But Meltrotter, an old drunk, that all he could all he could do was live for the next drink. All he could think about was the next drink. And he would buy drink after drink after drink. And he would spend all the family's money, and his family was living in squalor there in their little shack there in the city. And as he would come home, he would come home to find something that he could sell to just buy enough money to get another drink. And old Meltrotter one day came home in a drunken stupor and he saw, though he didn't realize that's what he was looking at, his little boy had died the day before. And his wife with what little bit of money that she had gotten together had gone out and she had bought a pair of new shoes to put on her little baby boy. As they were getting ready to bury him. And Mel Trotter in his drunken stupor took the little shoes off the body of his little boy to take it out to sell it to go buy another drink. Can I tell you something? Who can save a man like that? The Lord Jesus Christ. And that's exactly what happened. He wandered into a rescue mission, and by the grace of God, someone was preaching the gospel, and he was in enough shape that he could understand and he understood the gospel and he trusted Jesus Christ, and he left drinking for good. And God rescued his life. Can I say this? It may be that you're not down to those depths, but you're bound by sin. So I think about Columbia there and I think about different people. I think about Silvio. Silvio was a man that got saved early on there at the first church plant. in in Ipialis. Silvio was a drunk. Silvio, if you look at Silvio, you see like something happened to this guy. His face is is twisted, his nose is is twisted off to one side because He uh in his drunken condition, he was with with the horses and whatnot, wasn't paying attention, and got kicked in the face and it laid him down on the ground and broke his face and twisted his nose. Sylvia is somebody who he's told me this with tears in his eyes. He says, if you only knew me before I got saved, he said that was terrible. You know what? Sylvia's not a drunk anymore. Why? Because they're in 2020, 2022, January of 2022. Iglesia Bautista Torre Fuerte, Strong Tower Baptist Church, was planted right around the corner from his house. A group of people went around knocking on the doors there in Ipialis and began to knock on the doors. They knocked on his door and they invited him to church. I didn't even get a chance to leave him. Lord, it wasn't me. It was Pastor Saron who was visiting from Pasta who came up. Pastor Saron invited him to church. I got back to church and walk in and I see Pastor Saron sitting with a man on the back row, sitting with Silvio, had his Bible open, was sharing the gospel with him. how he could be saved. They talked all the way up until the service started. The service finished. Pastor Shrone pulled his Bible back out and continued to go over the gospel with them. And that night, I think it was the second night of the church, show of your trusted Christ. as a Savior. You know he's still in the church there. You know his life has been changed. He's gotten baptized. You know what? He doesn't collect collect trash off the street anymore. He's got a job now. He comes to church there. Why? Because God saved him. You know what his burden is is to see his mother come to Christ and his brothers as well. well. You know, those are people that are bound, and the Lord can free them. Let me just give you the last one and we need to finish up. There are those who are callous to God. Those who are callous to God. If you come with me to verses 22 and following, I love, I love this story. Well, let's just kind of summarize it. They beat him. Verse 23, they've laid many stripes on him. They throw him into the inner prison. Verse 24, the prison the prison guard, having received such a charge, thrust him into the inner prison, may feel the their feet fast in the stocks. And I love this verse. Pastor, I can see this in my mind. Can you imagine two old kooks or missionaries in there in the middle of this jail? And I'm not saying all missionaries. Okay? But that's what everybody you you you know that's what the other prisoners thought. The other prisoners weren't like, oh wow, there's two preachers right there, they're singing in the middle of the jail isn't that great no everybody around them thought they're nuts they just got beat up they're in the they're in maximum insecurity in there and they're in there praising God for what Because he got him in jail? Can I tell you, the story is going to change drastically and dramatically. At midnight, Paul and Silas prayed and sang praises to God, and the prisoners heard them. You know, I imagine they're singing praises to God because they're in pain. I imagine they can't sleep because they're in pain. I imagine they can't sleep because they don't know what's going to happen tomorrow. You think they're going to kill us? They can't sleep. So what do you do when you can't sleep? You know what we tell our kids you're scared? The only one that can take You need to pray. Start praying. Start praying for people. Start praying for the for people to be saved. Start praying for your family. Go to the Lord. So that's what they're doing. Suddenly there was a great earthquake so that the foundations of the prison were shaken and immediately all the doors were open and everyone's hands, bands, I'm sorry, were loosed. And the keeper of the prison, and I love this, awaking out of his sleep and seeing the prison doors open, drew out his sword and would have killed himself, supposing that the prisoners had been fled. Okay, so you got a prisoner, prison guard You know, what is he? He's somebody that is so hard and he's willing literally to take his own life because he thought somebody got out of jail Imai we have a expression, Immahinese. Imagine that. Imagine say something like that happening. He's willing to literally kill himself because he thought somebody got out of jail. And Paul cries with a loud voice, verse twenty-eight, Do thyself no harm, for we are all here. And he called for a light and sprang in and came trembling and fell down before Paul and Silas. And he brought them out and he said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? You know what? He had been here in a night He'd been hearing about Jesus all night. He'd been hearing about the gospel. He probably knew about them from around town. He knew why they were there. Sirs, what must I do to be saved? And they said, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. And I have They didn't say join a church. They didn't say come to my church. They didn't say do anything. Believe on Jesus, on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. And you know what? The same guy who one minute was scared to death is Someone got out and he's going to kill himself. What's he do? He takes them out of jail. Verse 33. He took them the same hour of the night and washed their stripes and was baptized he and all his straightway. What a change happens in a matter of two hours. What a change. Here's a guy that's so hard. You know these prison guards. They're not pansies. These prison guards, they're not they're not lightweights. These guys are tough. They're the toughest guys that they have. They're willing, if they have to, to kill prisoners to make sure somebody doesn't escape. Whatever they have to do to continue to to complete their mission and their job. And here's a guy who literally In just an instant, turns into a different man. You know what happens when the gospel comes to town? Those that are seeking the truth find Jesus Jesus. Those who are bound by Satan are loosed. And those who are callous to God are given new life. This guy's given new life. This year, but let me maybe I can give you some more details about it tonight. But uh his name is Luis and it was a little bit before the service on a Sunday afternoon, about three o'clock in the afternoon, earlier this This year. And I was there in San Juan. It's this tiny little town. You could just picture it up in the mountains. We're uh somewhere around eighty five hundred feet at that particular church, and there's mountains on both sides. You know how it is? You have kind of a valley area. We're down in the valley. We've got mountains off on both sides. Over one ridge is a gorilla town, over the other ridge is another gorilla town. And right through that stretch of territory, that's that's the only place I've actually physically seen weekend. Don't go. But anyway, I'm standing there in the doorway of the church and I'm setting up chairs. We're getting ready for the service. It's this tiny little storefront, and you got the street out front there. And uh it's it kind of has a a real nice inclination to it. You know, it's dirt off on both sides. It's just real ugly right there. But anyway, that's where we have search. And so anyway, I'm I'm I'm setting the chairs up and I hear this voice and somebody was calling to the pastor. I turned around and I look toward the back of the church back off on the I'd be your left. Back off on your left to the back corner of the church in the doorway is this stocky little Colombian guy, you know Tough little guy. About twenty-six years, twenty-five, twenty-six years of age. And he wanted to talk to the pastor. I didn't know who he was, I didn't know what he was there for. I figured, oh, okay, it's probably somebody looking for money or somebody that It's you know, and and hopefully we can give them the gospel. So I turned around and I went to the back and as I went to the back I motioned to Jorge. Jorge's the guy who plays the guitar there in the street church and I motioned for Jorge to come with me because we we were gonna go talk to him outside. We're close to the service time and I didn't want it that to interrupt. Carlos was going to start the song leading. And so as we go outside and begin to talk to this guy, Luis, one of the first things he says is he says, he said, I just don't see the point of living anymore. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Timeout. What was that? I just don't see the point in living anymore. I don't see what what's the purpose. And right away, you know, Pastor Mo kicks in. All right, you know, the gospel. You know, the thing that gives purpose is the Lord Jesus Christ. Yeah, our life. And then it hit me, you know what? Before you go into all that, you need to hear a story. Why does he say that? So I asked him, I said, Well tell me a little bit about, you know, why you say that. What's going on? And so he began to share. And he said, yeah, he said, um, he said, uh I grew up in a Christian home. He said was a uh Pentecostal church my mom took us to. He said I became a leader in the youth group as a teenager. And he said, but as as we got further along in the in our teenage years, my brother and I, he said, my brother made the decision to join the guerrilla fighters. So join the guerrilla group, the FARC. And he said, so he joined and he said it wasn't long he talked me into joining too. And he said, so I left home and he said I joined the group And he said uh you know, he said it was fun. He said we were in control. He said we had the guns and he said we set up our roadblocks and he said we would we would be in charge of the whole town. the city, everything. And he said everybody was afraid of us. And and he said I wanted to to advance in the group and I wanted to become uh well known in the group and and he said uh I began to be sent out on missions to kill To control the territory. They control by terrorizing. That's the whole point. Is if everybody's afraid of them, then everybody listens and does what they say. And he said so they'd send me out on missions, and he said, sometimes he said if I can't, commander wouldn't send me On a mission, he said, I had to. I had to see blood. He said, so I'd cut my arms. He pulled down the sleeves on both of his arms. Blood, not blood, but uh scars on both of his arms. And he said, I had to see that. And he said, but the thing is, he said two well anyway, two days ago his brother had been killed by the group. He was fleeing for his life. And he made the decision he was But he happened to come into town and see a funeral and it got him thinking and he wasn't even sure if it was He went to a charismatic church that doesn't preach the gospel, and they said, We're not even going to talk to somebody like you. And as he was passing our church, he happened to see There was a church and he saw people in, so he went to the doorway just to see if anybody would talk to him. We went over the gospel with him. Went over the gospel with him Explain, look, you know what you can trust Jesus Christ. He'll save you. It won't take the scars away. Those memories that you still have, you'll have the rest of your life. The things you've done, you've still done. But he'll save you. And as I shared the gospel with them, I in Jorge as well shared the gospel. We kind of went back and forth. Finally I asked Luis, I said, Luis, I said, why don't you trust Jesus Christ right now? He understood what we were saying. Said, why don't you trust Jesus Christ and ask him to save you? And Louise said, no, he said, I'll I'll do that when I get home. I'll do it when I get home. I said, Don't you think your mom's been praying for you for an awful long time Don't you think it'd be wonderful to go home and be able to tell your mom you got saved? And you know what? He shook his head, yeah. Bowed his head, trusted Christ As a Savior. Can I tell you what is that's a callous man. That's a hardened person. I have to admit, when we were praying, the whole time I kept my I kept opening my eyes, checking his hands. I don't know where his hands are. What's he doing? But you know what? He trusted Christ as a Savior. The Lord wants to save everybody. The Lord Jesus Christ died on a cross to save people that are Looking, to save people that are hardened, to save people that they may not even be interested. They're bound by something. And you and I are the key that God wants to use in their life to open their door to the gospel. Open their heart to the gospel. The question is, are we usable? The question is, are we ready to speak for Him? That's how He I just want to close with this. I want to say church, thank you. As I think about what God's done in Columbia, I begin to think about the people that God saved over these last four years. and I'm only going to give you a few names, but I thought it might be an encouragement to your heart to know that you know God's still working. God's still saving people. Yes, God saved Marcella, God saved Silvio, God saved Luis. But let me just men and let me mention some others. Johnny and his wife, they were on the point of divorce. They're Venezuelans that live in Impialis, their son Acre Johnny and his wife trusted Christ as their Savior. Their marriage has been restored. They're faithful in the church. Now their son Iker is learning how to lead the music there. Danita, she's a little girl in a wheelchair. Danita uh came to church because she saw the Bible club. She started going to the Bible club with her mom and then eventually started inviting her family and wanted them to go So they started coming to church. As a result, her dad, a truck driver, Salso, trusted Christ as a savior about two years ago. Johan, her brother, who's an engineering student who's graduated, Johan trusted Christ as a savior. In the Bible Institute this next semester because he wants to be a pastor. She graduates here in December with her degree in dentistry. And she trusted Jesus Christ as her Savior last year. She was an atheist two years ago, but last year we had a We had a preacher visit us and and when he came, he preached a conference for us, and she trusted Christ as her Savior in that conference. You know, one of the things that I just found amazing about Juliet She had to have some dental schooling in Mexico this summer. And you know what she did? She said, the first thing she said when she went to Mexico was, what church can I go to? to. And guess what? We happened to have somebody we knew that was from that area, had gone to Bible college in the area and gave her the name of a church in her area and she went faithfully then to Consuelo, uh a lady, uh uh well it's Danita's mother, she trusted Christ as her savior. Uh Samuel, the cousin. Samuel um and his cousin, they they tried to commit suicide. And they were not successful and now they're saved and baptized in in the church there. Julie, she's been diagnosed with cancer. Julie has trusted Christ as her Savior. She's going to be baptized Lord Well. when we get back. Gloria Libardo, the trusted Christ the Savior. Patricia. Patricia, the very first question she asked me was this. She said, what can I do? Basically, do you guys cast out demons You know what, I don't I don't specialize in that. We have this pastor in Hunt Valley, Maryland, and he can help you with that, but anyway. You know what? She trusted Christ as her savior. She got saved. And you know what? She's not asking about any demons anymore. Praise the Lord. She's there faithfully with her daughters in church there. Yanita, she's in a different church. She's in in in the Faith Baptist Church. And her daughter Andrea, her son as well, have trusted Christ as Savior. Her her two kids are gonna be baptized when we get back. Yeah, Anita got baptized this year. Her mother Aura trusted Christ. Esteban and Gladys, they're farm workers. They make about, I think it's somewhere around They trusted Christ as Savior. And uh Juan, Juan is the little boy that he's he's the most faithful in church. They're in in We'll get there an hour before church and he's already sitting there in front of the church. About twelve years old, he's there every time. Juan trusted Christ as his savior. have a mom. But we pray that one day the Lord will greatly use this life. And then there's so many children who've trusted Christ. What is mission is about? It's the same thing you're supposed to do all over the world. Just tell people about Jesus. That's what missions is. Just tell people about Jesus. So let me just ask you, church, as you leave here tonight Don't think about what other people might think. Just realize there's people that are looking. There's people that are hardened. And there's people that are bound. And God's going to use you to be the difference. Heavenly Father, thanks for this time. I'll turn it over to Pastor. Thank you for this time. And Lord, I pray that you'd work in our hearts as you see fit tonight. In Jesus' name