The title of the Sunday School message is What Jesus Can Do With Your Life. I think it's important, and I don't know. I'm getting a little bit older now, but I think God, we sometimes limit what God can do because we don't have enough faith to believe that He can do it. Well I just phew. I come in here and I'm looking at the building and I'm thinking, Woohoo I remember what it looked like before it looked like this. And most of you people who are involved in that. But what what what God could do? Whew. This is not time to sit, soak, and sour. This is time to get busy for Jesus. We have an opportunity right now to do something for the Lord, and it's important. Matthew chapter 5, we'll read some verses in here, and then we'll get into the Sunday school time and we'll try to be done on time. Did I say Matthew? Mark. My wife's not here. She tell me, no, you said the wrong thing. It's Mark 5. I have Bronx in here. It's Mark chapter 5. Any anybody here ever make a mistake? Okay, good. Anybody here perfect? Oh, Dorsey. Anyway. Some people are perfect, you know what I mean? They just need to leave right now because we're gonna mess them up. You know what I'm saying? Around a bunch of imperfect people and so if you're perfect then you got issues. Amen. Hello. Uh you might not be too perfect because you're not in heaven right now. Amen. Thank you very much. All right. Mark chapter five Let's bound a word of prayer and we'll get started. Lord, we love you today. I'm thankful today that I'm saved. I'm thankful that somebody was interested enough in my soul. To uh invite me to church and uh be concerned about my soul. Thank you that uh I came to church and my heart was open and I got saved, and I don't take that lightly today. And I pray that as I'm here this morning, as I already prayed this morning, I just want to be a blessing. Pray be with the preacher and his wife as they're traveling, a lot of traveling. It's it's Sometimes it can be very tiring, but I pray continue to use him, and I pray you can help us to continue to pray for him. Pray, bless the service, bless the Sunday school. And if there's anybody here today that's not 100% sure they're saved and on their way to heaven, I pray they get settled today and get gloriously saved. Be with us today, head and protect me, wash me and cleanse me with your blood, and we'll be careful to give the praise, the honor, and glory, for we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Matthew chapter 5. I'd let's say Mark chapter 5. Thank you, sir. I appreciate it. Why do I want to keep saying Matthew? I don't know. First book of the New Testament, amen. That's why. That's the right that's why I'm calling sorry Matthew. Sorry Matthew. Mark, amen. Mark chapter five. And I came unto the other side of the sea into the city of the Gadarenes. And he was come out of the ship. Immediately there met him out of the tombs a man with an unclean spirit, who had his dwelling among the tombs. And no man could bind him, no, not with chains. Now, I want I want you to I want you to think about the scene for a minute. In a world that we live in, it's pretty easy for you not to pay attention to people who have problems. Normally what we like to do is we like to avoid those kind of people. Let's be honest here today. We we just like to avoid those kind of people because those kind of people are going to take some work. Seriously. But what I found out in working in two inner city ministries is those kind of people usually know where they are in their life. And you you travel around today, you knock on doors, you talk to people about Jesus. Most most people just think they're okay. Like like they don't need Jesus. Hello? Well here's this fella. He's got a problem. I mean he's got a big problem. Hello? And and Jesus doesn't avoid the problem I think sometimes the blessing we could really have, even in our individual churches and our individual lives, is there's more blessing working with people who have problems than people who got it all together. Now some of you are like that in this room and I am too. I'm a testimony of that. And the way Matthew's laughing, he is too, amen. But but it's a trophy of God's grace. And so I want you to think about this scene. Here's this fella, and we're going to read a little bit more, who basically nobody can control. Nobody. Alright, here we go. Here we go. Mark chapter five. How do you like that, Matthew? We got it, amen. Okay. You're welcome, sir. Because that he had been often down with feathers and chains, and chains had been plucked asunder by him and feathers broken in pieces, neither could any man tame him. And always, night and day, he was in the mountains and in the tombs, crying and cutting himself with stones. But when he saw Jesus afar off, he ran and did what? Woo! Come on now. Even the people, and this guy, possessed by devils, recognized who Jesus is. Come on now. And I'm gonna I don't want to get ahead of myself today, but we need to recognize who Jesus is today. Come on now. And there's the world outside of here that needs to know about Jesus through our testimony. All right, here we go. And cried with a loud voice and said, What have I to do with thee, Jesus, the Son of the Most High God? I drew thee by God that thou torment me not. Now the demons are speaking through him now. I listen, I let me just pause here for a second. I don't know if you've ever come in contact with anything like this. I I I was at Bethel Baptist Church and and I worked in that ministry for four years, and there was a lot of demon possession and stuff going on there. I remember I remember I remember being in a bus. We had the it was called a bus garage, but it wasn't a bus garage. It was Two broken down doors where we kept the buses inside there so people wouldn't break the windows out of the buses. And we used to lift up the doors to close the door and it was a fella uh was his mom and dad had this place and it was like a little broken down deliver there but it it it stopped people from breaking the windows And I remember one Wednesday night going in there, and uh before Wednesday came, Tuesday afternoon, I would go and start the bus to make sure the bus would start up. So when I came Wednesday and go pick the people up. You could just drive the bus away. Now anybody knows what you're what we're talking about here today is when you're driving buses in most independent fundamental Baptist church, you better make sure that the thing starts. Amen? I'm just saying. I'm just saying. And so so I go, I got it started, and so now I'm coming Wednesday. It's Wednesday afternoon. It's getting a little dark. And uh I I'm getting ready to take the bus. All of a sudden I I turn the key and it goes I'm thinking, what in the world? So I go pull the truck in. I pull the truck in, I I hook up the I'm I'm trying to charge them up, so I put jumper cables on there and I hook them up and I And I go in there and then the the thing's still going I'm thinking and then all of a sudden all of a sudden I can sense there's somebody else in this building. And so immediately I stop because I begin to have like hair stand up on the back of my neck. Like this is not a physical person. This is a spiritual battle going on right here. And I it's it's really wild because because it was it was it was crazy. It was dark and it was And so what I did is I just prayed and I said, you know, by the blood of Jesus Christ, put a hedge about this place, and I rebuke you, demon, in the name of Jesus. Now you listen. The next thing that happened is whatever was in there left, and when it left, a wind went with it, and it opened up those doors by itself. Come on. On both sides without lifting it up. Hello. This ain't something on the movies. This is something that happened to me. I'm telling you. And when I got into the bus, guess what happened? Started. Yeah. Hello. I mean there's some stuff man in life you mess with. Hello, and you're like, doo doo doo doo doo doo. Hello. But very true. Very true. Verse 8. For he said unto him, Come out of that man, thou unclean spirit. And he asked him, what is thy name? And he answered and said, My name is Legion, for we are many. Woo! We're not dealing with one person here, we're dealing with many. Here go, another story. Side I don't even know if I'll get to the message, but it'll be okay. I was at Bethel Baptist Church and we had this lady in our church and every time the invitation would come, she would fall out on the floor and foam at the mouth. Hello? I mean in church service I remember the preacher saying to me, Look, we're gonna go visit her and we're gonna try to cast this demon out of her I'm thinking like Maybe you, maybe not me. And here's what he said to me, and I never forgot it. He said to me, he said, listen to me. He said the demon's going to bring up anything he can to divide us. Because there's power, come on, there's power and unity. So now if you have a problem with me right now, the demon, come on, they're gonna bring stuff up to try to divide us. He said, So what you need to do is you just need to pray and fast. Woo! I was praying and fasting and hope we didn't go, amen. I'm thinking that would be a good thing to miss, amen And I remember, I remember that uh we went, we actually went, I'm praying, I'm fasted up. She wasn't home, and I said, Praise Jesus, amen. Hallelujah, I've been delivered, amen Woo! I don't know where she is today, but I'm telling you what, she's away from me. Praise Jesus. Amen. Verse number 10. And he besought him much that he would not send them away out of the country. Now there was a there was there nigh unto the mountains a great herd of swine feed And all the devils besought him, saying, Send us into the swine that we may enter into them. And forthwith Jesus gave them leave And the unclean spirits went out and entered into the swine, and they and the herd ran violently down the steep place into the sea, and there were about two thousand. And they were choked in the sea. And they that fled the swine, the swine fled, and told it uh and they that fed the swine fled, and told it in the city and in the country. And they went out to see what it was that was done. And they came to Jesus and seeing him that was possessed with the devil and had a legion. sitting and clothed and in his right mind and they were afraid. I guess they were. Now here's a guy who's got problems, right? Come on now. Major problems When Jesus shows up, come on now, it changes his life forever. Now watch it. Did you see what that said? And I want to get here because I'm an evangelist guy, okay? Here you go. What's what it says? I'm an evangelist guy. Come on now, Matthew man. Here we go. Look what it says. The devil had leads you sitting clothed. And in his right mind. Can I help you here? When you get saved, you put more clothes on, you don't take clothes off. There ought to be a difference in the way we look compared to what they look like. I'm going to preach about it in the morning service. Come on now. There was a day and age, Brother Gus, when you go someplace, you be besides feeling the Spirit of God, you could tell somebody was a Christian just by the way they dressed. That's changing. Because we want to look more like they do. Allah, we're supposed to be far away from that. Well I'm not saying you need to look like some fuddy duddy. Come on now. But you don't need to be something somebody out of Juke Key magazine in some kind of hello fashion statement. Come on now. Clothing in his right mind. And they told it and said how it befell him that he was possessed with the devil, and also concerning the swine. Watch this next statement. And they began to pray him to depart out of their coast. Wait a second. I would think that's who you need to be in your coast. Amen. Listen, listen. Here's where we want to be. Come on, come on, come on, listen, listen. I think we we today as independent fundamental Baptists, we just want more of religion rather than conviction. We we we want to come to church and we want to punch our time card and say we did our duty today. We're not interested for God to show up and change our life. Come on now. Because we're settled, 'cause you know I'm okay. No, you're not okay. Except for Jesus, it's only by the grace of God I stand here today. And if it wasn't for him, good night, where would I be today? Hello? The bottom line is we need to understand That there needs to be some growth in us and it doesn't matter how old you are or how young you are, you ought to be growing every day. And I'm getting older. Come on now. I'm just saying. Well, Gus is getting older. He's having a baby. Well, his wife is. Amen? Lord have mercy. He's got problems now. Amen. He thinks he had problems. He's got more coming on, amen. All right, look a little bit and then we'll get into the Sunday school thing this morning. That he might be with 19. How about Jesus suffered him not, but said of him, go home to thy friends. And tell them how great things the Lord hath done for thee and hath compassion, hath had compassion on you. On me. So here's what he says. You can't follow me. I mean listen to me, somebody who just got all these demons out of my body, guess who I'd want to be with? Jesus. Can I help you today? When we get saved, sometimes we're running away from Jesus. Can you understand that? You know, sometimes when we have problems in our life, the place we need to run to is the place we need we run away from. The help is here. Come on now. The help is in Jesus. The help is in pastoral staff and your pastor of your church. We shouldn't run away from that. We should run to it. There you go. You can't trust in religion and your works. You can only trust in Christ alone to get you to heaven. Ephesians 2. 8. 9 says, For by grace are you saved through faith, and that not of yourselves. It is a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. John 14, 6 says, Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. I'm going to give you three points this morning. On what can Jesus do with a life of allow him? Number one, he'll give you peace. Whew. Listen, we're living in a world today. Come on, listen. You walk around and you talk to people. It's not peace. Cash Bush, do you have peace? It's Christmas. I saw something what twenty-five, twenty-four days, twenty-three days, whatever now. Hello? Don't get all tied up in that stuff Come on now. Come on, come on. It's all about Jesus. They're trying to take that all away, but it's all about Jesus. So my question is this morning, how much peace do you have? Alright, a couple verses. You ready? Alright, let's turn to a couple places. You ready? Alright, Psalm 119, 165. Psalm 119. 165 Psalm one nineteen, one sixty-five. Oh one sixty-five. Yes, sir, one sixty-five. No, I don't know about that. Did I see sixty-five or one six I s no you're wrong that time, Matthew man. Psalm 119, 165. Here you go. You got it now, Matthew? Good, I'm glad. Amen. Great peace have they which love thy law. Ready? And nothing shall offend them. Wow. Next question. Have you ever been offended? You might even get offended in church today. Hello, come on, you might get offended. Good happy B, huh? Now here's my question. What is your normal reaction when you are offended? Huh. Are you the kind of person? Are you the kind of person who immediately wants to return the offense? Come on now. Then that tells me that you don't have much peace in your heart. Because those that have great peace, ready? Nothing shall offend them Now listen, when you get saved, you're supposed to give your life to Christ and you are now a bond slave. Come on, come on. And you have no rights. In Jesus. So guess what? So now guess what? So if you're a dead person, nothing offends you. The problem is we don't like ourselves to die. We want control. So now you're offending me. You ready ready? I want to return it back to you. Like like we want to get even with people. Come on now. That's not what God wants you to do. God wants you to bless them that curse you. You know, I'm still I got problems with that. I don't know if you are, but I got I got issues with that. Hello? I'm an evangelist, but guess what? I got problems. Just like Matthew does. Amen. Hello. That's right. Now here's the deal. So my question is, if you have the real type of peace, then nothing shall offend you. Woo. I don't know. Alright, a couple of ones. Here you go, another one. John chapter 14, verse 27. John 14, 27. Congratulations there, Mrs. Rodriguez. Matthew fourteen twenty-seven. I'm John 14, 27. See, Matthew's got me all messed up. John fourteen twenty-seven. John fourteen twenty-seven. I'm blaming it on myself. John fourteen twenty-seven. You'll be all right. Amen. Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you, not as the world giveth Giveth I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid. Wow. I don't know. I don't know if I don't know if in your life when when things happen and and trouble happens or trials happen, what is your normal reaction to that? I I think about it often that that and I'm going through some things right now but I'll talk about in the morning service. But but the idea is this That that I ought to know that God is in control of everything. Do you know we say that? Oh yeah. But sometimes I don't think we believe it. So so if you get cancer, I have cancer right now, prostate cancer. If if you get cancer or you have a health issue or you have things going on in your life You know what the no normal one reaction is? Why is it happening to me? Can I ask you a question? Why not? Uh a little sort of testimony and uh I I don't want to I was gonna use it, I'll use it here now because God wants me to. I have prostate cancer so I'm going through a lot of things right now. And so I had a fellow, we have the summit at our church invite pastors and their families. to come and we take care of them at our church. And so so I had a fellow who wasn't going to come to the to the meeting and uh I looked on the sheet and I usually call people up if they say they're not coming after meeting I know how the devil works. I said to fellows, is there anything I could do for you? Maybe I can send you some money to get here or whatever. He said, You know what? I have prostate cancer. I said, so where are you at in the stage? He said, well, I'm just starting, so I really I gotta go to the doctor. I said, you know, maybe maybe the devil doesn't want you to go. Maybe God wants to give you a blessing. I said, why don't you just pray about it? And so he came and and he got blessed. And what I'm trying to say to you is that I was able to talk to him about what he was going through because I was going through it at the same time. And there's sometimes you're going through things in life, and God just wants you to be a testimony and to help somebody else. And you're not supposed to get bitter about it. Still have a smile. Come on now. Hello? I mean look at people, you ought to look at what we look at when we're preaching. It's scary up here, amen. Scary. Lord have mercy Woo have good one. All right, one other verse. One other verse. Romans five verse one. Romans five verse one. I'm going one more one verse, that's it. Is that okay with you? Yeah, I think that's a good one. Okay, good. Alright, good. Not doesn't matter, but uh it's okay with you, we're good. Amen, the whole verse. We're gonna do whole verse one, amen. We're not doing a whole chapter, we ain't got all day. Amen. It's a good chapter. Amen. Matthew 5. 1 says, Therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord. Oh, I'm sorry. What did I say? Matthew again. Matthew, we're we're just missing you out of church. It's Romans chapter five, verse one. Lord have mercy Thank you, Martha. Romans five one. I got it right here in front of me. How in the world can you say it? Good night. Matthew's got me all messed up here today. Yes, see Romans 5. There we go. Therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. So our peace comes. Because God sent his son to die on the cross for your sin and my sin. Right. That we might have eternal peace. Amen. Okay, that's first. Okay? Number two. Purpose and a plan for your life. A purpose and a plan for your life. Uh should I do this? Yeah, let's do this. Turn to Jonah. Who? Jonah. Uh uh. You hear him? Who? Jonah one. Jonah to one. That's right before Micah In my Bible it's like 1,024. Amen? That's the page number. But I have big print. Amen. I'm going to look at somebody and and here's what I was I was just alluding to it just a minute ago that God gives us a purpose and a plan for life and sometimes instead of running to God we run away from God. So now we'll look at Jonah just for a second here, or a minute, a couple of minutes. Now the word of the Lord came unto Jonah the son of Amitai, saying, Arise and go to Nineveh, that great city, and cry against it, for their wickedness has come up before me. Hey, hey, when the Lord takes notice of wickedness coming up before him, wow. And makes mention of it in the Bible, it's pretty serious. Pretty serious. You go. But Jonah ran to Nineveh. Is that what he did? No. He rose up and flee under Tarshis from the presence of the Lord. And went down to Jap, there's his problem, he's going down. And he found a ship going to Tarsus, so he paid the fare thereof, and went down into it to go with them unto Tarsus from the presence of the Lord. How how'd that work out for Jonah? Huh. I believe this. In my heart, I really believe this. I believe there's a lot of Christians. Who sit in independent Baptist churches today who've never done God's purpose and plan for their life. And they've never had the true peace they really could have had. Illustration. I had a teenager that I was on a Wednesday night service who surrendered to the mission field. And uh she wound up liking a preacher's son, which was a good thing. But but but he wasn't going to be a missionary. And so she never went to the mission field. And you say, well she's married. Yeah, I understand that. I I tell people this, listen, if you're gonna go to the mission field, then you date somebody who's gonna be a missionary. Hello. And I really believe that she doesn't have true peace in her life because she's never done the real purpose and plan that God had for her life. Now I'm not saying that that doesn't come as a cost, but it comes as a co it comes at a cost. And if you're ever going to surrender to the Lord and really want God's purpose and plan for your life, you're you're going to have to run To it, not away from. And normally people get afraid of that. Like, like, like really, God wants me to do that? I remember. I remember when I came to a point where the Lord wanted me to surrender. I didn't want to surrender. I I didn't want to. Not me. No. And the Lord said, if you don't surrender, you're disobedient. I said, whoa, why you gotta say that? Why why you gotta go there? Hello? Why do you gotta go there? And I remember that. That was July of 1982 And I got up and I surrendered my life, got saved July 6th, 1980, and I surrendered my life to the Lord. Listen to me, I've never regretted that decision. And God has given me my wife and I were talking about it the other night. Just some vision and some some some some goals and dreams in my life and I mean if I if I die tomorrow, Lord have mercy. My life has been unbelievable what God has allowed in my life. Well I'm trying to say to you, that's where peace comes. And knowing what God's purpose and plan is for your life, come on, come on. You actually get happy about what you're doing. Like like we traveled, my wife and I traveled 63,000 miles last year. In the East Coast. We're hardly home. My wife, like other we would drop and go. It just took us probably about a week and a half to clean up everything that we dropped. You know how bad that is for women when they can't come home to a clean house? Like you can't even get into the entryway Hello? Hello? But but listen. But she's already surrendered to the fact that she's married to an evangelist and we're traveling. And she doesn't want to get come on. She doesn't want to get in interference and she doesn't want to get and hold me back from the Lord. So if God's in it, that's what we're doing. Hello? And I have a special woman, I really do, and I'm not talking about special education either. I'm talking about I got a special woman Just just celebrated forty-three years of marriage, so I'm just saying. Awesome. Alright, let's look at a couple verses. You ready? Alright. Romans 8. 28. Familiar. Romans 8. 28. Well we know all things work together for good? How come? To them that love who? To them who were called according to his purpose, here's the problem now. All things? He didn't say some things. He said all things. How many here sometimes you go through struggles and trials in your life and you begin to question what's going on? Hello? Do you know that God knows? I think sometimes we think that God doesn't know. Did you ever like did you ever pray and try to help God? Like I always tried to help God out with the answer. Hello? I mean here's um I'm gonna do but you know. Hello. I I think sometimes God likes it to have and has has a sense of humor. He's gotta be laughing Like like what is wrong with these people? What is wrong with this guy? Is he a knucklehead or what? Amen? Familiar first, Matthew 6. 33 says, Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. Colossians 3. 2 says, set your affections on things above, not on things on the earth. Turn to one other place. Matthew chapter 16, really Matthew this time. Amen. Matthew sixteen. I'm gonna give Martha a Q sign back there so she can help me out. The wife's not here. Your wife can just give you a look and you know what's going on, amen? Let me know what I'm talking about right there. Come on now. Laugh you s don't say that too too loud, Gus. Come on now. Twenty-four. She's behind you. She was laugh you right upside your head, bro. Matthew 16, 24. Then said Jesus unto his disciples, If any man will come after him, after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. For whosoever will save his life shall lose it, and whosoever shall lose his life for my sake shall find it. Like a double negative there, doesn't it? What the Lord's trying to say is that that you have to deny yourself. And follow him. Do you know what this world doesn't want you to do? Doesn't want you to deny yourself. I I I I uh we ha we're watching our two grandkids, my son is moving, my youngest is moving. And something will come up on the TV and and he doesn't even know what says, uh I want that. I want that. I said, no, you don't need that. But that that's come on, that's what commercialism is trying to do to them. It's trying to not solve their wonder. It's not that they need that, they want that. And there's a lot of things I think I want. Come on now, I don't need it. Hello? And sometimes God doesn't give you what you pray for, because if you got what you prayed for, you'd be messed up. Like I'm thinking like, okay, thank you, Lord. I'm glad you didn't answer that prayer. Hello before it was a little too late. But we need to follow We need to take up our cross and follow him. Verse 26 says, For what is man profiteth that he shall gain the whole world? And lose his own soul, or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul? So here's the question. What's the worth of a soul? Listen, listen. If you get nothing else in life besides salvation, that's eternal. Right. Nobody can take that away. So you're saved here this morning. Ready, right? Death is not a threat. Absent from the body is to be present with the Lord. Hello? So it doesn't really matter. And I listen, most of us, because we live in America, we got it pretty good. We're not living in the third world country. Preachers out there in the third world country. Come on now. I mean they live like a totally different way than we do. And we just need to be thankful for what we have and we just need to follow Come on, him, not us. And number three, and I'm finished, the last thing we need to do, and I think it's the least we do of is praise. Praise. Psalm 119, 164. Matthew. He's not here. Anyway, anyway. 119. Seven times a day do I praise thee because of thy righteous judgments. Woo. I don't know about you, that's a deep verse right there. So I'm praising God even because of righteous judgments. Can I ask a question? Can I ask a question? How much do you really praise the Lord each day? Probably less than what we should. Sometimes sometimes I'll go outside or I'll I'll get done what I'm doing and I'm I I just start singing at the car to the car and I just listen, I can't sing a lick but I sing anyway, amen? Like I do my best singing in the shower, amen. I I'm really I really think I'm good right there, amen. I know I can't sing, but I'm singing anyway. But I want to give praise to the Lord for what he's done already. And I just need to praise him more about it. And I I my my kids need to see it, my grandkids need to see it, and it just you just listen to me, you just have to have a heart of praise and thankfulness. And I know we just got over Thanksgiving. That's one of my favorite holidays. But the bottom line is, when's the last time you just praise the Lord? Woo! Alright. Luke chapter 19. Luke chapter 19. We're coming around. We're almost finished. Luke 19 Luke nineteen, verse thirty seven Luke nineteen, verse thirty seven. Luke nineteen, verse thirty seven. And when he was come nigh, even now at the descent of Mount of Olives The whole multitude of disciples began to rejoice and what? Praise God with a loud voice for all the mighty works that they had seen. Can you imagine? The Bible says it can't contain it. The books put all can you imagine being there? Can you imagine seeing some of that stuff? Can you imagine being an apostle or disciple and you still didn't get it? I got the whole Bible and I still don't get it. Hello? Come on. Psalm 67, 3, let the people praise thee, O God, let all thy people praise thee. Amen. And I wrote this little thing down there, what we get excited about and what we like, we praise. Thank you. Okay. In my basement, my wife actually called this. I didn't call it, she did. It's called the Man Cave. It's a man cave. And she has a little sign that looks like somebody in the prehistoric signs cut it out of stone and has an arrow pointed to it, man cave. Now In the man cave is where I do my devotions, and that's where I spend time with God. And down there is where sports is played. Amen? There's two TVs in the house, one upstairs, but there comes times when the mama, wifey, comes down and she wants to watch the Hallmark Channel. That's like purgatory, amen. Good night. I I can tell you what's going to happen when it's going to start, when it's going to finish, and what's going to happen in between. They're all the same plot. Hello? But listen, when mom is happy, everybody's happy. So sometimes the man cave's gotta be a little bit of a woman cave. Amen? Hello. I'm through. But here's the question. What could Jesus really do with your life and my life if we just let him? Well listen, listen. What Hunt Valley Baptist Church could be If every person that's a member in this church let Jesus do what he could do in our lives, what this church would be like. Can I help you here? Be different. Let's pray. Father, thank you for this time. Thank you for your goodness. Thank you for this church. I pray you bless the service to Father. Thank you for your love and mercy in Jesus' name. Amen.