Be with you again, and if you would just take your Bibles with me and open to 2 Chronicles chapter numbers 20. 2 Chronicles chapter number 20 It has been just a blessing to be with you all. And thank you so much, Pastor, again, for the invitation to be here. We have been blessed just by your fellowship. And I mean that from the bottom of our hearts. Uh just the reality of uh it it's an encouragement to us uh to see God just at work in a lot of different churches and coming here, we definitely sense God on the move. Don't lose that spirit. We need our light to shine more than ever. Now is the time not to hide our light, but to shine brightly for Jesus. We can do that individually, but it's an amazing thing, the body life of the church, to do that corporately. So thank you. Thank you, Pastor, just for the privilege uh to be with you all and we do just thank you for your um kind hospitality. We do appreciate that. Do appreciate your prayers for us as a family as we continue to minister together In the Ministry of Revival Meetings and Counseling Seminars and Insives, we do covet your prayers. We will pray for you as the Lord keeps you on our minds. And just grateful for the opportunity to be with you. I'm so grateful for the fact that God uh speaks to us through his word. He gives us precepts, he gives us promises. But I'm so grateful for the narratives of the Bible. And I want to draw our attention to 2 Chronicles chapter 20. Because we find a man here, he's not just a man, he's a king, he's the king of Judah. He's a man who uh faced crises He faced a specific crisis here in 2 Chronicles chapter 20. And the fact is, I don't want to pop anyone's bubble, but if you're not facing a crises right now, you will It's just a part of life. All of us will face crises. And perhaps there's some even right now. There's a crises you're going through Uh crises come in all shapes and sizes. And the fact is we can certainly compare one crises to another, but the fact is when you're the one going through it It's a difficulty. It's a crises. It can be a painful thing. Crises can come in the form of just financial difficulties, financial loss Uh crises can come in the form of a loss of health, where we we feel like we're doing well and all of a sudden something happens and we get bad news from a doctor. Crises can certainly come in the form of a tragic loss of a loved one. And That is a desperate thing. I know Brother Pastor just mentioned John Smith, and let's be in prayer for him and his family. Crises, crises. They come out of nowhere. Sometimes crises can be relationship conflicts Um things just aren't right at home. There's just a tension. There's a strained relationship. It's going to be crises. Whatever the crises is, God always offers hope. The question is not, will you and I face crises, all of us will. The question is how will we respond? to those crises. When those crises come, how will we respond? Because crises have a way of either draw driving us to the Lord or driving us away from the Lord. Only really those two responses, either drawing us to the Lord or driving us away from the Lord. And it all all centers on whether we respond biblically to crises. I've just titled the message this evening, What to Do in the face I'm so encouraged God gives us the story of Jehoshaphat because he faces a crisis, and I believe there's seven lessons That God gives us right here from this text of how we can respond biblically to crises. I want to start reading in 2 Chronicles chapter 20. It says, It came to pass After this also. So let's just for a moment set the context. Crises often come at the most unexpected times. Have you noticed that? So what is happening in Jehoshaphat's life? Well he's um he's on the right track. He's making some right decisions. In fact, the chapter right before He's just been confronted by a prophet of God saying, you need to get right with God. You're making an affinity with Ahab, and it's not right to fellowship to aid the ungodly. Well, Jehoshaphat listens. He gets right with God. Not only does he get right with God, but he leads the children of Israel to get right with God. And God begins to bless. And of course, Jehoshaphat goes as far to set up judges there who fear God, who rule in the fear of God. And it seems like when Jehoshaphat is doing all of the right things, it's when crises hit. And this crisis is in the form of an enemy coalition that comes against him uh to really wipe out Jehoshaphat, wipe out the nation of Israel, take back their land. And so let's again pick up the reading. It came to pass after this also that the children of Moab and the children of Ammon And with them other beside the Ammonites came against Jehoshaphat to battle. Then there came some that told Jehoshaphat saying There cometh a great multitude against thee from beyond the sea, on this side Syria. And behold, they be in Hazazan Tamar, which is in Geti. And Jehoshaphat feared. Isn't that a natural response? Something happens we don't like, we don't understand, and the first response is we're just scared to death. We're afraid. We're not sure what's going to happen. But Jehoshaphat doesn't stay there. It says Jehoshaphat feared, and there's always hope when we just humble ourselves enough to just take the step of obedience God wants us to do. to take according to his word. Jehoshaphat feared and set himself to seek the Lord Proclaimed a fast throughout all Judah. And Judah gathered themselves together to ask help of the Lord. Even out of all the cities of Judah they came to seek the Lord. Aren't you glad that in any hardship we always have the opportunity to ask help of the Lord? And that's the first biblical response I see, first of seven here from this text, is Jehoshaphat sets himself to seek the Lord. By the way, that's the best first response we can have in a crises. When there's that initial fear or initial discouragement. or initial rise of anger or frustration. That is the time. That is the trigger. That is the cue to say, I've got to seek the Lord. I've got to meet with God. Have you noticed there's nothing that compares to getting alone with God? We can talk to other people about our problems. And perhaps that provides a measure of relief, but nothing is a substitute for us actually humbling ourselves, getting alone with God. And actually meeting God. And I find Jehoshaphat he takes this step. He sets himself. It was purposeful. It was intentional. I've got He seeks the Lord, and not just seeks the Lord, but even to the point of fasting. You know, desperate situations do recall for desperate responses. Desperate measures. And Jehoshaphat even comes to the point of fasting to ask help of the Lord. So number one, seek the Lord. Don't turn to other things as our first resort. Sometimes how many of you are can identify with me when something goes wrong we have option A B C D if something goes wrong we can solve the problem. Just give us enough time we'll figure it out God has a way of putting us in situations that help us to recognize just how dependent we are. In crisis situations, they do have a way just of helping us recognize the emptiness of self-sufficiency. And so he sets himself to seek the Lord. Number two, he exalts God's power. Really the next several verses are Jehoshaphat's And I'm so grateful we have the prayer of Jehoshaphat recorded for us. Verse 5, it says, Jehoshaphat stood. In the congregation of Judah and Jerusalem in the house of the Lord before the new court and said, O Lord God of our fathers! Art not thou God in heaven, and rulest not thou over all the kingdoms of the heathen? And in thine hand is there not power and might so that none is able to withstand thee. Now this is a great verse. He opens his prayer just lifting up, magnifying God's power. He says, God, you are still God in heaven. When we're overwhelmed by problems, when we're overwhelmed by pressures or hardships or circumstances or the need for direction, it's good for us to remind ourselves that nothing surprises God. There's nothing that's outside of the control of God. God is all powerful. I love the Story of the creation account in Hebrews chapter 11 says, through faith we understand that the worlds were framed by the Word of God. God just spoke And the world came into existence. Have you ever noticed when it walks through the days of creation and then it comes to the stars, the universe, which is just vast? Scientists can't figure out exactly how large the universe is. But God says, just in an afterthought, he made the stars also. Just kind of like, well, it's just an afterthought. Nothing's too hard for God. He just made the universe, the stars, almost as an afterthought. He spoke the world into existence. And it helps me to remind myself that no problem is too big for God. There's no situation you're going through that takes God by surprise. There's no situation you're going through that is outside of his control. Just reminding ourselves of that is powerful. Isaiah chapter 40 is a great text of Scripture to meditate on when you're discouraged. It walks through the power of God. It says the universe, all those stars, have you looked on a dark night and seen just all of those stars? The Bible says he measures it in the stand of his hand. It's really small to God. I think about the waters. Have you ever stood on the ocean and just taken in the volume of water that is there on the ocean? They're in the oceans. It's amazing. It's breathtaking. And Isaiah 40 reminds us that he holds the waters in the hollow of his hand. That's your God. He's all powerful. He has all power. He also knows all things. And And Isaiah 40 says, who has instructed the Spirit of the Lord or has been his counselor taught him? In other words, there's nothing that God does not know. Someone said, Has it ever occurred to you that nothing has occurred to God? That's good. God is all powerful. God is all-knowing. Jehoshaphat exalts God's power. And our responsibility is just to simply magnify how great God is. Right in the moment of our crises. Jehoshaphat says, you're still God. You're God in heaven. Yes, there's this enemy coalition coming out against me, but you're still God in heaven. You rule over the kingdoms of the heathen, and in your hand is power and might, so that none is able to withstand thee. He exalts God's power. Number three, he remembers past blessings. He remembers past blessings. Look if you would in verse number seven, he says, Art not thou our God who didst drive out the inhabitants of this land before thy people Israel? and gave it to the seed of Abraham, thy friend, forever? What is he doing? He's just simply reminding himself of the reality God, you have fulfilled your promises. God, you have kept your word. You have blessed us. This land, this promised land is not our idea. It's God's idea. God was the one who promised it to Abraham, and he's the one who led the children of Israel in victory over Jericho and Ai and each of those kingdoms. And he's just reminding himself, God, you have led, you have provided, you have protected, you have led us to this point. And I find in the time of crises, the time of hardships Nothing can be more encouraging to just remember how God has led you Remember, God has worked. God has answered prayer. Pastor was just rehearsing earlier this week, just multiple answers to prayer, specific answers to prayer. What an encouragement. I've just started uh recording answers to prayer in a journal. And it just encourages me when there's times when when Satan tries to discourage or to uh bring fear or anxiety or whatever uh the case is, just to be able to go back and read How God has provided, how he's led in times past. It was about, well, it was 1996. The Lord called me to preach. It's three hours from here. And I will say it's exciting just to uh see how the Lord has has led. Uh when I get up and preach, I am still nervous when I get up and preach. But one thing that encourages me is just a reality that God has led and he's enabled. Sometimes I remind God, God, I'm not the one that called me. You did. And if God's the one that calls us, whatever it is, if God calls you, if God directs you in a specific path, your home, your family, to a specific church or job or location And you're confident you are in God's will. There's great rest and confidence. The fact God has led, and as you just continue to walk in the way, God will continue to lead you for the next step. And I've often reminded myself, Lord, thank you. I can look back when I'm discouraged or when I feel a little bit uh inadequate or nervous. I can just thank the Lord that God Who's the one who's called will also fulfill his plan. And Jehoshaphat says, Lord, just I want to just thank you. That this is what you've done. You've given this land to Abraham. Well, he goes on. He doesn't just remember past blessings and thank the Lord, but he goes on, number four, to take hold of God's promises. He takes hold of God's promises. Look in verse 8, if you will. He's continuing his prayer and he says And they dwelt therein and have built a sanctuary therein for thy name. So God's people, they're there in the promised land. He's hearkening back to a time when King Solomon built the temple. And it was an amazing and majestic building. In fact, in the last part of 1 Chronicles, David supplies all of these, the silver and gold. Someone did the math on it, and I'm not sure how they figured this all up, but it could be the equivalent of something like in today's currency $80 billion that all went into the temple. of the Lord that Solomon built. Well you remember the dedication service. So after they built the tabernacle built the temple Solomon prays and dedicates that temple to the Lord. And he prays, and Jehoshaphat references God's answer to Solomon's prayer. Verse 9. Here's what you said. This is what you promised. If when evil cometh upon us, as the sword or the judgment, or pestilence, or famine, we stand before this house. And in thy presence, for thy name is in this house, and cry unto thee in our affliction, then thou wilt hear and help So Solomon prayed this. He prayed, Lord, if our your people are ever defeated by their enemies, if they're ever facing disease, pestilence, or if they're ever facing drought or famine. If they're ever facing distress of any kind, and your people humble themselves and cry out to you for help, You said you would hear and help. That's what Jehoshaphat is reminding God of. He's reminding God of the promises that God has given. And 2 Peter reminds us that we are blessed with exceeding great and precious promises. I really appreciated the testimonies here this evening, just uh before the service is a blessing just to hear you all testify God's great work. Has there been promises that have been special in your life? It's a Sunday night. I want to just open it up to you all. Is there a specific promise that has been a blessing? Just a promise that comes to your mind that you just want to share here this evening. What are some promises in the Bible that come to your mind? Anyone at all? Yes, sir, Pastor Gus. Isn't that a great promise? No man shall be able to pluck you out of the Father's hand. What's another promise? Yes, sir. Pastor. I like her seeking her seeking with uh have to worry about it. Wow. Wow. Amen. Seek ye first the kingdom of God, his righteousness, all these things will be added unto you. Amen. Another promise. Yes, ma'am. Isn't that good? He will never leave you nor forsake you. Another promise Wow, there are so many good ones, Ron. If we lack wisdom, if any man lack wisdom, let him ask of God that giveth to all men liberally and upbraid it not, and it shall be given him. Amen. Anyone else? Just a promise. Yes, ma'am Proverbs three, five, and six. Isn't that good? In all your ways, acknowledge him, and he will direct our paths. This morning we looked at Romans chapter ten, verse seventeen. So then faith comes by hearing And hearing by the Word of God. That word is not the word used for the general, the whole Bible, rather specific statements of Scripture. Faith comes by hearing, and hearing by the specific statements of the Bible. And I think promises are God's invitation to you and I to experience the reality of his presence and power God's promises are the invitation to experience the reality of God right in the middle of our crises. And Jehoshaphat recognizes God, you said way back then when Solomon prayed, you gave a promise. And I'm counting on that promise that when we cry out to you, you said you would hear and help. And I'm claiming that promise For this present need. I love Isaiah 41:10. Fear thou not, for I am with you. Be not dismayed. I am thy God. I will strengthen thee I will help thee. I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness. Make much of the promises of God. Meditate on the promises of God. And God has a way of just impressing specific promises, bringing specific promises. to us in our time of deepest need. Jehoshaphat takes hold of the promises of God. So how to respond biblically to crises? Number one, seek the Lord. Number two, exalt God's power. Number three, remember past blessings. Number four, take hold of God's promises. And then number five, cast your dependence. on God. Let's look in verse number 8 if you I'm sorry, verse number 10. So this is where Jehoshaphat actually presents his request. He says, and now behold the children of Ammon and Moab and Mount Seer, whom thou wouldest not let Israel invade when they came out of the land of Egypt. But they turned from them and destroyed them not. Behold, I say, how they reward us to come to cast us out of thy possession, which thou hast given us to inherit, O our God Wilt thou not judge them? Lord, I'm asking you to intervene in this crisis situation. I love what he says in the last part of verse 12, for we have no might. against this great company that cometh against us, neither know we what to do. That's a great prayer to pray in any hardship, really in any circumstance of life. Lord, I have no might and I have no wisdom. You know, in our self-sufficiency, sometimes we think, well, I do have wisdom. I do have an idea of this is what I need to do and this is what I need to do and this is the next step. But being able to come to the Lord Like Proverbs 3, 5, and 6 says, lean not unto our own understanding. To actually humble ourselves to say, Lord, I don't know what to do in this situation. I need your wisdom in this situation. God will give it. He'll give direction. And obviously God doesn't work around our faculties. God has given us Someone would say, well, God's given a brain. He expects us to use it. But Proverbs reminds us, lean not unto your own understanding. And so it's helpful for us as God's people to remember: Lord, I am trusting you alone to give me wisdom of what to do. And by the way, even to do it, to actually do it, I need your strength, I need your enablement, I have no might, I have no wisdom. And then I love this, he says, our eyes are upon thee. Isn't that a great verse? Our eyes are on you. So let's just step back at the picture here. So Jehoshaphat is facing an enemy coalition. He's got the Moabites and the Ammonites and some of the inhabitants of Mount Seir, we find out later. And perhaps he can see them in the distance with their swords drawn, their spears he can see an innumerable, a multitude of enemy soldiers bent on his destruction. And Jehoshaphat makes the choice. He prays to God. He exalts God's power. He remembers past blessings. He takes hold of the promises of God. And he casts his dependence on the Lord, says, God, I don't know what to do, and I have no might against this great army that's coming against me. But he says, my eyes are not on the enemy soldiers, my eyes are on you. That is a conscious choice all of us have to make. We can look at our circumstances, we can look at our lives and our hardships and the things that we don't know and the the cu the uncertainty of the future or the difficulty or the pressure. We can keep our eyes on all of that. Or we can make a conscious decision to say, Lord, I acknowledge all of that, but my eyes are on you. Behold, as the eyes of a maid look to the hand of her mistress, and as the eyes of servants to the hand of their master, so our eyes wait upon thee until you have mercy on us. There was a a humility and a waiting on God. Number actually before we get to the next one, I want to draw our attention specifically to verse 13. All Judah stood before the Lord with their little ones, their wives, and their children. Has anyone ever noticed sometimes when we pray, we can have a sweet time of prayer, this fellowship with God. Maybe we're burdened about something. We meet God. We get alone with God. And we even unload the burden that's on our heart. We share with the Lord and we feel encouragement, and God speaks to us and reassures us. But then we leave that quiet place and we go through the day. And if you're like me, if I'm not careful, I can easily pick that burden back up and take it with me And what I see in this passage is there's a humility to seek the Lord, but a humility to wait on the Lord. And say, God, I'm standing here until you give me direction for the next step. I'm going to actually spend time with God until I hear from God. And God will speak to us. He will give us the answer we need. And maybe it's going through the day, it's constantly reminding ourselves, Lord. I'm waiting on you. Lord, I'm waiting on you. Lord, my eyes are on you. And we're reminded. And Satan whisper and say, Oh yeah, that that what's going to happen there? And what happens if this happens? And do you remember that? You know how Satan is. He discourages us. He tempts us to pick that burden back up and carry it. And we have to remember, no, I left that burden with the Lord. My eyes are on the Lord. I'm waiting on you. I'm waiting for the Lord's light, for the Lord's direction, for the Lord's leadership in this time. And all Judah, the families, the little ones, all of them are just waiting for God. Well, does God answer? He absolutely does. God speaks, and of course God sends a sends a prophet. Verse number fifteen. When God meets with us, He always gives encouragement. Aren't you grateful for that? He always does. In verse number 15, here's what God said in the middle part of verse 15: Thus saith the Lord unto you, be not afraid. Nor dismayed, we need that reminder, don't we? By reason of this great multitude, here it is, for the battle is not yours, but God's. Isn't that an encouragement? This crisis is not for you to solve. This battle is the Lord's. He goes on and gives them very specific direction. Number six, heed God's voice. A biblical response to crises. heed God's voice. He gives them a specific step of obedience. He says, tomorrow, go ye down against them. He gives direction where they'll be, well where The children of Judah need to find them. Verse 17, you shall not need to fight in this battle. Set yourselves, stand ye still, see the salvation of the Lord with you. Fear not, nor be dismayed. Tomorrow go out against them, for the Lord will be with you. God gives them a step of obedience, and with that step of obedience, he always gives encouragement. The Lord will be with you in every crisis. In every distressing circumstance, God always will give you and me if we're seeking a specific step of obedience. I mentioned just the exceeding great and precious promises. You know, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. Have you noticed that many of those promises are actually conditional? Now they're not conditional on God's side. God will always fulfill the promise. When we meet the condition, God will always fulfill the promise. But verses like this: cast your burden on the Lord. And He will sustain you. So God offers strength, He offers sustaining grace But he calls for us to take a step of obedience to cast the burden on the Lord. How about this? Wisdom needs for direction. If any of you lack wisdom, let him Ask of God. So the step of obedience, God's the source of wisdom. The step of obedience is for us to ask in faith. God, I need your wisdom. How about peace? Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace. What's the condition? Whose mind is stayed upon thee because he trusteth in thee. God, I need your peace. Well, is our mind stayed on the Lord? Be careful for nothing, but in everything, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your request be made known unto God. There's always a step of obedience God asks us to take so that we can experience the reality of God in the crises of our life. Take the step of obedience. I think of uh f 1 Thessalonians says, in everything give thanks, for this is the will of God. Sometimes the step of obedience is just to thank God when we don't understand. To thank God when we can't can't see a light at the end of the tunnel. To just take this step of obedience. Lord, I don't understand, but I choose to thank you for this. That's a huge step of obedience. Another step of obedience can be the step to forgive. Well, you don't know what they've done to me, and I don't. But God does. And God calls us, based on what we've been forgiven, to extend forgiveness to the person who has deeply wronged us. It's a step of obedience. And by the way, God always enables us to do what he asks us to do. Tomorrow, Jehoshavek, this is the step. Go down against them. You can't stay at home. No, you need to go out against them, for the Lord will be with you Biblical response to crises. We have to heed God's voice. And then lastly, go forward in praise. I see this really as the ultimate test of faith. is to actually praise the Lord, to give thanks to the Lord. You know, it's one thing, have you ever noticed it's one thing to thank the Lord after the victory's been won? after you've seen some light um uh in your situation or after the Lord's given uh direction or relieved some of the pressure But to give thanks, to actually praise the Lord before the deliverance comes That's the real test of faith. And Jehoshaphat expresses this in a beautiful way. First of all, he hears the message from the Lord. They just have a single right there. The Levites gather together, they praise the Lord. And then the next day as they go out in obedience to the Lord against the the enemy soldiers, the enemy coalitions that's that's standing there. Jehoshaphat says this, middle part of verse 20, believe in the Lord, so shall ye be established, believe his prophets, so shall ye prosper. And when he had consulted with the people, he appointed singers unto the Lord. that they should praise the beauty of holiness. And as they went out before the army and to say, Praise the Lord for his mercy endureth forever. Now how many of you would have liked to been in a choir in Jehoshaphat's army? This was amazing. So you would think, wow, there's an enemy coalition. If I was Jehoshaphat, you know what I would be thinking? Is, well, I know God said, go out against them, the battle's the Lord's, not yours. I'm going to deliver you. But just in case. We're gonna be ready. We're gonna send the soldiers out. You'll be ready. You'll have your sh now God said we don't we don't have to fight, but you gotta be ready, okay? Just you know, j just as safe measure. And so, you know, have your souls swords there and your spears and be ready. But is that what Jehoshaphat does? He sends the choir out in front. Literally, I don't know if they had hymn books or not or whatever. They may have memorized everything, but literally, can you picture The army is out with their swords. It's a real threat. Their lives are on the line and the choir Goes out in front, singing to the Lord in the face of drawn swords. And what does God do? Surprise, God fulfills what he said. God actually does exactly what he says he's going to do. He delivers and And God does exceeding abundantly above what they could have asked or think. No one escaped. God created confusion between those enemy soldiers. They helped to destroy one another. No one escapes. We find out later that they took three days gathering all the spoil. It was so much. God has a way of delivering in his way in time. And it's always greater than our very best anticipation or our best strategies to solve the problem. Never forget that God's way is always better than my way. It's always better than your way. And sometimes our patience is tested. My patience. I'm not a patient person. I don't like delay. I don't like waiting. But if I can trust God enough to wait on God, And then to be able to take the step of obedience God is wanting me to take, that's where God works. And we can look back and say, God, look what you've done And God is glorified. That's the goal. God gets all the glory. In the last part of this chapter, it was God getting the glory among the children of Israel. But not just God's people gave God the glory. If you look, I believe it's in verse 29. It's the heathen all around. Verse 29, the fear of God was on all the kingdoms of those countries when they had heard that the Lord fought against the enemies of Israel. That's what God wants to do in any crises, in any hardship is to glorify himself, but also to use your response As a powerful testimony to an unbelieving world Who looks on and says, Wow, I know it I've I've seen what they've gone through. Loss, uncertainty, pain, hurt, and how is it that they're responding the way they did How is it that they have the joy of the Lord? How is it that they're praising God? Even in the midst of the crises. And then when they see God work, it's like, wow, they fear God. Your God is real. God gives us a sobering responsibility to share the gospel. And it's encouraging hearing someone just get saved just recently. Praise the Lord for that. Never forget our responsibility to share the gospel, but never underestimate the powerful testimony of responding biblically to crises. To seek the Lord, set ourselves to seek the Lord, to exalt his power, to remember his past blessings. To take hold of his promises, to acknowledge our dependence, to cast our dependence on the Lord, and to heed his voice, take the step of obedience, and then to go forward. in praise. How to respond biblically in a time of crises. All of us are going to face crises. Perhaps some are facing crises even right now. Maybe no one knows the depth of the pain, the hardship, the difficulty that you're going through. Could I just leave these seven lessons from Jehoshaphat just as an encouragement? To seek the Lord, to exalt his power, to remember how God has worked in the past, to take hold of his promises. What specific promises God want to minister to you? And just acknowledge, God, I'm dependent on you and I'm going to obey. And Lord, by your grace, just going to praise you, give thanks, even before the deliverance. It's calms. Would you bow your heads and close your eyes?