Turn your Bible to Acts nine. Acts nine, one to six I will read it for you, Acts 9, 1 to 6. And Saul, yet breathing out threatening and slaughter against the disciple of the Lord. Went unto the highest priest and desired of him later to Damascus, to the synagoguees, that if he found any of this way, whether they were men or women, he might bring them bound unto Jerusalem. And as he journeyed, he came near Damascus, and suddenly there shined round about him a light from heaven And he fell to the earth and heard a voice saying unto him, Shaol, Shaol, why forsookest thou me? And he said, Who art thou, Lord? And the Lord said, I am Jesus. Whom thou persecutest, is hard to thee to kick against the bricks. And he trembling and astonished said, Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? And the Lord said unto him, Arise and go into the city, and it shall be told thee what thou must do. Let's pray. And we'll uh we'll uh go through the word of the God. Father, we love you. Thank you, my Lord. Thank you, my Jesus, for this wonderful day. Thank you for bringing us here. Thank you, my Lord. I pray to give me the knowledge and the wisdom. To share your word, my Lord Jesus, I pray that everyone's here and my heart, my Lord, that we should have the desire, the burden as we study your word, as we Understand your word. Be with me, be with everyone here. In your mighty name I pray. Amen. The chapter which I read, if you see, as I said you that I got saved at the age of 38. His the this is the testimony which I read for you of Shaol. A Shaol who a Paul who was Shaol before. If you see that's the life of every one of us, if you are saved. The shawl is your earlier life, my earlier life when I was rebel against God, when I was rebelling against heaven. When I was not knowing anything and I was doing the desire of my heart, a wicked person. I don't need I don't never needed a savior. I was happy, blessed. A small town guy from Amrathi city, a small city, came to US earning. In dollars, having car, bungalow, and everything. I was happy. That's where the desire of my heart, like every unsaved guy Sinning against the heaven. On 29 September 2020, if you see the way the light appeared to Paul While Sean he was, the same light appeared to you because someone shared the gospel with you You heard the gospel and you saw who is real. You got convicted You needed a savior. You know you are dying earlier. You were not knowing that. Now you know you die, you go hell. He convicted you, the light appeared to you, and you said, God forgive me. That light showed you that you are in darkness. You accepted him, shall become Paul, a sinner nitin became a missionary nitin. But the The most important part here is just maybe after five or ten minutes when the light appeared to Shawl or and who became Paul, what Did he ask? He asked. And he trembling and astonished said, Lord, what will have me to do? That should be the question of everyone's of our life. There should be purpose in our life that what you want me to do, Lord 1. 37 billion people in India out of it, he brought me out back just not to get saved and go into the heaven. There should be a purpose, and that's where we should ask everyone. God, what you want me to do in my personal walk with God And I believe everyone you should be having that. Your mission will not be successful if your personal relationship with God is not good. So when I was in my personal relation with God, when I was talking with God, when I was walking with God, I always think about my salvation. Why may God? Why me? I'm such a wicked person I was, and how come I got saved? What you want me to do, Lord, that should be the desire. You know what God said? Nathan, go tell others. You want to do something for me? Go tell to others. Share your testimony with others. Tell them about me. That David gets saved. In 10-15 minutes of his salvation, Paul said, What you want me to do? That should be the question in everyone's of our life every day. How should I serve you, Lord? See, this is so wonderful I cannot forget my day of salvation. I was talking to Pastor this mor in the afternoon. I want to trace everything back. How did I come to that conviction that day? That was not just a magical moment. There was a lot of effort and prayers and preaching Where the word of God was preached into the Mount Vactory Baptist Church, which God brought me into that church, where nothing in that church was Happening for me, I did not like the music because I was filled with so much of the contemporary music, I was having so much of taste, I did not like the hymns But God was working in my heart. He was preparing for me. How many times imagine at the age of 38 when a man is filled with the pride? A stony heart. Only the word of God, when it was preached, only it was the word of God, the blood of Christ. That one day, a blind, I was sharing the gospel with my nine-year kid to how to get saved or what salvation is I took all the knowledge, the knowledge was already in the head, it never entered my heart, and I was sharing the gospel with him, hey Johan, this is how it is. Your s and my sins are not covered and that's the moment I got convicted and I got saved Acts 1. 9 says, sorry, Acts 1. 8, but ye shall receive power, after that the Holy Ghost is come upon you. And he shall witness unto me both in Jerusalem and into all Judea and in Samaria and unto the uttermost part of the earth My friend, if you divide that verse into two sections, there one is the Holy Ghost, that's the power that you will receive the day you get saved. That's the first condition that should happen. And then to witness. Then to witness See, you won't immediately die once you get saved. God has kept us on this earth for the purpose. Many have that misunderstanding of salvation is about all going to heaven. No, salvation is just one of the promises what God had promised to his children. The eternal security and doing being in a heaven, but more than that relation with you God will get restored. And then his purpose His ministry, when he was on earth, to continue, that's why you become Christian. But if we just sit and wait for to die so that I can see heaven, we are missing the whole point of the Christianity There are many few people who have the truth and the burden to share the gospel. Amen. was saved old person lying on the dead bed. Doctor said he won't live for many hours. His pastor came to visit him. The man was very sad. Pastor was trying to comfort him. He said, Brother, you are saved. You are going to see Christ. I know dying is not easy or it's not a pleasing experience. I know. He said, Pastor, I'm not afraid of it. I am afraid when I will see Christ, what will I tell him? I don't I did not witness anyone in my life. I did not share any testimony to anyone. I did not share the gospel to anyone. I did not share any tract to anyone. I did not serve the Lord. Now it's the moment I know that I will see him face to face. What shall I tell him? Remember my friends, the verse which I told has a two-part, and someone under And took a burden of the second part once he gets saved, he witnessed that's why you got saved. That's why I got saved. That's where we have to continue to be a light. Imagine someone just got saved and he won't want to tell to anyone that what he received How come you and me get saved? There is someone in the world who went before us that carries the burden, and that's why you and me are saved and know the Christ, we know the truth. And if we don't continue that, how many people will die without knowing that their sin has already been paid? Already been paid, because you did not just tell them Mark 16, 15 says, And he said unto them, God go in into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. See, he did not say, hey pastor, you know what? You go and tell. Hey Deacon, you know what? It's your job, go and tell. He said to everyone And that's a command. It's not a suggestion. If possible, can you do that? It's a go and tell them. See, we all should be a missionary and our mission will start as soon as we get out of this door. The world is searching for the happiness. But if you don't tell them where the true happiness is, they will never know it. We can witness to our friends, our families Our neighbors, neighbors on the front, neighbors on the back, neighbors on the left, neighbors on the right, if they are done, go ahead to the next one. Have that burden. Ask God. Renew your joy of salvation everywhere Don't get so much busy and again I'm not preaching to you, I'm preaching to myself also If I spend, I don't know how much time I have. The day I got saved If I won't go back and preach the gospel to the people which they have never heard about and still they call themselves a Christian All they know is about healing and blessing and prosperity. No one asks them, hey if you die, where you will go. I don't know. One two weeks before I talked to one guy, a young youth having a good burden about Christ. Sir, sir, I want to serve Christ. I want to serve Christ. I will tell you how much testimony I have. I was chained by devil. I was what this and I was that. And when past when pastor came and he was uh he prophesied on me and that and all. I said, okay, good. So if you die, where you will go? This guy is in second year of Bible study. You say, that's a tough question A blind getting education in the blind colleges to preach the blind how someone can get saved. My point here is not everyone is having the truth. If you go if you won't go out and preach them and to tell them, our job is to make the gospel available See, there are three kinds of people in this world. I'm talking only about the Christian now, the born-again Christian. Imagine This is a road train track in India. We have a train which are very famous, the biggest train track in in the whole world. Imagine a train track, people are sleeping on this train track thinking that there no train will be coming. We can just relax, live our life the way you want, nothing is happening. It's enjoyable By the way, many poor uh in India spend their life in the train track also. That just for information. So imagine I was one on sleeping on that train. thinking nothing is happening. This is good. That's where one Christian came. And he said, wake up The train is coming. It will kill you all. I heard that voice. I realized the train is coming. I get out of that track. Now there are three kinds of Christian. You decide where you stand There was a one who got up from the trend track and directly went home without even thinking about the others. He did not tell to anyone That you will be died, and the plane is coming. The wrath is coming. You need to get saved. There are the first category who directly go home. Then there are the second ones who stand there, they hold the burden and say, get up, get up, get up! No one listens. So they give up. And they go home. And there are third kind of people They stand there. No matter if anyone is listening or not, till my last breath, there will be one who will Be listening. Wake up, get up, you need to get saved. The wrath is coming. It is appointed to man to die, and there is a judgment. You can meet him as a savior or you can meet him as a judge. You can meet him as a lamb or you can meet him as As a lamb. That's our choice. But you have to tell them, and someone from them can get wake up and say, Yes, I saw. And then you stand there and don't go home. When there carry that burden because they are still there was searching, there are still out people. That's why we have to be standing there, sharing the gospel. to the people that someone out of that comes out because if they do not hear, how they will know? See in Rome Rom Romans one fourteen, Romans one fourteen and one sixteen to one sixteen, I'll read it for you Paul says, the same Paul, whose wonderful testimony we heard while we started this message, he said, I am a dead man. I am a debtor both to the Greeks and to the barbarians, both to the wise and to the unwise. So it as in me I am ready to preach the gospel to you that are Rome also. And verse 16 says, For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation. to everyone that believed to the Jew first and also to the Greek. My friend, are you data? I know I am. First, I am a debtor to Christ. Who two thousand years before He was having me on his mind that Nitin will come one day here and he don't have the path to go into heaven You all was in his mind. We all was in his mind. And where Christ took all of our sin And died for us, I'm debtor first to the Christ. Then I'm also debtor to all the people who carried that life till now. I am also dedicated to this church also. When they this church believe in door knocking, do you know when you hear me You see me, I am a fruit of your church labor also. Because 2017, January, it was Brother John Smith and Brother Anthony who knocked the door for me Because they believe the church believes that there are the people who are searching. Let me call the people. Let me go inside their home. They came, they knocked the door, they called me outside, they invited me, Pastor Bas Gosh it came every Sunday and they took the verse. It took me five years to get saved. We have to be a Christian And we have to continue with our job. When you give the track you don't know what happened to that You may feel I don't know that guy may read or not, he will throw it, he will trash it. Your job is to make that available. So I'm debtor to this church also, and that's why always it was my desire. Hey, this is the first time I met the Christian. When I became a Christian, I understood what Christianity means To get born in Christ's family, that is what the Christian is. And I saw there was a Christian who knocked the door and they connected me with me. Though I left this church and then I went back to India, there was a connection that already was their form. So Brother Moti, Pastor Caleb was also always connected with me. So the next time when I came to the Richmond, that church Was supported by this church. So Pastor Caliph came to know and he called Pastor Steve that, hey, there is one family. You can invite them, and that pastor Is to take every day to me to the church. Can you imagine? He comes every day with his car, he gets ready because I was not having a car and take me back. So I've get to all these people To all these people who did this job so that a soul gets saved. So the soul gets saved. I'm dead to all of them. And that should be the burden, and that should you know that you get saved, and that's where you should continue. To carry the light to this dying world. When you know that you are deader than you It will naturally make you ready. Paul said, I am ready to preach the gospel. Are you ready? Are you ready? Let me ask you this. When you go to Walmart or any other store, do we carry the track in your pocket or we go only for the Saturday witnessing that's where we should have it. We are not Christian for Saturday or Sunday. We are Christian for all the days of our lives since the day we are born again, till we die. And forever. But while we are on this earth Do we carry that track? If you are not, I'll tell you you are not ready. When the Holy Spirit prompts you to give the track to that person, you cannot give him, you are not ready. You are not giving it because the second thought, that is your thought, tells he will not listen. See his face. How hard he looks. See his attitude. You are just trying to help yourself. When the Holy Spirit convicted you to give him the track, share the gospel. Imagine in you entered one Walmart and there was someone who's searching the truth and I also entered that Walmart and I'm a Christian. Imagine how bad it will be when God sees both and God doesn't. not use me. Because he knows this guy Nitin will not share. There is someone searching. But I cannot use him. Because he does not have any burden. I am ready. We should be ready. That God use me. God lead me. God take me, Lord, whenever you want. See, He is not only the Savior, He's a provider also. He will give you everything I have seen in my life. I went, I went to many of the stores. God brings the people in front of you. What else you need? And the Holy Spirit convicts you. Talk to that woman. What else you need? Say hi to her. Tell her the gospel Create a relation. Invite her to church. Show her the love. Because Christ loves you first. Are you ready? Because if you are not ready, it means that we are ashamed. You cannot be a ready Ready and not be ashamed. If you are ready, you are ready and you are not ashamed, as Paul said. For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ because he's ready. And if you are not ready, that will by default make us ashamed. That I cannot do that. That's why I tell you that you got saved because someone did his part. Someone did his part. It is so wonderful to be a Christian. So wonderful to be a Christian. It is so wonderful to serve the Lord. Let me tell you, if you don't feel, if you're not feeling the happiness in serving the Lord, it means that you have gone far away, you are sliding back. The joy when it comes to give a tract to someone, what a joy it is. Pray for him. If you are very old, you know we need a people who can pray. We need a lot many prayer behind us when we go for a school. Praying is also a sowing. Suppose a man, okay a man is convicted of This is a Maryland state. I get confused between Maryland and Virginia. All the way my son was asking on my trade. Is Maryland is there? Is Maryland is there? Is Maryland is there? Till the ma he sees the welcome Maryland sign or like hey here is the Maryland now. Now do what you're you want to do. Kids Imagine a person got sentenced a capital punishment where he should be hanged Now the governor of the state decides, you know what, I'm going to pardon him. I'm going to pardon him. Then he issued an order and he gives to an officer and tell him and told him, hey, go to that jailer, give him that order. I've decided to pardon his sin. I decided to pardon his capital punishment. I want him to go free. You took that order. You are that officer. You took it in your pocket. Yes, sir, I'll do that. While you're going back, your wife called you. Listen, honey, the milk is finished. Can you get that Can you go into Target and get the milk? Oh sure I will. He goes, he gets the milk. Hey listen, can you get the kids from the school? Yeah, I'll do that And there is a problem also in your car, you have to fix it. Then you have the friend who is going to Hawaii for a vacation, he invited you for a free ticket. You took your all family, went to Hawaii. You got busy with all your life. It's wonderful to be in your life. You came one day having a tea. There was a newspaper. You open that newspaper and you saw this person was hanged. You open That's right. Whose fault it is? Whose fault it is? Because you did not tell him Because you did not tell him. My friend, not everyone have the truth. Back there in country, my country, where God called me To be there and to share the gospel. He brought me out of one point three seven billion people and I believe that with all my heart. He had a plan for me. He brought me out I met a Christian, they shared the gospel, they work on my heart, they prayed for my heart. I got saved. Now to go back and to tell people to my people. Go to tell to everyone there. It is difficult disappointing. People will not hear it. I took thirty-eight years. I took 38 years to know the truth. It's my job and every one of us, because every one of us is called to be a missionary. To go back to tell to the people that Jesus Christ has paid it all. You preach them the gospel, you tell them the gospel, you make sure the gospel available, you tell the word of God to them. And I'll tell you definitely, as you see your effort, a sinner like me got saved and called God called me for a mission. That's the power of the blood. That's only Jesus Christ can do. When I was Sitting on this church in 2017, I exactly know my thought, how wrong and how bad it was. When I take this right turn on this way, and I was driving with my family. I travel as a missionary to preach to the same church. Only Christ can do this. Only Christ can do this. Reach out to the people because we only have the truth. At the end of the day, it will be between you and God. Can God see us and tell, well done my son? Well done