Good to be here again with you. And thank you so much for your hospitality and for housing here. Very uh we don't have to drive long distance to get to church It's a blessing with three kids. It's very uh practical for us. And thank you for all the gifts. My my wife loved those handmade uh gifts and everything that she received yesterday was very special. She loved it. And thank you for the food and everything I appreciate it. I'm gonna speak about uh the work of the Lord, what God is doing in Persia. Um what God is doing in Persia. He's doing a lot in Persia. What you hear in the media is usually negative. You hear about terrorism. um killing, uh bloodshed and death to America, death to Israel. You know, Iran and Muslims are against America and against Israel. That's true. But God is working in those countries. And you'll see that through this presentation. So I'm not gonna preach, but I'm gonna just present what the Lord is doing. Just declare his glory, what he's doing in in a hard country like Iran. So population of Iran is eighty-eight million. And they speak in Farsi. There are different dialects, probably three different dialects. I speak in Azeri, Azerbaijani language is my mother language, but in school everybody studies in Farsi, so I speak in Persian or Farsi as well as Azeri and I know Turkish a little bit and I'm learning English. And English is hard language. So okay. So yeah, you see that map right in the heart of the Middle East. Um Uh the government of Iran is very against America. They try to destroy Israel. They've been trying to they they have invested billions of dollars to get nuclear bombs, you know, using Russia to help them to achieve that that goal so that they can come against Israel so that they can bring twelve Mahdi. They believe that uh that twelve Mahdi who was twelve successor of Muhammad, he's gonna come back one day. He's gonna he well he was born and as soon as he was born he ascended up to heaven and he's gonna come back one day. False cries as Jesus said. There shall arise many false cries and deceive many. So they waiting for his coming, the person who never existed in the history, but uh they they wanna uh give credit to their own religion by saying that yes we also have return of our Savior, Mahdi. But Mahdi according to Islamic tr tradition, he's not gonna return unless Muslims destroy Israel. That's the only condition that is gonna come back to bring justice and peace. So they are genuine. They try to destroy Israel so that this world Mahdi, the savior of the world, would come to bring peace and justice. So I'm gonna start with um history uh of Persian. So if you study Genesis chapter 10 That's where the table of nation is found. All the nations came out of three sons of Noah called Ham, Shem, and Japheth. Arabs are descendants of Ham. They Hamites But then I'm gonna uh focus on Shem. Shem had five sons in Genesis chapter 10, verse 22. The first son of Shem is called Elam, who was the founder of Iran. How do you know that? Well, I know that because I grew up in Iran. If you go to the west of Iran, there is a province called Elam. Elam has about half a million population And still there. And Elam is a place not far away from Shush. Shush and the palace where Nehemiah was. Esther and Daniel. In fact, Daniel's tomb is in Shush. We call it Shushan. That's where Daniel's tomb is right now. Uh Mordecai, Esther's tomb, they are right there in the west of Iran, not far from Elam. Remember after the flood, eight souls got saved out of the of the of the flood and then God told them to be be fruitful and multiply and then scatter. They had to scatter around the world. So um obviously Elam, the son of Sham, uh he married probably his sister, and then um His number grew, his family grew and became later on in Genesis 14, we read about Elamites. Elamites, they had king over them and OG and other kings So uh this Ilam became he got married, he had family, and then later on became a tribe. And later on it grew and became a big empire, Persian Empire. The first king was King Cyrus So but then so that's Elam, uh but the third son of Shem is called Erfakzad. Arfhaqzad begets Selah and Selah begets Ibur. Eber was the father of Hebrews. In fact, in Hebrew language, you don't say Hebrew. They say Ibri. Sarah Selah was Eber. who was the father of Hebrews in Genesis 14 verse 13 says that Abraham was Hebrew. So these are Jews. So you see Jews, Shemites. Jews and Persians are Shemites, descendants of Shem. So they are brothers. Iran had a good friendship with With Israel for a long time. Remember Cyrus, he gave them silver and gold to go back to Jerusalem, rebuild the house of the Lord. Many are Persian kings a blessed Israel. They had good relationship till Ayatullah came. Ayatullah came and and according to Islam, Jews and Christians as well, people of the book are worst of all creatures. They are Bad people, like worse than pigs, worse than animals. So as a result, uh Ayasullah said you have to curse Israel So I grew up in Iran a few times a year we have to go on street to curse America and curse Israel This is what we've been forced to do, otherwise you they'll kick you out of school, out of job, uh so you have to do it You have to obey what they say. But we had good relationship till Ayasallah and because of that Iran has been cursed since Ayasallah came. Can you tell? I will bless them Bless thee and curse him that curses thee, God said to Abraham, that's very true. I can see that. How Iran has been destroyed this last forty-five years. And then you have Japheth, who is your father. Europeans and Americans, the white people are descendants of Japheth. So you are Japht. So So first king of Persia was uh King Cyrus. His name means like the sun. Like the sun. That goes back to his religion. The first the ancient religion of Kersia was Zorostianism, founded by Zorostra, or we call we call them Zertosht. in 600 BC, they believed in dualism. Well two gods. There was this good God called Ahura Mezda. who was the good God rising from the east where the sun arise. So you they see sunrise, this light coming up and blessings in this light, good things. They they thought that this Ahura Mazda is causing this good and uh bringing peace and light, creator of light. So that's where you get the Mazda car brand from. So if you have a Mazda car, I'm not saying that your car is a demon possessed. I'm not saying that, okay? And then you have Auro Meyo, or we call him Ahriman. He was the evil god from the west where the sun sets. So they believe that uh you see darkness in the evening and and evil things in the world. Auromayo is causing this evil and darkness in the world. That's why we have both of them good good things and evil things in the world. These two gods are equal in power. They struggle in with each other. They try to balance each other out. And we know that it's false because our God is almighty, he's not balanced with anything, his his over demonic uh power. And so they believe in good works. It's good a work-based salvation. If you do good, you're gonna go to heaven. If you do bad, you'll go to hell. In Isaiah chapter 45, verse 1 to 7, there is a prophecy about King Cyrus. This is about 176 years before even King Cyrus, before even he was born. Thus says the Lord he is anointed to Cyrus. This is anointed the tourism one. God chose Cyrus. Why In verse four it tells us why. For Jacob my servant's sake, and Israel mine elect, I have even called thee by night thy name. I have surnamed thee, though thou hast not known me Um so God knew already that Israelites will uh turn their back on God and then uh Jeremiah prophesied, he said that The Babylonians are gonna come, they're gonna take you captives, you you'll be there for 70 years, and after that God will raise a king. He's gonna come deliver you, referring to King Cyrus. So God already plans in advance. He knows that Cyrus will deliver them. So he called them. He said, You didn't know me, Doda has not known me, because he didn't know Jehovah He knew Ahura Mezah and Ahura Meyo. So verse 5, I am the Lord and there is none else. There is no God beside me. I girded thee, though thou hast not known me again. And verse 6, not only God mentions the name of Cyrus in the Bible, but also He gives us His religion That they may know from the rising of the sun, referring to Ahura Mazda, and from the vest referring to Ahriman or Ahura Menyu, that there is none beside me. I am the Lord, and there is none else. I form the light and create darkness. I make peace and create evil. I, the Lord, do all these things. Not Ahuramazda or Ahura Meyu. as King Cyrus believed. So God is it's amazing God even tells us what he believed, referring to Zorostianism that didn't even exist in Isaiah's time. It came later on. But God gives us his name and his religion whom he believed. But something happened to Cyrus. That later on in the book of Ezra we realize that he is saved. He is uh he's changed, he believes in Jehovah. It says now in the first year of Cyrus, king of Persia, that the word of the Lord by the mouth of Jeremiah might be fulfilled The Lord stirred up the spirit of Cyrus, king of Persia, that he made a proclamation throughout all his kingdom and put it also in writing saying, let's see what Cyrus said. He said Thus says Cyrus King of Persia. He said, The Lord, that's Jehovah. Jehovah God of heaven has given me all the kingdoms of the earth. And he has charged me to build them and house at Jerusalem, which is in Judah Who was there among you of all his people that's referring to Jews? His God be with him, letting go up to Jerusalem, which is in Judah, and build the house of the Lord, the temple. God of Israel, look he said, he is the God which is in Jerusalem. This is what King Cyrus said. He said the Lord God of heaven has given me all the kingdoms of the earth He's not like bragging like King Nag Nabucadnezzar. Remember he was looking at his palace. He said, isn't this great Babylon that I have built it with the might of my power for the honor of my majesty. And he was just fragging, My I have built it, and a voice fell from heaven saying, O King Nebuchadnezzar Uh your your kingdom is departed from thee. They shall drive you from man and your dwelling place shall be with the beasts in the field and seven times shall pass over you till you acknowledge that the Lord God of heaven gives the kingdom to whome whoever he wants. Um so he was bragging and then uh he was driven away from Mam Bible says that he was Eating grass like an oxen for seven years and after seven years he's understanding and returned to him. But King Cyrus is not bragging like that. He said the Lord God of heaven. Josephus said that uh one of the Jewish priests showed his name in the Bible, in the book of Isaiah, and Isa uh King Cyrus read his read book the book of Isaiah and he was stunned by the uh Josephus said he was astonished that his name was written in the book of Isaiah already and uh and some scholars say that that was Daniel And it could be Daniel because Daniel served from Babylonian captivity to to the Persian Empire. So Daniel was there in Persia. His tomb is in Shush by Elam, uh city of Iran. So possibly it was Daniel. Uh so he He believed in Jehovah. And I believe it sounds like he's a saved person. He believes in Jehovah. He's declaring, he's sending this proclamation throughout all his kingdom. He ruled all over the world in his time. And he believes in God's people, his people, he blesses them, he gives them silver and gold. He believes in the house of the Lord, and he said he is the God, which is in Judah. And then when Jesus was born, wise men came from the east. They gave gifts to Jesus, and many scholars say that they were Persians. possibly disciples of Daniel. Daniel taught magicians that refers to you know those who had the knowledge of stars and they read the scripture You know, they found the star of Messiah. So they were learning the school of Daniel. Daniel was teaching these people there in Iran and later on they followed. This scripture and and uh this thought of Messiah, they found Jesus and they worshiped him. And on the day of Pentecost, you read in Acts chapter 2. And verse 9, they were Parthians and Mids and Elamites and Duelers and Mesopotamia and so on. There were 16 different nationalities, but those Parthians and Medes and Elamites If you look at this map of Iran, you see media is there, Parthia and Elam. That was, they were like three different like tribal, like uh uh different divisions in Iran. Later on Cyrus united them. So it became just one country, uh Persia, Iran. Iran was changed by the way from Persia to Iran in 1935. But it was always Persia. So according to Hippolytus, uh so those Iranians, they traveled to Jerusalem on the day of Pentecost. They heard the gospel in their own language and farsely. They heard it in fars. Apostles preached and Hebrew possibly and they heard that in Pharisee. That was gift of tongues that God enabled them to spread the gospel, to communicate the gospel in their own language, and many people heard it They got saved and they went back to Iran. Guess what happened? They spread the gospel. They preached the gospel in Iran. And Hippolytus said that six disciples of Jesus Christ as well They also traveled to many countries, but also to Parthia and Persia, preach the gospel, and three of them were martyred for preaching of the gospel in Iran. Do you think that these six disciples of Jesus Christ led so many people to the Lord in Iran? They did. They did, and as a result we had church plans movement in Iran. This is still there in Iran. This church of San Thedius, Karakilisa they call it, means um the uh black church. It its building is a little bit black. So many churches that were planted in Iran. This is from, they say that it might be from first or second century, this building is still there. Um and this is another old church, Saint Stephen's church, there in Persia. So because of the preaching, a lot of people were getting saved and they were getting saved out of Zoroastianism and they were persecuted by Zoroastianists. And later on when Arabs invaded our country, then Christians were persecuted by Muslims as well. So Christians have been persecuted in Iran for a long time. So first king was King Cyrus and last king of Iran was Shah of Iran. Shah is that means king. So he was the last king of Iran. So we had kind of monarchy system in Iran for 2500 years. And this is his family. He died about 30 years ago. He fled. He came to America. His family are still here, but he passed away himself. In his time, in Shah's time, why US dollar was seventy real. Our economy was was great. And uh he was controlling the Middle East and it was peace in the Middle East. You could travel to any country in the Middle East and have your vocation and you could be fine. And this is some pictures in 1970s. There's no hijab. Iran looked like the West back then in 1970s. And we're gonna look at four prophecies about the end time. What's gonna happen to the future of Iran, to our country. So the word of the Lord that came to Jeremiah the prophet against Elam. So what's this talking about? How many of you you read this passage before and you didn't know what this talks about? You know, Elam. Where is Elam? I don't know. Hand up if you Okay. Now you know that this is prophecy about Iran. Verse thirty-five, thus says the Lord of hosts, Behold, I will break the bow of Elam, the chief of their might And upon Elam will I bring the four winds from the four quarters of heaven and will scatter them, scatter Iranians to old toward all those winds, and there shall be no nation whether the art cast of Elam shall not come. So God is saying that He's gonna do something that a lot of Iranian people would flee. They would scatter around the world to many nations. How? Through this man. Ayatullah came in 1979 and he was stirring people up and giving message and he gave promise. He said, I'm gonna give you free education, free medication, freedom of religion, everything food on your table for free, everything will be free. And people said, this is amazing. You're a great Leader, please take over and be our leader. And he did. He took over so easy. And he brought mandatory hijab covering. And then he started uh killing Christian mandatory religion, only religion uh he wanted to have, only Islam would be there. He wanted to destroy Christianity In in Iran. He martyred many preachers there. And in Shahastan apparently they said that there were 500, 500 born again Christians Many Catholics, but only 500 born-again Christians. So Christianity was not doing well by this time. It started very strong early Christianity, but then in 1970s uh it wasn't good apparently. So he hung Christians publicly and he ordered the killing of four thousand pris prisoners, those people who said, Where is your promise? You told us to give us free education, free medication, and he imprisoned them and he He shot them to death, 4,000 of them in one day. And people realized that man, we made a big mistake. And he started war with Iraq for eight years Eight years of bombing, I still remember those days. The alarm was going off every night and we had to turn the lights off and and uh put curtain on the window, make sure no light, nothing is going out Uh it was a horrible time and this brought poverty to Iran and it was just not a safe place and because of this many people were fleeing Iran to fulfill that Jeremiah forty-nine prophecy that they would be scattered. So they scattered, some through the air, some those who didn't have money, they just uh got on a boat illegally through the sea. They scattered and then they went to the west. Anywhere they went, they heard the gospel. God was gracious. And then he always takes the evil and he turns it into good. So people in the West, they heard the gospel, Iranians. This is in London. Many Persians are getting baptized there. And I went to Australia in 2006. I am that fulfillment of Jeremiah 49 prophecy. I was scattered. I'm outcast. So I went to Australia and Pastor Keith Pfeiffer led me to the Lord. And we started witnessing too many Persians there and we saw so many souls getting saved and uh planted a church in Sydney, Persian church. And so some of those people who were safe outside of Iran and they wanted to reach to Iran to their own people, but you could not. You couldn't go back to Iran to preach. So what do you do? The only way to reach Iran is through media. Satellite TV and radio. So Pastir Hormuz Sharyat, Iran Alive Ministry, he founded Iran Alive Ministries. He's been airing the programs. uh to to the Middle East. So I'm using this platform which is in Texas. From Texas we we air the programs into Iran. So I go to a studio in Georgia usually There's a studio there in Georgia in Atlanta. I go there to uh to record gospel messages and from there we deliver the the files to Texas and from Texas and through Iran Alive Ministries we air the programs into Iran and Afghanistan and Tajikistan through satellite TV as well as radio. So that people in those countries that are close, you can go there as a missionary, sadly. But this is the only way through satellite TV uh you can get the gospel there. And it's against the law to have a satellite dish in Iran. It's illegal. You're not allowed to have a satellite dish in Iran Do you notice something there? It's everywhere. It's out of control. Sixty million out of eighty-eight million have satellite dishes out of control. Even officials they they all have it, so it's kind of out of control. Uh sometimes authorities they take the dishes down and look at that. He picked it up on what he's like. And people gather sometimes, sometimes somebody um tunes in to uh to you know watch some TV and they they notice somebody somebody's preaching or giving different message, message of hope and and uh they keep listening and watching and they get saved. They tell their loved ones, others and slowly underground churches get established in Iran, it's increasing really fast. And uh I led this couple to the Lord in Iran. They were living in Iran, they were watching my programs, and I was able to uh lead them to the Lord over Skype. Uh Muhammad and Bihnaz and they were just wonderful couple. They were growing in the Lord really fast. And eventually they they went to Turkey and uh Pastor Mohammad is pastoring the church that I established uh two years ago in Turkey. He's leading the church, he is he's just a godly man, he's amazing. He's been saved only for So in Iran those people who who watch programs and and uh Underground churches get established, but then authorities find out about these places, this underground churches, and they break in all the time and they punish them imprison them and kill them, hang them in public, and Majid was one of them. They arrested him. They said, renounce your faith in Jesus Christ and Look at his face. He said, I'm proud to be a Christian, as he was lying. He said, I'm proud to be a Christian. Look at his smile. Can you see any terror or any fear in his face? You can't. Why? Because In Iran, in the Middle East, when you make decision to follow Jesus, you know that the cost would be death. So if you convert to Christianity, you have to be on fire, otherwise it won't work. So Majid, uh many Iranians are just hopeless how Islam has destroyed our country and many young people at their thirty, forty, even fifty still single because they they can afford to to provide for themselves for their family. They they don't have jobs. It's horrible situation in Iran. People have hopeless and they uh they very uh stressed out and they they do drugs and nothing they they try to be relieved and drugs don't help they get Their lives are destroyed, but then when they hear the gospel, they get saved and they get delivered from addiction and they can see that Jesus is real. He delivered me. Religion of Islam didn't deliver me from addiction, but Jesus did and he gave me means and eternal life. And so they are proud to be Christians. there in Iran. So look at one US dollar in two thousand and twenty four. It was seventy real before in Shastan but now it's six hundred thousand. It was nothing. Islam destroyed our country and a lot of people are sick of Islam. Many people have been protesting against government last especially five years. They try to overthrow the regime, get rid of Islam, they they say we don't want Islamic Republic anymore because they have lost everything. There is nothing more to lose And quickly, um number two prophecy, for I will cause Elam to be dismayed before their enemies. They are dismayed. Iran, they are very fearful. uh people want to overthrow them and uh other nations are against Iran. But look at verse thirty-eight and I will set my throne in Elam and will destroy from thence the king and the princess, says the Lord. So God is saying Jehovah is gonna go to Iran, he's gonna set his throne, he's gonna sit on his throne. He said, I will uh well this is we know that this is Jesus Christ. When he comes back There will be judgment of nations. He's gonna judge the king, that's ayatullah, and uh princes, the officials. He's gonna destroy them. That means it's gonna destroy Isra Islam for oppressing their own people, killing Christians. And verse 39, good prophecy, but it shall come to the pass in the latter days that I will Bring again the captivity of Elam, says the Lord. That's me. I'll be able to go back to Iran to preach there. to have church there during millennial reign of Christ. We're gonna be able to worship freely. We won't have any um Islam or unjustice in Iran. There'll be peace. So after 45 years of persecution that they wanted to destroy Christianity, he wanted to stop Christianity, was he successful? Was Ayatullah successful to stop the work of God? After forty-five years of persecution, uh it's likely that more Muslims are coming to Christ in Iran than any other place in the world. If you Googled, in fact uh world operation website says says that Iran is fastest church growing country in the world. Many people are coming to Christ in Iran than in America. How? With no pastors, no missionaries, no church founders? How? Through media, satellite TV and radio. That's the only way that they hear the gospel And they say that it could be again you can't have right number of the people who have been saved, but they say that there could be seven million born again Christians in Iran. So at the end I'm I'm gonna ask you to pray for our uh basement. Uh the Lord provided us a house last year and I asked the Lord, I said Lord, if you provide us a house, I'm gonna dedicate the basement uh to you I'm gonna turn it into a stereo. So the Lord provided us a house but the basement wasn't finished and but the Lord gave me peace. He said I I'm gonna take care of that. I'm like, okay. So I I spoke to my mission board, Baptist World Mission, about this uh stereo project and they said yes, they approved it. We approved it and we we uh got the budget how much that would cost to finish the basement and get the studio set and and get the equipment, cameras and computer post-production and everything that we need And it was a hundred twenty-five thousand to finish this basement. So we started, the Lord already provided us uh some of the funds and we started working on the basement to finish it and this is how it looks like right now. We finished it and next month uh machinery gene sharp is gonna come next month to set up this studio for us with with a team from Georgia. That studio team from Georgia with missionary Jean Shah. He's gonna set up he's he's an amazing Amazing man. He's been traveling overseas everywhere in Philippines and so many other countries, putting radio towers and so on. So the goal for this studio is um for satellite TV, so we don't have to travel to Georgia obviously, so it's hard for us with three kids to travel there But also Skype Bible studies, three times a week I teach this disciples online. The churches that we planted, it was because of this. discipling online over the years that led me to go and meet those persons, disciples that I never met. I led them to the Lord, disciple them, so we were able to go and meet them, plant two churches in Turkey So we're gonna be able to use this to disciple in studio in our basement. Online Bible College, uh I have establish this Bible college. I have five courses uploaded, but I we need to develop it. I've been translating more cor curriculums. Bible college curriculums from English into the Farsi. So I'm gonna take like hundreds, if not thousands of lessons, uh like thirty, forty different curriculums and each curriculum has so many lessons So we're gonna be able to record those messages and upload them on website so people can watch those uh lessons and PDFs, download PDFs and take quizzes and pass Uh they're gonna enroll for free so that they can be trained to preach the gospel in Iran. In Iran you can have Bible college. Obviously not physical, it's impossible to have a church and physical Bible college, but this online will enable us to to have a Bible college for them. And in the in the future, my wife is gifted with music. She's gonna help us to produce some uh conservative Far C music, we don't have almost any. They are all charismatic and CCM music uh and we don't we don't like it. I never used There was music uh in my ministry back in Sydney. I had to translate some of the hymns hymns into the Farsee. So I put together 114 hymns uh so song book and we I was using that. And then at the end, yeah, so that was 125,000 budget. The Lord has already provided nine ninety-five thousand, so we have thirty thousand to be raised. Would you pray that the Lord would provide us that fund by next month so we can have it ready and and start uh taping and getting the gospel out. I'm gonna yeah and then for next week. Uh Lord willing we're gonna probably have opening service next Sunday. I'm still talking with my pastor there Pray that the Lord would bless that ministry, that the church would grow and Persians would come to Christ in Milwaukee area. God bless you. Thank you.