Turning your Bibles this evening to Genesis chapter number forty five. We have in This segment of the book of Genesis, the story of Joseph. Amazing, powerful story that's told The thing about it is is it's really it's not it's not a fairy tale. It's not just something somebody dreamed up in their mind, but it's literally this story about what took place in this young man's life. In Genesis chapter 45, read with me or follow along as I read to you. Genesis forty-five verses one through five. We're gonna we we certainly don't have time to read the entirety of Joseph's story It's multiple uh chapters that all of it goes into, but we're going to touch on different aspects here. But we see in Genesis 45, verses 1 through 5, then Joseph could not refrain himself before all of them that stood by him, and he cried. Cause every man to go out from me, and there stood no man with him, and Joseph made himself known unto his brethren And he wept aloud, and the Egyptians and the house of Pharaoh heard. And Joseph said unto his brethren, I am Joseph. Doth my father yet live? And his brethren could not answer him, for they were troubled at his presence. Joseph said unto his brethren, Come near to me, I pray you. And they came near, and he said, I am Joseph, your brother, whom ye sold into Egypt. Now therefore be not grieved, nor angry with yourselves that ye sold me thither For God did send me before you to preserve life. We read the story of Joseph And inwardly, our sense of justice, our sense of fairness gets riled up. We get very over and over again how Joseph was mistreated and despised and rejected. We see this And and it it bothers us because we like things to be fair. We see how Joseph is treated and and it just irritates us on the inside. You know, Joseph didn't ask for the dreams that he had Joseph didn't, you know, try and pursue this and make this thing up to try and have these dreams that would irritate his brothers. There is nothing in the scriptures that I've seen that would imply that Joseph was a conniving little brat. You know, you you you've seen those whether it was depicted in a show or uh maybe you've seen it in reality, but sometimes you have uh little boys or m more often than not, little girls who can do no wrong in front of mom and dad But as soon as mom or dad aren't looking, they're like kicking their brothers or throwing things at them or you know, and and the their brothers are like, Didn't you see that? Didn't you see what they just did to me? And and this kind of conniving and and just trying to look good for mom and dad, but uh really a a cantankerous and problem child. There's nothing in the scriptures actually as you read through the story of Joseph, really the the implication is is that he is a very uh sound and seems to be respectful and obedient young man and and he didn't ask for the dreams that God was giving him He didn't ask to be given a special favor uh by his father and have this position of of special recognition and He was as shocked as his brothers when he got a coat of many colors and nobody else re received a coat of many colors. What I'm saying is he didn't pursue this, and yet even in the face of that, his brothers despised him They rejected him. They stood against him. You know, I can imagine just picturing a childhood like this. Joseph often getting left out of the games. You know how young people are, and They're picking up games and Joseph is like, oh, pick me. I'm ready. Pick me. And they pick up teams and they're like, oh, there's we don't need any more players. Sorry. It probably happened a lot to him. He probably kind of resigned himself to just being on his own because his brothers didn't care for him and didn't want him around We see his life progress and his brothers first plotting to kill him, but being talked out of that, they decide just to sell him. You know, to k to just kill him might have been a mercy. Instead, they just decide to sell them into slavery. Let's just sell them into slavery. So instead of it just being over in a matter of minutes, now he gets to spend the rest of his life in bondage. They sell him into slavery. He goes into slavery if that's not bad enough, and in slavery he's falsely accused and thrown in prison. He goes into prison and in prison he helps the chief uh baker and the chief butler. He interprets their dream through the power of God that God had given him for insight and discernment and He he interprets their dream and he says, Hey, uh you're gonna be restored. When you're restored to your position, I think maybe God set this up so that, you know, maybe you could Talk to Pharaoh for me and get me out of here. You know, I was unjustly imprisoned. And he's forgotten about The the chief butler gets put back into his position of service and he doesn't say anything. Joseph sitting down there thinking any any day I'm gonna get the call that I'm getting out of here and it doesn't come. The chief butler just forgets about them. We look at this and we see one unfair situation after another, and at times it seems to be too much. I want to speak to you tonight for just a few minutes on when life is unfair. When life is unfair. What do you do? When life's unfair, when it's unfair to you, when you're the one going through the unexpected hardship, when you're the one bearing the the the brunt of somebody else's jokes or uh the accusation that it's completely false because of somebody is upset with you. What do you do? How do you respond when life is unfair? The fact of the matter is, life is not fair to anybody Life is unfair. And for anyone to be taught otherwise, I think one of the major problems we have with society today is they have been sold the bill of goods that life is or life can be fair. And then when they find out it's not, they they take their guns and go shoot up a classroom because life was unfair. We've tried to push this on them that every aspect of life should be fair. Everybody should be paid the same amount Well that's not true. Everybody shouldn't be paid the same amount. There are some people that produce more. And according to the Word of God, according to the Bible, uh you pay the one who produces more, you pay them more. Matter of fact, you may take from the one who is not producing and give it to the one who is. If you read the story of the talents over in Matthew 25, I believe. That's that's biblical that we we want to have unions and everybody's got to make the same pay, whether they produce the same or not That's not got way God designed it, that God planned it. You get paid according to your service, according to your labor, and life is not fair, and we selling a bill of goods, which is complete foolishness to the younger generation that life is going to be fair and then when it's not, they get mad and lose control of themselves. The fact is, is many people have to endure different levels of injustices or things in their life that just aren't fair. That is reality. That is just the way it is. As they say, that's the way the cookie crumbles. Job says man is born into trouble as the sparks fly upward. That's just the way life is. There's there's trouble, there's hardship. And some people they end up enduring more hardship than others. I I Every one of us have in of ourselves, I think if you're honest, you have been there where you said to yourself about something happening in your life, this just is not fair. Like I I've been there and I know the truth of it, but I mean sometimes you're like it's just not Why is it when it rains and pours and why is it pouring on me? You're like, this isn't fair. I've already been through enough I've already endured enough. Why do I have to go through one more thing? It's like I've already got this and this and this and then all of a sudden now the car breaks down or they take away your tags, amen You're like, what in the world is going on? I've had enough. Life is unfair, and that's a fact. Uh Jesus said, You're in the world and ye shall have tribulation He told us right up front that that's the way it's going to be. He also said that the servant is not greater than his Lord. If they have persecuted me, they will persecute You, Jesus too, went through things in this life that were not fair. Not the least of which he was unjustly crucified on a cross. But I want you to see some truths tonight. It is literally foolish for us As Christians who believe that God is in control, who believe the steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord, I think, you know, we may in offhandedly, without really thinking, we may say, you know, well, good luck. But we don't really believe in luck. We don't we don't believe that it's just good luck or bad luck. We believe that ultimately God is in control and we know that there are principles principalities and powers and rulers in darkness that that That bring things into our life sometimes, and those are tests and hardships, but it's not just, man, I've had a lot of bad luck lately. That's not that's not the way it is. So here's what I want you to see, especially as we're considering the life of Joseph and the fact that sometimes things from our perspective are unfair. Ultimately, no matter what it is, we know that God is in control. That God is in control. And there is nothing that happens in our life without God knowing. He even says, listen, not one hair will fall from your head. Except God knows. God knows what's going on. So I want you to, what do we do when life's unfair? Well, first of all. Following the example of Joseph, we need to remember that God is sovereign. God is sovereign Look back at Genesis chapter 37. Again, we're just going to look at some different aspects of the story of Joseph, and I think that you all know the story, so we won't be too awful long digging into these things, but we see in Genesis 37 just We're going to break it up a little bit, reading verses 3 through 5. He says, Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his children because he was the son of his old age. And he made him a coat of many colors, and when his brethren saw that their father loved him more than all his brethren, they hated him, and could not speak peaceably unto him. Or they hated him, they couldn't even talk to him, and Joseph dreamed a dream, and he told it his brothers, and they hated him yet the more Jump down to verse number 18. Genesis 37, verse number 18. And when they saw him afar off, even before he came near unto them, they conspired against him to slay him. And they said one to another, Behold, this dreamer cometh. Come now, therefore, let us slay him, and cast him into some pit, and we will say some evil beast hath devoured him, and we shall see what will become of his dreams. And Reuben heard it, and he delivered him out of their hands, and he said, Let us not kill him. You know the story here that Reuben talks him out of this and They determined to go ahead and sell them into slavery. And here's what I want you to get. Even when others plot against you, remember that God still has a plan. Ultimately, his brothers thought they were functioning and working in their own aminosity and their own hatred for their brother, and that they were going to do this thing. But ultimately, God has a plan. Many things are going to happen to our lives, and we don't understand it. We don't know how to make sense of it, and we can't change it, but we need to remember that God is in control. We might not like it. We might not know maybe who is doing it. And most of the time we're powerless to change it. But we need to remember that God's in control. You cannot control what others do to you, but you can control how you respond. You're not responsible for the actions of somebody else and what they do to you, but we are responsible for our actions and how we respond. When that injustice or unfair situation arrives in our lives, we need to turn to Him. Keep a right attitude Look to our sovereign God. You see, Joseph chose to focus on what God wanted him to do instead of what others did to him. We see that in the life of Joseph over and over. He is continually mistreated, continually facing situations that are unfair, but in each of those situations, Joseph rises to the top. Joseph excels. Joseph gets thrown in prison and he raises to the top of prison. Joseph gets sold into pr into into slavery, thrown into a pit and then sold into slavery and and he he becomes uh the chief. He's he's over everybody else. Over and over again he writes to the top. Why? Because he was concerned about doing what was right before God, more concerned about that than what was being done to him. In today's world, we love being the victim, and we love to look at how we have been mistreated. Life's delays are not God's denials. You know, Joseph had a dream. God had given him a dream and showed him that the time was going to come that his own brothers and yea, many more are going to bow down to him. And then he was sold into slavery. This doesn't add up. Life's delays are not God's denials. Their time and God will bring to pass his will in your life. Joseph was going to do the best he could in every situation he was for the honor and glory of God. Beloved, it's not as important what men do to you as it is to what you let them do in you. The external actions of other people Do not have to change you inside. You can't do you can't do anything about what they do, but you can do something about how you respond. What your attitude is, what your spirit is. We need to remember, beloved, that the God is sovereign. I can't change the world, but I can certainly change my walk. I can have a right walk with God, even in the face of unfair situations. We need to stay faithful in the small things. We see that in Joseph's life over and over again, even in the face of great hardship, when many people would have said, this isn't fair, it's not right, I'm not going to do it. They're going to be throwing their own pity party and sitting in the corner and and be mad at the world and mad at everybody else because of the unjust things that they had to endure. But Joseph did not do that. He stayed faithful in the small things. Look at Genesis chapter 39. Just a couple chapters over, Genesis chapter 39. We see beginning in verse number two, and then we're going to jump down to verse number 17. He says, And the Lord was with Joseph. And he was a prosperous man, and he was in the house of his master, the Egyptian. Jump down to verse number 17. And she spake unto him according to these words, saying, The Hebrew servant which thou hast brought unto us came in unto me to mock me. And it came to pass as I lifted up my voice and cried, and he left his garment with me, and he fled out. And it came to pass when his master heard these words of his wife, which She spake unto him, saying, After this manner did thy servant to me, that his wrath was kindled, and Joseph's master took him and put him into prison. a place where the king's prisoners were bound, and he was there in the prison, but the Lord was with Joseph and showed him mercy. And gave him favor in s in the sight of the keeper of the prison. And the keeper of the prison committed to Joseph's hand all the prisoners that were in the prison. And whatsoever they did there He was the doer of it, the keeper of the prison. Look not to anything that was under his hand, because the Lord was with him, and that which he did the Lord made to prosper. Joseph, even as a prisoner, was able. They gave him the care of the whole prison. He said, there anything that was in Joseph's hand to do? The chief of the prisoner didn't have to prison didn't have to worry about it. He knew Joseph had it. Whatever it was, Joseph was going to take care of it. You know, if you'll be faithful in the little things, God will make you ruler over many things. God calls us to faithfulness, and Joseph was faithful in the little things, even in the face of this great injustice. We've all heard the statement: grow where you're planted. The problem is, is most people think that's only applicable if I happen to be planted in the Bahamas drinking lemonade That's where I grow if I'm planted. No, we're supposed to grow where we're planted, even if it's in the pit. Even if it's in the prison. Even if it's in Pharaoh's house, even if it's in the palace, we're supposed to grow where we're planted no matter where it is. Because God has a plan, because God is sovereign and He's still performing His work in our life even when maybe we can't see it But we take that opportunity to be faithful in the little things and continue to grow. Joseph grew wherever he was because he was more focused on his vertical relationship than he was on his horizontal relationships. If you keep this relationship right, these relationships have the ability to be right. If we will be faithful with the little things and keep this relationship right, You know what happens? We become a thermostat instead of a thermometer. Here's what I'm saying. A thermometer adjusts to the temperature of the room. It fluctuates up and down, whatever happens to be the temperature or the environment that it's in. There's a lot of Christians that are living as thermometers, they adjust to the situations of life. But God calls us to be a thermostat. And if we have this relationship right, we can. You know what the thermostat does? The thermostat changes the environment. The thermostat changes the environment they're in. And you can, with the power of God and a right spirit, you can change the environment you're in. Oh, you can adjust to it and allow it to impact you and and just be a thermometer and and uh let everything around you, your bad days and And the unfair situations just ruin your life and ruin your day, or you can keep this relationship right and powerful, and then you can be a thermostat. And bring God's blessing and the joy of the Lord into any situation. Into any situation you face. Beloved, when we're filled with the Spirit of God, we function as a thermostat. The Spirit of God, the fruit of the Spirit, love, joy, peace, long-suffering, goodness, gentleness, goodness, meekness. Uh temperance. The this fruit of the Spirit is evident in your life and it impacts the world around us when we have a right relationship with God. Lastly, and this quite possibly is the hardest one, but we need to recognize God's purpose in your pain. Recognize God's purpose in your pain. It's a hard thing to do when you're in the midst of it. We began in Genesis 45. Would you turn back to Genesis 45? We read verses 1 through 5, but let's pick up in verse number 5 and read verses 5 through 8. He says, now therefore, be not grieved, nor angry with yourselves that ye sold me hither. For God did not send me, for God did send me before you to preserve life. For these two years hath the famine been in the land, and yet there are five years in which there was which there shall neither be earring nor harvest. And God sent me before you to preserve you in posterity in the earth and to save your lives by a great deliverance. So now it was not you that sent me hither, but God. And he hath made me a father to Pharaoh, and the Lord of all his house, and a ruler throughout all the land. Of Egypt. We look at it, we look at Joseph's life, and even from our perspective, we look at it and we say, Man, that's unfair. But God allowed Joseph to see God's purpose in his pain. God had a plan for him. And he said, man, you guys meant it for evil, but God meant it for good. He said, in fact, don't even be mad at yourself. Don't even be angry because you guys didn't do it It was God's plan. God put these things in place. God did this I read today about uh Stephen Boots, his brother Andrew, who is only 31 years old. Wife, two kids, two two little boys. That uh he got killed in a hunting accident this week You look at that and we say why. It's not fair. I mean he's 31 years old. He's got two little boys and a beautiful wife and you know comes from a good family and and and why Lord? We have to learn how to see God, his plan in our pain It's one of the hardest things to do, but I think by God's grace and with God's strength we can, and maybe not today. You know Joseph when he was sold and he was in the pit He didn't realize that God was setting him on a path. When Joseph went from the pit to Ottawa's house when he went and served and he ended up in the prison. He didn't realize that God was putting him in the place that he could be brought out of the prison and to be put into the palace. But after he was in the palace, he saw what God was doing, and he was able to look back and he said, okay It wasn't you that did this, it was God that did this, and all the things that I endured and all the unfair and the unjust things ultimately I know was God's hand and He's going to use me To preserve life, to save the life of my brothers, and not my brothers only, but the whole nation of Israel is going to be provided for and protected through what God did in Joseph's life. How do we respond when things are unfair? Beloved, we need to recognize or see God's plan in our pain. There may be some of you here tonight. You're where Joseph is. Maybe you're in a pit. Maybe you know you're you're looking at your life and you're saying, I I didn't choose this. I don't I don't deserve to have have to do this. I don't understand the the pain or the struggle that I'm that I'm facing. I don't know why. Can it possibly rain anymore on me? Maybe you've been like Joseph, you've been betrayed by somebody you trusted. Maybe you've been lied about. And falsely accused like Joseph was. Maybe you've been forgotten by somebody you needed most, like Joseph was forgotten. Maybe you've been treated unfairly at work or at home or even in the house of God But will you respond correctly like Joseph did? See, Joseph's story didn't end in the pit. That was just the beginning. It didn't end in in Potiver's house or even in the prison. Why? Because God had prepared a palace I don't know what you're going through tonight, but there's a palace in the future. There's a plan. God has a purpose for whatever you're enduring. And we need to look to that and stay faithful until that day comes. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed? How are you going to respond when life is unfair? Oh, from our perspective, every one of us has been there. Life has been unfair. We have all endured it and looked at it and thought, boy, this just I've just endured too much. Could I exhort you to be faithful? And continue to follow God because God has a plan. If the pianist is playing, you do what God wants you to do. There's an altar here. You can come. Ask God for the strength to be faithful Ask God to help you see His plan in the midst of your pain. One of the hardest things to do is to see God's plan in the midst of pain because the pain is all-consuming.