And amen. He is faithful, isn't he? Wow. What a wonderful, wonderful day in the Lord's house today. ministry of music has been phenomenal throughout the day today. I've been blessed and challenged by it. Would you turn your Bibles this evening to Ephesians chapter number three? Ephesians chapter number three. We're going to look at our text this evening, Ephesians chapter number 3, beginning in verse number 14 and reading down through verse number 19. This is where our text will come from this evening. He says I just For this cause, beginning in verse number 14, for this cause I bow my knees unto the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Of whom the whole family in heaven and earth is named, that he would grant you according to the riches of his glory. To be strengthened with might by the Spirit in the inner man, that Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith, that ye be rooted and grounded in love. May be able to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth, the length, the depth, and the height And to know the love of Christ, which passeth knowledge, that ye might be filled with all the fullness of God. As we turn in the pages of Scripture to this passage, we literally get to walk into the prayer closet of Paul. We get to observe him on his knees and eavesdrop upon his intercession for the saints. We get to hear him call out and beg God for something, and he's not begging God for uh his own provision. He's not begging God for his own protection, although if you know the story in the life of Paul, you know he needed that. No, as we beg get the privilege of listening to the prayer of Paul here, we Hear him begging God for the strength for the saints to be able to know the love of God and experience the strength that's available to them through the Spirit of God. In Ephesians chapter number one, Paul talks to the believers about the wealth that they have in Christ. In chapter number two, he talks about the walk that we have in Christ. We get to chapters 4, 5, and 6, and he literally is describing for them the way in which we should live for Christ. But right in the middle here, before he gets into those chapters talking about how we should live for Christ, he pauses and he gets on his knees and he asks God. That God's people would know and experience the power of the Holy Spirit indwelling them. fully and completely that they would have the power to live the life he was going to begin to tell them this is what God expects. In much the same way, in that passage of scriber scripture given to us in the book of John, where we know that Christ tells us, if you love me, keep my commandments But what is notable, dear friends, tonight is that in that same passage where he says, if you love me, keep my commandments, he says this. And I will pray the Father, he shall give you another comforter, that he may abide with you forever. Even the Spirit of Truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him, but ye know him, for he dwelleth with you, and shall be in you. I will not leave you comfortless. I will come to you. Yet a little while, the world seeth me no more, but ye see me because I live, ye shall live also. And that day ye shall know that I in my Father, and ye in me, and I in you. What I'm saying is in that same passage of Scripture in John where he says, Keep my commandments He says, I'm going to give you the Holy Spirit his power to help you do it This is what we see Paul praying for here. I won't be very long, but I want you to see, first of all, that we are to be strengthened by his power in verses 14 through 16. We are to be strengthened by his power. In verse 16, he says they're strengthened with the might by his spirit. The problem for many believers is that they forget that it is not in their own power that they are living this Christian life. That they must have the spirit and the power of God. That power is available to us, we see, first of all, in a reverent posture. Note, he says here, for this cause I bow my knees. For this cause I bow my knees. We see his reverent posture where he comes into the presence of God. We're talking about the Apostle Paul. And the Apostle Paul gets down on his knees before God and asks God reverently and humbly for his power. Beloved, the Christian life begins The power to live the Christian life begins with surrender and submission. Where we humbly come before God and get connected to Him. I have recently Had a problem with my suburban. I know you're shocked. And I the first time it happened was a couple of weeks ago, and I was pulling a trailer, and the trailer lights were plugged in. And my trailer lights on the suburban have always been glitchy. Like weird things. Like I'll have a trailer plugged in and all of a sudden I have no taillights. But when I unplug the trailer my taillights work. It's not every time, but periodically. And one time none of my lights were working and what happened is a bunch of junk got up inside the connector for the taillights and like grounded it out and my lights weren't working. So I had to clean that all out and it fixed it. So the first time I'm driving down the road and my dashlights go off. Everything shuts off. Like the car shut off and then immediately turned back on. And I'm like, whoa, that was weird. Like what was that? And I thought, you know what, I've got this trailer and it was just after that storm and I was pulling the trailer and all the salt on the road and all the junk, I'm like something got in there, this has created a problem. It's probably because I had the trailer lights plugged in, so I go home, drop the trailer. Well it happened again a couple days later to the point where I'm I'm I'm like, I don't know. I told Mary, I said, I think I ought to take your car to take the boys skiing because that car's been acting up. But I got up in the morning and I thought I really don't want to drive her car. I'd much rather be in this verb. So I decided to go ahead and take it. So we're driving on this trip, you know, we're seven hours, it's a seven hour ride to go where we went skiing, and we're driving seven hours And uh we're driving and all of a sudden the car everything shuts off. And then it comes back on and when it comes back on I get all these warning lights on my dash, like everything's not working, you know, like all this warning, every I'm clicking through all these warnings, right? And I'm like, oh great, here we go. What I I'm on this trip, you know. And so over uh we drove up there and we're going up the mountain and it keeps glitching out. I'm like, oh no. Like it's like more often And then w we're going downhill and I'm not doing anything and it all of a sudden glitches out. And and what I figured out is that when any time there was a draw for power, like even if I turned on my blinker, It possibly would glitch out, everything would shut off. I told the boys, I said, there's something like that's acting like a bad ground, like there's a bad ground somewhere. But it was coming back on and we were still driving. So I called my mechanic, Brother Glover. We're on the road and I said, Hey, you got a minute? He says, Sure. And so we were talking through some things and he concurred that it probably was a bad ground. He says, But you know it might be a bad battery. You oughta when did you replace the battery? I says, I don't remember. He says, Why don't you go to the shop and have them test it and I said that's a good idea. So that night, instead of going home and going to bed like we should have, you know, we drove extra. We found a place that would test the battery. The first place was closed. Because we're out in the middle of nowhere. We go to another place, find a place, they come out, they test the battery, they say, hey, your battery's good. Alternator's good. Seems like everything's fine. And I'm like, well, we did our due diligence. Come on, let's go, boys. So we go home the next morning We drive back up the mountain, get all the way to and it happened several times going up the mountain, like glitches out, like just shut off. But we kept driving and it came right back on and it just was very concerning. So we get to the ski lodge, we pull in, and the car shuts off. 100%. Gone. I mean I'm lucky I pulled into a parking place because it was gone like I had nothing. Nothing on this. The boys were wanting to get the skis out of the back and they're like, can you pop the door? I says, no, I can't. I've got nothing. Like all of a sudden and I said them guardbirds that at the auto zone, you know, they got some teenager there that don't know what he's doing. He came out with that thing and tested my battery He probably had the wrong battery. He had the wrong tester out. You know, who knows what he did. Obviously this is a battery problem because I I have no power. So I told the boys, I said, listen, I'm glad we're here. You guys take your skis and go skiing. I gotta get this fixed So they went, took off, left me in the parking lot, right? So I I find somebody I I'm first trying to keep people from parking next to Finally I I mean I find a guy it didn't take very long it actually that that I said you wouldn't have to have jumper cables and he says actually I do he said they're buried but give me a minute he comes over and he jumps me we start it right up and I'm I'm gonna drive and get a battery So I look, it's 28 minutes to a uh Walmart, and I know that I have a Walmart battery because that's where I usually buy my batteries. Steven calls them never starts, but I call them ever starts, okay? And uh I've had good luck with them, plus they're warranties and I know that my battery is warranted and that's where I bought it, so I'm like, you know what, I'll just drive there, I'll pull it out, take it inside, get it replaced. And on the way there I start thinking, you know what The skid steer that we bought had a bad battery and we had to jump that four or five times. And my battery has a really bad like the angle to get in there. It's like halfway up underneath the the uh ferrule of the car there, the where the windshield wipers are. And you have to really get it down in there. And I thought, I wonder if we moved like trying to get that clip on there, like if we moved my connections And maybe when you were pulling it off, like you didn't get it released, and I'm wondering if I have a loose ground. So I drive all the way to Walmart, because I'm planning to buy a battery, and I get out of the car and I think, well, I'm just gonna look. I look under the hood And sure enough, my ground is loose. I can move it with my fingers. Now it was not like flopping. It was not off. It was on there. It just wasn't tight. I went inside and bought a $7 wrench and came out and tightened it up and problem fixed. Here's the thing that hit me as soon as I did that. You know what? There are so many Christians that are living their life and they come into church on Sunday and they get connected? For a minute? And it it seems like everything's okay? Like, oh I'm doing fine. And then they get out into life and problems hit, and the minute they need power, it's not there. There's no power. All of a sudden there's a disconnect and there's no power to live the Christian life that God wants them to live because They're not daily walking with God. They're not daily filled with the Spirit of God. And they don't have the power they need to live the Christian life. Because they're not connected. We're connected when we bow humbly in a reverent posture and get before God and beg him for his presence. Notice we see a resourceful provision here. He says, according to the riches of his glory. Can I tell you, beloved, that if you're lacking power to live the Christian life, it's not because God's hand is shortened that he cannot help. It's not because he lacks the ability to be there for you or he lacks the strength that you need. The problem is in us. He has given us this reforceful provision, a means of victory that's available to all of us I told you the other day about my child, Andrew, and when he was struggling so hard and so frustrated to push that that stroller through the living room because of the obstacles that were in his way, but you know how easy it was for me? To just move it just the tiniest little bit to where it avoided the obstacle and all of a sudden he could go. That's how it is with God. We in our lives are facing an obstacle, we're facing a challenge, we're facing a temptation, and for us it's so great, for us it's so the magnitude of it is too much. And we get we we we get so overwhelmed by it all and we say, How can I do this? And yet for God it is such a small thing. For God it's almost it's almost insignificantly, it's not even almost worth talking about, but God is able to do a very little thing and adjust and to meet that need or to answer that prayer. Give us the power to do what he wants us to do. We see, beloved, that it's a renewed power. He says that you are strengthened The inner man. Beloved, the battle is the Lord, and the battle rages in the inner man. It's something that takes place inside. If we are going to have victory in this Christian life, the inner man has to be strengthened. The inner man has to know and experience the victory first. We bought our lift tickets to go skiing several, I mean, like a month and a half in advance because that was the cheapest Almost 50% off because it was over six weeks in advance or something. And uh the boys told Brother Glover that we were going skiing, and Brother Glover told me, he says, you better start working out right now He says you're gonna get on that mountain and you're gonna be skiing and your legs are gonna be burning. You're gonna be on fire. He says you're gonna be dying. And here's the thing, I know that, and I was even encouraged to do that, but I didn't do it. And can I tell you that the whole time we were skiing, I was telling these young boys of mine, I was like, would you wait for me? Would you slow down? Come on, I gotta pause for a second. I can't keep going like this. I mean, we're skiing down the hill and and man, they're just burning it up, and and I'm like, I gotta rest. I gotta stop and rest for a minute. What? You see I didn't prepare. The inner man wasn't strengthened. I wasn't ready to go down the hill at that pace. I didn't have the strength to be able to do that And beloved, if you are going to stand when temptation comes, you've got to have the strength before it comes. You've got to be prepared before that day of temptation, that day of trial, that day of hardship. And you've got to have the inner man renewed and strengthened day by day, so that when it comes, you're ready for it That's what God expects for us. He has us to be renewed. And the problem, beloved, is many men are trying to live outwardly what they have not experienced inwardly. And it doesn't work. It is the Spirit of God that renews us inwardly. This is what happens. This is what God wants for us. But we've got to have the inner man renewed. We see here he prays that we would be settled in his presence. In verse number 17, he says that Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith. That ye being rooted and grounded in love, we see here there's a personal indwelling. Christ may dwell in your hearts. He comes, beloved, to take up residence in our life I wonder, are you giving him total access? The Holy Spirit that comes and dwells in your life Has he literally been given free reign in your home, or is there areas of your life that you've restricted him from? Is there things in your life you said, oh God, you can have access to every room except for my entertainment You can have access to every room except for my life's goals or ambitions. You can direct my steps in every way except, except, except. No, he's supposed to have total access. That we would be settled in his presence. Paul expounds on this in Colossians 1:27 when he says, to whom God would make known. What is the riches of glory of his mysteries among the Gentiles, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory? I don't understand it. I can't really explain it, but I believe it. The Holy Spirit of God, God comes and dwells in us. It is a personal indwelling. And that's what Paul uh i is praying here for the Ephesian believers and for us that God would have free reign in our lives, that He would be able to indwell us fully. Is God Just a guest in your home? Or does he have free reign in your home? You know, the guest they're allowed in the living room. You know, if they ask you can say, Yeah the bathroom is right here, first door on the right, don't go in the door on the left. You know, that's the storage closet or whatever. You know, oh you can do this, you know. But does he have free rain? We see, beloved, when God has free reign, we have permanent stability. He says that ye being rooted and grounded in love. That rooted is the picture of a tree that has the roots and the foundation and the strength, the strong and The idea of a foundation that's grounded in love is the idea of a foundation of a building that's grounded, that's settled, that that is strong, that is secure. We'll have stability as Christians if we're rooted and grounded in the love of God. We'll have the strength to stand in the storm, to endure the temptation. To be victorious through the trial, if we're rooted and grounded, strengthened in the inner man, we see that he prays that we would be saturated with his love. In verses 18 and 19, he says, Ye may be able to comprehend with all the saints. We see first of all here a growing discernment. A growing discernment. Do you have a growing discernment? He says that you may be able to comprehend. Do you have a growing understanding of the love of God? Are you closer to God today than you were last year? Do you know the fullness of God's strength and the ability to live the Christian life in a greater way today than you did six months ago or six years ago? We ought to have a growing discernment. We ought to know his love and his strength and be able to comprehend this as the saints do. What do we comprehend? We comprehend the great dimension of God's love. He says that we might with the breadth, the length, the depth, and the height, and to know the love of Christ. There is no sufficient way to describe the love of Christ. Beloved, this is not something that we can measure, that you can put a ruler on. You see parents with young children, and mommy loves you this much, but daddy loves you this much. Grandpa loves you this much. And you know, how much do you you know this much and trying to measure the love, but we know there is no way to measure that We're speaking of the love of God, beloved. I think of somebody standing on the brink of the ocean, looking out at that vast expanse of water and trying to comprehend the size of it. I remember as a boy just standing on Lake Michigan, which is a tiny body of water compared to the ocean, and just thinking, I mean, I can't even see across. Only when you get on a ship and launch out into the deep and spend some days traveling through the ocean or are you just Saturated in it. You're consumed by it. If you've ever taken a cruise and been on the ocean for days on end and At night you go up and stand on the deck of the ship and you look out at the vastness of that water and you just have to put it out of your mind the fact that you are literally in the middle of nowhere and if anything happens, you know, you're probably done Because this th there is no hope. You know, you you you know my mind just goes towards like, well what happens, you know, if this or that and now here we are stuck and I mean the vastness of the ocean That's how God's love is. The height, the breadth, the width, the depth. I mean, there's not a way to describe it or to comprehend it, but you know what you can do? You can experience it Somebody can't adequately give you words to describe it. Somebody can't adequately measure it But beloved, the privilege that's ours as children of God is if we will come to Him and allow Him to fill us, we get to experience His love in our lives. What a blessing that is. I I know you guys are gonna think, well, what's with the illustrations this week, right? I just thought well we'll use some more water. Uh I have here a uh a tray of water. And uh hopefully I don't spill too much of this. I had a mess to clean up the other day. But I have this sponge here and and you ladies know what happens when the sponge gets all dried out. It just floats. But as it sits there, it begins to get saturated. It begins to fully soak up all of that And beloved, if we would just really get into the presence of God, that hard heart would get softened. And God would be able to fill our heart with his love and squeeze out the things that shouldn't be there. And as we sit in his presence, We soak up the love of God and begin to understand and grasp the depth, the height, the width of this love. You see, what fills you is what controls you. And what Paul is praying for is that the children of God that we would be filled with the Spirit of God. And so I wonder, is the Spirit of God at home in your heart? Does he feel at home in your life? Have you longed to experience and to know his presence in that way? He prays for a genuine and complete fullness that we be filled with all the fullness of God. This is staggering language. But it only happens as we sit in his presence and are saturated with his word and with his love that we become filled with that. And when we're filled with that, it's a little easier to not be filled with self. It's a little easier to not be filled with pride. It's a little easier to not be filled with bitterness, to not be filled with anxiety, to not be filled with Why? Because we're full of the love of God and the richness of his grace in our lives. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed