Well, we've had a wonderful couples conference and uh everything has been hunky-dory to use a colloquial expression. And uh I hope that you most of you have been there and I hope you have benefited from it. They interviewed Doctor B. R. Lakin one time after fifty years of marriage and they said, Doctor Lakin, in all of your years did you ever consider divorce? He was shocked. He said, divorce? A man of God? Divorce? A preacher? Divorce? Of course not. Murder? Yes. I thought about killing her a few times, but I I thought about killing her a few times, but I never thought about divorcing her. I'm open to Psalms chapter number four, please, and uh we'll read one verse We sang one chorus, we'll read one verse, and then do as much as we can with the time that is left. And so here we are in Psalms chapter number four and verse number four. I uh I hate to disrupt your comfort zone, but you didn't stand for the chorus, so I'll have you stand for the scriptures. Everybody stand, please. And I'll read verse three and then into verse four. But know that the Lord hath set apart him that is godly for himself. Uh the Lord will hear when I call unto him. Can you hear me all right, by the way? Can everyone hear me? I've got a treble voice, and usually I'm pretty good, uh, but I don't want to uh I don't want to I want to make sure you can hear. Now notice verse number four with me real quickly. Stand in all and sin not. Commune with your own heart. upon your bed and be still see luck. The word commune means communication. Uh but i commune in specific means communic communication in a two-way uh traffic zone. You're talking with somebody and they're talking with you. You're not talking at them and they're not talking at you. You're communing with them. Commune? Simply means talk. Now who are we talking to here? According to this verse, we are told to commune with your own heart So literally you're talking to yourself. Someone said years ago well, Dr. Curtis Hudson said, everybody ought to learn to talk to the devil. He said, I talk to the devil every day of my life, and I was shocked. I said Uh Dr. Hudson, uh Curtis Hudson, editor of the Sword of the Lord, I said, Dr. Hudson, what do you say to yourself? Uh uh what do you say to Satan? And he said, I say things like this. Now, devil I know who's putting these thoughts in my mind. I know who's trying to make me jealous or angry or whatever it is. Now, devil, in the name of the blood of Jesus, get out of here and leave me alone. He said, I talk to the devil every day of my life Well we ought to talk to God every day of our life. Every morning when you get up, you ought to address the Lord Jesus Christ and talk with him. And ha if you don't, you're going to be talking to the devil soon. You're not going to have enough power to know what to say to him So number one, talk to God. Number two, you need to learn to talk to the devil. And number three, you need to learn to talk to yourself. This doctrine is taught all through the Bible. Says, standing on, commune not, uh, and sin not, commune with your own heart upon your bed. I could go through the Bible showing you places like Psalm 776 I commune with my own heart and my spirit made diligent search. How about Nehemiah chapter 5 verse 6 where Nehemiah said, I consulted with myself How about Ecclesiastes 1 and verse 16? Speaking of Solomon, it says, I commune with my own heart. How about the prodigal son down by the hog pen? The Bible says, and when he came to who? Himself. Over and over and over, and I'll show you other places in the Bible. Over and over and over in the Bible we'll we've We were taught and even mandated and commanded to talk to ourselves. God has put certain wisdom down inside of us through the experiences of life that are compiled in there And he expects us to draw on that wealth of wisdom that we already have. Where look, Lord, give me wisdom. Many times we've already got wisdom. All we have to do is sit down and have a talk with ourselves And so we need to talk with ourselves. But when do we talk to ourselves? That's what I'm going to teach to you about. Let's bow in prayer. Heavenly Father, thank you for the privilege. to be under the spout where the glory comes out. I thank you, Lord Jesus, for the word of God. A lamp unto our feet and a light into our pathway I pray, Lord Jesus, that you will teach us the things that we need to know this morning. In Jesus' name, amen. You may be seated, please. You may turn quickly to Luke 16, or you may just jot it down, whichever is most convenient for you. I will certainly read it. You can study it later. But in Luke chapter 16, the Lord Jesus is speaking, and here's what he said And he said also unto his disciples, There was a certain rich man had a steward, and the same was accused unto him that he had wasted his goods. And he called him and said unto him, How is it that I hear this of thee? Give an account of thy stewardship for thou mayest no longer be steward. I put you in charge of my assets, and I hear that you're wasting my goods. I hear that you are not taking care of the things that you're paid to take care of for me. Notice verse number three. Then the steward said within himself, now wait a minute. Who is he talking to? Himself. He said within himself, What shall I do? For my Lord taketh away from me the stewardship. And here's what he said, I cannot dig and to beg I'm ashamed. Now picture this. He literally dragged up a chair and he said within himself, What shall I do? What am I going to do? I'll pull this over here where others can see me. And he literally sat himself down and he had a talk. And here's what he said. What are you going to do? You cannot dig. You've never been into manual labor. You've always been into management and to beg. You go you want to lose your you want to lose your job? You want to you want to be a pauper? Do you want to be on the street I don't know what I'm gonna do. I mean he's already called me in and it is true I've mismanaged some things and I don't have he said, Well you better figure something out and you better figure it out fast because uh you you're getting called on the carpet. And and you go to and uh he said, but I don't know what am I gonna do. He's talking to himself, and all of a sudden he says Hey wait a minute, I got it. I know what I'll do. I just go out and find everybody that owes him and tell them to give him fifty percent of everything they owe him and he can walk out scot free and never pay the rest of it. Now the plan that he came up with was a pretty stupid well I shouldn't use that word, a pretty dumb plan, okay? Pretty dumb plan. But the Lord commended him And here's why he commended him, not because he came up with a good plan, but because the children of this world are wiser in their generation than the children of light. The children of this world don't talk to God And most of them don't talk to the devil. There are devil worshippers out there, but most of them aren't devil worshipers. They don't talk to God. They don't talk to the devil. But they do talk to themselves. But Christian people fail in that area. And the Lord commended the unjust doer because he had done wisely, because he talked to himself. He sat down and had a conversation with himself. And but but the plan he came up with was a pretty dumb plan. Let me ask you a question. If you hired a man to take care of your assets And that man told everybody that owed you to just give you fifty percent of everything they owed you and they could just walk out scot-free and not pay the rest. Would you keep him or would you fire him? I'd fire him. So the plan was not a good plan, but the process was a good process. He talked to himself. Here's the point I want to make on this point. Talk to yourselves in the hour of decision. Talk to yourselves in the hour of decision. Uh preacher, I'll uh Brother Ives and Pastor, I'll give one for you all. There was a man in the Midwest some years ago who had a church, uh maybe he was running 150, 200. I don't know. It's a good healthy church And uh he was from the south. He got a call to go south. And uh uh he was originally from uh Louisiana, and he got a call to go south And so, man, you heard of the fella that says, I just got a call. I don't know if God's in it or not, but honey, you go up and be packing while I pray about it, you know. It uh I mean and so uh he talked to me about it And uh I chatted with him a little bit, and uh I'm hoping that I helped him to talk to himself a little bit because here's what he did He pulled out a piece of paper and on one side he wrote down all the reasons why he ought to go south. Number one, my mom and dad are there, they're getting older, they're gonna need me. Number two I am a sportsman and the sport is great there. And uh and and that's in number three, I am a southerner, I talk like a southerner, I eat like a southerner, I think like a southerner And and he wrote down all the reasons why he ought to go south. On the other side of the paper, he wrote down all the reasons that he ought to stay. Now he's talking with himself So on that side, here's what he wrote down. God put me here. He stopped, stared at it, tore up the paper, threw it in the trash can, and stayed, built a church of 1200 Over a period of years. Now here's what I'm saying. He had a talk with himself. Talk with yourselves in the hour of the six. I'm thinking now of a young man who worked with our young people years ago. He was not paid, it was the early days of the church and God was blessing him. And he had two or three little children the same age as my children, and uh he was doing well. He had a good position with a a job nearby and uh he came to me one day and he says well pastor I hate to tell you this they're going to move me I said who's going to move you? He said my work By the way, let me pause right there and say this. It might be that you ought to resign your position and get another job. It might be that you ought to resign here and move the Timbuktu. But don't let anybody move you but God. Don't let anybody nobody should move me, move you and me but God. And I can give you many illustrations. But anyway, he says they're gonna move me. And I said, Well brother, is there a good church in that town you're going to? Well he said they say there is. That's not gonna cut it. You went on vacation and you found out how hard it is to find a good independent fundamental premium, then there are temperamental Baptist church out there somewhere. You you found out how hard it was. You know how many real good churches there are. Oh, there's churches I mean that's rock and roll churches and high steeple few people churches and all kinds of churches. But I'll tell you this right now, you find a church like this right here, yeah y y you'll be doing a good job I'm not saying there's not some. I'm sure there are, but but you'll be doing a good job. Now so he said uh well you know uh they say there is. Well he moved there and no good church like he had some years later he called me crying one night He said, Pastor, one of my little girls is expecting out a wedlock. I never dreamed one of my children would do that And you know, I never said a word. We pastors, we want to say I tried to tell you you wouldn't listen. All of his children's contemporaries, all of them on that inner circle were growing up and doing well. There wasn't a single solitary one of the ones left behind that had done anything like that. Now I can't prove they don't and sometimes they do out of a good fundamental church. But the problem is He took his children out from under good thunderous instructional conviction preaching and King James Bible and good music and good fellowship and other young people of their own association and he paid the price 'Cause he didn't sit out and have a talk with himself. You said, Well, I'm gonna make five dollars more an hour. Well, in the first place, by the time you get moved and do your driving, you may not make as much extra as you think. And number two is this Five dollars an hour is a mighty uh mighty high price to pay for watching your little girl have to spend the rest of her life in shame and disgrace and marry some Jehu and live that way the rest of her life. I'm just saying uh in the our a by the way we got some young people in here. Let me throw one out for you. When I organized the Marion Avenue Baptist Church, it's been fifty years ago this year. We had uh four men and their wives. We had four teenagers. And uh uh w One of those teenagers was a young girl by the name of Joyce. Her mother and daddy went to a great church in a distant city. And they were so overwhelmed, they came home and told her, says, we have arranged for you to board away with a member of that church. Now the girl was only fifteen, I think, and uh board away with a member of that church and uh go to that school There was a Christian school. They were going to go to that school. She was already in a Christian school. It wasn't uh as good as it should have been, but it was a Christian school. And uh and and we've already made plans. That's what you're gonna do And I'll never forget hearing her say later, as she referred back to that, that's pretty traumatic on a 15-year-old girl. That's pretty traumatic on anybody, but Especially and by the way, uh there were wonderful godly people. I do not agree with the decision they make. I think a fifteen year old girl needs her mother and daddy about as bad as she needs anybody else in this world. Now that's my opinion If their mother and daddy of crude Christian people and these were. And so I remember her saying, What am I gonna do? She said, I thought to myself. Thought to who? Myself. What am I going to do? I can't do that. I wasn't made for the big city. I wasn't look, I've got my friends and and and and I was raised on the farm, man, we're in Iowa with them with hogs and corn and soybeans. uh and and turkeys and and some cattle. And and uh and what am I gonna do? I wake up every morning to the hog feet are slapping out in the backyard and and I'm not made for that city and I'm not made for I can't do that And then I remember she said to herself, oh you listen to young people, she said to herself, I don't know what I'm she's talking to herself. She said, Joyce, what are you gonna do? She said, I don't know. I can't I I look my mom and daddy said it's a done deal. They they said I'm going. I can't do it. But what am I gonna do? And she said to her, said, well, you better figure something out. Because we're coming down to the wire. And here's what she said. I'll never forget what she said. She said, I don't know what I'm going to do. But I do know what I'm not gonna do. I'm not gonna walk over my mom and daddy. I'm not gonna become a little rebel devil. I'm not gonna I'm not gonna rebel I'm not going to go against the Bible. I don't know what I'm going to do. I just know what I'm not going to do. And by the way, shock of all shocks, they never changed their mind. And she went. And graduated and went to college there and graduated again and met a young man by the name of Terry Angel. Anybody ever hear that name? Raise your hand. And before Terry graduated from college While they were still students, I hired Terry to be my assistant pastor. He came with me, he was with me ten years Then he took a church in Bourbonnay, Illinois, and when he got over there, uh they started having more babies. They had two while it was with us They ended up with six children, most of which are full-time in service of the Lord. The church has grown to 600. Joyce goes around speaking to ladies. And it's a blessing to everybody. Oh, because she had a talk with young people, you're going to have to have a talk with yourself. Mamas and daddies, you're going to have to have a talk with yourself. Talk with yourself. Good. Talk to God. Talk to the devil But talk to yourself. It's commanded in the Bible. And by the way, when you talk to yourself, be honest with yourself. In Luke 12, 16, I'm just throwing out some scriptures here now. This is Sunday school. This is a time we learn something Uh in in Luke sixteen, um uh where is it now in Luke twelve, sixteen, uh there was uh the ground of a certain rich man brought forth plentifully. And uh he said Within himself. Are you with me? He said within himself. What are you going to do? I mean, you you've got more than than you can handle. Where are you going to put all this grain? And here's what he said. He lied to himself. He said to himself, best thing I can do is just build huge barns and pile it all up. Uh-uh. He lied to himself. The easiest person in the world to lie to is yourself because you don't give yourself any competition back. The easiest person in the world to lie to is yourself. He should have said, man, I've got more than I can handle. What should a person do if they've got more than they can handle? Give to somebody that don't have more than they can handle. Say amen right there. Give to God's work. Invest in something eternal Do if you got more than you can handle, I mean invest in in something worthy. But he lied to himself. You know there's a verse in Proverbs twenty-nine verse fift uh fifteen, and I love this verse. It says, Woe be unto them who seek deep to hide their counsel from the Lord. Did you ever just i uh in my life I never found a verse like that Woe be unto them who seek deep to hide their counsel from the Lord. So in other words, you seek deep Not to admit to God or to yourself what you really know you should do, and what you really know you should say to yourself And you seek deep. So in the hour of decision, talk to yourself. In the hour of decision, be honest with yourself. And number two, in the hour of testing, talk to yourself. 1 Samuel chapter 30 and verse number 6, and I'll just allude to it. Let me quote it for the sake of time. The Bible says that David was greatly distressed. For the people spake of stoning him, but David encouraged, say it with me, himself in the Lord his God. It's all over the Bible, folks. Are you practicing it? Do you consistently practice setting yourself down, having a talk with yourself? And he said He he said within himself, and David encouraged himself in the Lord his God. The people spake of stone in him because he had made a stupid decision, a dumb decision, that had cost he and his Faithful people, their wives and children, and when you make a decision that costs your friend, their wives and children, they're going to speak of stoning you too They're going to be against you too. And so now he's down. He's made a crazy decision. Now his own people's about to revolt on him. David, what are you going to do? I don't know what I'm going to do. David encouraged himself in the Lord. What did he say to himself? I don't know. The Bible doesn't record it. But I know what I can say to myself when I'm discouraged. I know some things that I can say to myself, and you know some things you can say to yourself, and you and I are responsible to God to say. We have no right to wallow around in our self-pity and be down. We need to encourage ourselves. We need to talk to ourselves in the hour of testing. Um my first wife died with cancer. 39 years, wonderful, dedicated Christian lady. My my wife Rhonda here, my second wife, will often refer to her when she teaches classes. and so forth and uh different things carries a part of her diary and reads it and and uh Rhonda's first husband Jerry was a wonderful dedicated Christian who puts me to shame in a lot of areas. We have no hang ups about our previous spouses. We don't Uh we had wonderful marriages and you don't take a big eraser and re reach up and erase thirty-seven years for uh thirty-nine years for me and thirty-five five years for her. You don't do that If you do, you erase your children and you erase all the victories that God gave and all your life, most of your life. So anyway, but um Uh my first wife died with cancer, breast cancer, ladies, and she ended up, she'd been in Mayo Clinic here and yonder, she died at home, and as she was down for the count Uh, she could hardly talk and she said to me, she said, Larry, how are the children doing? We had seven children. She said, How are the children doing? I said, Well pretty good. I said, I've got one that's worrying me. She said, What's wrong with her? I said, well, she's saying things to me like, Dad, you don't have to worry about it. Mom's not going to die God would not let my mother die, she said. My mother who's won souls and taught Sunday school and lived the Christian life. Look, when she died, there were gifts that around the door. When she drew her last breath, she died there at home There were bags and gifts around the door to give to ladies at the church that needed encouragement and all. And I mean that's the kind of life she lived. And she was a storybook mom and taught uh homeschooled all seven of them all the way through and and uh and she said god will not let my mother die And I said, it bothers me. She said, send her to me. And she came in. I think she was 21, 22 years old. She looked up at her and she said, girl, I want to tell you something. When I was 16 years old, my 39-year-old mother had a convulsion at home and died within sight of the house in the ambulance. And I was over her body in the ambulance when she died It was the darkest day of my life. I didn't have a boyfriend. I didn't have a close friend of any kind. She was very popular and very uh wonderful, but but she she lived a very private life And she said, I didn't have a close friend. I didn't have a boyfriend. I didn't have anything. I didn't even have a sister. I was the only girl in the family. And I thought life would end there. But I'm going to tell you, life did not end there. The best of my life was yet ahead. Your your dad, this great ministry we've built, you seven children, and a host of other things, the best of my life was still ahead. And I want to tell you something. If I can bury my thirty-nine year old mother when I'm sixteen, you can bury your fifty-eight year old mother when you're twenty-one. Now straighten up And she did. You say, well how'd that girl come? Well, she got her to talk to herself. You say, how'd that girl come out? Oh, she married Dr. Jack Treeber's son. And uh they've got a great church in Phoenix, Arizona, and she's the happy mother of five children and just doing fine. You're gonna have to talk to yourself in the hour of testing, talk to yourself in the hour of uh uh darkness Talk to yourself. You know what? I preached all my life. God's grace is sufficient. No matter what you say, then I got cancer. And they thought I was gonna die. My wife thought I'd die. My children thought I'd die. I thought I was gonna die. Everybody in the world thought I was gonna die, but God. And uh I'm telling you, I had to talk to myself. I mean there was a if you've ever had cancer, you thought you were gonna die? There's some people in this room like that If not, there's some people in this room gonna face this before life's over. It's like a dark veil is hanging over your head. You can't shake it. It it's it's on you. Oh God, I'm in a trap. I'm I'm gonna die. Lord, I don't want to die. I want to live in this And and I had to set myself down and say, Now look Brown, you have preached all these years that God's grace is sufficient for people. If God's grace was sufficient for all of those people you preach to, it's Sufficient for you and it's going to be so now you straighten up and I had to talk to myself. By the way, that's been twenty-one years ago I could die next week with cancer. As far as I know, I'm cancer-free today, but that that's today. But I'm just saying this. I don't know what's going to come, but I'll have to ha sit down and have a talk with myself in the hour of uh uh in the hour of testing. Um sat down and drag up a chair and say things like look you're not the only person that ever had a child that went astray You're not the only person that had a husband and walked off and left you high and dry. You're not the only person that ever had cancer. You're not the only person that ever lost your job. Talk to yourself. Talk to yourself. You're not the only person that ever had people ha hurt somebody that you really loved and cared about. You're not the only person that went out yonder and buried a baby, or a son, or a daughter, or a spouse. Have a talk with yourself. Have a talk with yourself in the hour of testing. In the hour of testing. Number three, I like this one. Have a talk to yourself in the hour of life's natural crises. Psalms 90 verse number 12. Well, let me allude to this. It says, we spend our years as a tale that is told. Psalms 90, verse number 12 said, So teach us to number our days that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom. Our days have certain cycles. Our days have it we spend our life as a tale that is told. A tale that is told any book you ever read has chapters in it And you start out in the first chapter, and everybody's going to be doomed, and everybody's going to die. But then you learn the characters as you go along. At the end of the book, you find out what happens. Don't You gotta realize your life is cycles. Let me give you three of them right now. There's a thousand of them, but let me give you three of them right away. Youth Middle age and old age. Now there would be a lot of argument in here about where one stops and the other starts. We all three have to agree they do e we we all have to agree they three do exist, right? Okay are we all in agreement? They do exist. Okay now, watch this. You ever think about the verse in first John says, All that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, that's youth. The lust of the uh that's youth. You know, the flesh. The less of the eyes the desire the less of the flesh the desire to enjoy something, the lust of the eyes the desire to get something. I mean after all, we're 50 years old, we're 45 and 50 years old. We've got to pile up, we've got to get ready. We're going to get old and we get old. We won't have anything. If you don't watch, you'll pile up and leave God out. Gotta get this house paid for. Gotta buy that little piece of property. Gotta have some assets. Gotta put more in our retirement. Got you know we got panicking. The lust of the flesh, the desire to enjoy something. Lust of the eyes, the desire to get something. And then old age, the pride of life and the desire to be something. The pride of life Let me tell you what I used to do when I was a boy. You little whippersnappers think you've done something. Hey One fellow said, did I tell you about them to you, grandson? And his friend said, no, and I appreciate it so much. Thank you so much for not doing The pride of life. But there's all all kinds of other cycles of life. Um I got a preacher friend that you would know his name. I called his name. And he said I was with a pastor two or three times, a great successful fellow. over a period of years and said he got up about forty-five, fifty years old, said one of the most bedrock solid straight line guys emotionally you ever saw in your life And I went to preach for him the last time. He was still in the same church, but said when I came out of that jet way there and he picked me up, he said, Preacher, I'm glad you're here. Come here, I gotta show you. You I gotta show you what I got And we went out there and he had bought one of these tiny little expensive sports cars. He could get in here, preacher. Well, my preacher friend was a very large man. And he said, I got in that little sports car and my knees was right up under my chin like this. He said, Preacher, let me show you what this thing will do. He said, he about jerked a knot. He said I needed a chiropractor when he got done. You know what he was doing? He was going through the change of life. We talk about women. Change of life. Men are worse than women oftentimes And don't look at me, bug, I I know my biology, but m but men are worse than women sometimes. I mean a man comes to the stage in age, he feels like youth is fleeing him. Somebody drops a hint. Well, you're not as young as you used to be. Oh, he panics. So he's got to do something to prove that he's still got it. So what's one of the first things a man will do to prove to himself and others that he's still got it? Try to get the attention of a younger woman. And there's always some ditchy young female willing to receive the attention of a man above about any age. Say amen right there. So what does he do? He throws his marriage away, his home away, and half his fortune away, and ruins his testimony, because he's trying to prove he's not accepting the cycle of life that he's in. Hello? Talk to yourself in the natural cycles of life. Uh you know, I was on an airplane. I was talking to a lady, 50-ish lady, and she she was um uh a teacher in the Roman Catholic Church and I was being friendly, warming up. Sh I'm sitting down, she's a stewardess and she had finished her leg of the uh service there and uh she I said she told me about her children. I said, well tell me about your husband. Well My husband divorced me. I said, Oh, what what a shame. I s I'm so sorry. And she stared out the airplane window, she was looking down through the window. She said, Yeah, she said, he went through the change of life and took off after a younger woman. And uh and then she said the funniest thing, she said, you know what's funny about that? She said, We women, we go through the change of life. We just dye our hair a different color or something But he said these men go stone crazy. And she's right. She is right. She is right. And uh this is what he's saying. Uh girl grew up in my church. Preachers, teachers, you would have been thrilled if that had been your daughter. That girl never turned her head toward the world. She never put on anything. You wouldn't have been thrilled for one of your daughters to marry. I mean totally. And she married well, married a board of the Bible college, had several children, went into ministry, building a great church, and came to my wife one day and said I'm tempted to wear things I've never put on. I'm tempted to go places I've never been. I'm tempted to do things I've never done. What is wrong with me? And my wife says, See, honey. It's just your age. Women come to an age and get all these ding-dong ideas in their head, you know, squirrely ideas You gotta talk to yourself. You reach this age and all kinds of uh nutty ideas fly through your head. You gotta talk to yours one woman said, I'm driving my husband crazy. Most hey, the most dedicated woman in the church outside of my wife. And she told my wife, said, I am driving my husband crazy. My wife said, What are you doing? She said, Well he comes home. He's a farmer. He came home. She said, I'm asking him 40, 11 questions about where he's been, who he's been talking to. And she said, I've never been this way before. And my wife said, Well has he given you any reason to believe that he has ha taken an interest in something? No And my wife said, Well, honey, it's just your age. You go through this. You gotta talk to yourself. You gotta talk to yourself. If not, you're gonna ruin your marriage and ruin your life and go insane And uh you gotta talk to yourself in the hour of uh life's natural crises. Just drag up a chair. Drag up a chair and have a talk to yourself. Say, look What age are you? Well, what's that got to do anything? Well, it's got a whole lot to do with it Amen. Talk to yourself in the area of life's natural crises. Now let me give you this. And I I I I'll give you about half of this lesson. That's all I got time for, but but I but I want to give you this one right here. Talk to yourself In the hour of decision, in the hour of testing, in the hour of life's natural crises, talk to yourself in the hour of temptation Nehemiah chapter 5 and verse number 9 and 6. And listen to what he said. Let me turn it so for the sake of time. Nehemiah chapter 5, verse 6. Here's what Nehemiah said. I was very angry When I heard their cry and these words, I wish I had time to develop the context of this. He said I was very angry when I heard their cry and these words. Then the Bible says, then I consulted with myself. That's Nehemiah chapter 5 and verse 6 and 7. Then I consulted with myself, and I rebuked the nobles and the princes. I got the job done. But I got my attitude straight first, because I had a little talk. And here's what he said. I was very angry. I'm going to go after and strangle every one of them Well they have no right to do what they're doing, dedicate themselves to God and then turn around and go steal from each other. I I I I'm gonna kill Then I had to talk to myself and I said, now Neil Mowell look, you're about to go out there and blow it. You're about to go out there and do something that's gonna hurt your testimony. You're about to go out there and do something that you're gonna be sorry for and destroy all your credibility Well I don't care. They need it. Whether I have any credibility or not. They need it. But he had to talk with himself. Then he went out and did it right. Now I'm going to tell you something. When you get under the fever of temptation, you ain't got enough sense to get in out of the rain. A preacher whose name many people in this building would know, I heard that a that a boy had violated his daughter. This was a very dedicated Christian home. And when I heard that, I heard he was going to kill him. That he said he was going to kill him. Well, people blow a lot of smoke, but I knew my friend And I knew if he said he was going to kill that boy, somebody better be getting to him. But I didn't have time to get to him. He's in another state, so I called him I said, here you got a problem. He says, Yeah, but I won't have that Saturday night. I said, What do you mean? He said, I'm gonna kill that boy. He was talking just as calm as I'm talking to you. He said, I'm gonna kill that boy. I said, You're not gonna he said, watch me And I knew he was going to do it. I knew he would kill that boy. And he called me his best friend And he said, Would you give me one Bible reason why I shouldn't kill him? I said, yeah, yeah, how about thou shalt not kill one of the Ten Commandments? Would that be would that be a a good place to start? I can give you fifty, but let's just start there. Look I mean here's a man that taught this wasn't a novice. This guy had been in the ministry for years and taught and helped other people with the same problem he had, and yet he don't have enough sense to get in that he can't even think of a Bible reason not to kill that boy And that was like pouring water on a duck's back. I couldn't help him. So I had to get drastic. Whether you agree or disagree with what I said, just what I said. I said, okay, go ahead and kill him But when you kill him, you kill your daughter also. She's over eighteen years of old age. He did not rape her. She has admitted to you that she's party to the sin, that she's as guilty as he is. So don't you be a hypocrite. If you go kill him, kill your daughter too. He got quiet. And I said another thing. Are you going to let him do you worse than he's already done? He said, will you tell me what worse than he's already done, destroying my daughter's life. I said, I'll tell you exactly what's worse than he's already done. To let him park you in prison to rot for the rest of your life and be taken away from your children who have not done anything wrong. And watch them go to hell. And and and and and and to watch your precious wife who stood with you all these years crushed and brokenhearted and had to live in disgrace the rest of her life Because she had a godly husband who turned bad and killed a boy, and now he's rotting in a state prison. That's worse. He got quiet. He goes all over America. He don't give the details, but he goes all over America telling people Larry Brown saved my life. I did not, I did not. All I did was got him to talk to himself I was preaching in a certain state, and I I brought out this point in a message. And a lady came to me the night after that, a married lady in the church, and she said, I have been communicating with another married man. We've been talking too personal, too intimate. She said we have not gone into sin, but we were heading that direction. And when you preached what you did last night I went home and I set myself down and I said, What is wrong with you? Are you crazy? You gonna throw your life away and Break your husband's heart, destroy that man's life, and ruin his marriage, and ruin the testimony of God, and bring disgrace upon. Are you crazy? She said immediately got the phone, called and said, no more texting, no more calling. I'm done. I don't want to see you, don't want to be around you. It's over, it's wrong, and it's done. And she saved her life, she saved her testimony, she saved her children, she saved his family and his marriage, and saved her home marriage and saved the church's disgrace and saved a testimony for our Lord in the hour of temptation Well, I have one minute according to my watch and I want to ask you the question. Do you need to sat down and have a talk with yourself?