Psalm thirty-four and verse seventeen. Psalm thirty-four, seventeen The righteous do what? The righteous what? Cry. They cry, and the Lord heareth and delivereth them out of all their troubles. Now the word cry sometimes means to call loudly It means to shout in order to gain someone's attention. That's what the word means. But at other times in the scripture It means to utter sounds or groans, especially of grief, and usually with tears. So there can be that kind of crying as well. Either way, cry indicates an emotional plea in a desperate situation. It's an emotional plea in a desperate situation. I picture someone who has tried everything they can think of and then in an complete exasperation and intensity, they cry out to God about the situation. This is a step beyond normal praying. All of us pray normally. I sure hope we do. I think we do. But there are those situations in our lives that are desperate that we can cry out to God. Tonight, I want us to look at three questions about crying out to God as I preach on when in trouble, cry out to God. Let's bow for prayer and we'll get right into it. Our dear kind Heavenly Father, now we thank you for your goodness to us. We thank you for the privilege. Boy, I mean after coming through the pandemic and having to do so much live streaming and shutting down our services and and or or or cutting them back uh six feet distancing. Lord, we appreciate what we have. in coming to church and seeing each other and hearing the word of God. We love our church. Love our fellowship. And we love the preaching. I pray that we'll be listening intently and on purpose for what you want to say to us about what's going on in our lives. Right now, help us to be attentive but also responsive to it in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. I want you to know it's a privilege and fun to be around your pastors. All of them. I just I enjoy their fellowship and their their uh uh just freedom in the spirit. I enjoy that. And I see that in you as people as we're fellowshipping in the back. There's the same kind of freedom in most of you And I know that theirs is bearing fruit and yours is bearing fruit in them, and it just works all together, doesn't it? So it's a privilege to be here tonight. Now, question number one, who can cry out to God? In the scriptures, who qualifies? Who does God say has access to cry out to God? Who should cry out to God? Well, the Bible gives us specifics on who cried out to God in the Bible. And that gives us an indication. First of all, my people cry out. In Exodus chapter 3 and verse 7, all right, we're Bible-believing church. We carry our Bibles. Let's look up the verses now. In Exodus chapter 3 and verse 7, see it for yourself. Exodus 3, 7. And the Lord said I have surely seen the affliction of my people which are in Egypt, and have heard their cry by reason of their taskmasters. For I know their sorrows. My people, I've seen the affliction of my people and heard their cry. Whose cry? His people's cry. God's people in every age can cry out to him, we have access, glory to God But before you claim that you are one of his people, be very careful. For you must For you to be one of these people, you must have had that at one moment in time that experience of receiving Jesus Christ as your Savior and repenting of your sins. Trust him and trust him alone. I led a man to the Lord one time, and he said, at the end, I said, now, who are you trusting To take you to heaven when you die. Good question to ask, to clarify. He said, Well, I'm trusting Christ. and all the other gods that I grew up with. I said, uh, let's go over this again. And we got it straightened out If you've done that, if you've received him as Savior, then you are indeed one of his people. And you have the privilege of crying out to God. If you have not received Christ. You do not have that privilege except to be saved. You can cry out and receive Christ as your Savior. Now, Psalm 34, 17 says, the righteous cry. That's normal that we would cry. Those who are living for the Lord, it is normal that sometimes they cry out. It ought to be normal. Someone said, oh, I I I don't want to bother God. But he wants to be in the loop. He knows everything before we say it, but he wants to hear it from us. He wants to be bothered. He's waiting for your cry. It's one of our privileges as his people. Psalm 145, 19 says, He will fulfill the desire of them that fear him. He will he also will hear their cry And will save them. He'll hear the cry of those that fear him. Luke 18, 7. And shall not God avenge his own elect? That's us. Which cried day and night unto him, though he bear long with them. So he hears us and he avenges us. Well, I don't want to trouble God with my problems. I've heard that numbers of times from people. No, you won't trouble God But you'll complain to your husband or your wife about it day in and day out. No, you won't trouble God, but you'll call everybody in the church directory. With all of your problems. That's not right. It's unnecessary. Uh no, you won't trouble God, but you'll sit and fester and get bitter about something because there's no end to your trouble. Listen, there's not going to be an end to your trouble until you cry out to God, because that's how it works. We cry out and he answers. He hears and answers Ladies and gentlemen, it's this simple. In James 4. 2 it says, ye lust and have not, ye kill and desire to have. And cannot obtain, ye fight and war, yet ye have not, because ye what? Ask not. Not crying out. So Go ahead. Don't listen to Bible counsel. Sit there and get more and more bitter, more and more upset. I mean I'm just fire engine mad. Mad at the preacher, mad at the brother or sister in the church, mad at one of my brothers and sisters in the family my family or my husband or my wife or my children No one can stop you from getting more and more bitter. But I'm not going in that direction because the Bible teaches me we don't have to go in that direction. Not when he has invited you and me to cry out to him in times of trouble. In our hurt, we can cry out to him. I'm going to ha live a joyful, contented, fulfilled life. As much as lies within me. And when trouble comes, I know what to do. I cry out to God. Why don't you join me in that? I mean, oh God, it's me again. I need your help. He never gets tired of that. He wants us to do that. Shirley and I used to sing a song, It's Me Again, Lord. I've got a prayer that needs an answer. It's me again, Lord. I've got a problem that I can't solve. Now I don't mean to worry you like we of worrying God. But there I am facing something new, and I need help that only comes from you. It's me again, Lord. Sometimes crying out is loud. Sometimes it's tearful. Sometimes it's sorrowful. It's emotional, but it's always with desperation, and it's in dead earnest. We cry out in earnest. Consider it your privilege to cry out. That not only his people cry out, but in 2 Chronicles 14, I want you to turn there Not not only my people cry out, but secondly leaders ought to cry out to God. Because things come up that they can't manage Things come up that they don't know what to do about. Decisions come across their desk that they have to do. Counsel situations come up and that they're unsure about how to go about it And so we have to rely on the Lord. How do you do that? Cry out. Now, in 2 Chronicles 14, 11 It says, and Asa cried unto the Lord his God, and said, Lord, it is nothing with thee to help Whether with many or with them that have no power. Help us, O Lord our God, for we rest on thee. And in thy name we go against this multitude. O Lord, thou art our God. Let not man prevail against thee. Look at verse 12. The answer already. So the Lord smote the Ethiopians before Asa, just like that. He cried out, and the Lord smote the Ethiopians and Before Asa and before Judah and the Ethiopians fled. Who was Asa? Well, he was one of the good kings. One of the kings of Judah that walked with the Lord. He was a leader. In other words, in this instance, Ethiopia had the Outnumbered Judah by four to one. They have one point three million soldiers Ready to fight, and Judah only had 300,000. His soldiers would have been slaughtered in those odds. His country would have fallen What could he do as a leader? He's up against it. I mean, uh the clock is ticking. It's dangerous. Well, he could cry out to God. And that's of course what he did. And when we cry out to God, we're we're yelling, HELP! Help! I need help. In 2 Chronicles 18, King Jehoshaphat cried out, the Bible says, to God. In 2 Chronicles 32, King Hezekiah, another good king that walked with God, cried out to heaven, the Bible says. These weren't leaders in the church, but they were godly leaders in the Old Testament. I believe in work in our businesses today. Our business is going down. We ought to cry out to God. God cares about our business. Probably cares about it more than we do. He cares. We could cry out. We could cry out to God for our families, for family members that are going astray. or for a division in the family. We could cry out for our churches, for our church and its needs. We could cry out for our government and our country and God knows that our government needs somebody to cry out in their behalf. We just need to come to the end. And get desperate about whatever situation we're thinking about. If only leaders would cry out to the God of heaven, the Father of Jesus Christ. If God has placed you in a position of authority, maybe in this church, maybe in business, in some other way, and you believe God And you face some trouble, something that's perplexing you, cry out to him for your area of responsibility and for those who are under you in your authority. Who is it that ought to cry out to God? Well, it's his people. It's his leaders. Thirdly, it's strangers, widows, and fatherless. In Exodus 22 and verse 23, the Bible says, if thou afflict them in any wise Better watch out. And they cry at all unto me, God says, I will surely hear their cry. And you're going to be in a peck of trouble. That's the implication there So uh why? Because you may be they may be without a home, the homeless. The fatherless, the widows, the strangers. They may be without a mate. They may be without parents, but God says they're not going to be without me. I'm available for them. These three are vulnerable. They're unprotected groups. So God says he will be their protector. If they'll cry out to him. There's another category here that I didn't put in my notes, but a lady in the Old Testament, a lady who was being attacked. The Bible says that she can cry out to God, and God will hear her in her attack. And that that works. But we have to understand our privileges. We only do that as we study this wonderful book. The Bible has the answers, doesn't it? And so if you're a stranger, widow, or fatherless and life becomes frustrating and you feel vulnerable and maybe taken advantage of when l uh life feels like you're s it's spinning out of control, you have a resource. You've got a tool in your belt of what to do, and that tool is crying out to God. In Exodus 22, 23, God says, I will surely hear their cry There's really a fans or buts about it. I mean you could take this to the bank. This is a slam dunk. It's a certainty. It's a never fail. You and I cry out to God, and He hears us. Amen. Surely He hears us. Who else can cry out to God? Well, the poor. can cry out to God. Deuteronomy 24 and verse 15, for he is poor and set setteth his heart upon it, lest he cry against thee unto the Lord, and it be sin unto thee. You have somebody working for you, you need to pay them. And particularly in this situation, if they are in a desperate need, and they're waiting for that check, then you better pay them, or if they cry out to the Lord, it's sin for you as an employer. And God will uh ring your clock. Psalm 34 and verse 6 gives us an example of somebody doing this. It says, this poor man cried. And the Lord heard him and saved him out of all his trouble. Troubles, it's plural. When things look impossible financially, God has opened the doors for us to cry out to him. the poor included. So the answer to the question, who can and should cry out is his people Leaders, widows, strangers, fatherless, the poor. And I'm sure if we searched in the scripture we'd find more, but we'll stop right there tonight. Number two. The second question. In what situations should we cry out to God? Very practical Bible study tonight, but it's meant to help us. to see another avenue that we have that maybe we haven't tapped. In Psalm 34, 17 It's when we are in trouble. In what situation should we cry out to God when we're in trouble? The righteous cry, the Lord heareth and delivereth them out of all their troubles. And so uh that's pretty broad. When my boat trailer, I was hauling it. And the boat out here when we moved to Brogue, the wheel fell off in Akron, Ohio. It was on the expressway, Friday, December the 23rd, and everybody's going crazy. 1990, right before Christmas, shopping crazy, and I was on my way to Brogue. I cried out to God on the expressway. I didn't know what to do. I'm not a mechanic, but I could see what was wrong. Got that wheel and I asked the Lord to show me where to take it. I took it. And I asked some questions of this place. They said, oh, there's a guy right down here that'll weld that for you. I went down to his house in a neighborhood And I went to the door and he looked at me cross-eyed and I said, I've got a wheel that needs welding. It fell off my boat trailer out on the expressway. My trailer's sitting out on the expressway right now and I need this done. I need it done ASAP if you can. And he said, I can do that. And I explained to him that I was a preacher and so forth. I'll I'll do that for you, preacher. And so uh I got it. I cried out to God and God helped me in the trouble. It works. The Bible works. When I was going broke, keeping up two houses when we moved to Brogue. We had a house where we were living down here. We hadn't sold the one in Ohio and if you've ever moved you probably went through something like that, maybe. We cried out to God We had to have some relief, and God brought relief and sold the house in Ohio when one of our children broke our heart and ran away from home. You can believe that we cried out to God and cried and cried day and night cried and God heard our cry. Cry and brought her back. When we were on our way to the hospital and Jenny called my cell phone and she says, She's gone. Cassie's gone Our grandbaby died. I cried out to God. I never knew wailing before. Wailing starts way down deep in you at grief. And it just comes out. And I mean it's almost uncontrollable uh when you think about it. And many other times when we've been in trouble, we've cried out to God. Jonah cried out from the whale of the belly. I'm sorry, the belly of the whale. Jonah chapter 2 and verse 2. He was in trouble. You none of nobody here would argue with that point, but when he cried out, God helped him. Um I wonder if you're tr in trouble right now In some way or shape or form. Wonder if things are crashing in on you. The answer for you is the same as it was for me, as it was for Jonah, cry out to God in desperation, with earnestness, emotion. Let God know this really means something to me. And God hears and he answers prayer. Not only in trouble, but another time when we can cry out to God is when we're in in a fearful situation. Romans 8. 15 says, For I ye have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear. I think it's interesting that Paul linked fear to a spirit of bondage. There's been a lot of people in bondage. In this spirit of fear. You've not received the spirit of bondage again to fear, but you have received the spirit of adoption, and that spirit is capitalized. Spirit of adoption whereby we cry Abba Father. The Heavenly Father is our Father. And we cry out Abba Father or Father, Father. Thank God we have a father to cry out to. Matthew 14, 26. And when the disciples saw him walking on the sea, they were troubled. saying it is the spirit. And they cried for fear. For fear. That's another time we can cry when we're fearful or we have a fearful situation. God has not given to us, ladies and gentlemen, a spirit of fear, but a power and love and a sound mind, and He's given us access to cry out to Him. Cry out when you're afraid in a storm. We had a lady in our church, Mrs. Trump. And she was so fearful of the lightning and the thunder and the storm rolling in and the heavy rains. Every time she got a a weather forecast on the TV. Um and so many times I would call her and I'd say, Now Mrs. Trump, are you doing all right? She said, Yes. She has a real frail voice. She said, Yes, but I don't like the storm coming in past her I said, would it be all right if I pray with you? And she said, Yeah, that would be so nice. And we'd have a wonderful time of prayer But we can cry out when we're afraid of a storm coming in. We can cry out when we're very sick or when we we're limited. By our health. We can cry out when we get a bad report. That's time to cry out. It's not time to panic. It's not time to throw in the towel. It's not time to say, well, I guess it doesn't work. It's not time to say, oh what am I going to do? And bite your fingernails all the way down to the quit and wring your hand. No, no, no, no. We have access. He's invited us to cry out to him It shows our faith. When a disaster seems sure, you may be afraid, cry out. Cry out when you fear vandals and thieves, things are unsafe, there's danger lurking. Cry out to him So we can cry out in our troubles, we can cry out in our fears. Thirdly, 1 Chronicles chapter 5 and verse 20 teaches us that we can cry out in our battles. Cry out in our battles. It says that they were helped against them, and the Hagarites were delivered into their hand. and all that were with them, for they cried to God in the battle. I mean, they were right in the midst of the battle And they stopped and cried out to God, and he was entreated of them because they put their trust in him. I mean, when they were in the heat of the battle, it was God that they went to. We could do the same thing. In our battles there is help. The biggest battle that we face, no doubt today, is the temptation from the world, the flesh, and the devil. The devil wants us to do things his way instead of God's way. And so temptation comes. The flesh wants us to do things our way instead of God's way. Give in to lust and things like that. The world wants us to compromise and do things and think the way they think. Because of our pride and their peer pressure, we are tempted. But you can cry out to God in your battles. I love that thought. Another time a believer can cry out to God is when he realizes that he's backslidden. The Bible teaches us this in 1 Samuel 12, verse 10. Go there, please. 1 Samuel 12, 10. It also teaches it in Jeremiah. 1210. And they cried unto the Lord and said, We have sinned because we have forsaken the Lord and have served Balaam and Ashtroth. But now deliver us out of the hand of our enemies and we'll serve thee. Is that where God maybe finds you tonight? Is it possible that somebody would be here and you're just not right with God? There's just something You've given some ground to the devil or something in your heart. You're backslidden in your heart. Do you need to cry out in your backslidings for God's forgiveness? and his deliverance tonight. Listen, wonderful news. He'll answer that prayer. Wonderful. Um so cry out in trouble, in distress, in other words, in fear, in battle, and in backslidings. That's when we can cry out, and I'm sure there's other times also. Number three. Turn to Psalm 145. The final question, but I have 75 subpoints. No, I'm just teasing, just to tease. But the final question regarding crying out is what result can we expect when we cry out? What can we expect? Well, we can expect that God will hear our cry and save us or deliver us. Now, Psalm 145, verse 19. He will fulfill the desire of them that fear him. He also will hear their cry. Hear. What's going to happen? He'll hear it. You can be sure if you cry out to God, He'll hear it. You have an audience and will save them. Go over to Exodus chapter 2. Exodus chapter 2 in your King James Bible now. Exodus 223. And it came to pass in the process of time, 223, that the king of Egypt died, and the children of Israel sighed by reason of the bondage, and they cried. I don't know if you picked up on that before, but they cried, and their cry came up unto God by reason of the bondage. They got God's attention when they cried out to God. Verse 24, and God heard their groaning. And God remembered his covenant with Abraham and with Isaac and with Jacob, verse 25. And God looked Upon the children of Israel, and God had respect unto them. Woo! It turned God's head and his attention to what they needed when they cried out to God. We can expect to get God's attention when we cry out. He will hear us. He will look toward us He will deliver us. Why? Because we obeyed and we did what Bible characters did and they cried out to God Psalm 34 and verse 6 that we've looked at before, this poor man cried, and the Lord heard him and saved him out of all his troubles. So this there's this we can expect this hearing. and delivering. Alright. In Isaiah 58 and verse 9, another result of crying out to God is that God will make his presence known when we cry out to him. He'll make his presence known to us. Well I'm telling you, that's what I need sometimes I just need to know that God is right there and that I'm not in this thing by myself. Don't you feel like that sometimes? Well God says that's what he'll do when we cry out. Isaiah 58, 9 Then shalt thou call, and the Lord shall answer. There, I like that part of it. Thou shalt cry, and he shall say, Here am I. He said, I'll make this presence known to me when I cry out to him. I love that. You'll sense his presence. That you're not alone. Another result. God will move, listen, I love this. God will move the enemy to leave you alone. This is amazing. 2 Chronicles 14. You've got to see it for yourselves. No good for me just to tell you that. It'll go right over your head unless you see it. And you say, that's for me. I can apply this in my life. 2 Chronicles 14, 11. And Asa cried unto the Lord his God and said, Lord, it is nothing with thee Need to help, whether by many or with them that have no power. Help us, O Lord our God. For we rest on thee, and in thy name we go against this multitude, O Lord, Thou art our God. Let not man prevail against thee Now, what happens? Verse 12. So the Lord smote the Philipp the Philistines, the Ethiopians Before Asa and before Judah and the Ethiopians fled. They ran. Again, in 2 Chronicles 18, now just over a couple pages. 1831. We see the same thing lived out, and the Lord's trying to get us a message here. In 2 Chronicles 18 and verse 31. And it came to pass when the captains of the chariot saw Jehoshaphat that they said, It is the king of Israel. Now, it wasn't Ahab had convinced him to put on his uh kingly garb while Ahab was disguising himself, and the enemy wanted to kill Ahab. So they thought that Jehoshaphat was Ahab and they wanted to kill him. Therefore they compassed him uh uh about him to fight, but Jehoshaphat, what what did he do in that situation? First of all, he shouldn't have had a league with Ahab. You run with the wrong crowd, you're going to get yourself in a peck of trouble too. But he's in that trouble now. But what does he do? Oh, he cried out. And the Lord helped him, and God moved them to depart from him. How did they depart? How did they know to depart? Because God made them depart. God says, move them horses over there. And got them out and away from Jehoshaphat and protected him. Luke chapter 18 and verse 7 says, And shall not God avenge his own elect which cry day and night unto him, though he bear long with them? In the Bible, if God moved the enemy when God's people cried out to him, don't you think he'll do that today? Our God has not changed. He's the same yesterday, today, and forever. And he's no respecter of persons. He'll move your enemies. He'll avenge you, the Bible says He'll smite your enemies if he has to, if we are willing to cry out. 1997, in our church while I was pastoring. The government came against our church. They wanted to put in a GPS monitor to control our water usage. So they wanted to not only control it, but be able to monitor how much water we were using. I told them, I said, uh uh, we don't want anything to do with that We don't want that uh monitor. And I was courteous but I was firm. They said, and the guy told me, he said, all the other churches in York County, we've we've talked to them, and they none of them have a problem with it. And I said, Well, we have a problem with it and we don't want that monitor and then we held our ground and then I called a a a uh week of fasting and prayer. You can fast any day that you wanted to for our church And I taught them about crying out, and we cried out to God to protect us from government intervention. Sometimes you've got to do that We cried out. You know, a few weeks went by and they never contacted us again And they never put the monitor on. I I called them and they said, Well, we we saw that we don't need to put that monitor on your your water. And I said, Yeah, yeah. That's our God. Right there. And God answered our crying out to him. And I'm not going to forget that. God will show you the answer. Another result, God will show you the answer to your dilemma, your question. You don't know what to do. Exodus 15, 25, and he cried unto the Lord, and the Lord showed him a tree. Now they have bitter waters. But what could they do? They got all these people out in the wilderness and bitter water. It's going to kill them. Moses says, Lord, help! He cried out. And when he cried out, the Lord showed him what to do. Here's a tree. And if you'll take that tree, I'll make them that tree turn all the waters sweep And everybody can drink of it. Amen. I'll do that if that's what you want me to do, Lord. The Lord showed him the answer to his problem when he cried out. I think that'd work today too. I think if we cry out to God, we have a perplexing decision to make, we have a problem that needs solved, we can cry out and God will give us the right answer. He'll tell us exactly what to do. So another possible result, he can send an angel if he needs to. He did that in Numbers twenty and verse sixteen. And when we cried unto the Lord, he heard our voice and sent an angel. He can do something like that. We know that today we have the Word of God and we don't need an extra um revelation or anything like that, but they're still angels and they're powerful. And if he wants to, he can dispatch one. And something else. In extreme cases, God sent a miracle. When they cried out. Did you ever see that there were so many times in the Bible where his people cried out and he answered? In Deuteronomy 26 and verse 7. 26, 7. And when we cried unto the Lord God of our fathers, the Lord heard our voice. and looked on our affliction and our labor and our oppression, and the Lord brought us forth out of Egypt with a mighty hand. And with an outstretched arm, and with great terribleness, and with signs and wonders. There's the miracles. Joshua 24, 7, and they cried unto the Lord, and he put darkness between the Israelites and the Egyptians. He performed a miracle when they cried out. You say, it'd take a miracle to get me out of this situation. Ah. If you cry out, you've come to the right place. We have a miracle working God. Our God can do it. What nobody else can do it. Our God can do it. God believed God He's a miracle working God. He has shown he is willing to work miracles when his children cry out to him and it's needed. Another result, God raised up a leader when his people cried out to him. And when the children of Israel cried unto the Lord, the Lord raised up a deliverer in Judges chapter 3. and verse nine, to the children of Israel who delivered them, even Athniel, the son of Kennes, Caleb's younger brother, when we need a new leader. You need a new Sunday school teacher? God's got one. You need a new youth worker? God's got one. You need a new bus captain? God's got one You need a new this or that leader in your church. God can provide. We need to cry out to him. And finally, another result, God healed them when they cried out to him. Psalm 30 and verse 2. O Lord, my God, I cried unto thee, the psalmist says, and thou hast healed me. When did God do all these things for his people? It was in response to crying out. I wonder if he doesn't do some of these things more today because we're tacit, because we're quiet, because we can take it or leave it. It doesn't stir us enough to get desperate to cry out to him. They became desperate. I think God is calling for some to cry out to him. I think that's what it's about. I've only preached this message one time on the road in eight years, but God prompted me to preach it. tonight. I believe that he's prompting us to cry out. You say, uh preacher, I've prayed and prayed. I know. I know you have. But how desperate and urgent have you been? How in earnest and distressed have you been? When was the last time you shed a tear about anything? In prayer. Psalm three four says, this crying out is vocal. It's not silent. In Hebrews 5. 7 it says that it can be accompanied with tears or even strong crying. In Luke chapter 18 and verse 7, it says, sometimes we will need to cry out day and night. It's not enough to do it once. But th this is so urgent that I'm crying out to God day and night. This thing has to happen somehow, some way, God. We will wake up crying, but we'll go to bed crying and having this on our heart and having the Lord on our heart and trusting God with it. But one thing is sure, when we're in trouble, the Lord wants us to cry out.