We are closing in on the end of this year. It's mind-boggling. Seems like just yesterday we were looking at and thinking about you know, like we were kind of talking about excuse me, the you know, twenty twenty being over and let's get to twenty twenty one 'cause it's gonna be so much better. And uh we were looking at that, it just seemed like just yesterday And as I was pondering that today, I thought, you know what, it doesn't seem like it's only it seems like it's only been a year or two since we were all worried about Y2K. And uh the just seems like that wasn't that long ago And here we we we're we're in twenty twenty one and about to end this year and you know uh we're moving into a new year and I just I look at a new year as an opportunity to start fresh, just like every day. Every day is an opportunity to start fresh with God. And uh nothing's been marked on tomorrow yet. There's no no, you know, you've got no bad marks for tomorrow. You've got the opportunity to make tomorrow uh a complete success for Christ. And sometimes Satan discouraged you because today was so rough, you say, oh, well, tomorrow's going to be like that. But it doesn't have to be. I say it often, don't let life happen to you. You live life and uh live your life on purpose and take your days and make them count for God and and As we embark upon a new year or as we close this year, just pondering and thinking about the some ideas. And one thing is that Many times I think Christians uh I mean I I know you've heard the saying that a rut is a grave with the ends knocked out of it And I think sometimes we we get into a rut. We get into what we find is a comfortable place in living our lives, a comfortable Christianity, a comfortable, okay, I'm I'm okay with this level of commitment I'm okay with this level of work. I'm okay with this level of service. I'm I'm I'm I'm found the spot where I kind of fit And we kind of get there and we get comfortable and and we we kind of start to ride out our days in that comfortable area. And if we're not careful, we do get in a rut. And worse than that, what happens to a path that you just continue to trot over and over and over again? That ground gets hard. When you continue in a particular path and don't make any changes, you don't let God stir you up at all, you begin to get hard. And tonight I want to preach a message about when hardness hurts. When hardness hurts. Turn your Bibles to the book of Exodus. It's truly amazing the number of lessons that are seen or that flow from the children of Israel for the believer today. Although it was thousands of years ago and literally a different world than what we live in today, yet The timeless truths are just as practical and just as applicable today as they've ever been. The lessons that we learn from the children of Israel for our lives This evening we're not going to look at maybe the idea of how Egypt is a picture of sin and the world and And following that or the promised land is a picture of uh you know living the Christian life and reaching that place of that more abundant life that God wants you to live And there's so many things we can look at, but I'm going to look at the familiar story of Pharaoh and his hard heart That he had, and how he over and over again he set his will against the will of God. God told him what he was supposed to do, and yet He didn't do it. You know, he went to Pharaoh with a message. And as I can't I can't help but think about it, but Michael Jr. , who is a Christian comedian, um, he was asked to do a prison show. uh comedy show for a prison and they brought him into the prison his first time he had been into a penitentiary and of course they stripped him of his belt and you know, his shoes and anything sharp and you know, they said, Now if anything gets really bad here's your emergency button. You push this button and and that'll and a bunch of other funny things happen to him as he's going into this being introduced and he's still not sure how he's gonna open the show. He's like, what am I gonna say? How am I gonna connect with these people? And he's sitting there and he says, you know, I'm asking the Lord to help me uh connect with them, help me bridge that and He says they introduce me and I stand up and I'm walking to the platform and I still don't know what I'm going to say, but I get on the platform, I turn and look, and right in front of me is a guy with hair as white as paper. And big old long flowing beard, and he said it just hits me. And I look at him and I say, Moses, the next time you see the warden, I want you to tell him, Let my people go. That's the message he carried. Let my people go. He was sent with that message, but Pharaoh rejected the message. He would not listen to the message, and he set his will against God over and over again. Now, we're going to be in Exodus chapter 14, and let me give you some of the introductory verses, and we're going to lead up to chapter 14, but The characteristics of somebody with a hard heart. You say, how do I know if I have a hard heart? But we can look at Pharaoh's life and see some things that he did, and and maybe it can be a marker for you or a warning sign for you if you're allowing that to creep into your heart. First of all, a hard heart refuses to submit to God. In Exodus 7, verse number 14, the Bible says, And the Lord said unto Moses, Pharaoh's heart is hardened. He refused to let the people go. Pharaoh had a hard heart. He refused, even though he knew it's what God wanted, he still refused it. He said, I don't want to let the people go. I'm not going to let the people go. He would not submit to God. A picture of a hard heart is when God has stirred us and we don't submit, we don't yield. refused to listen to God. He refused to listen to others. Good counsel that he had. In Exodus chapter 8, verse number 15, he says, but when Pharaoh saw that there was respite, he hardened his heart and hearkened not unto them, as the Lord had said. So he wouldn't listen to God. And ver in verse number nineteen he said, Then the magicians said unto Pharaoh, This is the finger of God. And Pharaoh's heart was hardened, and he hearkened not unto them. They had somebody coming to him and saying, Listen, this is the problem. Listen, you need to adjust. Listen, this is the issue, but he wouldn't hear it. He wouldn't listen. That's the sign of a hard heart. When we can't be stirred, when we can't be challenged, when we can't be changed We've hardened our heart against what God wants to do, and we put up barriers, we put up blockers, and said, I'm not going to submit to that, I'm not going to listen to that. Only that he refused to see What was right in front of them. In Exodus chapter 9, verse number 7. He says, And Pharaoh sent, and behold, there was not one of the cattle of Israel, of Israelites, dead. And the heart affair was hardened, and he did not let the people go. I mean, to me, that would be a pretty strong wake-up call. If your yard is right here and all your cattle died, and an Israelite's yard is right here and none of his cattle died, You say, okay, maybe their God is in control. Maybe God is sending me a message. But see, he refused to see. Sometimes God brings things into our lives and he does things that try and wake us up And we don't even see it. Because we've got a hard heart and we're not willing to admit it. We're not willing to say what, you know What is God doing? He's drawing you. He's trying to work on you. He has something happen to you. Maybe a close call in the car. And you didn't get taken out, but it was close. And for a minute, for a brief minute, you think, well, thank you, Lord. And God touches your heart about that thing, and you're like, nope, no, I'm not Does God have to actually put you in the hospital? Does God have to actually cause you to go through something more severe before we will stop and this is what happened to Pharaoh. He hit he had to keep going. Through the battle over and over and over again before he would respond. The hard heart refuses to be satisfied no matter what happens and no matter what God does, he wouldn't be satisfied. The hard heart seeks its own solution. In Exodus chapter 8, verse number 28, it says, And Pharaoh said, I will let you go. That ye may sacrifice to your to your God in the wilderness, only ye shall not go very far. See, God told him, let him go. And so Pharaoh wanted his own solution. He said, hey, I'll do that, but you guys only go To the edge of PA. That's all the further you can go. That wasn't what God told him to do. He wanted to submit, but only in his capacity, inside of his measure. Maybe God is calling somebody to preach This is what God wants you to do when you say, okay, Lord, I know you beat me over the head with this, and I can't get away from it. Okay, I'll teach Sunday school. But that's not what God has called you to. Oh, uh God wants you to be a missionary. He's called you to go to a foreign country to go somewhere and reach lost people for Christ and you say, okay, God, I'll be a missionary right here. I'll be a good missionary for you right here in in Hunt Valley and I'll I'll work hard at seeing people got saved here But you haven't submitted to what God wanted. You're trying to work out your own solution. Find your own means of satisfying God when God has told you what you're supposed to do. And friend, a hard heart always ends up hurting others. In Exodus chapter 12, verse number thirty, and Pharaoh rose up in the night, he and all his servants and all the Egyptians. And there was a great cry in Egypt, for there was not a house where there was not one dead. I'm taking for granted tonight, you guys know the story of the plagues. Ultimately, what happened to every house in Israel because of his hard heart. He could have let them go at any point. And saved all that heartache. Ultimately, beloved, if we do not respond, a hard heart will lead to our destruction. This is where we get to our text tonight. He says in Exodus chapter 14, verses 26 through 28. And the Lord said unto Moses, Stretch out thine hand over the sea. That the waters may come again upon the Egyptians, upon their chariots, and upon their horsemen. And Moses stretched forth his hand over the sea, and the sea returned to its strength. When the morning appeared, and the Egyptians fled against it, and the Lord overthrew the Egyptians in the midst of the sea, and the waters returned, and covered the chariots and the horsemen. And all the host of Pharaoh that came into the sea after them, there remained not so much as one of them. Because of Pharaoh's hard heart, Pharaoh and his entire host of army were literally destroyed. So when does hardness hurt? But we don't allow God to stir us and break up that foul ground and bring change before this. You can turn around at any point. But you've got to respond. I want you to think about a couple of things tonight. with regards to Pharaoh's hard heart and our hard heart, the results of it. First of all, a hard heart causes you to forget. A hard heart causes you to forget. Look in verse number 5, Exodus 14 and verse number 5. He said, And it was told the king of Egypt that the people fled. And the heart of Pharaoh and of his servants was turned against the people, and they said, Why have we done this? That we have let Israel grow from serving us. They said, why do we do that? Now I think that they had ten pretty good reasons why. You know, what about living with frogs continually? What about water being turned to blood? What about lice just running rampant through the country What about one plague after another? They had 10 reasons why they let the people go, yet they haven't even been gone 24 hours. And Pharaoh says, Why did we do this? Why did we let the people go? You see, a hard heart causes you to forget what God has done. We sit back today in hindsight and we look and we say, man, how foolish is that? How impossible is it for him to forget? Let me ask you this. Have you ever tried to train a hard-headed two-year-old? You take a you take a two-year-old and you say, Don't don't touch that. And they touch it and you slap their hand and you say, I said, don't touch that. And you turn around and what do they do? They reach up there and touch that and you're like, why would you do that? And you slap your hand again and you say I said don't touch that. By the way, it should hurt a little worse the second time And the answer is not to pick it up and move it. You're hurting that child if you do that. You leave it there until that child responds in obedience and doesn't touch it. But a lot of times we're the same way with God. We're grown adults, we've got hard hearts, and God beats us up just like He did Pharaoh. He says, I told you don't do this. I told you don't go there. Don't don't pursue this or start this. And we don't. And he's like, why? What what do you what's wrong with you? Why aren't you responding? It's pretty easy. I mean you sit there looking at that two-year-old and you're thinking, this is so simple. All you gotta do is just don't touch it. Listen, there was times with Alicia and Andrew that Mary was bawling. She's like, you're gonna kill my child. She was bawling because she did not like to see her child disciplined. I said, this two year old's not gonna win. The two-year-old's gonna do what he's supposed to do and he knows. By the way, you don't pick that battle until you know that he knows. But when you know that your child knows, and you'll start to question in your heart and mind, you'll be like, maybe they don't understand. They know. They know exactly what they're doing. Don't let them win. If you take care of that when they're really young, a couple of benefits is they won't remember it. And another benefit is uh they'll be a lot more obedient later on. So anyways, that's It has nothing to do with this, but that's what God does with us. And He looks at us and says, It's so simple. Why don't you just respond? But it's because our hearts are hard. And we forget what God has done. Maybe we forget God's great mercy in our life. Even though they had to endure these wretched plagues, I want you to understand that even in the plagues God was merciful. God could have just destroyed the entire nation the first time. He could have just destroyed them all and said, okay, you guys are free, go ahead. But he didn't destroy them. He just wanted him to let his people go. So he sent a plague, which was kind of annoying. You know, a little, a little, I mean, this is disgusting. Frogs everywhere Let's get a little more annoying. Let's do lice. And they're still not responding. I mean God was even even in these plagues, God was merciful. He could have just destroyed the whole nation, but he forgot how merciful God was. Pharaoh didn't realize how good God had been to him. You think God could have just took out Pharaoh? God could have took Pharaoh's health. God could have taken Pharaoh out of leadership in the nation. But he got to keep his health, he got to keep his leadership, he got to stay leading his nation. But a hard heart doesn't see how good God is, it only sees what we want to see. Go all the way back to the Garden of Eden, where Eve had access to everything in the garden. All that God had given her. I mean so much that God had given her. So much, and that's how we are as Christians. There's so much that we can do and be a part of and thrive as Christians for God and His glory And God says, okay, but I don't want you to do this. And we say, but that's what I want. That's what I want. That's what I want. And we forget about all the goodness that God has given us and go after that one thing that He said, don't touch It seems crazy, but that's what we do. He forgot about God's goodness. Maybe he forgot about God's judgment. God had judged his insolence multiple times. You know, it's amazing to me that God most of the time tells us what judgment is coming. I mean, he told them, he says, hey, let my people go or else And Pharaoh chose suffering over submitting. That he just decided that that's what I want. And many times we do that. When we choose not to submit. You know, with five kids in our home, sometimes there was uh contention. And sometimes, you know, sibling rivalry, you know, these types of things. Um and you might not agree with this, uh how I handled this, but you know, several times I told Caleb, who's the youngest of the three boys I said, you know, might be wise not to aggravate your brothers too much. They're a lot bigger than you. And uh You know, he of course they abuse him and he's too small to do anything back. So if he gets a chance to aggravate them, he wants to do it, right? So he's trying to aggravate them. But I've told them, I said, listen, Caleb If Andrew or Timothy tell you politely, I want you to quit that, please. And they give you warning, what's going to happen if you don't And then you do it again. Don't come crying to me. They told you, they asked you politely and said, okay, I'm done playing. I want you to stop. And they told you if you don't stop, this is gonna happen. Now you might not agree, but I that's what I did and just said that you you deserve what you got, buddy, because you they told you this is gonna happen. And I you know, I I don't condone fighting and you know, they they don't they've never in all the years had any type of like fist fight or you you know, throwing things at each other and a in anger like that, nothing like that. We're talking about aggravation stuff. Just, you know, stop hitting me with that pillow. You know, that kind of stuff. If you hit me with that pillow again, I'm gonna hurt you. And you know, he gave a warning. Well a lot of times God warns us. I think he said, Be not deceived, God is not mocked, whatsoever man soweth, that shall he also reap. He's told us. He we know there's judgment coming. And yet we still do it. We forget. We forget about that I want you to know God is justified in any judgment he sends our way. Maybe with the boys and how that was handled wasn't wasn't the wisest or the best, but you know, uh God is just in everything he does. There is consequences for our sin and we need to remember that. You might forget, but you're still gonna have to bear the consequences. A hard heart caused you to be foolish as well, and I need to hurry, but in verse number twenty three, Exodus fourteen, verse Verse number 23. And the Egyptians pursued and went in after them to the midst of the sea, even all Pharaoh's horses, his chariots, and all his horsemen. It just seems to me kind of crazy that Pharaoh would see these standing walls of water across this vast lake here. And decide, yeah, let's go in there. Let's follow these guys. To to put it into perspective, it would be like your enemies being on the other side of a bridge, a rope bridge, maybe going over the uh Grand Canyon And you running out on the rope bridge. You think they're gonna leave the other side open for you? They're gonna cut that off and you're gone. And it just seems like why would Pharaoh do that? Why would he run in I mean he has to know this is not smart But he was hardened and he was gonna do what he was gonna do and nobody was gonna tell him different. And he just went in there. He it makes you foolish. When you have a hard heart, you do foolish things You know, that's I I've heard it often. Uh Roger Bowman used to always say, sin will make you stupid. You just do stupid things. You know, because you've got a hard heart. And you're going after what you want to go after, and you just won't listen to any advice, you won't submit to God, you won't do because you've got a hard heart. And it's going to end up costing you, it's going to end up hurting you, but not just you, it's going to hurt people around you. Ultimately, the nation was destroyed. Pharaoh was killed, and all of their host of armies was destroyed, all their horses and chariots, all that was gone. Not to mention all the firstborn that were killed, not to mention all the cattle that were killed, not to mention all the crops that were consumed. I mean, what was left of their nation? Because of his hard heart But but we don't think that we're gonna affect anybody else. You understand? Nobody's an island to themselves. It will hurt those around us. The biggest fool is the one who doesn't fear God. In Exodus chapter 5 and verse number 2, and Pharaoh said, Who is the Lord that I should obey his voice? You see, he just didn't fear God. The fool has said in his heart, There is no God. And many times, although we're Christians and we know God is in heaven and we've submitted enough, or we we've at least asked Him to save us and to forgive us of our sins, we Get in a rut as Christians. We get in our comfortable space and we get a hard heart and we are at a point where we won't let God stir us or challenge us anymore. He he couldn't he couldn't break up that foul ground with anything. We get into that rut and we're living. Even though we say we're Christians, we're living like there is no God. Because we have a hard heart. You understand, beloved, when we sin Only with the fear that someone will find out We're l we're living like there is no God. Because God knows. You're saying, oh, I hope nobody finds out I'm doing this. Somebody already did. But you are rejecting that thought You're putting that out of your mind and saying, Oh, well, God doesn't matter, or God is not real, or you're just living like am I making sense We're living like there is no God when we do that and we just pretend like, oh, I hope nobody knows. I hope nobody in church finds out I'm doing this. Friend, people in church don't matter We want to help you. We'll get behind you and we'll try and strengthen you and support you and help you get through or past any anything that you're going on in your life. But God already knows We foolishly continue on our way. As if there's no ramifications or no consequences for our actions. Beloved, it's it's only in the presence of an extremely hard heart. That one defies God. Esau developed a hard heart and lost his fear of God and became profane. Profane means to treat sacred as commonplace. Have we started treating the sacred as commonplace? We get so comfortable with the Word of God that Although it is the sacred, precious, holy word of God, we treat it like commonplace? The holy place of church, where we gather and worship Him. Do we treat it as just commonplace? It's not really a holy place, not really a special place. We could take it or leave it, be there or not be there, doesn't matter. Is your Bible reading optional? Is your time and prayer optional? Have you been ignoring the promptings of the Holy Spirit in your life? A hard heart causes us to be foolish. A hard heart causes us to forget what God has done. We forget his mercy and his goodness. To us. We forget that He is a just God and that He will judge sin. Oh, He's faithful and just to forgive us of our sin and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. We praise God for that. But he will judge sin. Let me remind you tonight that a hard heart will be found out. A hard heart will be found out. The Bible is very clear on that. In our text, ultimately, Pharaoh was killed. His host was destroyed. The fact is, is your hard heart will be exposed one day. If you continue down that path long enough, it will become evident. It will be made known. You can hide it here in church for a while. You can go through motions. You can continue to fulfill your duties and serve in your ministries. All the while having a hard heart. How long has it been since you've been stirred by God? How long has it been since you really have just wept and prayed and And and God really moved in your heart. How long has it been since you forgave somebody else? How long has it been since you let go of something and said, you know what? My relationship with God is too important. My service for God is too valuable. Accomplishing something for Christ in this world is it means too much for me to hold on to this grudge. So many Christians nurture that grudge in their hardening the ground of their heart. It's an inescapable truth of God's word that a hard heart will be found out. Numbers 32, 23 says, but if ye will not do so, Behold, ye have sinned against the Lord. And those most familiar verse words there. What does he say? Be sure your sin will find you out. Be sure your sin will find you out. You notice there, beloved, it doesn't say be sure that you will be found out It says, be sure your sin will find you out. That is going to be exposed someday. If we can Continue in that path. You can't get away from it. God promises us it's gonna happen. But you don't have to wait for that. We can submit to God. We can turn back to God at any time. We can ask Him, break up that hard ground. Lord, do something in my heart. Do something in me in my life. It's been too long since you have been real and powerful to me. It's been too long since you stirred me. Have you found yourself drifting? Have you found yourself not really wanting to be in church? Like, boy, I'd rather just stay at home. I wish uh you know, oh it'd be nice if church got canceled tonight. It's below thirty degrees. Or do you want to be there? It's vital that we keep our hearts tender toward God. I guess what I'm saying here as I introduced and brought this up in the beginning is we're coming to the conclusion of a year, starting a new year, maybe this would be a time you could just next couple of weeks just beg God and say, Lord, do something in my life. Do something in my heart. Lord, I want to start this new year fresh. I want to start it with a new passion for you and a new zeal for the things of God and a desire to do something real. And and Lord, I'm done hanging on to this stuff, or I'm done going after these things things and I want to submit to you, Lord. Would you help me and and just kind of ask God to do something? Friend, if you're hanging on to bitterness, you have a hard heart. If you're rebelling or rejecting against God's direction for your life, you've got a hard heart. If you become complacent in your service or your ministry, you've got a hard heart If you've become critical, you have a hard heart. We've got to be aware of these things in our lives. And be cautious because it's only in the presence of a tender heart that God works and God does powerful things, not just in our lives, but through us. When we have a tender heart. I pray God would give us a tender heart