Would you turn your Bibles this morning to Mark chapter number five? Mark chapter number five. And uh we want you to uh Be encouraged this morning. We want you to be strengthened, challenged by the Word of God. One of the topics that I enjoy speaking on. Is the topic of hope. Because, beloved, there's always hope with God. Like the psalmist who said, Hope thou in God. There's always hope, regardless of the situation, the circumstance, the challenges you're facing with God, there's always hope. We see in Mark chapter 5 a text verse, but really this is the entirety of the chapter, and we'll be referencing it all throughout the message this morning entitled When All Looks Hopeless When all looks hopeless. You see, there's times in our lives we reach a point where we, from our perspective, from our view, things look hopeless. You see the disciples, these men around Christ here, they had reached that point. Look on Mark chapter 5 and verse number 35. He says, Well he yet spake, there came from the ruler of the synagogue's house certain which said, Thy daughter is dead. Why troublest thou the master any further? We'll look at the story and two others. There's three stories that are found in this passage, all three of them hopeless situations. Those that are involved in these situations reach the point like these, the certain that came and said, hey, there was a time that there was hope, but Thy daughter is dead now. The chance or the time for hope or for bringing any change is past. So why do you trouble Jesus any further I ask you this morning, have you ever felt that way in your life? Have you ever reached a point where your problems were greater than your provision? Have you ever thought that the burdens you were carrying were far greater than you could possibly bear? Maybe that your afflictions were greater than the ability you had to conquer them. What I'm saying this morning is, have you ever felt hopeless? Have you ever felt that your conflict was beyond correction? That your circumstances had reached a point where they were beyond a cure? Have you ever felt like these men that looked at this situation and said, hey, thy daughter's dead? The time for hope is gone. Why do you trouble the master? If you've reached that point in your life, or maybe you haven't, and praise God for that, but I want you to understand as part of life. You'll be there someday. You'll find yourself in that situation where you feel or look as though all hope is lost. But I want you to understand that when that point comes That is when Jesus comes on the scene. Because Jesus is a specialist. Have you ever gone to the doctor and they said, well, we could help you, but what you really need is a specialist. You need somebody that specializes in this particular need, and I want you to know that Jesus is a specialist in hopeless situations He comes on the scene and provides and meets the need and comes through and all other hope is lost. These hopeless cases that we'll walk through this morning, I hope, will bring you encouragement. I hope that they will remind you that in those situations the one to run to is Jesus. This message was given to me many years ago by a pastor not too far from here. This morning I want to share it with you because there's some events in recent days that brought these thoughts to my mind. And you'll understand as we go through this this morning. What it was. I want to back up to just start in the beginning. Mark chapter 5 and verse number 1. We'll see first of all here a man who is demon-directed. A man who is under the influence, the control of an external being, a demon. In Mark chapter 5 and verse number 1, he says And they came over unto the other side of the sea into the country of the Gadareans. And when he was come out of the ship, immediately there met him out of the tombs a man With an unclean spirit. Beloved, right off here, we're dealing with someone who has a spiritual condition that seems hopeless He is under the control of an external force. There is something outside of his body that has taken control of his body and is directing his life. Literally doing all it can to destroy him. This man, if there was ever a man in a bad way, this man is in a bad way. This man is in a place where he's no longer in control of his life. There is a legion of demons that are in control of him. And this legion of demons is doing all he can to destroy this man. Let me say that that is the motive and the end goal of all of Satan's demons is to destroy those whom they depress, oppress. Or possess. They have never done anybody any good. They've only brought harm. They kept this man awake. at all times wouldn't allow him to sleep. He ran around in the tombs, cutting himself and screaming. He lived naked in these tombs among the dead. Can I say here he was living, but he was among the dead? I can't help but think about those who are living, but the Bible says they're dead in their trespasses and sins. There's something that has taken control of their life. There's sin that has gathered and gained dominion in their life, and it has decided to control them. It's something they feel they can't get victory over. They can't get past. There's something there that has taken control and they say, oh, I I I can't do anything about it. It's got control of me. This was the hopeless situation this man was in. Oh, he loathed himself. He walked about cutting himself, screamed, and I think about those whom sin has taken control of and how they loathe it. How they loathe it, how they despise it, even in themselves, when they see the sin that they would so wish to get rid of, that they so want to stop, that they desire to let go And and they they they participate in that sin again and they loathe themselves for it and they say, Why did I do that? Oh, I don't want to do that. This sin has dominion in my life It's a hopeless situation. But with God, all things are possible. No situation is hopeless with Jesus Christ. Can I remind you this morning there are such things as demons? Beloved, it seems if the world is ready to admit there are demons. I mean they're ready to embrace it. They're ready to talk about it and and describe it and make every kind of story and application and movie and presentation about the demonic presence that's in the world today. They want to admit there's demons, but they deny that there's the divine. But sadly, a lot of times Christians in church, we want to talk about the divine. But we put out of our mind or hide or don't want to discuss Sometimes even deny that there's demons. But they're there. There are principalities and powers of the air. That Satan would use to destroy your life, like he was doing for this maniac of Gudaria. The goal of every demon is to destroy. Look at verse number five. He says, And always, night and day, he was in the mountains and in the tombs, crying and cutting himself with stones. He was destroying his own life. He was cutting himself with the stones. He was destroying the very thing. And you know what? Nobody could help him. If ever there was a person in a situation that couldn't do anything about it, this man couldn't help himself. And those that are dead in their trespasses and sin, those that are under the control of Satan. Or beloved those whom sin has gained a foothold in their life, you can't take care of it yourself. You need Jesus Christ. You need Jesus Christ. You can't do it on your own. Nobody else could do it for them either. Look at verses 3 and 4. He says, who had his dwelling among the tombs, and no man could bind him, no not with chains, because that he had been bound often Bound with fetters and chains, and the chains had been plucked asunder by him, and the fetters broken in pieces. Neither could any man tame him. I mean, I look at it and see people that maybe had some level of concern, maybe just out of out of general humanity, saw this man cutting himself and destroying himself, and they said, hey Let we need to bind him so at least he won't be cutting himself. And so they bound him up. But under the power and beloved, demons have power. Under the power of demons, he was able to break these bonds, whatever bound things they put on him. Don't be fooled, Satan has power. And you see in the world people doing things with with many times some type of supernatural strength or supernatural ability? It's demonic power at work. He would break the bonds. Nobody else could help him. He couldn't help himself, but Jesus could help him. Beloved, there's spiritual problems that have gripped the hearts of many, and they feel that it's hopeless. Not only is the world lost, dead, and their trespasses in sin, but many times people are just bound by sin itself because men love darkness rather than light, because their deeds are evil. But Jesus is the light of the world. And he driveth out all darkness. Whatever darkness is there, Jesus, the light of the world brings in the light. And when Jesus is there, the light The darkness has to obey. The darkness has to submit. The darkness has to subside and go away. Jesus came on this scene and this man that nobody else could help, Jesus looked at him and solved the problem. Look at verse number six. He said there in verse number six. He says, but when he saw Jesus afar off, he ran and worshiped him. Listen, beloved, when you have a problem, when you have a hopeless situation, run to Jesus. Run to Jesus. He saw Jesus afar off and he ran. He ran to Jesus and he cried with a loud voice and he said, What have I to do with thee, Jesus? Thou son of the most high God I adjure thee by God that thou torment me not. For he saith unto him, Come out of that man, thou unclean spirit. And he asked him, What is thy name? And he answered, saying, My name is Legion For we are many. Legion means many. There's Roman legions, which uh consisted of a number of horsemen and I believe six thousand soldiers. We don't know how many uh actual demons possess this man. The scripture doesn't, he just says we're legion, for we are many But I know they took control of 2,000 swine and ran off into the ocean, so there was a number in this man. Oh, hopeless situation. It says, for we are many, and we besought him much that he would not send them away into out of the country. Now there was near nigh unto the mountains a great herd of swine feeding, and all the devils besought him, saying, Send us into the swine, that we may enter them. And forthwith Jesus gave them leave, and the unclean spirits went out, and entered into the swine, and the herd ran violently down a steep place into the sea. They were about two thousand They were choked in the sea. They died. It's amazing that these demons, even when they were put in swine, they're fulfilled their nature to destroy. And the swine choked in the sea. They went out. Many that were around them saw what was done. Look at verse number 15. And they came to Jesus and seeing him that was possessed with the devil and had a legion sitting and clothed and in his right mind And they were afraid. Jesus brought the light to this man and his hopeless situation was changed. His hopeless situation was changed. Man, Jesus brings light and your hopeless situation can be changed. I don't know what has possession of you. Maybe you're still living in darkness Well the light of the world's calling you today. Hope thou in God. Maybe you've got something that's taking control of your life, some sin that has a grip on you, something that you you you loathe yourself for for participating in it, for for being involved in it. And you're saying, man, I want to get rid of it, but it just doesn't seem like I have any hope of doing that. Run to Jesus. In the end, we see that he lived for Christ. It's amazing that this maniac became a missionary. You know, look look down there I believe it's verse number eighteen. He says in verse number eighteen, he says, when he was come into the ship He that had been possessed with the devil prayed him that he might be with him. You know, when Jesus comes in When he changes your life, you want to be with Jesus. I I I don't understand this thing of people Trust in Christ and saying they have no interest in being in church. They have no interest in being around God's people. They have no interest being where Jesus is. You understand all through the scriptures you see somebody like this man who was a maniac who didn't have any hope but Jesus came in and gave him hope and when the opportunity was there Jesus was going to leave and he went to him and he said Jesus Can I can I come with you? Can I be with you? And that is the heart of someone whose life has been changed by Christ. They want to be where God is. Amen. But Jesus gives him a commission. Jesus says, Well you can't you can't come with me. He said, but I got a job for you. Look at verse number 19. He says, how be it Jesus suffered him not But saith unto him, Go home to thy friends and tell them how great things the Lord hath done for thee, and hath had compassion. on thee. And he departed and began to publish in Daphneus how great things Jesus had done for him and all men did marvel. He went and told others what God did. Did Jesus do something great for you? Yes, sir. He's given us a commission. He says, go and tell the world about me. Go ye and preach the gospel to every creature. That's our job. To tell them what great things Jesus did for us. And when people see it, they marvel. They say, Man, look what God did. He took a hopeless situation. And brought hope. We see secondly here a man with a dying daughter. In verse number 22 The story picks up. He says, And behold, there cometh one of the rulers of the synagogue, Jarius by name. And when he saw him, he fell at his feet, and he besought him greatly, saying, My little daughter lieth at the point of death. I pray thee, come and lay thy hands on her, that she may be healed, and she shall live. And Jesus went with him, and much people followed him and thronged him. Now, there's an interruption that takes place here. It is the third story that we're going to get to. I'm not going to read through that part of the story because we're going to move that to the end, but I want you to understand that Jesus was not distracted by the interruption. That Jesus knew what was going on. Jesus allowed this interruption for a purpose and for his ultimate plan. But this situation that at this point you see this man still has hope. This man he says, Hey Jesus, come. My daughter is very ill, she's dying, and would you come that she might be healed? But the interruption came. And the man lost all hope. Would you look at verse number 35 again? This is where we read for our text verse, but the story picks up. The man had come and said, Jesus, come and help me. My daughter is lying near death. Would you come that she may live And verse number 35, while he yet spake, there came from the ruler of the synagogue's house certain which said, Thy daughter is dead. Hope's gone. The chance and the opportunity for anything to happen is past. Why troublest thou the master any further? But as soon, verse number 36, as soon as Jesus heard the words that were spoken, he saith unto the ruler of the synagogue, Be not afraid, only believe. Be not afraid, only believe. And he suffered no man to follow him save Peter and James and John, the brother of James and Peter He came to the house of the ruler of the synagogue, and he seeth the tumult, and them that wept and wailed greatly. And when he was come in, he saith unto them, Why make you this ado, and weep? The damsel is not dead, but sleepeth. And beloved, they laughed him to scorn. You understand for the creator of this world, the creator of you and I. That life is in his control. He breathed life into the dust of the ground and gave man uh gave man's body life And it's in his hands. He has that power. But they didn't believe. They laughed him to scorn. They thought, Oh, he she's dead. You're confused, they thought. But when he had pulled them all out, he taketh the father and the mother of the damsel, and them that were with him, and entered in where the damsel was lying. And he took the damsel by the hand, and he said unto her, Telathkumai, which is being interpreted, Damsel, I say unto thee, arise. And straightway the damsel arose and walked, for she was of the age of twelve years, and they were astonished with great astonishment. You see, they came to Jesus while they while they felt there was still hope. They came while they thought things were something could still be done, but the interruption came. You know, there's times that we look at our lives and we feel like, if something could happen this week, I'll be okay. If I could solve this situation right now, if before the end of the month this could happen, then I'll be alright. There's still a little bit of hope. And for whatever reason, in God's divine wisdom, He delays his deliverance. Yeah. And that time of hope passes, and you look at it and you think, Pfft, it's hopeless now Something could have happened before. We might have been okay. But now she's dead. So why do you trouble the master any further? The bottom falls out, and all hope is gone. Can I tell you, if your faith wavers sometimes, don't be too discouraged. The disciples' face wavered. You understand? They had just seen Jesus Christ tell the waves and the sea to be still. They had just witnessed that in person. The winds and the waves obeyed his command. Yeah. They had just seen the maniac of Gudera cured. But in this situation, nah, there's no hope. Sometimes you have faith and you see some other things that God has done, you say, Yep, God can do that. Oh, amen. God can do that. But sometimes when you're in the situation, you look and say, Oh, all hope's gone. Your faith has wavered a little bit, but I'm glad this morning, beloved, that deliverance from God is not dependent upon my it's not my faith that gives God power. It's God's power that gives me faith. And our faith is not in our faith. You understand? My faith is not in how strong my faith is. My faith, the object of my faith is not my faith. The object of my faith, and I'm not talking in circles, although it sounds like it, the object of my faith is God. He is the object of my faith. It is his power. My faith is not in me or in my ability to feel convicted or strong about what God can do. My faith is in God. And sometimes my faith might waver, but God's strength does never waver. And his ability is always there. Jesus said unto them, he says, hey, don't be afraid. Only believe. He's saying you need to step out of the natural and into the supernatural because this is where Jesus walks. Do you remember another time in the New Testament when somebody was raised from the dead? Another probably most well-known story in the New Testament. Of a man named Lazarus. He was raised from the dead. You remember that story? A very similar story. Could you come? He's sick. And Jesus delayed for a while. And then finally he came. And Martha says, well, perhaps if you would have been here, perhaps if you could have come before. Then Lazarus might have lived. And Jesus says, roll the stone away. She says, wait a minute, wait a minute. Don't you understand? He's been dead four days. He stinketh. What she's saying is there was a time, there was an opportunity, there was a place where there was still hope. Maybe, well, he was still living. Or maybe, well, maybe he had just passed, but he was still warm. But Jesus, he speaketh. He's been dead a long time. Now hope is gone. But Jesus said, roll the stone away. And he calls out, the Bible says with a loud voice, Lazarus, come forth. And he walks out. Bound in his burial clothes. And Jesus said, Unbind him. You see, there is no hopeless situation with Jesus Christ. When things look hopeless, it's not hopeless when you come to Jesus. In our current text, Jesus goes into a room, takes the damsel by the hand, and says, Arise. Arise. And he arose. I want you to understand there's no problem that Jesus can't deal with. There's no sinner that's so far gone that Jesus can't save. I don't know what you're feeling today, but I want you to know that there's hope with Jesus. Regardless of the situation, there's hope with Jesus. And we look back at verse number 25 where we see that interruption. I want you to see a woman who has a debilitating disease. There in verse number 25 it says, and a certain woman. which had an issue of blood, twelve years, and had suffered many things of many physicians, and had spent all that she had, and was nothing better, but rather grew worse When she had heard of Jesus, came in the press behind and touched his garment, for she saith, if I may touch but his clothes, I shall be whole And straightway the fountain of her blood was dried up. And she felt in her body that she was healed of that plague. And Jesus immediately, knowing in himself, the virtue had gone out of him turned in the press, and he said, Who touched thee my clothes? And his disciples said unto him, Thou seest the multitude that throng thee, sayest thou who touched me? And he looked about to see her that had done this thing. But the woman, fearing and trembling, knowing what was done in her, came and fell down before him. And told him all the truth. You know what, beloved? Each one of these stories you see these people come and fall at the feet of Jesus. If you're here and you've lost all hope, you need to fall at the feet of Jesus. If you're here this morning and you don't know Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior and have experienced the forgiveness of your sin, you need to fall at the feet of Jesus Because he can bring hope when there's just hopelessness. This dear lady had an issue of blood. Hemorrhaging blood, constant bleeding that couldn't be stopped She had spent all her money, the Bible says. She had spent everything she had. She had gone to every specialist she could find Every ounce of hope that she thought, oh, this guy, I'll travel to that city and and scrounge up whatever money I can and pay him, maybe he can heal me. For twelve years, the Bible said she sought for a cure. But there was no hope. Nothing could it the Bible says she didn't not only did she not get better, she got worse. Hope was gone. Beloved, I remember on July 25th, when we were informed of Miss Leanne. The church began to pray. She was hemorrhaging. She was bleeding. She was all throughout the day, the doctors doing everything they could. At 1039, Jacob texts. She's bleeding uncontrollably, in critical condition. I called the family together. We gathered in our living room and we stopped and prayed for Miss Leanne. The church family. were praying all over this area. Her family was praying. I know many people from Arlington were praying. I got in my car and drove to the hospital. Went found my way in through the emergency room. It's after I went to the birthing section and they told me I was in the wrong place. I saw an unlocked door and I went in. They're like, oh no, this is this is for babies, not this is not where you need to be. So they said go around to emergency and I got in there. A security guard walked me all the way to the room where Lee was sitting by himself. I walked in there a little after eleven o'clock and I said, How's she doing? And he said the bleeding stopped. The bleeding stopped. You see, beloved, there was a hopeless situation, and as I was driving to the hospital in my heart and mind, I thought this lady who had no hope, who for 12 years was bleeding and no doctor could stop it, but somebody went to the feet of Jesus and said, Lord You can do it, and I ask you, God, right now, for the life of Leanne, that you would do something, that you would stop the bleeding, whether it's a miraculous way or the doctor figures out what he needs to do, but God, you can do it, and we beg of I stood in that waiting room with Brother Lee and I just was praising God and thanking God We went from a situation that just about an hour ago was hopeless. Jacob in his heart and mind saying, I don't know if my mom's going to be here tomorrow. To a place where we stood and said, There's hope. There's hope in God. Beloved, I don't know where you're at today. I don't know what you're facing. I don't know what burden. Maybe you got a sin problem. Maybe you got a sickness problem. Maybe you got an issue in your life. Whatever it is, you can find hope at the feet of Jesus.