As we get into the Word of God tonight, I would like you to turn to Second Kings chapter number two. As we are embarking on a new year, we were challenged this morning to Live on purpose, to think about the direction that we're headed and to not just let life happen to us, but to get up each day with an objective and a goal, maybe one established and set by the Lord in our heart and mind and just to pursue that. If that's going to become a reality, we are going to need the power of God. The power of God to accomplish these things in our life. Elisha, when he is entering the ministry, has been a student of Elijah. He has followed Elisha. He's journeyed in his footsteps. He's watched from a distance, maybe from the sidelines, maybe from right outside the room, but over and over again I believe that Elisha was in proximity to Elijah. When Elijah performed one miracle after another, he got to behold and to be a part of and to rejoice and and and to just live and experience God moving in such great and powerful ways. And Elisha longed for that to take place in his life. The time was come for Elijah to be taken up, to be taken off the scene, and Elisha was hungry and longed to see God do great things. I would like to read a lengthy passage tonight. We're going to read 15 verses, but 2 Kings chapter number 2, beginning in verse number 1. Where we'll read down to verse number 14 to see the question, which is also the title of the message this evening, and conclude with verse number 15. We see here he li Second Kings chapter number two beginning in uh Uh I have this yeah, verse number one. Let me double check here. I'm in a All right. Beginning in verse number one, he says, And it came to pass when the Lord would take up Elijah unto heaven by a whirlwind. Then Elijah went with Elisha from Gilgal. And Elijah said unto Elisha, Tarry here, I pray thee, for the Lord has sent me to Bethel. And Elisha said unto him, As the Lord liveth, and as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee. So they went down to Bethel And the sons of the prophet that were at Bethel came forth to Elisha and said unto him, Knowest thou that the Lord will take away thy master from thy head today? And he said, Yea, I know it. Hold your peace. And Elijah said unto him, Elisha, tarry here, I pray thee, for the Lord has sent me to Jericho. And he said, As the Lord liveth, and as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee. So they came to Jericho, and the sons of the prophets that were at Jericho came to Elisha and said unto him, Knowest thou that the Lord will take away thy master from thy head to day? And he answered, Yea, I know it, hold your peace. And Elijah said unto him, Tarry, I pray thee hear, for the Lord hath sent me to Jordan, and he said, As the Lord liveth, and as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee. And the two went on. And fifty men of the sons of the prophet went and stood to view afar off And the two stood by Jordan, and Elijah took his mantle, and he wrapped it together, and he smote the waters, and they were divided hither and thither, so that they too went over on dry ground. You see a very parallel illustration or story as we talked about this morning with living life on purpose and having an objective and using the example of the children of Israel crossing the Jordan to go into the promised land and them forging a new path. Going a new way and accomplishing something great for God, but doing it in God's power in a mighty way. And again here we see God using this river as a boundary, but also as a blessing, allowing it to mark God's power and God's hand on the life of Elijah. These fifty men that stood afar off in view here were watching this take place In verse number 9, it says, And it came to pass when they were gone over that Elijah said unto Elisha, I ask, what shall I do for thee? I be taken away from thee. And Elisha said, I pray thee, let a double portion of thy spirit be upon me. And he said, Thou hast asked a hard thing Nevertheless, if thou see me when I am taken from thee, it shall be so unto thee. But if not, it shall not be so and it came to pass, as they still went on and talked, that behold there appeared a chariot of fire, and a horse a fire, and parted them both asunder, and Elijah went up by a whirlwind into heaven. And Elisha saw it, and he cried, My father, my father, the chariot of Israel, the horseman thereof, and He saw him no more, and he took hold of his own clothes, and he rent them in two pieces. He took up also the mantle of Elijah that fell from him, and Went back and stood by the bank of Jordan. And he took the mantle of Elijah that fell from him, and he smote the water, and he said, Where is the Lord God of Elijah? And when he had smitten the waters, they parted hither and thither, and Elisha went over. And when the sons of the prophets, which were to view at Jericho, saw him, they said, The spirit of Elijah doth rest on Elisha. And they came to meet him, and bowed themselves to the ground before him. The story we've just read is familiar to any that have been in church for any number of years the home going, the uh taking of uh Elijah up into heaven in a chariot of fire And God putting his hand a blessing on Elisha, as Elisha picks up the mantle. And begins to do the work that God leads him to do. If you do the study, it is God does answer his prayer and the great and miraculous things that we see Elijah do, Elisha performed twice the number of miracles uh that are recorded for us in Scripture. As a testament to God having answered that prayer, Elisha was just the helper. He was the underling. He was the student. He was the observer, but he faithfully followed. He learned all that he could from Elijah. But now it was time for him to pick up the mantle. Now it was time for him. To carry the power of God on his life. It was time to fill the shoes of Elijah. I don't know about you, but those are for some pretty tall shoes to fill. There's been two occasions in my life where, in a last minute notice, some well known, very experienced Preacher was supposed to preach at a conference and they got sick or something happened and somehow I got the call to come and fill their shoes That's hard. The people were expecting Elijah. And they got Caleb. They were pretty disappointed. I do know that I have not been invited back to either of those places, so uh Apparently I did not fill the shoes sufficiently. They should have known better When you are called to fill the shoes of somebody like that, there is a great burden. But I did notice as I read this story that the sons of the prophets had it wrong. In the concluding verse that we read, they came and they fell down before Elisha and they said, Boy, the spirit of Elijah is on Elisha. But no, that's not whose spirit was on Elisha. You see, we tend to look at men too much. We look at men too much to our fallacy. We need to we need to be looking at God. Elisha understood that. Because when he picked up that mantle and he walked to the River Jordan, he cried out. Where is the Lord God of Elijah? And this evening I want to just speak to you for a couple of minutes on where is the Lord God of Elijah? And of course the rhetorical answer is he's right where he's always been. He's still there. He's still available. He's still powerful. And he can still do great miracles in our lives if we rely on him. We see just a couple of truths that I would like to point out as we consider this passage. First of all, that we're living in a similar day. Elisha and Elijah lived in a day when apostasy was running rampant. The worshippers of Baal continually at conflicts with those who were followers of Jehovah, the God, the creator of the universe. They they, of course, that great conflict on Mount Karma where God revealed and showed himself strong against the prophets of Baal. But apostasy was rampant, and it's it's rampant today where men are worshiping false gods and going after their own idols that they've set up. The condition of the day is not what sets the standard of whether God is going to bless or not. As a matter of fact, the light that shines the brightest shines the brightest in the darkest of night. And when the conditions are bad and when the situation seems terrible, then it is in fact a time when God can show himself the strongest. When we can see the hand of God in a mighty and powerful way, today we look for the soon returning of our Lord and Savior. He could break that eastern sky at any time, at any moment. What a glorious thing that would be. If God would allow me, you know my desire and ambition is to pastor here till I turn 70. I might have full-on dementia by then, I don't know. One guy said if I get dementia I w I I'm just gonna well I'm not even gonna say it I better That's not fitting for church. Some things that pop into your mind, it's better just to leave them unsaid. But I want you to know is we're living in a similar a similar day. Not only that, we're dealing with similar doubt today. The similar doubt where people question or wonder, well what's going to happen now? And and uh is God still on the throne? Can God really do it? Is is God real? I read a statistic this week that is mind-boggling to me. It's not It's not surprising because it's evidence all around us, but according to NBC, just just recently uh released the information that uh in nineteen forty six eighty six percent of all Americans would say that they attend church or call some house of worship their church home and that they attend church at least once a week. And now it's forty percent or less of Americans that would claim any God at all You talk about becoming a secular nation. We at one time were a nation who in God we trust. But not anymore. People doubt that God is even real. You talk to people on the street and if you have opportunity to be a witness, more and more you're coming across people that just say, well, I don't even I don't even believe the Bible. And if they don't believe that the Bible is the Word of God, this is the living word of God that's quick and powerful and will change the hearts of men. But if they don't believe the word of God at all, then where do you go to to try and witness to them? In those situations, all I do is ask them to read it. Say, have you read it? Most of the time they'll say no. I say, well, how do you know if you believe it or not? If you're not reading it. Because I know that the Word of God is real. And I know that if they will read it, it is quick and powerful. And it will reach their heart because it is real. And faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. And so all I can do in those situations is exhort them to read it. Would you read it? How many men have you heard of that were at one time atheist and maybe set out to study the Word of God on purpose to prove God wrong and came to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ? Were plagued with similar doubt. Elisha cried out in faith as he came to the bank of that river. He said, Where is the Lord God of Elijah? But we know that he had faith because he was standing there at the brink. and because he put down that uh mantle just as he had seen Elijah do, and he was looking in faith, calling upon God to perform that great miracle And yet the sons of the prophets, look in verse number 15, 16, and 17, the sons of the prophets we see They questioned what happened here, he says, and when the sons of the prophets which were to view at Jericho saw him Okay, there is an implication there. It says that they were to view. And if you look down in verse number 7, again it says that they were to view. They were on the other side of the Jordan, but They paused what seems to be within at least eyesight or being able to view Elijah and Elisha as they were walking away and I think the implication here as we read this is that they saw a chariot. They saw this. Maybe they didn't couldn't maybe they're far enough away they couldn't actually know exactly what happened when and And they they just saw this great light maybe. I don't know, but there's something here that they saw and they questioned. We see they say here to view it, Jericho saw him. They said the spirit of Elijah doth rest on Elisha And they came to meet him and bowed themselves to the ground before him. And they said unto him, Behold, now there be with thee, with thy servants, fifty strong men. Let them go, we pray thee, and seek thy master. Lest peradventure the Spirit of the Lord hath taken him up and cast him upon some mountain or into some valley. And he said, Ye shall not sin. And when they urged him, till he was ashamed, He said, send. And they sent therefore fifty men, and they sought three days, but found him not. So they beheld something that happened from a distance and they thought, maybe the Spirit of the Lord didn't make it all the way. I mean he was on his way up, but maybe the chariot lost some oomph on the way and they they dropped him up there on the mountain somewhere. Maybe they dropped him in a valley. We better go check. And Elijah said, Nope, he went into glory. He's gone. And they're and they're like, No, we better go check. And I it says there that they made him feel ashamed. They probably were like, Well, you don't even care. You don't even care about your master The one who taught you all this, the one whose mantle you're carrying right now. You don't even care about him. And he felt ashamed and he says, well, okay, go ahead. Go look. You see, they doubted the man of God, the word of God given to them through him here. They questioned Wanted to go see for themselves. You know, beloved, the day is going to come when you and I are raptured out of here. And those that remain, they aren't going to believe it either. They're going to doubt. They're going to remember the men of God all over this country and all over the world that stood up and said, Thus saith the Lord, and that God Jesus Christ is coming again, and He's going to break that eastern sky and we which are live and remain are going to be caught up together with him. They're going to remember that, but they're going to say, nope, that's not what happened. Aliens took them. Yep, we knew all this time that there was life on Mars. Just didn't get there. Sorry, Elon. There's there's life out there somewhere. Aliens took them. The Bible tells us what happened, but they're not going to believe it. The prophets saw Elisha with the mantle, and they saw him part the Jordan. But they still didn't want to recognize him. You know, this is the whole reason that God allowed Elisha to part the Jordan was so that those That were still ready or still there would know that God's power now rested on him. God did that as much for them as for Elisha And yet they doubted. They didn't want to believe it. But not only are we living in a day where we are very similar in apostasy and waywardness and people pursuing their own desires or living a day of similar doubt, but I want you to know that we're living at a time when we can have the same power. We can have the same power. Elisha picked up this mantle, but the mantle was only a symbol of the power. There was no power in the mantle itself. Elisha saw Elijah use it, and he understood that it was a symbol. The power was not in that mantle, in that piece of cloth. Today people by and large would, if we could somehow, if they uncovered it in Israel somewhere and said, boy, this is Elisha's mantle. This is Elijah's mantle and then Elisha's mantle Boy, wouldn't it be enshrined somewhere? I mean people would be praying to it. People would be bowing down and boy, if you can if you can just touch that mantle, you'll be healed. of of your illness. What's the word that starts with is it venerate? Th they they take relics and venerate them. They they make it something that it's it's just a staff Or it's just a mantle and yet uh it has taken on a spiritual significance beyond what it's supposed to understand, beloved. We don't need the mantle, we need the master. People are too worried today uh about the symbol instead of the savior. We need to be looking to him. I was shocked to read that Spurgeon said, and he did say questionally, he said, if I could ever have any great reverence for a relic, I should like to have Elijah's mantle. If there's any any one of these things that people are excited about, it is Elijah's mantle that would be meaningful to me. There is nothing wrong with those things. I think one day the Lord tarries. I retire or die or whatever, I'll probably give my Bible to one of my kids But we understand that there is no power in this book because I carry it, because I preach from it. It is the Word of God. And the power is in the words. Men love their relics and these things are are not so bad, but you'll you'll even see it many times people Here here, I'll I'll do this uh just for Justin. Um How many times, Justin, have you been somewhere and you have heard somebody say if you're in a habit of marking in your Bibles, I would like you to mark That is Clarence Sexton. Dr. Sexton said that all the time. Maybe he was preaching and he wanted you to mark something, he always said, If you're in the habit of marking in your Bible, I would like you to mark. And now there's preachers all over the country using that same phrase, like as if there's some extra level of spirituality or power in presenting it that way. I remember Dr. Vogelland many, many years ago uh when he was preaching there, the the head of the college there at Fairhaven. He had this way of like putting three fingers. It's I don't I really can't do it, but he would get up here and he'd preach, he'd put his fingers out like this and he'd say, Bless God, you know. He would be preaching and he would put his fingers like that And there's a bunch of young preachers preaching, bless God like that does not make you spiritual. Uh those of you that are older, you probably can remember Jack Hiles. He had an incessant cough. He coughed all the way through his messages. He would cough and and He'd preach and somehow preachers all over the country got incessant coughs. They they all were pre preaching and coughing I'm saying as we grab a hold of these things like somehow we're carrying the mantle. But what we need is the master. You're not going to have any more power in the pulpit than what you have in private. That's the facts. You're not going to have any more power out soul winning than you have when you're secluded, when you're alone, when you're with God. I mentioned it this morning, but my dad told me many stories about people he he had won to the Lord in the last few months, and he's so burdened about souls. We're sitting there talking and I'm asking him to tell me stories about when we're growing up, you know, when he's telling me about people he led to the Lord. Well, I'm glad about that, Dad. I was trying to get some history here. Family. I mean, I don't know how many more times we're gonna be able to talk about this stuff and you're gonna, you know, you're not gonna be here forever. You know, tell me something about growing up on the farm or whatever. But you know, he's just burdened about it. He says, if we if if we would go forth weeping, we would doubtless come again rejoicing. Beloved Ramsay, if we want to see God do great things in 2025, it's not just going to happen because we have determined or set our heart on it. And that is the beginning. It takes focus. It takes determination. That's what this morning was about. And I pray that you are motivated and that you will you will purpose in your heart to live life on purpose and let's make some changes but it's going to happen because that determination is fed and maintained and supported by the power of God. That same power is available to you and I today. Elisha found the God of Elijah. He found it because he had faith. He had faith to pray. In the book of James, we see the Bible tells us in James 5, 17 and 18, that Elias was a man subject to like passions as we are. And he prayed earnestly that it might not rain, and it rained not on the earth for the space of three years and six months. And he prayed again, and the heavens gave rain, and the earth brought forth her fruit. We've got to have faith. Faith to pray. If we want to have power today, the power of Elijah, the power of Elisha, it's found in our prayer closet. I ask you tonight, are you a praying saint? Are you a praying saint? Only when we get on praying ground will we see the power of Elijah. Elisha prayed for a double portion. I've said many times about great men that I've known. Boy, if I could have half the spirituality they have. If I could be half the preacher that they are But Elisha said, man, I I don't want to be half of that. I want to be twice that. I don't think that he was asking for for personal gain or glory or for recognition. He was asking it to accomplish more for God, to make a very greater difference in this world. He had faith to pray and he had faith to pursue. To pursue God. I'm not going to look at the stories of Elisha's life, but the things that he accomplished. To pursue God and God's will, even when it hurts. To pursue God and God's will even when it's not popular. To pursue God and His will when others quit around you. To pursue God when this world and maybe even people you care about are against you. To pursue God when Others decide it's not worth it and they give up. But you, if we want to see the power of God, we have got to continue. We've got to be faithful Faithful to pray, faithful to pursue. Faithful to trust. Not just for salvation, but trust that God can and will do it But the power of God is there. It's available to you. You can be victorious. You can accomplish Well in your heart and mind you look at it and say, boy, I can't do it. I can't do it. With God you can't. Because it's not you, it's him. And if we would relearn that and trust him Then he would do it through us. And we would just stand back in awe and say, wow, look at what God did. Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed? Where is the Lord God of Elijah?