Go to Matthew chapter twenty-three. Matthew chapter twenty-three, Jesus is dealing with the religious group of the d of the day. We're very familiar with these people. And just to kind of get a running start into this story here, to kind of get our minds set on what we're looking at here. From a earthly human perspective, if we are to look at the purpose of Jesus coming to earth, From from the Israel's from Israel's perspective, they saw him as, rightfully so, those who believed in him saw him as the Messiah. He is the Messiah. He was the Messiah coming to earth. But their understanding of the Messiah was totally skewed. They thought it was a earthly kingdom that was being established. And so Their understanding of what he was doing was they thought he was gathering the people around him. Right? He was going to rebuild the kingdom. He was going to bring uh the the the the religious people and he was going to reveal himself to them as the Messiah and they would hold him up as the Messiah throughout all of Israel, which would cause acceptance in the far reaching uh sectors of Israel and and all over the world where they were That was that would be the perspective from from our perspective, that's how we would see that. Right? You're coming, you are gathering those who are knowledgeable in the religious area That would be the people that he's talking about here in Matthew chapter 23. The Pharisees were the arbiters of truth in in Judaism. They were the ones that taught the law and uh established new laws based on the teachings of Moses. They would establish all of these laws. And so From our perspective, Jesus coming to earth or the Messiah coming to earth, those are the people you'd want to get. Those are the people you'd want to come alongside of. You would want to integrate with and bring to your cause. But we know the story of Jesus. That's not who he went to. He went to the outcast, right? He went to the fishermen. He went to the unlearned. They described Peter and John as unlearned men in Acts. But the one factor that they described him with was they had been with Jesus. So here's Jesus, he's coming to earth and he's and he's working to establish his kingdom, although it's heavenly and not earthly as they think. And the Pharisees would were kind of the gatekeepers. They saw themselves as the gatekeepers, allowing us, you know, if this is a Messiah, he has to pass muster, he has to be approved by us, he will get our stamp of approval Jesus never sought that. And from the very beginning he was very strong in his teachings against the Pharisees. And so we look here in Matthew twenty three, let's let's look in verse one. It says Then Jesus spake to the multitudes and to his disciples, saying The scribes and the Pharisees sit in Moses' seat, and all therefore whatsoever they bid you observe, that observe and do. But do not ye after their works. For they say and do not. For they bind heavy burdens and grievous to be born, and lay them on men's shoulders, but they themselves will not move them with one of their fingers But all their works they do for to be seen of men. They make broad their phylacteries and enlarge their borders of the the borders of their garments and love the uppermost rooms of at feasts and the chief seats Jesus starts this sermon or this warning against the Pharisees here. He's not He's not dealing with it as gently as we might deal with it. Right? He is very straightforward. And we get into when he starts calling them out even more, he says in verse thirteen, but woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites. Look at this verse. For ye shut up the kingdom of heaven against men, for ye neither go in yourselves, neither suffer ye them that are entering to go in. If a preacher were to preach to us in this way, I think there there might be a little bit of pushback. Right? To be directly, not generally, but to be directly called out. Scribes, Pharisees, and then he throws in this this word hypocrites. It seems a little harsh. It seems a little strong. And yet Jesus said exactly what needed to be said. He said it in the tone that it needed to be said. He said it the timing that it needed to be said. Jesus did not make mistakes in how he spoke to people And so what was needed, what needed to be said here was exactly what Jesus said. He's calling them out. Did Jesus have a desire that the Pharisees would repent and follow him? He did, yeah. All men, right? That's his desire. His desire was that the Pharisees would repent of their self-righteousness. And of their gatekeeping of the kingdom of heaven, as he says, and they would follow Jesus. They would forsake all and follow Jesus. That was what Jesus desired. And so in order for that to happen, and also in order to warn those who did follow him, this is what Jesus is saying right here. And he's calling them out Jesus had no patience in his ministry on earth for these type of people. religious people who have with no faith. And you look at all of these churches in Iceland. And it is a is a perfect encapsulation of the emptiness of religion. It binds heavy burdens. That's all it does And it does nothing. It does nothing for good amongst the people. That's the emptiness of faith. That's the emptiness of empty faith, I should say. And he calls them out, and we won't go through all the verses here. You're familiar with a lot of these verses. Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites. calls them, he says, Cleanse that first that which is within the cup, verse 26, and platter and the outside of them may be clean also. Woe unto you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for ye are like unto whited sepulchres Which indeed appear beautiful outward, but within are full of dead men's bones and of all uncleanness. Even so ye also outwardly appear righteous unto men. But within ye are full of hypocrisy and iniquity. I I grew up I have grown up in church. I've been in church since I was two uh two weeks after I was born. was in church. My dad was a song leader. Uh he was a deacon. Uh when I by the time I was born he was already a deacon. Uh he was a young man. Um but he was a deacon in the church. He was a music director, choir director, uh song leader. My mom taught Sunday school, uh I mean just extremely active in church. Anytime church was open, we were there, we were in church. He moved to Oklahoma, did the same thing. We he ended up uh leaving singing at the church we were at there Uh he worked a an outside job, but we were always in church. We went on vacation, we were in church. All the time. I grew up in church. When I was 13, my dad was called to preach. He left his job. We moved out to Kentucky. He started a church and I became a pastor's kid with all that that entails. And um I I loved it. I mean I we love being a part of a church plant, uh kind of the the the energy, but I was involved in every aspect I mean if you can imagine a church plant, and maybe maybe many of you were here uh almost twenty years ago, I think, when the church started, um, the need for people to do stuff. Right? When you're part of a church plan, it's not you can't really come to church and just be be served, be ministered to. You are doing the ministering because every there we need ministers, especially in church plans you don't have the structure, you don't have all of that. So W it was me and my three siblings. I was the youngest of four. We were all teenagers. We were doing everything in the church. Uh not preaching, but we were doing everything. Singing specials every service, taking up the offering, uh mowing the lawn and cleaning and everything we were doing. We were out door knocking. Before we started our first service, we knocked on six thousand doors. We were out and we were working. And and it is by the time, very early on in in my teenage years, uh being a pastor's kid, I understood what it was supposed to look like to to to be in that role. I've been a missionary now for four years. And do you know what we do? We go from church to church and we meet people we've never met. We put up a table, we give our presentation, we show our video, and if we're at a conference, we're there for three, four nights. We're interacting with people. And by this point in my deputation, four years in, you would hope, I know what's expected of me. I know what things are supposed to look like. I know how my kids are supposed to behave. I know how I'm supposed to present myself. I know all of those things about what the church expects from me. I know I've been in church for 35 years. I know what's expected of me as a church member. I know that I should be here Sunday school, Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night. I'm going to sing in the pews and I'm going to give my offering and I'm going to come up to the altar. I'm whatever it is, I know what it looks like. And if I'm not careful My knowledge of what it looks like to be a missionary and what it looks like to be a pastor's son and what it looks like to be a church member, my knowledge is the only thing carrying me forward. Right, I I can come in and I can come in with a smile on my face and I can greet and I can hand out prayer cards and I can present myself in this way so that you all think that I'm good to go. Do you know what that is worth? It is worth nothing. It is emptiness. It is burdens that are heavy to be borne. If I were to take this the next a step further, if I were to leave the faith I would lose all of my friends. My relationship with my family, all three of my siblings are faithfully serving in church. I would my relationship with my family would never be the same. I would have to find a new I would have to find a new way to live. It would change it would disrupt my whole life. If that's the only thing keeping me in, that's good for nothing. It's worthless The warnings that Jesus is giving to the people here in Israel, and we look at these churches in Isaac and we say yes. It's worthless. It's worthless church. It's a worthless belief system because they don't want to believe in it. They don't believe in God. What good is it doing? We always look at the Pharisees and we say, they're the Pharisees, right? They're the ones that have an empty faith. But it is easy for us to be that person. Because we do have pressure. Right? And and the pressure is not a bad thing. Right? The fellowship of the church is here to help. We're to hold one uh one another up. We're to help each other along. We're to be encouragement and we're to exhort each other and to admonish each other to help be faithful in the gospel and in God's Word. That's what we're here for. But if that's the only thing that's propping you up, then you don't have much. You know what separated the disciples from the Pharisees? We could probably make a list. But one of the big things that stand out to me, the difference between the disciples and the Pharisees, is the disciples spent time with Christ. Right? They had a relationship with Christ. They realized that it was Jesus who had the words of eternal life. And for all of their failings and for all of their doubts and their times of faithlessness, they hung on to that. And that's what we are called to. That's what we are called to. It's not about not about being a faithful church member or coming into church and sitting in the pew and looking good for a for everyone else. It's about having a relationship with Jesus Christ. Because when you have that relationship with Jesus Christ, everything else that we we uh We ascribe to a f to a a good Christian will come after. Right? That's what that's how it works Because when it's in our own strength and it's because of we want to live this way to impress others, it is a burden that is heavy to be borne. But when it is done because we love Jesus and because we desire that relationship with Christ, then it is a joy for us. And so I would encourage you in this way to examine your faith. I think there are times that we are allowed to ask ourselves difficult questions. Why am I doing what I'm doing? And so here, before I get in trouble, I am not encouraging you to to to stop what you're doing because you're doing it for the wrong reason. I am not encouraging that. That's not what we see Jesus says when he says to if you want to be a disciple to count the cost, right? And when you count the cost, you're not supposed to say, well, that's too big of a cost, and now I'm done. No, it's to know what you're doing and why you're doing what you're doing. And so as a believer, what the answer is not to stop what we're doing. The answer is to say, why are we doing it? And to start doing it for the right reason. That's what church is about. That's what faith is about. That's what Jesus wants us to do. He wants us to follow Him. He wants us to love Him. And this warning against the Pharisees is a warning about us having a faith that is worth nothing and good for us. nothing. It won't sustain us. It won't help us gain merit with Jesus. It's about loving him and following him