The famine that afflicted the world and uh God used them greatly and uh they were saviors, but through time, the course of time, e Egypt forgot who they were, what they did, and they became their slaves. So the Israelites, God's people, were slaves in Egypt. And things began to wax worse and worse. It got so bad that the children of Israel, the Bible says they began to cry out to God for deliverance. Lord, send us a deliverer. Hey, but what they didn't know is that God had heard their cry. Not only had did he hear their cry, but many years before God had already begun to raise up a deliverer. He had begun to prepare a man named Moses. And so he prepared Moses. God sent Moses and Aaron before Pharaoh with the command to say, Hey, let my people go. And of course you guys know the story. Uh Pharaoh says, Ha ha nah, sorry, we're not going to do that But God miraculously sends ten uh plagues, these plagues that He sends down upon them, and one after another Pharaoh's like, Oh, please make it stop. We can't stand it. We'll let you go. And then as soon as it stops They they they say, oh, uh just kidding, you can't leave. How many of us are like that? Sometimes God sends something into our life and and he's trying to get our attention. We say, Oh Lord, if you'll just help me get through this, boy, I'll be I'll be a sold-out Christian for you. And then God brings us through it, and then how soon we forget. And uh we're the same way. Come on now. That's good preaching. Amen. Uh so he hey he the Pharaoh uh ultimately the tenth the plague comes and Pharaoh loses his firstborn son and the the two the Egyptians get to the place where they say, Man Just go already. Just leave, please, go and hey, by the way, take all this cattle and take all these goods and Take the gold and the silver. Just get out of here, please. And he they they begin to leave. The God sends them out in a miraculous way. They travel just a short distance. You guys know the story. They get to the Red Sea and children of Israel are like, oh no We're dead. Here comes Pharaoh's army. Pharaoh's army's gonna kill us. Our backs up again. Look at Moses, you brought us out here just to die. But God miraculously delivers them. They turn around, they walk into the Red Sea, and they walk across on dry ground. Amen. God does a great and mighty thing for them and delivers them. And not only that, he destroys their enemies. The Egyptian army is destroyed behind them. They don't have to worry about them anymore. That threat is gone. I'm glad when God gives you the victory, He gives you the victory. Amen. That threat is gone. Then there is uh a God begins to walk with his people. He feeds them with manna from heaven. I mean, hey, there's not a whole lot of food out there in the desert. Uh a couple million people walking along and they're getting a little hungry and God says, Well, I'll take care of that. He gives them miraculously manna from heaven. And then they're getting thirsty, and God gives them water from a rock They uh have been led by God with a pillar of fire by night and a cloud by day, and he brings them to the foot of the Mount Sinai where we are in Sunday school right now, and he brings them to that place and God is going to deliver them the law. And God works miraculously and they see and hear the thundering of God, the the the voice of God, the lightning of God. They're able to behold that miraculous thing. Don't turn there, but in Exodus nineteen, let me read this verse to you. He says, and it came to pass on the third day in the morning that there were thunderings and lightnings and a thick cloud upon the mountain, and the voice of the trumpet exceedingly loud, so that all the people that were in the camp I'm saying as Moses was up on top of the mountain meeting with God, but the people that were down in the camp, they saw God there. They knew who Moses was meeting with. They saw his presence. and heard his voice in the heavens communicating with his man. Boy, they stood down there in awe at the miraculous things that God did. They were I'm getting somewhere. We're about halfway down the runway, so stay with me. Here we are. God, of course, delivers to them the Ten Commandments. in uh chapter number twenty and and we see God uh communicating them and uh to them and they know they've got these commandments they've got to observe and to keep. God gives them the civil laws and and uh the ceremonial laws he communicates unto them and establishing that relationship that he desires to have with them Exodus chapter 24 and verse number 18 tells us that Moses went up to the top of the mountain and that he was there for forty days and forty nights meeting with God, getting these uh the ceremonial law and the law of God, the the moral law and uh the civil law. God was communicating all this to him and and and Moses is going to bring it back to God's people. We get to Exodus 31 Look at the end of Exodus 31, the very last verse, and uh verse number 18. Look at verse number 18 there. He says, And he gave unto Moses when he had made an end of consuming with him, uh communing with him, sorry, with him upon Mount Sinai, two tables. of testimony, tables of stone, written with the finger of God. He had given to him the moral law, the Ten Commandments. We talked about those in Sunday school today today. In chapter number 32, we find Moses now having all of these things, and he's going to come down off the mountain after meeting with God and God doing such miraculous things for them. We get to verse number one in chapter. 32. And we see some very troubling things. First of all, beloved, we see that doubt That delay led to doubt. That delay led to doubt. Look at verse chapter 32 and verse number one. It says, and when Moses And when the people saw that Moses delayed to come down out of the mountain, the people gathered themselves together unto Aaron and said unto him, Up, make us gods which shall go before us. For as for this Moses, the man that brought us up out of the land of Egypt, we want not what is become of him. They said, man, Moses, the guy that kind of been running things, he's he went up in the mountain. Don't know what happened to him Don't know where he is. Don't know when he's coming back. There was a delay. Have you heard the saying when the cat's away? That might still play. Apparently Moses being on the top of the mountain for 40 days was too long for the children of Israel to stay focused. You thought ADD was a ADHD, whatever, was a new thing, right? Attention deficit disorder. No, it's been around a long time. You know, they forty days they could not keep focused on God. In just forty days they say, what happened to Moses? You know, I could tell you part of the problem is they were looking at Moses instead of looking at God. You guys better be sure that you're not looking at Pastor Caleb Botrell for your spirituality or your relationship with Jesus Christ, because I'm gonna let you down But God will never let you down. You need to have a focus on your Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, and your relationship is to be with Him. And when He is your focus, you'll stay on track. They were looking at Moses. They said, What happened to Moses? Boy, we need some new gods. Delay led them to doubt. Sometimes, let me just encourage you, don't let delay bring doubt in your life. Sometimes you prayed for something for a while, you've looked for God to do something, you say, Man I I I I wish this would happen, and it hasn't happened yet. Satan wants to cause you to doubt. And then that I want you to see here that curr compromise led to corruption In verses 2 through 7, look again, chapter number 32. He says, And Aaron said unto them, Break off the golden earrings which are in thy ears of your wives and your sons. There's a problem. and uh your daughters and bring them unto me. And all the people break off the golden earrings which were in their ears and brought them unto Aaron. And he said and he received them at their hand and fashioned uh it with a graven tool. Okay, you see here he says he fashioned it, right? He made it with a graven tool. And after he had made it a molten calf, and they said These be thy gods, O Israel, which brought thee up out of the land of Egypt. Compromise led to corruption. Follow along, look at what he says. And when Aaron saw it, he built an altar before it, and Aaron made proclamation and said, Tomorrow is a feast to the Lord Talking about this calf, this piece of molten metal that he fashioned, and they rose up early on the morrow and offered burnt offerings and brought peace offerings, and the people sat down to eat and to Drink and rose up to play. And the Lord said unto Moses, Get thee down, for thy people which thou broughtest out of the land of Egypt have corrupted themselves. They have corrupted themselves. Verse number 8 begins. It says, They have turned aside quickly out of the way. They turned quickly out of the way. It's only been 40 days. Moses has been up on the mountain. I was telling Jacob just yesterday that uh with Clay and Meiji there in Thailand that The church, the ministry, Jacob's been there, Jacob's preached in the in the church there, and that ministry was talking to Brother Clay has gone, they compromised. They they're dropping their standards, they're dropping their music, uh they're they're turning to uh the world's music and and uh they they they want to try and draw a crowd and Clay was trying to encourage them, listen, we need to stay on the straight and narrow, we need to be focused on God. It's not just about building crowds and and they decided, no, this is what we're going to do. And Clay had to say, well, I I can't continue to support this if you're going to go that route. And he had to go find another uh church that would uh walk the narrow path and and and stay focused on God, not let compromise, because compromise leads to corruption. When a church begins to get focused on just having a crowd, when it becomes pragmatic and we're going to do whatever we can do to draw some people in Then anything's possible. Compromise is opens the door. And through compromise comes corruption. The worship of God is corrupted. The following of God is corrupted, and God is not pleased. We see here that God's wrath was kindled against them. Boy, I want you to know, beloved, that the crowd tends to get excited about compromise. That's the large group, wide is the way that leadeth to destruction. Narrow is the way, at least to life everlasting. The crowd is willing to go that way, but we need to stay focused on God and on the narrow way. Now, we're not going to read all these intervening verses. We're still not in the air yet. We're going to get here in just a minute. We're not going to read all these verses for the sake of time, but I want you to know that God's wrath was kindled against them. He was angry. He was ready to destroy the whole lot of them. And after all that God had done for them, we just ran through the list of all the things God had done in just a short amount of time, how they had seen God work in such a miraculous way. And then they would bow down, they would have the audacity to quickly be turned away, to bow down to a piece of metal that they fashioned with their own hand and say, Oh, look at the God that brought me up out of Egypt. You can imagine how angry God was about that. Giving God's honor to this piece of metal that they fashioned with their own hands? Moses intercedes for them and pleads with God, prays for them. And one of the greatest intercessory prayers found in the Word of God is here where Moses prays. uh uh ultimately offers himself in in the stead of of these people that they might be forgiven. Moses uh goes down uh the mountain, he begins to come down, and the Bible says he hears this great noise in the camp. And uh pious Aaron walks up and says, Hey Moses, uh I hear the sound of war in the camp Moses says, no, it's not war. It's not an army advancing or an army fleeing. It sounds like there's another problem. Aaron, trying to be spiritual, he knows exactly what's going on. He he they they get to the bottom of the mountain, you guys know the story, uh, and Aaron lies lies right through his teeth. And and he says, uh, oh you know, Moses says, What why'd you do this? And Aaron's like, well, uh we just threw all that gold in the fire and it came that that's what came out. I mean that's does that sound like a kid? Like a little child, right? A little child just wants you to believe that that's setting just, you know, who ate who ate the cookies? Well, I don't know. He's the only one in the house, right? The kids like must have been the cookie monster. You know, Aaron's like, yeah, we just threw the gold in there and look at what came out. Like Moses is supposed to believe that. He fashioned it with his own hands. Moses comes around the bend of the mountain and sees the corruption in the camp. It describes here the dancing, it describes the nakedness of of of the people, it describes all that's taking place, and and he is so Bothered by this, his own wrath is stirred up. Look at verse number nineteen. In thirty-two, verse number nineteen, he says, And it came to pass as soon as he came nigh unto the camp that he saw the calf and the dancing. And Moses' anger was waxed hot, and he cast the tables out of his hands and broke them beneath the mount. Somebody said this is the day that Moses broke all ten commandments at one time. He he he broke them all. He broke the commandments down there and uh his anger was raised against this people which he had just prayed for. He just asked God to spare them. Had he come down there and allowed his own anger to get in the way, he might not have prayed that intercessory prayer, but he had already done that. And uh we see here in verse number twenty-one, I want you to pick up, we're going to get to our thought for today, down through verse number twenty-six. He says, and Moses said unto Aaron, What did this people unto thee that thou hast brought so great a sin upon them? And Aaron said, Let not thy anger of my Lord wax hot. Thou knowest the people that they are set on mischief For they said unto me, Make us gods, which shall go before us. For as for this Moses, the the man that brought us up out of the land of Egypt, we want not. What is become of him? You know most lies have a little bit of truth in them. The people came to him. They were looking for gods. They said, Where's Moses? But look at 24. He says, and he said unto them, Whosoever hath any gold, let them break it off. So they gave it to me, and I cast it into the fire, and there came out this calf. And when Moses saw that the people were naked, For Aaron, he made them naked, unto their shame among their enemies. Verse number 26. We find the question for today in the title of our message. He says, Then Moses stood in the gate of the camp, and he said, Who is on the Lord's side? Let them come unto me, and all the sons of Levi gathered themselves together unto him. The question for this morning is: who is on the Lord's side? Who is on the Lord's side the Lord's side. God, would you take the thought, which will be brief this morning, but I pray that you would maybe solidify in our hearts our commitment to you Not a commitment to a man, not a commitment to a process or to a place, but our commitment to you, our Lord and Savior, the God of heaven, the creator of the world, Lord. Savior of our souls. We want to be committed to you. And I prayed that this morning, those maybe that hadn't made up their mind, that hadn't decided to be fully committed would do so today. If there's some that haven't joined the team, God, I pray that today they would decide to cross that line and join the team to be on the Lord's side. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. This morning I ask of you, has God been good to you? Has God brought you up out of that place called Egypt? Egypt as a picture of the world and the flesh? Egypt as somebody that does not have Jesus Christ. Has God saved your soul? Has he set your feet on solid ground? Can I ask you this morning, has God in some measure provided for your life and met your needs? As i I know that you maybe haven't had manna fall from heaven and you don't go out in your front yard and pick up manna out of the grass and you don't have money that grows on trees, but can you tell me this morning that God has somehow met your need? That God has been there in your hour of need, that He's held your hand in the time of trouble? Has God carried you in your time of weakness? Have you had cause to see God work in your own individual life? Here's the question this morning, then who is on the Lord's side? The children of Israel had seen these things over and over and over again. We walked through very quickly the the great story of God's deliverance and how he met their need and had worked miraculously on their behalf and They had seen God do all of this, but then in such a short time they were quickly turned away from God and decided to go their own way. God has been good to you. God has been good to me, and God is saying to you this morning, Are you on my side? Are you with me? Are you going to be turned away? Are you going to go worship other gods? Are you going to go serve yourself in a life of sin here in this world? Or are you going to continue to look towards heaven and stand with Jesus Christ? And be what God wants you to be. It takes commitment to do that. It takes determination to do that. It starts with a decision for you to decide, yes, I'm on the Lord's side and I'm going to stay there I hope this morning you can say to yourself, I'm on the Lord's side. The question, first point this morning is, have you joined the team? The fact of the matter is, is there's got to be a day that you joined up. There's got to be a time that you decided, yes, I'm on the Lord's side. When Moses there in verse number 26 stood at the gate of the camp and he said, Who is on the Lord's side? Let him come unto me. Listen Jesus said, Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. He has put out his call. He's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. God loves each and every man, woman, boy and girl, red and yellow, black and white. They're all precious in his sight. God loves you today, and he wants you on his side. But you have to individually make a point, make a time, a day, an hour, a decision to join the team. You don't there's no Switzerland In this thing of trusting Jesus Christ. You don't get to stay neutral, you understand? You don't get to say, well, I'm not really sure because neutrality is a no. Yesterday we uh had uh no mm was it yesterday? Yeah it's been a big week. Lots happened. We we had the wedding for Olivia and Eduardo Now some uh months ago, I imagine there was a day, an hour, when Eduardo got before Olivia, and he got down on one knee, and with tears flowing down his face, he said, I'm unworthy to be your I don't know what happened, but he basically he basically said, Will you marry me? Now what if Olivia would have looked at him and said, Well, I think you're a great guy. Matter of fact, you know that I love you. But I'm not sure about this. That's a no I mean that that's a no. There there is no there's no in between. He's gonna be like w w what? Uh wait a minute Uh there's no neutral. There's either a yes or a no. What are we doing? This this we we wouldn't have had a wedding yesterday had there not been a day when he decided that and she said, yes, you've got to choose to be on the Lord's side There's got to be a time in which you called upon the name of the Lord and asked him to forgive you of your sin and to take you to heaven when you joined the family of God. Listen, not everybody in church is on the Lord's side. Not everybody that comes through the doors of the church is on the Lord's side. Matthew 7, verse number 21 through 23 says this. Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven. Well that's telling me, beloved, there's a lot of people that claim the name of the Lord. There's a lot of people that darken the door of churches all over this country today, but there's never been a day or an hour where they put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ and what He did on the cross for them. They've been claiming the name of the Lord. They may even say, oh, praise Jesus. Boy, oh how I love him. But there's got to be a time where they recognize They're a sinner. They're on their way to a devil's hell and they're going to spend an eternity there, but they say, I don't want to go there. I don't want to be in the devil's family. I want to be in God's family. How do I join God's family? He says, Call on me. Whosoever calleth on me. No. Boy, I wish my mind worked better. Sometimes what I want to say is just That if thou shalt confess with thy mouth and believe in thy heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. You confess with your mouth and believe in your heart that God the Father hath raised him, God the Son From the dead that what I'm saying is Jesus came and died for you so that you could know that you're on your way to heaven this morning. If you're here and you say, Boy, I've known about God my whole life. I even love Jesus. Boy, I sure appreciate all the things that He's done for me. But I'm gonna ask you this morning, are you on the Lord's side? Have you joined have you joined the team? Have you said that's me? I'm getting up, I'm crossing the line, I'm putting my faith and trust completely and totally in him and in him alone today. There is no new neutrality. You gotta make the decision for him. Hey, in Matthew chapter 12, verse number 30, he says, He that is not with me is against me. He that's not with me is against me. Can I tell you, Jesus said that You don't get to just stay neutral. You don't just get to stay on the sidelines. He said either you're on the team or you're not. I want to encourage you, there's got to be a time this morning that you've joined the team. Secondly, I'm asking you this morning, are you committed to the truth? Are you committed to the truth? Beloved, what I'm saying is, do you know what you believe? Can you with some measure of confidence? I don't mean you have to have the whole book memorized I don't mean you have to be able to give every single chapter and verse, but can you with some measure of confidence say, boy, here is what I believe. Here's what the Bible says. This is why I practice this. I uh I am I am constantly floored and don't and and just amazed uh how sometimes people that are in a church like this could end up embracing Hinduism or becoming uh you know uh embracing uh uh and becoming a Muslim How could that happen? Because they never knew what they believed. They didn't have it solidified in their heart what the Word of God says. You see, beloved, that's the truth. What I say doesn't matter. My name's Caleb and I ain't nobody It's not good English, but it's good preaching. I I'm nobody special and I believe that and understand that, but I believe we have a book here, the Word of God that was given to us by the Lord, His Word preserved for us that teaches us and listen when something's preached you ought to have your Bible you ought to look in there you ought to see does that what does that see what does that say what it's supposed to say. Listen I I was preaching one day And you say, I'm sure you've never made a mistake. Yeah. I was preaching one day and and uh the idea I was saying was truthful, but what I said was false. A lot of people, even in this auditorium, heard it, probably believed it, but somebody had a little bit of discernment that came to me and said, wait, is this what the Bible says? And I looked, I said, no, that's not what the Bible says. I misspoke when I said that. And what I said was there's an end to God's mercy. Can you tell me in the book of Psalms how many times what does it say about God's mercy over and over and over again in the book of Psalms? His mercy endureth forever, over and over and over. So in my, you know, I'm just flesh and blood. Right. This brain doesn't always work right. And sometimes I'm bound to say something that's not actually what the Bible says. People with discernment that search the scriptures could look and say, that doesn't line up with the Word of God. Right. And somebody that's not threatened by that would be happy to come before God's people and say, Listen, I misspoke last week. Because we want to rightly interpret the scriptures. What I was expressing when I said there's an end to God's mercy is that listen, God's not going to put up with your tomfoolery forever. There's a time when God's judgment is going to come, and we know that's a true statement. But what I said was not biblically correct. And so what I'm saying is you need to be looking at the scriptures. You need to know what you believe. Be able to understand the Word of God. And and that's why we have the discipleship program. And that's why we have Thursday night. And that's why we have Sunday school and and these ministries to try and help God's people get an understanding of what the Word of God teaches so that you can be grounded and rooted in the Word. Beloved, I don't take lightly the privilege or the responsibility to preach the truth to you. I understand how blessed I am to be able to start to impact how you think To impact what you believe and how you're going to live your life? Who am I? I'm nobody, but we serve an Almighty God Mighty, unchangeable God, that we ought to try and say, I want my life to line up with His Word. I want my life to follow His leading. And so we want to do our best to follow the Word of God Listen, do you know what you believe? Some people are as committed as a windsock. I'm saying if they're around God's house, around God's people, boy, they're on fire, soul winning, separated, loving Jesus, and and boy, isn't this great. But if they're over here with this group, uh boy, they know about all the current movies They can list off the current pop stars. They know what songs are on the top charts. They know what fashion is in in the world today They can give you the modern lingo and then they're over here and there's something else. I'm saying they're committed as a wind stock. They blow around wherever the wind's blowing. That's not how a Christian's supposed to be. I'm saying, are you committed to the truth? What happened here in our story is that God delayed and these people began to doubt all that God had done for them. They began to compromise a little bit, and even Aaron, who was their their second man, didn't have enough gumption to stand up and say, hey, we're not doing that. That's not the way. We know these these false gods did not bring us up out of Egypt that it was the God of heaven. I mean, just look up here into the mountain and behold the place where God meets with Moses right now. It takes a man and a woman of great courage and strong conviction to stand Do you know what you believe and are you willing to stand there? The song is determined. The songwriter said, I am determined, I made up my mind. I'll serve the Lord. Amen. Are you determined? Have you made up your mind that's what you're going to do? And you say, oh, well, I'm excited about it today, but next week When God delays and doesn't give me that new car I've been looking for, or God doesn't supply that new job I've been wanting, or He doesn't answer my request I don't know. I might doubt God. I might walk away from God. I might decide it's not worth it. I'm just gonna go and do what I want to do. Listen, you'll you'll be the worse for it. I'm asking you this morning who is on the Lord's side. Whether therefore you eat or drink or whatsoever you do, do all to the glory of God. I want to encourage you when compromise shows up, say no, we're not having it. When the gossiping starts, say no, we're not going to listen to it When the negative spirit begins to flow, say, listen, we don't want to have that. When Satan comes on the scene and tries to discourage you, you say, get thee behind me, Satan, and you say, I'm not going down that road When temptation shows up, you say, No, turn. When sinners entice thee, consent thou not. Amen. That's what somebody that's determined, that's committed to be on the Lord's side will do Then lastly this morning I'm going to ask of you, are you ready to deal with the trouble? Are you ready to deal with the trouble? Look down in verse number 27 through 28. If you've never read this passage of scripture, you're going to be shocked here today. He says in verse number 27, Exodus chapter 32, and verse number 27, and he said unto them Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, put every man his sword by his side, and go in and out from the gate, and to the gate throughout the camp, and slay every man his brother. and every man his companion, and every man his neighbor. And the children of Levi did according to the word of Moses, and there fell of the people that day about three Thousand men. I'm saying, are you ready to deal with the trouble? Are you ready to look at the problem and say, hey, this problem needs to be fixed in my life? Beloved, it's not enough just to know what is right. It's not enough just to say, oh yeah, I agree with the preacher. There comes a time when you've got to be Counted among the army. When you've got to stand up for what's right. When you've got to defend the cause of Christ and righteousness and his word, they stood with Moses. They took out their swords and they cut down those that were not. In our society, in our world, and even in our modern churches, that seems to be so harsh. Like, what in the world? Wow, I cannot believe that. No, the problem is that we've grown too soft on sin today. You see, in our in our modern society, in our soft soap churches, we we want to dwell alongside of sin. We want to say, well everybody can do what they want to do, it's all okay, we'll be fine. Uh we're just gonna let live and let be. We're just gonna everybody you know stand around and sing kumbaya. God says that's not the way it's supposed to be The problem, beloved, is we don't see sin as the cancer that it is. J. Verder McGee said, Moses had them perform an extreme surgery. He he himself, J. Vernon McGee, had just come through cancer. And he said, when you have a cancer, it has to be cut out. You must be aggressive. You have to go after it. And beloved, sin is an awful cancer And God uses an extreme surgery in this case to slay those who were guilty. If they had not cut out the cancer, it would have destroyed them. They went to these measures to deal with the cancer and today we don't even want to say anything to anybody because we might offend them. But here's the thing this morning. I'm asking you individually, personally, who's on the Lord's side. I'm not asking you to worry about at all about anybody else. I'm not asking you to consider or think about the man down the pew or somebody down behind you or in front of you. I'm asking you to consider your own heart. I think we've got enough stuff in our own life to deal with. That we don't have to worry about our brothers or sisters or our neighbors. We've got to look at ourselves, and what I'm saying is, if you're on the Lord's side, are you willing to deal with the trouble? Are you willing to deal with that sin, that besetting sin that has continually cropped up in your life and kept you from being all that you know God wants you to be? Right. It has been a cancer that has grown in your life and you thought you had it under control but you let it go for a while and you just played with it a little bit and and it began to grow and expand and it's gotten worse and worse and worse And and now it's almost as though it runs your life. Oh, you still love God. You're still coming into God's house. But listen, uh compromises led to corruption, and if you're not careful, the cancer will destroy you. Are you willing to deal with the trouble today Are you willing to say no? I've got to cut it out. I've got to cut it out of my life. I've got to be aggressive with it. I've got to draw the line in the sand and say, nope, no more. We're not having it. A Christian beloved. Ought to have some lines in the sand, there ought to have some places that he's not going to cross. There's some things that maybe modern society has begun to accept. Maybe the modern church has said okay. But I'm saying, have you looked in the Word of God Have you said, God, I'm on your side, search my heart and see if there be any wicked way in me. God, show me if there's something that needs to be cut out, if there's something that needs to be removed from my life. Listen, beloved, the Bible still says wine is a mocker and strong drink is raging. Whosoever is deceived thereby is not wise. You gotta go pretty long and far in between to find a church that's gonna look at God's people and say Christians shouldn't be drinking. But that's what the book says. Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. Listen, Christians need to wash their mouth. They need to be careful what they say in this world. Christians ought not be taking the Lord's name in vain. And you've got people that call themselves preachers that are standing in pulpits and cussing for the shock factor For the wow, and they like to say, oh, you're mad at me for saying it. Well, you shouldn't be saying it. That's true. But do two wrongs ever make a right? That's foolishness. To sin in front of God's people trying to get their their attention. Listen, we know the truth. We know what the book says. We know what the Holy Spirit has dealt with us about in our heart, in our life. I could run through and try and list a whole bunch of uh areas of sin this morning. But you know what? I don't have to. Because the Holy Spirit of God has reached down from the portals of heaven into the very depths of your soul and said, this is what you need to cut out. This is what you need to deal with this morning. If you're going to stand with God's people and say, I'm on the Lord's side, I want to be on God's side, then God is saying, then take this step. Then make this decision. Then make this change. Would you stand with me with your heads bowed and your eyes closed? I'm going to ask of you this morning, are you on the Lord's side?