We'll stand together for the reading of God's Word. Luke chapter 19. This is a very familiar story that you will know. It's the story of A short man named Zacchaeus. So let's uh look at this passage, Luke chapter 19. We'll just read verses 1 through 16. And uh I'll read it out as you follow along in the scriptures. Uh uh listen to what the Word of God says, or read there for yourself in the Bible. The Bible says this, and Jesus entered and passed through Jericho And behold, there was a man named Zacchaeus, which was the chief among the publicans, and he was rich And he sought to see Jesus who he was, and could not for the press because he was little of stature And he ran before and climbed up into a sycamore tree to see him, for he was to pass that way And when Jesus came to the place, he looked up and saw him and said unto him, Zacchaeus, make haste. and come down, for today I must abide at thy house. And he made haste, and came down, and received him joyfully The title of the message this morning is Who is Jesus? I'll draw your attention there to verse number three, where Zacchaeus, the the the Bible tells us that Zacchaeus sought to see Jesus who he was. Who is Jesus? Let's go, you can go ahead and take a seat. We come to this story that takes place in the town of Jericho. If you read chapter 18 before, you read that this Chapter number 18 of Luke also took place on the outskirts of Jericho. And there was this man there that taught it was a blind beggar that was referenced. Now, there's another passage that is a parallel passage to Luke number 18 where that man is identified as Bartimaeus. So we look at this story from the perspective of a man named Zacchaeus. We know some things about Zacchaeus that the Bible tells us. We find out that he was a publican. Not only was he a publican, he was a chief of the publicans as the Bible, among the publicans. We also find out that he was very wealthy, he was rich. He had a lot of money, and usually these two things went together. As he was a tax collector, a publican was a tax collector. It was the uh uh the time of Jesus, that was the IRS, that was the tax man. And so very similar to today, is the tax man someone who is beloved by the people? No. He was one that was despised. And I want you to think about this man, Zacchaeus, because he was Jewish. But he was the taxman, the tax collector, which means he was an agent of the state. And that state at the time was the Roman Empire. So to other people, he was a traitor. He was a sellout because he collected taxes from his own people. On behalf of the Roman government. Now, the way the Roman government worked, the Roman government did not care what manner or what how the tax collector collected the taxes, as long as he got the money Now what tax collectors were also known for is that the tax collector would take some just Add some to what was need what needed to be collected, and he would just put that in his pocket. That was for him. And there was nothing that was stopping him from doing so. As long as the Roman government got what they wanted or got what they had charged, the Roman government didn't care that Zacchaeus was doing so. So these publicans were awful people and they were hated and nobody cared for them, nobody liked them, and so here's this man Zacchaeus who's not just one of the tax collectors, he was like their leader. He was the head of the in this area. And I don't know if he was over, you know, a handful of tax collectors or many in the region. We're not sure the Bible doesn't tell us that. But what we do know is that he was a tax collector. He was somebody that nobody liked. He was hated. Because he was the tax man. So we have this man who's Zacchaeus, and he was rich, and very likely he was rich because he was skimming some off the top and putting it putting it in his And this man, it says that he sought to see Jesus. sought to see who he was. Something else we find out about Zacchaeus is that he was little of stature. That means he was short. Alright? And as he went about in this story, as you can see in the graphic that I used, he went And because he was short, there was this multitude of people around Jesus, and he couldn't see above them, and so he went and climbed up into a sycamore tree. Now, the Bible says that he ran to get ahead of the group and he w jumped up and climbed the tree. Now to us this seems somewhat normal, but understand in the Jewish times, somebody, an adult an adult man to go and to run in public, that was something that was frowned upon. It wasn't appropriate to do. It was it it wasn't the right thing. You know, sometimes we get on the kids for running around church and saying, hey, you shouldn't run inside here the sanctuary. There's a gym downstairs. You can go outside. Don't run in here. Don't run into people. That's not polite And so it was somewhat similar to that where Zacchaeus just ran ahead, and you usually didn't see a grown man running. And he climbs up into this tree. And he's looking to see who Jesus was. And then imagine the group is moving along, and he sees this group moving. And this man comes up to the tree that Zacchaeus is in. And he looks up and he looks right at him. I want you to think about this. The Bible doesn't tell us that the way it seems, Zacchaeus didn't know Jesus. Zacchaeus was not aware of Didn't have a personal relationship. Perhaps he was interested because he had heard about him and he had heard about who he was and wanted to put eyes on him himself, but he did not have a personal relationship with Christ. And so Jesus walks up to the tree, looks up, and calls them by name and says, Zacchaeus. Maybe Zacchaeus almost fell out of the tree. He's like, how does this guy know my name? And he says, Zacchaeus, make haste. Hurry up. Come down, for today I must abide at thy house. He's coming over. Just like that. Unannounced, without plans, this man who he had heard about is coming to his house. Now today that would not that would be, you know, maybe I don't know if Zacchaeus was married and uh if he was, I'm sure his wife maybe didn't appreciate it that much that all of a sudden he comes home and hey this guy's coming But nonetheless, we find that Zacchaeus was going to be hosting Jesus at his home. All because Zacchaeus wanted to know who this man was. Who is that person? And many times we find ourselves in a similar situation where we look at people, perhaps we don't know them, we're not familiar with them, and we're wondering: who is this person? What are they all about? So we're going to take a trip through some passages in the Bible today to answer the question that Zacchaeus was wondering: who is Jesus? I hope these truths will encourage you today and helping us to understand about who Christ is. I believe those that are saved and those that are non-believers alike ask this question as well. Who is Jesus? What am I supposed to do about him? What am I about supposed to do about what he teaches? So first, I want you to see that he is one who changes lives. Let's turn back to the book of Mark, chapter number 10. Who is Jesus? He's one who changes lives. Mark chapter 10. And if you look at verse 46 and through 52, we'll get a little bit of a backstory. in this area. Hopefully you're there. I'll read aloud. Mark chapter 10, verses 46 through 52. The Bible says this, and they came, they, their group, they came to Jericho, and as he went out of Jericho with his disciples, so again, this is kind of on the outskirts of Jericho, and a great number of people. So get the picture here. There's this great group of people. Jesus and his disciples and a great group of people are walking through on the outskirts of Jericho. There's a man, blind Bartimaeus, the son of Timaeus, sat by the highwayside begging. And when he heard that it was Jesus of Nazareth, He began to cry out and say, Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy on me. And many charged him that he should hold his peace. But he cried the more a great deal, Thou son of David, have mercy on me! And Jesus stood still and commanded him to And they called the blind man, saying unto him, Be of good comfort, rise, he calleth thee. And he, casting away his garment, rose and came to Jesus. And Jesus answered and said unto him, What wilt thou that I should do unto thee? The blind man said unto him, Lord, that I might receive my sight. And Jesus said unto him, Go thy way. Thy faith hath made thee whole. And immediately he received his sight and followed Jesus In the way. So I want you to get this idea that there was this great number of people, and understand that with Bartimaeus, after he received his sight, he began to follow Jesus. When we one of the most important considerations of the life of Christ is to see the people that were around him. They were a living testimony that bears witness of Jesus' power, of who he was. And I want you to think about this from the point of view of Zacchaeus. You know, there was You know, a town, Nazareth. If you remember in the scriptures, there was something said by the Pharisees that said, Should anything good come out of Nazareth? Nazareth was not a big, great city. It was just a small town. Galilee was a region there in the the time of Christ. Again, it wasn't anything that was highly populated, that there were tons of people there And the same thing is true with Jericho. It wasn't a large metropolis. It wasn't a booming city. You know, there's some different cities all around the world where there's just tons of people. Now, how many of you have been up to New York City Alright, got a lot of people. A lot of people that have been up there. And if you go to New York City, today the population is about 18 million people. That's a lot of people. Alright? And if you've ever been there, you realize there's a lot of people in New York City All right? However, just to add to that, in Mexico City, there's 21 million people. In Tokyo, there's thirty-seven million people. So we think that New York is this this huge city or with a lot of people, but there's other cities around the world that New York City dwarfs in comparison in in terms of population. Now even just right around us, we have Washington DC, there's six million people in that metropolitan area. In Baltimore, there's about two point seven million air uh people in the metropolitan area Just in Baltimore itself, there's about 600,000 people in Baltimore City. Now, it's likely that in Jerusalem, the main city of this time, There was maybe a few hundred thousand people there. The distance from Jericho to Jerusalem was probably about 18 miles, which would be similar from the church here. Probably it's about downtown Baltimore. And these outer areas had smaller populations. They were small towns. Now my wife is from a small town. And that area probably has less than 10,000 people. And one of the things about a small town is everybody knows everybody. Everybody knows everybody and everybody knows everybody's business. Alright, when I first visited my wife's town, you know, we went to a coffee shop and we went into that coffee shop and the lady was talking to my wife and My wife or the lady knew my wife's family, but she was kind of asking questions because she completely didn't recognize me. She knew that I wasn't from around there. That's just how things go in a small town. And in small towns, everyone knows everyone. And so again, think about this. You have Jericho, which was likely a very small town, and there was this great group of people around Jesus. Zacchaeus was there in Jericho. Bartimaeus was there in Jericho. It's possible that Zacchaeus knew Bartimaeus. It's possible that Zacchaeus took taxes from Bartimaeus. And so I say that why? Because this group of people, again, the Bible says in Mark that Bartimaeus was following Jesus. And Zacchaeus sees this group of people, and in that group, what does he see? He sees this man that he probably took taxes from, that he probably took a lot of taxes from because he was blind. And all these people, who else did he see? He saw Matthew, who was also a tax collector. Maybe Matthew used to work for Zacchaeus. I don't know. The Bible doesn't say. So in this group of people that are following Jesus, he sees Bartimaeus, he sees Matthew. He sees Simon. This man named Simon, if you know who he was and what he was about, he was a zealot. He was a religious zealot. He was a Jewish nationalist, if you will. And his goal, his mindset previously was about he hated, hated, hated Rome. Now I want you to step back and think about that for a minute. Here's a group of people that are following Jesus. In it is a representative of the Roman government, Matthew, who was a tax collector. And you also see a religious delit, Simon, and they're partners. They're working together. Can you imagine the view from Zacchaeus' mind thinking like what is going on here with this group of people? Maybe Lazarus was in that group, someone who they heard was was dead. If you line up understanding chronologically where this lies, this was probably the last week of Jesus' earthly ministry. Walking through Jericho with this group of people. There's Lazarus, who he raised from the dead, and there were also a various group of ladies we know that followed Jesus. Some of them, we believe, did not have a very good reputation. So we see this group, Zacchaeus sees this group of people, sees these people there among Jesus Christ. And we see it because Jesus changed their lives. Jesus was teaching them, helping them to understand the Word of God like never before. In Luke chapter 19, as this story moves forward, we see that the Bible says that there was a point where Jesus said, the Son of Man is come to seek and to save that which was lost. These people whose lives were changed by Jesus Christ, it's not just because they went up and talked to Jesus. It's not just because they had an interaction with him. It's because they believed on him and believed what it is that he said and their that he changed their lives. I want you to realize and know that Jesus changed his lives. He changed My life, he changed, he can change your life as well. He changes our life. And I say that because I want us to understand How has Christ, ask yourself that question, how has Christ changed my life? It's not just my life in the things that I do, but how has. Jesus changed my thinking. What it is that I think about, how it is that I look at a situation and think about a situation. Many times, if we're so filled with a worldly philosophy, but has Jesus changed that in our mind? There's a man who now he lives in Mexico City. Some years ago was an entertainer. He he made music. It was like a Mexican rap group, if you will. And the music that they had was vile. Vile beyond it was just to the point that it was disturbing. This man had much success, but I as I understand it, he gave it all up. He had interaction with a lady who was saved. And witness to him and talk to him, and over time, that man became saved. He trusted Christ. Today he's a pastor and teaches the gospel of Jesus Christ. How is this possible? Because Jesus changed him. Our lives are to be transformed by Christ. And so the question is: how has Jesus changed your life? That's the question that we ought to think about, and we ought to think about regularly. Consider how has Jesus changed my life? How has Jesus changed my thinking? Have you become closer to him in the way you're thinking? We're supposed to take on, we're supposed to take on the image of Christ. We're supposed to be like Christ. And so that's the question that you have to ask yourself. In my thinking, in the things that I do, am I becoming more and more like Christ? Not only is he one who changes lives, he's also one to be heard. I'll read for you here in Matthew. Here's the story of the transfiguration where Jesus Jesus went up to the mountain to pray. He was seen in all his glory with a bright light, was seen with uh uh Elijah and Moses. And In Matthew chapter 17, verse 5, the Bible says this. While he yet spake, again, there was a the the inner circle of Jesus, uh uh Peter was there, uh they saw this happen. While he yet spake, behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them, and behold, a voice out of the cloud which said, This is my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased. Hear ye him This passage has always really struck me, and as I read it, just the words of God here that He pronounces and says, Hear my son, listen to him. See, the instructions of God was very clear. Listen to what Jesus has to say. And that's a problem that we have because some people disregard what Jesus says. Some people, I have a message that I preached at one point that how examples in the scripture of how we're supposed to hear and how we we actually hear. How is it that people hear, listen to the Word of God? And what happens is that sometimes even the Pharisees did this. The Bible says that they stopped their ears. And it's possible for people to do that. Many times when people are listening to Christ, what do they do? They close their ears. They don't want to hear it. Maybe they don't do it physically. But they can block it out and disregard it and ignore it. Some will argue. Argue against it. Some will question. But what God desires for us to do, God was very plain, God was very direct. He said, Hear ye him. Listen to him. How do we do that? We need to read the scriptures. We need to hear the teachings of God's Word and take them to heart. Do you listen to what Jesus has to say? How do you respond to what Jesus says to do? You know, there are people that will go to speeches. There were people that will go and buy tickets to go hear somebody speak. Thousands of people will pay good money. To hear a speech from somebody. Now, maybe they have something good to say, maybe they don't, but what I'm saying is that people will pay good money so that they can listen to what this person has to say. And many times the scriptures are presented and given for free. And sometimes people, they just kind of put it off. They stop their ears. They ignore it. And we can do this as well. But understand that what God wants, what God desires from us, who is Jesus? He's somebody that needs to be heard. Because God said so. Also, who is Jesus? He's one to be believed. If you look at John 14:6, not only is he supposed to be heard, he is to be believed. Why? Because he's the truth. You know, we know this verse, and we know uh we quote it often and we love to hear the verse, but the Bible says, Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the life. If something is the truth, we are supposed to believe it. It's something that we're supposed to accept. And here's God Almighty very plainly saying, I am the way, the truth. He's not partly truth, he's not some truth, he is the truth, and he is to be believed. Many times people today will won will wonder, is there an absolute truth? I've been listening to something fairly recently that's talking about communism and communist views, and one of the things that Karl Marx uh mentions and says to do essentially is to question everything. Criticize everything. And while it's important for us to to not just Swallow everything, hook, line, and sinker that we're told. I believe that's important. I believe the Bible says that we're supposed to try the spirits, whether they be of God or not. We're supposed to evaluate, we're supposed to discern. But I'm going to tell you, plain and simple, if something's in the Bible, you can trust it wholesale. Absolutely can be believed. Absolutely can be accepted. And sometimes people will wonder. They'll they'll push push back from it and say, Well, I don't think that the the the the world was covered by a flood worldwide. Maybe it was a uh a Isolated in a certain region. If the Bible says it, it's the truth. And we are to accept it. We're supposed to believe it. And so when we look at the scriptures, it's important for us to, as we look at Jesus and the things that he said, he is to be believed. You know, many people are busy philosophizing and making things up as they go along, and they come up with many reasons not to listen, not to believe what the Bible says. They come up with reasons to doubt God's word, but again, the Bible is very clear, it's very plain, He is the truth. And what that means is that you measure all varying opinions. Against the Bible, against the Word of God. And if somebody says something, this is the measuring stick. And you say, alright, how does that line up with this? This is the measuring stick. This is the truth that we're supposed to measure all varying opinions on. What's understandable or what happens is that you know people lie. People are liars. Everybody's lied. Each one of us have lied. I've lied. I'm sure you've lied But what I want to reinforce in your mind today is that when somebody comes to you and gives you a reason to doubt God's word, what's important for us to remember is that Not only does the Bible say that God does not lie, the Bible says he cannot lie. The Bible says that God cannot lie. So when somebody comes to you with a reason to doubt God's word, you need to believe God's word. You need to believe what the Bible says. God who cannot lie. And if he cannot lie, that means that Jesus, when Jesus says that he is the truth, you believe that he is the truth. So, have you believed the Bible? Have you taken those things to heart? Where the Bible gives instruction? Do you believe it? Do you take it? Do you accept it? You see. One thing that I noticed, and I'm not throwing spears at anyone. I'm saying this even in my own mind. I've seen this in myself. I remember when I was a young Christian, when I was just recently saved, and I was just recently learning about the scriptures, I would just take it in and just listen and accept what was said. And you know, sometimes now you find yourself sitting and listening to something or reading something and you begin to question. And you begin to wonder, perhaps you're hearing somebody and you're like, well, I don't know if that's exactly true. And that's we have to believe what the Bible says. And we have to have that simplicity to trust what God says to believe them. How is it that you believe? Do you believe the doctor? You don't Push back so much against the doctor, although some people do. But what about the airline pilot? You don't go in there and start quizzing them and saying, Well, I'm not sure that you can do this What do you do? You jump on the plane, you buckle up, you don't question. What about the banker? You go to the bank, you deposit money into the bank. You don't question every single aspect of how it is that they're using your money. You believe it. You trust it. And in a lot of these areas, they're just people. In all these areas, it's just people. But you trust them. Now here's another element. We have God Almighty. God who cannot lie. And many times in our attitudes we're like, ah, well, I don't know if I believe that. I don't know if I believe that's true. That's a little bit of a far reach for me. A worship he is one who needs to be believed. Finally, this morning, the last point is he is one to be followed. The Bible says in Luke chapter 9, verse 23, and he said unto them all, If any man will come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross daily. And follow me. Three times this is said, Matthew, Mark, and Luke, we see this thought that Jesus gives. Deny yourself, take up your cross, and follow me. See, the natural result of believing Him, believing Christ, is to follow Him. It's an important step. To hear him. And then what you hear, it's an important step to believe him. But when you believe what he says, there is the step to follow him. And when you follow him, he brings about the change that we're talking about. He changes your life. You see, God's not going to force you, God's not going to push you to do something. But have you followed him? Do you follow him? What does that involve? Following him involves denying yourself. What I want us to understand is that denying yourself means that we are to deny our flesh. So many times we give in to what? We want. We desire what we feel like doing. Sometimes, you know, it could be something simple as hitting that snooze button. But we need to deny ourselves. If hitting that snooze button Reduces the amount of time that we're going to spend in God's word, then we're not denying the flesh. If taking part in something that takes us away from church, we're not denying our flesh There's appetites that we have, there's things that we desire. We're sinful people, and if we're not denying our flesh, we'll give place to the devil, as the Bible says. Then he as one to be followed, it also says that we're supposed to take up our cross. This is something that many times we don't like, because it is God's Instruction that we are to suffer for him. And we don't like to suffer. Many people, most people are not going to go into a situation where they say, Man, I'm looking forward to this suffering. That's just not something natural. But we're supposed to do that willingly Willingly we're supposed to suffer. The Bible says we are to suffer with him. We're to suffer because Jesus suffered. And the question comes up: is it worth it to suffer for Christ? Yes, it is. But we have to take up our cross. But we have to do it daily. The sentiment, that feeling, that emotion, that desire that Paul said where he says, I die daily. Now, we're not all very good at this. I'm not very good at this. Where you stop and you say, you know what, today I'm going to suffer for Christ. And it should be our desire, it should be our prayer in the beginning of the day. That we, as one commentator, as one man put it, that we put ourselves on that cross at the beginning of the day. And when somebody comes and offends us, you know, you can't offend a dead man. You know, if we were at a funeral and there you know I've never been to a funeral where uh I I've heard they exist, but I've never been to a funeral where where somebody says anything bad about the deceased. Most of the time, people will be gracious and will keep those things back. But imagine for a moment if somebody came up and said awful things about the person that was deceased. That person can't be offended. The dead person can't be offended because they're dead. And if we Take up our cross, put ourselves on that cross every day as a dead person, as a person that is dead to ourselves, that is dead to our desires, that is dead to what it is that we want to do. We're not going to be offended because we're dead. Dead people don't get offended. Somebody could say the worst thing to you. Dead people people don't get offended. And that's what it means to follow Christ. Why are all these things important to do? Why is it important to see our life changed? Why is it important to hear God's word, to believe it, and to follow Him? It all comes down to understanding The person that was giving these directions, the one who is giving these instructions, the one who has this desire, whether you're a Christian or not, this is coming from the voice of Almighty God. This is coming from the voice of God Himself, who created you, who cares for you, who desires the best for your life. And if the best for your life is to suffer, It's okay because you're following him. If the best for yourself is to deny your flesh, that's all right. Because you're following him. It's God who gives us these instructions. He's the one that puts these Before us, and we need to obey what God tells us to do. So we began today by looking at this man, Zacchaeus. Who wanted to know who Jesus is? What's this guy all about? He learned some things. He learned that he can change your life If you hear him, if you believe him, and if you follow him, because he is God. You can follow a lot of other people. You can be a disciple of anyone, but we're to follow this man, Jesus Because he's God. And we need to follow what God says for us to do. Let's close in a word of prayer. Stand if you will and join me. Lord, I thank you for the day and I thank you for your goodness. Lord, I thank you that you are one who is trustworthy. Lord, I pray that if there's one here today, perhaps that Lord has had a hard time of following you, or Lord, whatever the case may be, Lord, that you would minister and speak to hearts this morning. Lord, as we have a time here of invitation, I just pray that you would use it in the life of your people. And we'll thank you for it, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen.