Turn your Bibles to Psalm 144. I'm glad to be here. You know what Liz Taylor said to her fifth husband? I won't keep you long. And the young people are saying, who's Liz Taylor? Right. Wow. Um I was I was just uh Uh a couple weeks ago down at Faith Baptist in Milwaukee and last week in Black River Falls, Wisconsin, but When I leave here, I'm home for just a half a day, then I'm in Idaho and off to the races. So I'm glad to be in Maryland again. I love your pastor. I love your church and Those of you that don't know this, why years and years ago, way back, the early mid-70s, Pastor Battrell's dad, Roger Battrell, pastored in Wisconsin. And he and I were friends. I was a youth pastor, and he was a pastor there, and then Their family was led to go elsewhere to pastor and he recommended me to be the pastor at that church in Sheboygan. And uh that didn't work out, but I was always honored that a man would say, hey, this is the kind of guy I'd like to recommend to the church and people I love, and uh God mercifully protected them from me, but I'm I'm just uh Always honored when I recall that and the friendship we've had through the years. This is Memorial Day weekend and I don't know about you, but I'm a big fan of the military, and uh I have A brother who's career navy and brother-in-law career navy and then uh four uncles that were In World War II, one was at Pearl Harbor when it was bombed, and we have a long legacy of my oldest brother's past, but he was career navy and So we just had the tribute and it's just on my heart, forgive me, but I'm just when the Vietnam War was going on and I got out of high school and we had to register for the draft My father had lost his right hand in the corn picker in a farm accident, and he asked the draft board if he could have his son stay home and help him farm, otherwise he would have to sell the farm. And so they gave me a what they called an agricultural hardship deferment And each year they would re-examine that and by the time uh my standing eligible year came why the Vietnam War had ended, but Um I just to me the you know blessed be the Lord that teaches my hands to fight, David said. And you know it's uh A thing where there's some things worth fighting for. And uh in our church, and I'm sure it's the same here, you have on Sundays a security team, right? It seems like now every month or so there's another shooting. We have a larger church there in Wisconsin and any given Sunday there's fifty or sixty guys with guns and we have and some girls and uh we live out in the country out in the sticks and I mean Many of those guys have killed humans from being in war and they own fifty guns And they've killed elk and bear and deer and it wouldn't bother them at all to shoot a person that was trying to harm somebody. in our uh in our congregation and it's too bad that we've descended to that today but now I mean you know the The shootings in Texas and all the regrettable things that happened, that there's an absolute constant drumbeat to disarm this country. And uh I'm not, I seldom preach on politics or anything like it, but once in a while Memorial Day weekend and the 4th of July, I like to remind people of what a blessed country we have, and I know it's done a thousand things wrong And we don't deserve the mercy of God. But the kindness in America, the goodness that's still there, I'm not hanging the black crepe over our country yet It still says, if my people which are called by my name will humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, I'll heal from hear from heaven and heal their land. Most people um don't realize this today in this generation, but when the Civil War took place The states seceded, and they were asserting states' rights that the federal government had no say so over the states. And down south, of course, they called it the the War of Northern Aggression. And while I just hate slavery and everything that has to do with it, and my sister's married to a black fella, and my daughter adopted a little black girl, and We were raised without a shred of prejudice. But the people down south, the politicians said, you're gonna rue the day. That the federal government began to take away all states' rights. And that there was a lot more at stake than just the regrettable chapters that had to do with slavery. And so what happens is you spin the clock ahead in federalism, hey, we're gonna require that everybody okay abortion. We're gonna require that everybody okay homosexual marriage. We're gonna require, and I'm saying, we get to reap the fruits of giving over states' rights And the reason I'm saying that is that's what makes so important this summer, with uh Supreme Court saying, hey, look, we're gonna defer back to the states. If indeed that is the the finding, the the adjudication of the Supreme Court Maybe there's a little ray of hope for another reprieve for 20 or 30 years or whatever. I mean, I want the Lord to come back. Don't misunderstand me, but The guy who gets saved next week is going to be mighty glad the Lord waited. And so I'm not in charge of that, but if God's going to leave us here, then I want to have a country that exalts biblical principles. And I'm only saying maybe we could at least move back to where there's some uh sensibilities in all this. So All of that to just say in preliminary, David's writing, and here he writes in Psalm 144, look with me here, blessed be the Lord my strength Which teacheth my hands to war and my fingers to fight. Some things worth protecting And then slip on down. Lord's, uh David's praying, Lord, cast forth verse 6, lightning and scatter them, the enemies. You know, Lord, you fight for us, you be with us. And then we're going to look, it says in verse number 10, it is he that giveth salvation unto kings, who delivereth David his servant from the hurtful sword. I mean The pattern here, we don't take time to read all of this, but Lord, you gave us this nation, this people Lord, would you fight on our behalf? And Lord, we give you the credit, we give you the glory for preserving us. It's only by your hand that we have this. So follow along now, verse 11 through 15, and verse 15 is where we're going to land. Happy is that people. That is in such a case, yea, happy is that people whose God is the Lord. What does it look like? If a nation's going to have God as their Lord. The Bible says when the righteous is when the righteous are in authority, the people rejoice. When the wicked bear rule, the people mourn. And so we want to exalt righteousness. I mean, that's just our hope, our prayer. So let's pray, and then Lord, we ask that you would bless our time. Teach us from your word. May we sit as it were at Jesus' feet. In your precious name we pray, Lord Jesus. Amen. And uh I don't really think, just want to recommend to you, Pastor, you don't want to name the old people the contentious. I don't uh maybe I misheard that, but We we're trying to unify, so maybe we better not let the let that get out. So just a suggestion. Watch verse 11. Rid me and deliver me from the hand of strange children whose mouth speaketh vanity, and their right hand is a right hand of false one false. Listen. We make alliances all around the world. Countries always did. David did. That's how nations operate. But he said, Lord, protect us from strange children whose right hand is the right hand of falsehood. The trouble with being a righteous person is You tell the truth, and you think the people you're talking to are telling the truth. But this business Of giving military secrets to the Chinese government. This sheer stupidity of arming one side of a conflict with the latest and greatest military apparel and then we're fighting against it five years later. Deliver us From the hand of strange children, from those whose right hand is the right hand of falsehood. What that's talking about is they shake hands and make an agreement with you Make a covenant with you, make a promise with you. You know, David said, is thine heart with my heart? You know, hey, do we see, are we allies? Are we well listen Listen, we have to be careful. We can't be foolish to get into alliances with people who desire our hurt, whose long-term goal is to destroy us. We've got to be listen, as a nation, again now as Christians, we're citizens of heaven. We're out of here, some of you faster and some later, but I mean, right, we don't worship or pray to the government. We worship the Lord Jesus Christ. But this is in your Bible just as much as John 3. 16 is There's a reason God, he tells us, hey, it's how the church should operate, it's how the family should operate, and it's how civil government should operate. Romans 13 Rulers are to not to be a terror to good works. They're here to reward good works and punish evildoers. That's what it's supposed to look like. And so David says, blessed be the Lord. He teaches me. And his prayer is, Lord, deliver me. from the hand of strange children whose right hand is the right hand of falsehood. Then listen a nation is only as strong as its people and a people are only as strong as its family And so now watch verse 12, that our sons may be as plants grown up in their youth. Listen, the Bible talks about in Ecclesiastes, the day comes when you say, I have no pleasure in them. You know you're getting old if the best part of your day is over when the alarm clock goes off What is when is the best Prime of life. Well, Jesus was caught off, the Bible says in the midst of his years, and at 33 and a half, he got the new glorified body, and we're going to have bodies fashioned like unto his glorious body. Somebody said, hey, when we get our new glorified body, we'll all be 33 and a half years old No wrinkled old men and no wrinkled little babies, but just everybody in perfect prime of life. I don't know. But David's prayer is, Lord, give us sons that are plants grown up in their youth. What's he saying I want them to have the maturity and the ability to judge and discretion and discernment But I want them to still have all the youthful zeal and vigor and vision and hope. See, if we have young men like that Hey, you don't have to wait till you're 40 to serve the Lord. You can serve the Lord. God, I've seen some 15, 16, 17-year-old young men That had more perception. I would trust the average boy sitting here to have more discernment about what's going to happen to the future of this planet than I would the President of the United States Right? He knows what's going to happen to this planet. It's going to be renovated by fire. And we're going to get a new heaven and new earth. And we're not here to save the planet, we're here to save souls. Right. And so here, give us sons that are plants grown up in their youth, and them notice the second half. That are daughters. May be as cornerstones polished after the similitude of a pouch. A cornerstone Wow, when they would make buildings, they'd get the biggest, strongest, squarest stone, and they'd set that as the cornerstone, and we're going to build everything off from this. This is what is the the arbiter of where the building's going to be. This is going to be bearing the heaviest of loads. He said, give us daughters that are like cornerstones in strength. But polished after the similitude of a palace in beauty. We want our daughters Sure, we want them to be demure and humble and godly, but we want them to be courageous and bold and unapologetic. Good, strong men have never been threatened by a woman with a brain. We had a guy come to our house, my wife and I are happily married and This is a 35-year-old guy, and he says, I'm never getting married. I'll tell you what, women are all loud-mouthed rebels. He says, you can't you can't get along with women. He says, I'm staying single. And I said, well, Doug Yes, they're rebels. It's like adopting a puppy from the pound. They come that way. You have to train them And he says, Really? I said, sure, watch this. And so I said, Laurie, give up Well my wife, you'd have to know my wife, but she gets up and I said, now go in the broom closet, shut the door. She she goes in the broom closet, honest to God, this is she goes in the broom closet and shuts the door And I said, now bark like a dog. And she's in there, woof, woof, woof. And I said, okay, shut up and come and sit back down And she comes out and sits down and the guy says, That was incredible. And my wife says, You're stupid. Listen. W we want bright, capable, accomplished Women. That's the uh my goodness. I don't want a slave, I don't want a uh uh somebody that can't think for themselves or doesn't have an opinion, my goodness Woman the completer, woman the one that I've is a help meet for me. I wouldn't be half the man I am if it were not for my good godly wife She's the best Christian I know. Let me just say this. I was ordained in 1977. We had 42 pastors come and fill the choir loft. They're going to be the actual Sanhedrin of this thing. And there's a couple hundred church members and they elect a secretary and they elect the moderator and they You know, they're gonna interrogate the Inquisition And one guy back there stands and says, before we begin to question the candidate I'd like to hear from his wife, her testimony and her calling. Now, if looks could kill, he'd have been stoned dead right there. My wife absolutely does not want to be up in front. And this is impromptu in front of all these pastors and God and everybody. And she's sitting there and I'm thinking, wow, I'd never get by with this, but how's she gonna get out of it? And she came up and stood behind the pulpit. And she said, I was raised in a Lutheran family. But my dad was in the Navy, and when I was nine years old, we were in Norfolk, Virginia, and we visited a Baptist church, and I heard the gospel of Christ And there I called on the Lord to save me. And she said, then when I was 13, I went to youth camp. And heard the preaching of surrender your life, present your bodies, and I surrendered to be a missionary. And when I was 21 I married Randy and found my mission field, and I'll serve there till I die. And sat down. Now listen, I'm over there weeping like a baby. I don't deserve that. Plus it's humbling it takes one full-time missionary just for me. Our daughters as cornerstones, polished after the similitude of a palace. Listen, the future of a church, the future of a nation is dependent on its young people Old men make wars, but young men fight them. And we need to be sure and understand the importance of youth. Our church there in in Wisconsin is just burgeoning with young people. Young families, young people. And look, young families have the kids, but old families have the money. Paint with a broad brush But the old people are very concerned that the church continue in a good vein, and if they believe what they worked for and sacrificed for. and served in is going to continue in a good vein, the money shows up for mission trips and camp sponsors and a new ping pong table. Because they care about the future of the church they sacrifice for. And I can't tell you how much our young people in some ways The 15, 16, 17, 18-year-old boys set the tenor for the whole church, go in their car, turn on the radio, tell me what's on Their car radio, and I'll tell you the spiritual temperature of your youth group from a hundred miles away. But when there's good, godly teenage boys then the younger kids look up to them, and the older folks rejoice with them When they're not there, sometimes you can get some domineering girls who are critical of boys. I I was youth pastor for 17 years and This business of having a father-son campo, this business of investing in our young people, I'm practically a fossil. But I'm for what you're doing here. This is absolutely essential, critical, for our families. for our church and for our nation. These are sons, plants grown up in their youth. Our daughters, cornerstones polished after the symbol of the Tudor Fellows. Verse number 13 that our garners may be full, affording all manner of store, that our sheep may bring forth thousands and ten thousands in our streets. Listen, there's nothing like the bounty When God is pleased and the country is productive. Here it's using the agricultural side of it. Hey Our gardeners are full. The storehost of corn and wheat and soybeans, it's full to overflowing. We have plenty. We have plenty. We're spoiled compared to most of the world. And then he talks about our sheep may bring forth thousands and tens of I'm a dairy farmer, right? Here's what we got. We understood if we're going to have milk, then our girls have to have babies. Ain't that a revelation? So the fact that we have multiplying in our animals Uh, whether it be the horses, the cows, the sheep, the pigs. Hey, listen, when I was just five years old, our dairy farm got a disease in the barn And every single cow became sterile. Now, she gives 80 pounds when she first has the calf, and 60 a month later, and 40 a month later, right? Because The calf gets weaned, right? After six months, it's learning to eat grass and stuff. So now Mama's giving 30 pounds worth of milk and twenty pounds worth of milk, but she's eating five dollars worth of hay. Right? Now how long you're gonna stay in business? We sold every cow. Every calf, every we we taught him the McDonald's jingle. You're it's a great day to go to McDonald's Okay, I lied about that, but right? I'm saying if they can't have babies, they're not gonna give milk And we're not in the business of just harvesting crops and feeding it to them so we can get manure. Right? Alright? I'm saying you just you get it And so we raised chickens for five years. We didn't have a bullving on the place Until that disease was eradicated and we sprayed disinfectant in the barn and all of that before we could get back into the dairy business. Listen, it's only the protection of God that we have productive animals. You know, in America We have the butcher, the baker, the candlestick maker. You you're relatively self-sufficient in the eight eighteen hundreds. We grow our own crops, but we bring a skill to the community. I raise my own crops, I till my own ground, I feed my own horses, but I also do this for the community. The butcher, the baker, the candlestick maker. But we were learned to be relatively self-sufficient. But in the communist system, for 70 years under communism They had all those big communal farms. And this guy only knew how to milk a cow. And this guy only knew how to drive a tractor. And this guy only knew how to harvest a crop And when the iron curtain came down and they said, Hey you guys, you could each have your own property and you could have your own farm. They didn't know how to farm Because they hadn't been taught all the skills that we just take for granted. And so we had a guy from our My neighbor, who was by President Bush won, on a blue ribbon panel commission to go over there and see how we could help them with their agriculture He got there, it had been raining for four days, water standing in all the fields, and yet the irrigation system was running because they had it set from the year before that on these days the water pumped. And He said to him, hey, we gave you some of the best Holstein Frasian cows. We gave you some of the best semen for reproduction. We gave you John Deere tractors, D Laval equipment. We gave you the equipment to process and make butter and cheese and milk and ice cream. And we gave you the tr the John Deere tractors, the fence. What what happened? There's nothing here. And he said, look, he said, that was just a government program, the Russian guy That was just a government program. They try all kinds of stuff, but we don't know who's going to be in charge two years from now. So we didn't actually build the fences We used the fence posts for firewood. Well then we couldn't let the cows out of the barn, and then we got pneumonia and a bunch of them died, so we just ate them. We didn't have the infrastructure, a flat tire on the tractor, so we just cut the tires off the tractors and burned them to keep us warm in the winter. Hear me. Hear me. It's of God when people have the sense to be productive. It's and he says, look, we just spent millions and millions and millions of government sponsored and you guys just ate it all up. They said, Yeah, well yeah. Oh the workers are all dispersed. Everything is rusting. And he said, well tell me, he said, how can you guys think like that? He said, there's an old Russian story. about two farmers that live side by side. And they did everything by hand and they had about the same station in life and they both were trying to equal the living. And this farmer got a horse And with his horse, he was able to till more soil. And with his horse, he was able to bring some more seed back from town. And with his horse, he was able to harvest a bigger crop. And with the crop that he sold, he got the materials and built a bigger barn. And the very next year he built his house, his wife a real nice house. But this guy was still scratching with minimal of everything And so they asked him, if you could have anything, anything at all in the world, what would you want? And he said, I'd want his horse to die. See, it's from God to be disciplined Educated, diligent, productive. David says, My prayer. My prayer, here's what I want. I want God deliver us from strange children. Lord bless our sons and daughters. Lord, our garners may be full, affording all manner of store. That our sheep will bring forth thousands and ten thousands in our streets. That our oxen, verse 14. That's in the Hebrew, that's John Deere tractors. That our oxen may be strong to labor. Listen, there's something about having the blessing of God on a nation that we have taken for granted so long. But the people that led this country were at least God-fearing, Bible-believing. They might have been Episcopalians or Presbyterians or Nazarene. But they believe the Bible principles work just like gravity works. Now watch. Verse 14, that our oxen may be strong to labor, that there be no breaking in, nor going out, that there be no complaining in our streets. Hey, you think that's important for a nation? People happy? People secure No breaking in, no going out. Listen, I live on a farm. I'm out in the country. I know my neighbors. We've had this farm since 1847. I mean, you just live out in the country. Your brother lives across the road, your kid lives next door, the neighbors have been your neighbors for 400 years Right? I don't lock my doors. If there's a strange car in my driveway, my brother comes over and says, Who are you? I one day I came home and I was gonna mow lawn and my lawnmower gas is gone. And I'm first, I got three sons, and I know one of those demon-possessed boys Where's the lawnmower gas? Oh, oh. Right? That's where my hammer went into the I don't know place. I said, look, one of you took it. It was right here in the garage. I just got gas yesterday. And now the gas is gone and the can is gone. No, it wasn't us, wasn't us, wasn't us. Well, I can't cuss, but I thought it I go to town, buy another gas can, get gas. A year later. A year later, in my driveway pulls a guy. He says, hey, listen. I live in Milwaukee and I drive by here. We have a cabin up north and I was going by your house last year and I ran out of gas. And I just saw that your door was opened and I saw a can of gas in there and I just used it and went up to my cabin and Well, I was gonna replace it on the way home and I forgot all about it and I went back down to Milwaukee. And now It's a year later. I got two cans of gas with gasoline in them. Listen, I want to pay you back. I'm so sorry for stealing your gas. Right, right. How wonderful. We still have a sense of integrity and honesty and character because we still have the vestigial organs of all the preaching of righteousness that took place in this country for hundreds and hundreds of years. You go to the dry cleaners I know it's pure co-winky dinky, but you get your clothes back, and they make the right change, and they thank you for your business. Right? I'm saying this not everybody's wicked, evil, nefarious. He says that there be no breaking in or going out. I came home one day And there's a pickup truck in my driveway, and it's running, and the door is open, and the side door that goes down into my basement is open. So I saunter over there and there's a guy in my basement and he's got my toolboxes open It's my neighbor. And he has a faucet that's from the leak and it's spraying all over in his house. And he didn't want to run all the way into town and he knew I had plumbing fittings in my basement Right? I mean he practically runs me over on the way out. Hey Randy, thanks you got just what I need. I'll call you tomorrow, buy you breakfast, and out the door he goes. I'm saying no breaking in, no crying, no, no, listen, when things are the way they ought to be, there's this mutual trust. There's a respect. And then he says, no complaining in the streets. Wow, wouldn't that be a wonderful thing in this country? Hey, I believe in free speech. I believe in the right to protest and all of that. But while this has gone so far Everybody's a complainer, a crybaby, a victim. How come I didn't, why don't you, how why don't they? They listen, over 50% of our uh residents now are getting some kind of government check. People like me and some of the other old ones have paid money in, they should be able to get back. Some of what they what do they say? Giving the government your money and then waiting to get some back is like giving yourself a blood transfusion from this arm to this arm and spilling some on the way. No complaining in our streets if people are happy, secure, respected, cared for, loved, nurtured. They're successful. Success is its own reward. Somebody who will work diligently, earn something. I've got a I mentioned my brother-in-law's uh a black guy. My sister married him and we like him better than my sister. And he's career Navy 24 years. He retired and said, I hate what's going on in the inner city. And instead of cursing the darkness and complaining, he moved right near the inner city of Chicago. And went and began to teach ROTC in the inner city black high school. He said, listen, many of those come from dysfunctional homes, broken homes, no debt or no example. They've got pressures, they've got extra hurdles in their lane. It's no wonder so many of them falter. They've got a lot harder job to overcome, to become anything. For fourteen years, he drives every morning at seven o'clock, goes to that public school. has these young men and some young ladies that are in the ROTC program. He teaches them character and value and discipline They have to dress right, they have to do the exercises, they have to do everything that they're taught. Listen, listen. He's had over 200 young men and ladies go into our armed forces, one branch or another. He's had over 12 of them. recommended to Annapolis, to the Navy Academy. Bright, capable, disciplined, charactered, principled young men that he invested in and poured his life into to try to help instead of just sitting on the outside and complaining He went inside to light a candle. He can say things to him that I can't. And I'm saying I I respect him more than almost any man I know. for his commitment to helping change this country one person at a time. But here what it says. We uh we had of course you all know about the horrible Black Lives Matter protest over the young man that was killed up in Minneapolis and we had a gal from our church. Who said, uh, do you think it's right for white policemen to kneel on people's necks until they die? Do you think that's right? And I said, well no, I don't think that's right. But do you think it's right for them to loot and burn and destroy? Everything in their neighborhood and just take everything. Do you think that's all right? And she said, absolutely You made them build this country for free, and they should have anything they want for free, and if you won't give it to them, then they have a right to take it Now listen, that's not what made this country great. People took responsibility And earned their way, and they didn't stand in line for another handout. And listen, I'm only pleading the Christians and the church I don't care what race of people, when Bible values are in a family, in a home, in a culture When God is pleased, when people take responsibility, if there's individual accountability, they can be a champion. And happy. And there's no there's no complaining in the streets when they see the reward for their hard work. And so I'm saying to you here, imagine, here we are, this is 2022 or something, but as much as if you're reading today's newspapers, this Bible, Says, Lord, thank you for showing me what's worth protecting. Rid me from strange children that have the right hand of falsehood. Give me sons grown up in their youth. daughters that are cornerstones polished after the similitude of a palace. And Lord that our garners may be full and that our animals would reproduce and that our oxen would be strong to labor. Listen I don't care you can whether it be robots on the factory floor or CNC machines or we live in a great country with fantastic innovation and wonderful accomplishments But we want to be productive. We had a guy in our church, he said, Pastor King, you know, I work for GE and Last year, our plant right here in Oshgosh, we netted $2 million. And they offered us a new contract with profit sharing, and they said Anything we net next year over two million dollars, they're gonna give it to us. They can't fool me. They're just trying to get us to be more productive Oh really? How tricky is that Hey, they put their capital at risk. They started a business. They're trying to give you an incentive. Yes, they want to be more productive. If they can't make money on you, you're fired They turned down the contract and GE closed the plant. And four hundred men were unemployed. Listen, listen. Your only job security is your ability to perform When you quit performing, you don't have a job, whether you know it or not. That's true in small businesses and in big businesses. Their oxen may be strong to labor. There's no shame in hard work. I'm done, but look at with me verse 15 again. Happy, happy, happy is that people that is in such a case. Yea, happy is that people whose God is the Lord. That's my prayer. Listen This, to me, what people say, well, would you know what to do? Yeah, yeah. Let's start doing what the Bible says, and we go a long way to solving our social ills. The prescription is still in the Bible. Fear God, follow the Bible, love people. Listen, there's no substitute for trembling at the Word of God. Thus saith the Lord