The Proverbs thirty-one woman is spoken about in this passage of scripture. In Proverbs thirty one beginning in verse number twenty-eight down through the 31st verse he says, Her children arise up and call her blessed, her husband also, and he praiseth her. Many daughters have done virtuously, but thou excellest them all Favor is deceitful and beauty is vain, but a woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised. Give her of the fruit of her hands, and let her own works praise her in the gates. Favor is deceitful and beauty is vain, but a woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised. For a few minutes this morning, I want to praise our mothers. Not just mothers in general, but specifically I would like to speak with you about why Christian mothers are so special. All of our mothers are special, and I know that they are certainly a gift to us, and we're thrilled and privileged to have had a mother that if you For the most part, I know it's not everybody's story, but you had a mom that loved you, that cared for you. She might not have had all the money that this world has or the means that she wanted to to care for her family, but she made do. She found a way to stretch a dollar Seems like that's a gift that mothers have, just to be able to take it and multiply it somehow and feed the family and do what needs done. Your mom might not have had all the conveniences that are available to people in the world today, but uh you never heard her complain. She just uh served tirelessly her family and children And we cherish the memories that we have with our mother. But I wonder this morning how many of you could say without hesitation, you know that there's not any question in your mind that you had a mother that knew the Lord and loved God. Would you say that? You say that's mine. I had a mother. I know not everybody can say that, but I I I know that those that can, you would say, certainly you were blessed. Not just with the mother, but one step beyond that, and that is a mother that had the privilege of knowing the Lord and that followed the Lord. And there's several things that a Christian mother has that I would like to encourage and exhort you this morning. If you don't have it as a mother, you can have it. If your mother didn't have it, you can have it now. You can go on and carry that on from today. But if you had a mother that had it, you can praise God and show thankfulness for that today. First of all, I would like to say that Christian mothers really are special because they have a savior. Because they have a savior. I'm thankful this morning that my mom knew the Lord. My mom grew up in a hard home. My mom's dad was a drunk. He was a very abusive man. He was a very hard man. He did not allow them to go to church. Although my mom's mom was a Christian and knew the Lord, the home that they were in. My grandfather wouldn't allow her ever to attend church. He was very hard. He was a very mean man. And uh but when my mom Maybe out of rebellion. I don't know what it was, but uh when she was of age and she could drive, she drove herself to church. And she couldn't ever tell her dad where she was going because her dad was so angry and and upset about that. She he would get abusive, he was very mean, but she would go with her friends and she said, I'm gonna go spend the day with my friends, and they would spend the day in church And at fifteen years old she was sitting in a church, a little Baptist church, uh probably even smaller than this one, but she was sitting there in church and a pastor preached a message about the the love of God and how Jesus came and gave himself a sacrifice so her sins could be forgiven. And she knew that that's what she needed, and she walked down the aisle and she trusted Jesus Christ as her Lord and Savior at fifteen years old. God gave her many things about that day that are indelibly written upon her mind, things that she knows, that she remembers, so many details. Over the years, she wondered why that day was so written in her mind, and over and over again she believes that God gave her those specific memories so that she would never have a question. so that she would never have a doubt, but she knew that she followed and trusted Jesus Christ as her Lord and Savior that day in that church. I praise God that I had a mother that knew the Lord. She didn't just know about the Lord, but she had a personal, loving, compassionate relationship with her Lord. During World War II, there was an American sergeant. He was forced to bail out uh over uh Russian lines and he landed in Russian territory, and the Russians captured him. And they thought he was a German soldier, and so the Russians were being very abusive and they were uh mistreating him terribly and and and then it came to him. He he he yelled out, he goes, Amerikansky, Amerikansky And they're like, oh, Amerikansky, oh, oh, hey, America, oh, it's Amerikansky. And they they just started getting all excited and they put a coat on them and They lifted him up and they took him they put him in the nicest barracks they had. They even gave him a chauffeur to drive him around until he could get back to America. I mean he was treated like royalty all because he knew the name Americanski but you know what my mother knew a name much better than that she knew the name of Jesus She knew him personally, had a relationship with him, and I'm glad that she did, and that she made sure that her family knew Jesus. She introduced us to him. She told us the stories of him and sang songs about him. How many of you would say this morning, yeah, the first songs I ever learned about Jesus was Mom taught me? Jesus loves me, this I know. Ah. Jesus loves the little children, all the children of the world. Red and yellow, black and white, they are precious in his sight. Jesus loves the little children of the world. Hey, all the songs that mom sang and talked to us. The Bible stories that she told us because she knew Jesus and she wanted her family to know Jesus. You see, beloved, being a Christian is not just a matter of calling yourself one. Being a Christian is not just a matter of saying, Oh, I'm a Christian, but it's knowing Jesus and who he is and what he's done for you It is a matter of accepting his sacrifice on that old rugged cross as payment for your sins so you can know that your sins are forgiven. And beloved Whether you're a man or woman, boy or girl in here today, I want you to know that the greatest thing you can do for your mother today is to follow Jesus. To put your faith and trust in him, to realize that you're a sinner and you have a sin debt that you cannot pay. But Jesus paid it. And all you have to do is accept that. Boy, mother sang those songs to us and told us those stories. And only when you realize that you're a sinner and you call upon him, as she did it, my own mother did at 15 years old, can you personally know the Savior Beloved, it's not the religious activity that you're involved in. No amount of good deeds can secure you a place in heaven or cover up or take care of yesterday's sin. Only Jesus Christ can do that, and I'm glad today and I'm thrilled that I had a mother that knew Jesus. She had a savior. And his name was Jesus. Christian mothers are special just because they have a Savior. Christian mothers are special also, if I could tell you, because they have a sanctuary. They have a place that they call their church home When Brother Turner was opening in prayer today, he said, boy, as the psalmist said, I was glad when they said unto me, let us go into the house of the Lord. Are you glad you got a church home? Are you glad you got a place that you can gather and worship the Savior, that you can gather and have your heart turned towards heaven for a few minutes, that the cares of this world can be put aside for a few minutes, and you can look into the pages of Scripture And you can learn about Jesus and you can see the love of God and His care and compassion for you. And you can see how He expects you and I to live and be challenged in this world because God's given you a church I'm thankful I had a mom that had a sanctuary. She was went to church faithfully. Beloved, church was not something that she had to do. Oh, I'm a Christian, I gotta go to church. No, church was something she loved to do. Church was something she longed to do. It was a highlight of the week. She looked forward to being in God's house. Could I ask you this morning, do you look forward to coming to God's house? Do you look forward to being with God's people? Do you look forward to singing praises to Him? Do you look forward to lifting your voice up in song and looking into the scriptures and being challenged from the Word of God? The sanctuary. She loved church. She would never think of missing church. We went to church every Sunday We went to church every Sunday morning, every Sunday night, and every Wednesday night, every week of my life. Some of you that know my story, you're like, yeah, your dad was a pastor. I know, I know, dad was a pastor. My kids have the same problem. Our life growing up was built around the church. The church was the priority, and the church was the focus, and the sanctuary of God, and God's family was the heartbeat of what we did as a family, and other things we fit in around that But the church and God's people was the priority. I'm thankful today for a mother that had a sanctuary, a place that she called home, that she looked forward to and longed to be in the house of God. In the church house, we build friendships and bonds that last a lifetime. I could tell you some stories about people that my dad led to the Lord 40 years ago And those people still call mom and dad once a week, once a month. They haven't even seen them in many years, but they're people that just friendships that they've built and developed over the years. people uh dad has friends all over the country and really even the world uh when he's traveled and he stops and sees people all over the place uh by because he's ministered to so many people, he's loved and and helped so many people but Listen, it's because of the church. It's not about him, but it's about the church. That church family, that bond, that relationship you gather together and You love one another, you laugh together, you cry together, you pray together, you praise together. Hebrews 10, 24 says, And let us consider one another to provoke unto love and good works That's what we do in the church house. We provoke one another to love and good works. We need encouragement to be doing the things we ought to be doing. You need encouragement to continue to be faithful. You need encouragement to continue to stand strong. You need encouragement to continue to be a witness for God. You need encouragement to continue your Bible reading. I mean you get in here, you know, June and July, half of the year's done, and you realize, oh man, I'm I'm I'm a month behind on my Bible reading schedule. I wanted to read the Bible through this year and I I I I'm getting behind. You need some encouragement to keep doing what you know you're supposed to do, amen? And that's what the church is for. I'm glad I had a mother that Was in church. She had a sanctuary. A Christian mother is a mother that knows the scriptures. She knows the scriptures. Not just about them, not where they are, but she knows the word of God. We see in 2 Timothy 1 and verse number 5, Paul's writing in Timothy, he says, When I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that was in thee, Which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois and in thy mother Eunice. And I am persuaded that it is in thee also. He says, the faith that you have, the understanding that you have of the Word of God, the strength that you have, he says, I Timothy, I commend you for it. That's amazing, that's awesome. But what I realize is that you had a mother and you had a grandmother that knew the scriptures first. He goes on to tell him in verse number 15, he says, And that from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures, which were able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus. Mother, teach your children the scriptures. Help them to memorize scriptures that they can commit to their, write God's word on their heart that they'll have it for all their days. Even when they wander or maybe go away from God for a period of time, they have that scripture written on their heart, and God will use that to draw them and bring them back to Him. Encourage and exhort them to know the stories I know as a young man, mom telling us the stories of the Word of God. You know, many times the fathers are absent in this aspect and they shouldn't be, and we're going to deal with fathers on Father's Day, so I'm not going to chase that rabbit today. We're just going to leave that alone. But you know what? Let me just say, mom, thank you for your faith. It seems like many mothers have such strong faith. Such a strong commitment. Sometimes when dad doesn't want to be in church, mom's getting the kids up and getting them ready and saying, We gotta go, we gotta go to church Now I believe dads ought to be the leaders and dads ought to be the first ones to say, let's go to church. No, we're not missing church today. Let's get the Bible out and let's read the Bible. Let's have some prayer time together Let's give those folks right there a gospel tract, but I'm thankful today for mothers that have a strong faith. Amen. It seems like mothers are given to that and they desire that their children know God and that their children know the scriptures. Eunice and Timothy's grandmother Lois didn't just take their Bible to church. They taught their Bible to their children. You see, the scripture was not just a big book that sat on the coffee table that they would record their family big events and marriages and deaths and baptisms. It wasn't just the family Bible that sat there that they're passing down, that the scriptures were something that was precious to them. Do you teach the Word of God to your kids? Do you have a Bible study time? Do you have a devotion time where you're pointing them to the scriptures? How many of you would say that more than likely the first Bible story that you heard, you heard from your mother? More than likely, there's a few hands. Moms. I'm thankful for the faith of moms. A mother that knows the scriptures and takes the time to share those truths Now I know some of you didn't grow up in homes like that. You didn't have the privilege of having a Christian mother, but you can be that. You can have that kind of a home. It can start with you and carry on. I know there's many in our church that They are what you'd call a first-generation Christian, that their walk with God and salvation and the life-changing work of the Holy Spirit began with them. You have the privilege of handing that down to the next generation now. Thank you for your faith. Thank you for taking it serious and for knowing the scriptures. Lastly, this morning I want you to see that a Christian mother, she's involved in supplication How could we talk about a Christian mom without talking about her prayer life? Boy, it seems like if anybody can get a hold of heaven, mom can get a hold of heaven. Moms can pray. They can can get a hold of God and for the sake of their family, for the sake of their children, for the sake of their husband. For the sake of other people, the idea of giving themselves to prayer, it seems that it is something that is on the heart of a mother who believes in the power of God and believes in the power of prayer, and they bow their head, and they Pray and ask God to do great and mighty works. And mothers, I can tell you how many prodigals have come back to God because of the prayer of a mother How many lost children and lost people in the church have been saved because of the prayers of a mother? The life-changing power of prayer brought through somebody who believes in it and gives themselves to pray and I'm thankful, mothers, for your prayer life. George Truitt, great preacher of bygone days, would tell a story if he grew up Next to an orchard, as a young man, he and his little brother, which were pretty much rascals, they used to see their mom uh early in the morning, she would get up and she would walk out into the orchard and She would come back sometime later, and he said she would come back, and it was as if she had the glow of heaven on her face. You know, my brother and I got to talking, and we were wondering, where does she go every morning? Walking out in the orchard, like what is she getting out there? We probably want some of that. So they weren't real sherves, but they thought, well, tomorrow we're gonna follow her So they planned and they got up early and they were waiting to watch Mama leave the house and sure enough as mom did every morning she got up and she walked out into the orchard and they kinda uh hiding and you know they were having a good time, you know. kind of spying on mom and they followed her out into the orchard and they they followed her. She went up to this kind of a little bit of a knoll there where they could look out over some area and there's a a big apple tree there and She knelt down under the apple tree and they're they're kind of watching her and they're like, what's she doing on the ground? Next thing they hear, they hear their mama calling out to God, God. God, would you help me be the kind of mother that my boys need? Give me wisdom, God, to see where they're weak and where they need to be strengthened, Lord. Lord, would you please help me raise these boys for you? Lord, help me to learn how to encourage them when they're discouraged. And God help me. Learn how to challenge them where they're weak, that they would grow up and be something for you. God, put a hedge of protection around these boys. And they kind of slowly creeped away and went back to the house. And they understood something that day Mom's ability to do what she did didn't just come from her. It came because she spent time in prayer. She called on God and God made the difference. I just want to thank you, mothers, for your faith. Thank you for your prayer life. Thank you for knowing the scriptures and giving that to the next generation. Helping them to know the scriptures. And I want to just, as we close here, I want to tell the young people. Do not take that for granted. Don't take that for granted. Don't Let Satan put something in your mind, uh, oh that's just old fashioned, oh that's just mom, oh that's just the way she is. Uh no, you value and appreciate and be thankful for your mother. For a mother that loves God, knows Jesus, who is given to prayer, and she knows the scriptures, and she teaches you about these things. Thank the Lord. There's some here today who didn't grow up in that kind of home, and if they had the opportunity, they would tell you, you don't realize how blessed you are. Mother, thank you so much. There is no question that we're thankful today for the impact that the Christian mothers have had on us. But I tell you the greatest thing that you could do for your mother on Mother's Day is not to give her some flowers, although those are nice. It's not to give her chocolates, although she might enjoy chocolate, especially if it's white chocolate Just kidding. That's a inside joke. Mary Mary doesn't like white chocolate. I like white chocolate. What you can do is to follow her in her faith. The greatest thing that you can do for your mother on Mother's Day is To let her know that you are following her faith, that you have a Savior. That you are going to be in the sanctuary, that you're going to be in God's house, that you're going to continue to follow that faith, that you are going to Try and know the scriptures and you're going to give yourself to some supplication, to praying for others. If you would carry on that faith, boy, that's the greatest thing you could do for your mother today. Boy, that would put joy in her heart. She'd be thrilled and overjoyed to see that. The greatest thing you could do. Don't don't don't uh take her for granted, but let her know you're gonna follow in the example that she's given Would you stand to your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed? We want to have a moment of invitation. We believe in invitation here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church because Uh the m the purpose, the reason for a message is to bring people to a point of decision. Listen, if you're here and you had a godly mother or mother that was a Christian that knew these things, then you uh certainly uh can say thank you, Mom, for your faith.