Your Bibles are open tonight to the book of Second Corinthians. Second Corinthians, and we're going to begin reading at uh chapter five and verse one. Second Corinthians chapter five. And verse one. And while you're finding that passage of scripture, I want to say again what a honor it is to be here tonight at Hunts Valley Uh Baptist Church. We have been looking forward to this day and praying that God would work everything out. And he has done that. Let's stand to our feet. We're going to read our passage of scripture, the book of uh uh 2 Corinthians chapter 5, and notice in verse 1. 2 Corinthians chapter 5 and verse 1. For we know that if our earthly house of this tabernacle were dissolved, we have a house, have a building of God, a house not made with hands eternal in the heavens. For in this we groan, earnestly desiring to be clothed upon with our house, which is from heaven. If so be that being clothed, we shall not be found naked. For we that are in this tabernacle do groan, being burdened, not for that we would be unclothed, but clothed upon, that mortality might be swallowed up of life. Now He that hath wrought us for the self-same thing is God, who also hath given unto us the earnest of the Spirit We're sealed by that Spirit, are we not? When we trust the Lord Jesus, we're sealed and sealed forever. Therefore, we are always confident, knowing that while we're at home in the body, we're absent From the Lord. For we walk by faith, not by sight. Do we? Do we walk by faith? Amen How long has it been since you actually did something by faith? You know, the Bible teaches us that the only way we can really please God is by faith, isn't it? And so uh sometimes we're put to the test and all of that. But he said, verse eight, we're competent, I say, and willing rather to be absent from the body and to be present with the Lord. Now, verse nine. Wherefore We labor that whether present or absent we may be accepted of Him. Notice that verse 9. And wherefore we labor. And the question is, why do we labor? What motivates us to labor? And the big question is: here we are in this mission conference, and that is, what is it? Why should we give To missions. What's the motivating factor behind our giving to missions? Well, I think we have the answer right here. in this chapter and we'll look at it and you have an outline and I gave you a little room there, space that you can uh fill out uh and take notes and so on. And the main thing this week is we want you to understand what faith promised missions giving is and how it works and how God blesses and what God wants to do in our lives as far as missions are concerned. So let's pray. We'll get right into the lesson. Thank you, Lord, for this opportunity to be here tonight. We pray your blessings will be upon us and Lord for the next few minutes. May there be a holy hush just come over this audience. And may our minds be upon you, Lord. And we ask you now to just speak to us in a special way, for we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. And amen. All right, thank you. Be seated Wherefore we labor. You know, I've often wondered what keeps people serving the Lord. Why do singers sing and why do preachers preach and uh why do missionaries uh leave the conveniences of their homeland and go to uh uh some far distant land where they're not even wanted and people don't want 'em there and And and they don't care whether they ever come or not, but what motivates? What motivates people uh to continue laboring and serving the Lord? Whether sick or whether they're well, whether they're rich or poor, or whether uh things are good or bad, they just keep on serving the Lord. What is it? What is it behind all of that? And then what is it that motivates us uh when we come to missions and giving to missions and here in just a few days or You're going to be asked to uh fill out a card and and to uh put your name and some of you have already done that and and all of that and fill out that card. Of course the name won't be on the part here, but you'll rip that off and you'll turn that in. What is it behind that? Why why wh why should we give? Commissions. Above our tithe, above our offering. Why should we give commissions every week Well, let me give you five reasons right here and then we'll we'll be finished for the evening. First of all, the first reason is because of the master's throne. Look at verse ten. And we see, for we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. Now, friends, that in itself should motivate us to want to serve God more and want to give more to missions. The master's throne. You see The believer's work one day will be judged at what we call the judgment seat of Christ. Now there's two judgments mentioned in the Bible First, there's a great white throne judgment that's mentioned in the Book of Revelation, chapter twenty, and verse eleven, and only lost people will be at that judgment. And then there's a judgment for the saved, and we call that the judgment seat of Christ. And and as far as I know, it's only mentioned twice in the Bible, this judgment seat of Christ. We find it in Romans chapter 14, verse 10, and then here in 2 Corinthians chapter 5 and verse 10. A close examination. Both of those passages of scripture reveal that only believers will be at this particular judgment seat of Christ. And of course, uh the believers' works We'll be judged. Not our sins. Not our sins, right? Why not? Well, our sins were judged at Calvary. Uh that's what the Lord did. Uh in fact the the prophet Isaiah wrote and said they laid upon him the iniquities of us all, all of our sins. Every sin, past, present, future, was laid upon him there at the cross. And so we're not going to answer for our sins at this judgment. When Christ died on that cross, he paid for all our sins in full. We don't have to worry about those sins. But what will take place at that judgment seat of Christ? Well, I don't know for sure. But I know what the Bible says. First of all, number one, it's a place of review. To get that, go back to 1 Corinthians chapter 3 real quick. And you'll find out that there in 1 Corinthians chapter 3, if you will, look at verse uh 1 Corinthians chapter 3 and verse 13. And there we find it's a place 1 Corinthians chapter 3. Notice verse 13. He said this every man's work Shall be made manifest. For the day shall declare it, because it shall be revealed by fire, and the fire shall try every man's work of what sort it is. And so here's what's going to happen. It's a place of view. Everything we have ever done for Christ It's going to be brought out there. I don't know if he's going to drop down a screen like we did here a few minutes ago. I don't know if there's going to be some kind of power point And uh there on that uh screen is going to be flashed up there. Everything we have done for Jesus Christ. I don't know how they're gonna do it, but it's a place of review. Everything we've ever done for him. And that in itself motivates us. Wow. You mean I'm gonna have to uh uh uh everything I've ever done, everything you've ever done. For Jesus Christ will be brought out there at the judgment seat of Christ. And of course, uh the very thought, the very thought of standing face to face that close To our Lord Jesus Christ. And giving account of our service to him, hey, that's a sobering thought, is it not? And so it's true with our giving Uh how much have you given? What did you give? How did you help those missionaries get to the foreign field? Uh how did you help the uh missionaries here in our country And all that. And did you give like I laid on your heart to do? You know all that's going to be brought out. And so we're motivated because of this very fact Not only is it a place of review, but secondly, it's also a place of reward. Same chapter, first Corinthians chapter three, and look at verse fourteen. A place of reward, he said, If any man's work abide, which he hath built thereupon He shall receive a reward. Rewards. Rewards are going to be given for those who have been faithful. For those who have suffered persecution, rewards for those that have uh gone uh as missionaries or stayed home and helped support those missionaries, all the same, right? It's all the same work and and crowns are going to be given. And then what shall we do with those crowns? What shall we do, beloved? Oh, we'll take those crowns some day and lay 'em at the feet of Jesus Oh, I want to have a barrel full, don't you? I want to have a whole sack full of crowns that I can cast at his feet, but oh how sobering it is to think Well I I haven't done much Especially in this business of giving, I haven't done much. And so it's a place of reward. And you know what? I'm glad uh the Lord doesn't wait till we actually get there. Sometimes He rewards us early. You know, you heard the old saying, you never can outgive the Lord. You know that. You've heard that. And it's true. Have you put it into practice? You cannot. My wife and I learned this lesson a long, long time ago. And now, when anything happens. Uh if we see gasoline at a cheaper price, uh if we buy uh you know some bologna at a cheaper price, whatever we always say faith promise giving Faith promised giving. God rewards us. He rewards for that giving uh to a nations. I think the Lord puts a premium upon it, don't you? Not too long ago, we were home on Monday. And uh so uh uh I was getting ready to go to the store. My wife said to me, she said, Would you pick up my uh prescription? And it was a Wend Dixie store. Now that's a uh chain down in Florida. In that area, and we used to have a store uh in Chattanooga, and she said, Would you mind this is on Monday? She said, Would you mind going by and picking up a prescription? And I said, okay. And she said, by the way, on Monday, they always mark down the meat, you know, uh uh over the weekend. So we'll go back there and see if you can find the deal. So I got my wife's prescription and then I I I got me a cart and I rolled that cart down there at the meat counter and I came to the uh I came to the beef. And boy, uh boy, they had they had uh uh steak and all that marked down. And one sign says, uh, and I thought, boy, this is really something, it said, uh, T-bone. 49 cents a pound. 49 cents a pound. And then in real little small letters, you gotta watch these stores now. In real little small letters it said, with meat, $5. 95. T-bone, uh, 49 cents a pound, but with me. So I skipped it. And and they had a roast, uh they had a pork roast there and I think it was three dollars. Boy, I got that. And then I came to the chicken. Now I want to tell you something. I was born in Kentucky, Goldbug, Kentucky, eight miles from where Colonel Sanders started Kentucky fried chicken in Corbyn, Kentucky. I'm eight miles from there. And when you say chicken, Oh, it runs cold chills up a preacher's back down our way. I mean, just chicken. Chicken. Uh uh when we have an ordination service in in Kentucky and Tennessee, you know the first question we ask any preacher First question on the Word Ancient Council is, do you like fried chicken? And if he says no, put her down. We ain't laying hands on anybody that don't like fried chicken, I can tell you that right now But anyway they had chicken and they had it marked down and it said uh twenty-nine cents a pound. Boy, that was a deal. Twenty-nine cents a pound, chicken. And they had them uh in ten pound sacks. And ten pound sacks, twenty-nine cents a pound, chicken. So I got me two packs. I rolled up there to the check at counter and uh The the lady said, Let me see the discount thing, I give her that. You know how you do it. And uh and she child sold it. It was hardly nothing. And I got out to the car and happened to think, well there's three more bags of chicken left I don't want to leave that chicken. So I went back in, got me a cart, I went back over there and I got those three bags of chicken. Thirty pound of chicken I rolled up to the checkout counter and the lady said, Let me see that thing again. So I gave her my little discount thing here, you know how they roll it through there. And she added it up, and she added it up, and she looked real puzzled And I said, something wrong, ma'am. She said, Well, she said, this says we owe you seventeen cents I said, now look ma'am, I'm I've I've got thirty pounds of chicken here. How could you owe me? I'm buying thirty pound of chicken. How could you owe me 17 cents? She said, I don't know. I just added it up. I said, Is the manager here? She said, Yeah. I said, call the manager over here So the manager she came trotting over, you know, and she said, Let me see that. And so she uh put my thing through there again. She added it up. She too looked puzzled. I said, ladies, what's wrong? She said, well, it does say we owe you 17 cents. This is the manager. It says we owe you 17 cents. I said, you know you don't owe me 17 cents. I said, look, is the guy that runs this store is he here? She said, yeah. I said, look, I'm a Baptist preacher. I don't want to be caught stealing chicken. Go get that guy. Let's see what's wrong. So she went back the manager went back in the back room and she was gone a couple of minutes. She came back through the swinging door and she said, He said give him me seventeen cents. Well the the lady behind the check out she said uh well I can't open my cash there because there's no money there. You know I haven't done any transaction. And so the manager said, Well here's ten cents. This gal checking me out and said, Here's a nickel This guy carrying my groceries out, said here's two cents, get your chicken and get out of here. And I said, I ain't leaving without the receipt. I won't but I still got that receipt that's in my memoirs at home But I come home and I told my wife, I said, You're not gonna you're not gonna believe faith promised giving today. She said, What happened? I said, I just stole I mean I just bought thirty pounds of chicken, they paid me seventeen cents. That's a true story. And you know what? A little while later that store when Dixie went bankrupt. I said, No wonder why they went bankrupt. Amen I tell you, it's a place of reward. And we're going to be rewarded for what we've done. And not only is it a place of reward, but oh listen to this. It's also a place of regret. First Corinthians again, chapter 3, and verse 15 said, If any man's work shall be burned, he shall suffer loss, but he himself shall be saved. Yet So has by fire. Oh yeah. It's a place of regret. You know what? I know this personally in my own life. I'm going to regret. I have not done more for the Lord. I realized that. Every night I realize, Lord, I wish I could have done more. I wish I could have gone more. I wish I'd have passed up more tracks today. I w I wish I'd have told somebody about the Lord more. Uh that's one of through our minds and and and and the place of of regret. You'll regret we did not do more For the Lord, that we did not give more. Here's your opportunity this week to give to missions and to uh do what God has commanded you to. And you listen to the Lord and let God speak to you. But the thought of the Master's throne motivates us. To do more for the Lord and to give more to missions. What else? What else is it behind that? Not only the master's throne, but number two, the mortal terror. Look in verse eleven. Back to 2 Corinthians chapter 5. And in verse 11, notice again what he tells us here in this passage of scripture. And this is a this is what I worry about. And that is that mortal terror. Knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, we persuade Men. Mortal terror, the fear of hell. God's wrath one day is going to be poured out upon all sinners who die without Jesus Christ. Look up here a minute. You're looking at a young preacher, fifty-seven years. I believe this book. I believe it from cover to cover and lid to lid as we say down in Goldbug, Kentucky. This is God's word. I don't believe there's any mistakes. I don't believe there's any contradictions. I believe everything this book has to say. I believe there's a heaven that's real, that's waiting for those who know Christ as Savior. But I also know That there's a hell waiting for those who die without Christ. Young boys, young girls, men and women who reach the age of accountability who die without Jesus Christ as their Savior, as sure as I'm here tonight, they'll be cast into a lake of fire, a a place of torment. Forever and forever and forever. And I suppose the thing that has motivated me more than anything else across this country to go and to keep going has been the very fact hell is a real place. And people die. You know statistics say two people die every second. Two people die every second. Think how many people have died uh since we started this service uh thirty or forty or fifty minutes ago. There's been a lot. I wonder I wonder how many of them were saved. How many you think? I doubt very many. If any. Oh, oh, the people, the world is lost. These missionaries, they want to go. They give anything to be there now. And they have to go around the country begging for won't you help me go? We we we don't want people to die in India. He told you a billion and a half million, a billion and one half billion people live in that country And think how many of them are stooped in their pagan religion. And not only is that true there, but in Japan, in the Philippines, where I was just a few months ago, in in in uh in Jamaica where I was two weeks ago. They're lost, I tell you, everywhere you go, every place you turn, they're lost. Truly that motivates us tonight to give more, to do more for the Lord Jesus Christ. I can't drive the streets and see children playing and men and women without weeping, especially inside, don't you? I mean it breaks my heart. Oh, that's the reason you ought to carry tracks in your pocket. We ought to be a witness for the Lord everywhere we go, every place you go. Oh friends, may the Lord lay on our hearts tonight. The thing that motivates us more than anything else to give to missions tonight. so that we can get the gospel around the world is the very fact that hell is a real place. Not only that, but number three, what else motivates us to give? And it's the mercy Of the Lord. Look down in verse 14. In verse 14, sec 2 Corinthians, he said, For the love of Christ Constraineth us. Well, that's it. If there's anything, it's the it's the love of the Lord Jesus Christ. Aren't you glad the Lord loves us? Thank the Lord for His mercy. Thank the Lord for His love. You know what? I'm glad the Lord loves the world. I remember the first time I ever heard that verse, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. I remember the first time. I was a little boy in a one-room schoolhouse in Goldbug, Kentucky, barefooted. Uh everybody in the class was barefooted. We had one teacher who taught eighth grades. About thirty students total, maybe not that many. And was some in the first grade, some in the second, some in the third, some in the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, and she taught that. But once a month. We had an old missionary, Appalachian Baptist Preacher. That's where I was born. An old Appalachian Baptist preacher from the mountains came to our school every month. And um he had a little bitty accordion. Remember those little hand things you could just uh you know make a little noise out of it? And he had that little hand accordion And he'd play and he taught us those courses. First time I ever heard. Jesus loves me, this I know. First time. I remember he said, This little light of mine, I'm gonna let it shine. You know, hide it under a bushelow and all of that kind of Hallelujah, hallelujah, hallelujah, hallelujah, praise he the Lord. I don't even know if they sing those old songs and in Bible school or not. Uh but you know what? Uh I remember him uh then he would uh he he talked about John three sixteen. And he gave out a little booklet, a little red booklet about an inch tall and about an inch wide, and it was red, and it just had one verse in it. John three sixteen. I still got mine after all those years. And that in there was that verse. God so loved I'm glad he loves the world. I'm glad he loves folks in Jamaica. What a place. I'm glad he loves folks in India. Been there many times. I'm glad he loves people in the Philippines, Japan. Mexico. I'm glad he loves folks here in Maryland. I'm glad he loves folks here in this town. But you know what? I'm glad he loves me. I'm glad he loves me. I am so glad that Jesus loves me. Jesus loves me. Jesus loves me. I am so glad that Jesus loves me. Jesus loves Evan Me Aren't you glad he loves you tonight? Oh, the love that drew salvation plan. Oh, the grace that brought it down to man. Oh, the mighty golf that God did spare At Calvary. What love, what love, what marvelous love the Lord has for us tonight. Surely that motivates us He loves me. Why wouldn't I want to help others? Why wouldn't I want to uh uh do what the Lord did? Why don't I love others? Why don't I love those lost Why don't I love those people in all these countries here that are represented here this week? Oh, the motivating factor is the mercy of the Lord. God so loved us, and the Lord has done so much for us tonight That's it. That's what motivates us to give out tracts and to go night and day and be here on Saturday morning, boys, rain or shine, snow or sleep, whatever, and keep on going and keep on knocking on doors and keeping on telling people about the Lord Jesus Christ. What else motivates this? Number four, the manifold change. Sure is the world. Verse 17. Paul was right, therefore if any man be in Christ He's a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. A manifold change takes place when a person gets saved I don't care who you are, I don't care what you are, brother, when the Lord Jesus Christ saves your soul, something happens. Something happens to us. And yet we're changed. The gospel changes people. Amen. The Lord gives us a new heart. The Lord puts a new man in the suit. A new way of living. All of that. Oh, it's the power of the gospel, isn't it? What is the gospel? What is the gospel? We talk about the gospel. Nobody can be saved without hearing the gospel I don't care where you are, I don't care what you do, no one will ever be saved, no one ever has been saved without first hearing the gospel. What is it? It's the death, it's the burial Resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. That's the reason you've passed out tracts. That's the reason we witness when we witness we make sure we give them the gospel. Paul said this He said uh in Romans chapter one, verse sixteen, For I am not ashamed of the gospel. I don't want to be I'll be honest with you, I have been. I I regret it now. I I I've been ashamed sometimes and I didn't I didn't I was ashamed of the gospel. But Paul said I'm not ashamed of the gospel. Why not, Paul? Oh he said it's the power of God. Under salvation. That word power, I had a little Greek in college but didn't stick with me. But you know the my professors and all used to tell me that that word power uh is uh dynamos. Which is the same word we use for dynamite. Did you know the gospel is like a stick of dynamite? Powerful I wish I could I wish I could find a a a stick of dynamite. You know, sometimes preachers keep a a little dynamite in their in their pulpit. He may have you know, I want to look around him Well did you? You all didn't know that he had a stick of dynamite right here in his pulpit waiting for somebody to well anyway, huh? But you know what we gotta do? Anybody got a match will like this thing. But that's what the gospel is like. Throw it out. Woo! Throw it out. Woo! Just throw it. All you gotta do is the gospel. Just throw it out. Give it. Give it. Give it. And then you know what the Holy Spirit does? He takes that And he clinches in the heart of a sinner and quickens him and boom, that thing goes off. Instantly he's changed. Instantly. Not next week, not next year. Instantly he's changed. Hey, you know what? You know what the gospel can do? It can blow beer cans right out of a refrigerator. Amen? It can roast it can blow cigarettes right off your mouth It can blow dirty talk right off your tongue. It can blow drugs right out of your that's how powerful that thing is, the gospel. Why would we be ashamed of the gospel? Why wouldn't we want to give out the gospel? Oh, what motivates us tonight? It's the power of the gospel. You know, friends, it can change a life completely. In my ministry of 57 years, I've seen hundreds and thousands of some of the most wicked, vile, ungodly people that ever walked the face of the earth They would have killed their own mother. Oh but one day somebody threw them the gospel. Boom, it went off. The Holy Spirit planted it there, and they turned from their sins, and they believed on the Lord Jesus Christ as their Savior, and their life was changed. They became I had em they became some of the sweetest, kindest, lovingest people that ever walked to face the earth. You would not believe that they would have heard or flee. I mean they're just changed lives. My dad was like that. We moved from Cobug, Kentucky to Detroit, Michigan. And we were there. My dad was a drunk. He cussed Wicked man. But we started going to this little basement church in Roseville, Michigan. And uh my mother, who was a member of the Goldbug Baptist Church, she moved up there and she got her heart right, she was saved. She moved her membership. One night, that little basement church. One night, my dad sitting in the back. And one of the men standing next to him put his arm around him and he said, Bright, when the invitation was given, he said, Bright, would you like to be saved tonight? My dad said, yes I would. And Bill Stevens said, Come, I'll I'll I'll walk with you, Brian. They walked down that aisle And right there that night, my dad became a different man. Instantly. I'm telling you, instantly. Right then, his life was changed. He became one of the finest, sweetest most wonderful dads a man could ever have. I'm telling you this is powerful. And I'm telling you these people have that gospel, these missionaries Why would we not want to reach in our pocket? Why wouldn't we want to sacrifice? Why wouldn't we want to give up a Coca-Cola or or maybe w uh a chicken dinner or whatever? Uh why wouldn't we want to do that once a week? So they could take this powerful gospel to a lost and dying. An inlassible. What motivates us? Well, it's the message of an ambassador. Look at verse 20. Chapter 5, he said, a boy in verse 20, I turned over. In verse 20 it says, now then we are ambassadors for Christ. That's it. Who? Who's an ambassador? We that are saved. We that know the Lord as our Savior. We're ambassadors. What's an ambassador do? He represents his country in a foreign land. But to the Christian ambassador, what's our job? We represent our Lord Jesus Christ in this foreign wicked world that we live in. And that's the reason we want to dress right. That's the reason we want to act right. That's the reason we want to go to the right places as Christians would go. Why? We're ambassadors. We represent Christ. Wherever you go, tomorrow, tonight, at home, wherever you are, you represent the Lord Jesus Christ. We're ambassadors for him. Oh, and you know what? We got something to tell the world. Just like we sang that song a while ago. Tell it, tell it wherever you go. You know I've told it in airports I've told it in airplanes. I've told it in bus stations. I've told it on the street corner. I love to tell The story of unseen things of don't you? I love to tell us I love it, friend. I just love telling the story of his glory, of Jesus, and his love for lost sinners. Not too long ago, I left uh Chattanooga, Tennessee for Detroit, Michigan, which was about uh a ten hour drive. And I left late that evening. And I was the first speaker the next morning at a Bible conference And so I had to drive all night to get there. Well I got to Lexington, Kentucky, which was about five hours from my house, and I was so sleepy about eleven o'clock at night, and I was so sleepy and tired, so I pulled into this service station uh got some gas. Then I went inside and I started getting a cup of coffee and the fellow behind the counter came over and he said, Sir Would you let me make you a fresh pot of coffee? I said, would you? He said yeah sure. I said great go ahead. And so he started making the coffee and wasn't nobody around and I started talking to him. I said uh you know you I got to know him a little bit and I said let me ask you something I said, uh if you died today, do you know 100% sure you'd go to heaven? He turned around, boy's eyes got real big, and he said, No, I wouldn't. And I said, uh, do you know where you'd go if you died as a lost sinner? He said, Yes. He said, I'd go to hell. That's what my mother told me today, he said. I said, just the thought of dying without Jesus Christ as your Savior, isn't that an awful feeling? He said, yes it is. I said, and he said, my mother told me that too. And I said, uh look, while you're making it, would you would you let me take a minute here? Wouldn't you like to know how to get to heaven? He said, yes I would. I said, would you let me take a minute and just tell you how you can know that? He said, yes. So I pulled out the New Testament and I said, look, first thing you've got to do, you've got to recognize that you're a sinner. I said, Jerry says, Romans 3. 23, all of sin comes short of the glory of God. And then I said you've got to recognize that sin has to be paid for. Romans 6. 23. Wages of sin? Death. I said that's that's the payment. You'll have to pay that. Sin has to be, and you're going to pay for it But then I said but I've got good news. The Bible says here in Romans chapter 5 and verse 8 that while we were yet sinners, what happened? Christ died for us. I said that he took care of it. He took care of all of our sins, past, present, future sins. He died for it all. And then I said here in Romans chapter 10, verse 9, it says that if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus And believe in that heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. For with the heart man believeth in the righteousness. With the mouth, confession is made unto salvation. And I said, then here it says Romans chapter 10 verse 13, Whosoever shall call on the name of the Lord shall be saved. Well, but this time he met he he he had finished making the coffee and he'd worked his way back behind the counter. So he's standing there behind the counter. I'm looking over at him like this, and I said, would you like to just bow your head right now and ask Jesus to come in your heart He said, yes, I would. He just fell down on his knees. Well, but this time I looked around and eight or ten people have come into this gas station. You know, they're going to pay for their gas, get something. And I thought They'll see me. I got this guy down on his knees crying. They'll they'll think I'm robbing him. Somebody come up and knock me in the head So I throw my hands up there real loud and I said, Dear Lord, this man wants to get saved. Well I looked around people's eyes, it was all bugged out, you know, and all and uh you know that we we prayed. He stood up and I said, did you ask Jesus come in your heart? He said, Yes, I did. I said, if you died right now, where would you go? He said, I'd go to heaven I said uh I'll tell you what, I'm a member of a church right here in town. Uh I've got some literature out in the car, and I want you to promise me you'll walk down that aisle Sunday morning. And you tell my pastor you've trusted the Lord as your Savior. I'm going to go get that literature. I said, You called your mother and tell her you got saved. So I went out and got the literature. I come back. I said, Did you call your mother? And she said, he said, Yes, I did I said, what'd she say? He said, she's like you. She's shouting all over the house there praising the Lord. And you know what? I got back in my car. You ever you ever been drunk on the spirit? Huh? Ooh, it's a lot better than any alcohol. I never did drink any alcohol, but I'll tell you what, you can't beat this. Man, I just flowed enough to destroy me. Woo-hoo hoo! Praise the Lord. Glory to God. Amen. Hey, listen, I'm talking about message. Of an ambassador. Are you that tonight? What motivates us to give? What will motivate us to keep giving above our tithe, above our offering? Give to missions. Can we do that? Let's stand to our feet for a moment. Let's bow our heads. We're going to pray. With our heads bowed, our eyes closed. Thinking about what we've heard here tonight and all the singing, the testimonies already of these brothers, and all that we've heard. And as we're thinking about serving the Lord, all that's been said, I wonder tonight First of all, is everything all right between you and the Lord? Are you saved? Have you had that personal experience with Christ? If suddenly your soul should be required of thee this night, are you one hundred percent sure you'd go to heaven? Oh, you can make that take that calling and election, sure, right here tonight. Right where you stand. Take your place as a sinner. Realize you cannot save yourself. Turn from your sins. And believe in your heart that Christ died for you, that he was buried and rose again. Ask him to save you. He'll save you here tonight. Come down this aisle, tell the pastor, tonight I'm trusting Christ as my And then as a Christian, as we're thinking about this week, we're thinking about giving, we're thinking about what would motivate us. What would motivate us? What encourages us to give to missions above our tithe, above our offering? What would motivate us to sacrifice so these missionaries Can go. Would you pray about that? Would you come forward here tonight and just get down on your knees and ask the Lord to tell you what to do And pray about it. You may have already filled out your card, but you may want to fill out another one. Maybe you uh feel like that uh uh you ought to give more. Uh there's so much at stake, so little time. Maybe God's speaking to you today. Tonight. Whatever you do, you need to do it. We're going to pray and I'm going to ask you to come while the piano plays. Our Father, we ask you now to speak to hearts. Whatever your will is here tonight, may it be done. Save that soul that's lost. Draw thy people closer to you. Oh Lord, may we make sure we're in your will tonight, doing what you want us to do. In Jesus' name. Amen.