Good evening. Good to be with you tonight. And um I guess I felt a little bit embarrassed that I was the one preaching when he was making all these apologies about messing everyone's schedule up on Wednesday night. And like so I apologize in advance if I messed your schedule up. Uh but uh I know you're shifting it and you have been doing that I guess uh recently for the men and boys camp out before that. So Uh anyway, great to have you here and uh I'm glad you were able to make it. You may have had a really uh big day with a lot going on at work and or at home or uh wherever you were. But uh trying to Tr we're truly glad. Wednesday night is one of those nights where as I pastored, it finally dawned on me. There was a period of time when I um was in the ministry that I worked a part-time job and so I totally understood the nature of coming to church. after a long day of work. And again, even if you're uh you know weren't working today, there would there's stresses during the day, there are challenges, there are um big things going on sometimes and life never quite just is all you know, it's never just as easy as as we'd like it to be. And so sometimes coming out to a midweek service, um It's just it's a challenge more than than some might think it is. If uh if you've been you know, you barely got home, you get home at uh five thirty and uh from work perhaps if if that's your schedule and then trying to eat or trying to you know, maybe catch a ten minute nap and change clothes and deal with anything there and then have to run off and I don't know how far you had to drive tonight to come here, but God bless you for doing that and uh just gotta realize that You just need to realize I need to turn my mic on. All right. Good, thank you. I saw someone doing SOS back there, so You can get these PA guys in the flesh real fast by not turning on your mic, so don't don't want to do that. But again, God bless you for coming. He'll reward you for being here. And you're in a nice comfortable situation here. Beautiful. I've never been here before. And I've known your pastor, um of your pastor, um for a while. I uh know his other he's are you the youngest of the brothers? Youngest boy, yes. Youngest boy, okay. So there are some that I don't know. My wife knows, um some of the family, I know some of the family. His uh your your dad has been at our church to preach. uh probably the last uh probably five, six years ago he was there in Springfield, Illinois and came there with your mom and your sister and um anyway, so we appreciate the Betrayal family and uh have known them for years but uh never been here before. So I'll just mention briefly our our ministry The men will get to know us a little better over the weekend and then Lord willing if we're all still here and not in heaven, we'll be back on Sunday about this called Purity Plan Ministries. And it's a very unique the n niche ministry uh that the Lord called us to. We were in the ministry for at that time about tw um 19 and a half years when a shift happened at our church uh back in in Springfield and what the shift was my dad was the pastor and he stepped down. And the church looked in my direction 'cause I'd already been there for uh about at that church, eighteen years or so, so uh in total ministry life, almost my whole ministry life, and I had to try to find out what the Lord wanted me and my family to do, do you take the church that uh people maybe would be glad for us to take, but you can't just take because people want you to take it, right? Or I mean, especially your parents or even the people. It's like you gotta make sure who wants you to take it. God, right? That's the that's the bottom line. And so after six months of fasting and praying and seeking God's will, I didn't fast and pray for six months, but off and on Can I get an amen on that? That uh that I got to eat in between there, but uh the uh after six months the Lord showed us that He wanted us to to start a ministry that out of the blue to help people with biblical morality and sexual purity. And uh so we're thrilled. We stepped out of the nest then um a little bit later. We began to look for uh the pastor to come to take the church and it was four and a half years before w we found the pastor God had for us. And so we've been out now for a number of years uh traveling and we have an online ministry. If you ever want to look it up, it's called PurityPlan. org. And there is a table back there with a number of books. And there are uh brochures, business cards. I'll just mention one book and we'll may say more about things later on, but it's not just a table for people who are struggling with sexual purity, because that's just sometimes the tip of the iceberg. Um often there's a whole relationship with God that could be bolstered up and a better foundation. And and probably the the perhaps the book we sell the most is a devotional book. It has nothing to do with sexual purity. It has to do with getting more out of your quiet time with the Lord, more out of your devotions. And it's a two-year Bible devotional plan called Renew Your Mind. And so you can take a look at this if you're if you need any help on your devotions. We've got easily over a thousand hours into these two books, just revamping them and working on them. And we first started putting them out to our people. Uh when I was in the uh at the church there in Illinois, uh one week at a time and eventually we had a whole uh month, then we had a quarter, then we had a year, then we had two years, and then it's been revamped a bunch of times. Um but you might just want to take a look at it. It it breaks down the passages, not just you're not just reading uh five chapters a week, like your a day, like if you're trying to get to the Bible in a year, but it slows it down a couple chapters a day with a psalm or proverb, and then it has questions that are going to actually stir your heart. Not just questions like How many toes did the idol have in Nebu you know in Daniel's vision? Uh you could write that one in there if you wanted to look it up and get the answer. Uh but uh there were ten toes actually. Um but uh that may not change your life, okay? And uh but uh maybe it will change your life. The uh but um This one some of these may help you to be able to get more out of your Bible uh questions and chapters, uh uh questions about every book in the Bible and every chapter, every other chapter at least And you might want to take a look at it. Maybe someone you know in your family could use a help if it's not you, or a gift for somebody or a child or something. So take a look at that. We'll say more about other things later on. But again, my wife's down here uh met her. Uh she was on the bus route with my brother, as your pastor mentioned, and when when she was there at college and And uh and he never said anything about me to her or her to me for a long time. And finally she had graduated and about eight years later he called me up And said, There's this girl in Boston. And I was like, so why are you calling me, you know? But uh no, I was single and uh And he knew her and some got it got had just somehow just put it on her his heart to to let me know about her. He'd actually kinda mentioned her over the years, but it was kind of a weird thing. I decided years ago as a single youth pastor I just couldn't travel around the country meeting all these people that people would come through and say, Hey, uh I know this girl in Georgia who's single, you know. And I know this girl in Russia who's single. And it's just like And so I decided to just kinda wait longer and and and finally he called and I said I thought, well I'll follow this up. And so um one December night I gave her a call and she sent me the voicemail She knew I was gonna call too, that's the insult right there. And uh I'm still bitter about that. She has not asked for forgiveness about that, but So the Lord worked it out and about ten months later we were married and she eventually picked up the phone and we talked and I proposed to her that very first day. No, I did not, okay So we have been married about 14 years now, two little children, and glad to be with you tonight. We'll get to see you all and learn more about you later. Thrilled about what the Lord's doing here. Alright, 1 Chronicles chapter number 13, if you'd like to turn there in your Bible. First Chronicles, chapter number thirteen. I appreciate your pastor and uh get to know him a little bit better and his wife this today. We went spent some time together and I know we'll get to know each other much better, but thrilled what the Lord is doing here. And um Thrilled that uh we can be here for a few days with you. Well, 1 Chronicles 13 is a well-known story about David, King David. And he is going to do something that has not been done for a long time. He's going to move the Ark, in fact, as far as I know, it has never been done. He's going to move the Ark of the Covenant to Jerusalem. And it has been where it has been for about twenty years And it has not been to Jerusalem, and he mentions it here in a little bit, he that uh it was not consulted in the time of Saul, and now that he's the king, he's going to do right by it and bring it to the place it needs to be. where ultimately the the the temple will be. But we learned some important lessons from here and uh this is the message God has for us tonight. I I'm thrilled when the Lord continues to show week after week and night after night. messages that he wants for that night and for that group. This is not just a uh any old message that could be preached out of the messages that is that God sometimes has us preach in a meeting. But I want to ask you a question. Is there anything that you have wanted to see progress on in your life? that you tend to not see the progress you want. Do you is is there something that you would like to do for God's glory, some some area you need to change or would like to change? Or maybe there's a relationship that that that you're one half of that needs to do better, a lot better, it needs to change, it needs to progress. You need to get somewhere where you're not yet in that matter. We'll be looking at some different applications as we go, but maybe you need God to really step into a situation that that is languishing or is in need of real repair. Maybe you have a besetting sin that for years has just it's it'll maybe go away a little bit, but it's it it comes back. Uh I know often this is something that can happen with young people in a in a camp type situation. They go away to camp and they can hear great preaching and they get all fired up and And and then they come home and just after a little while uh this thing comes back in and and they can be discouraged because they'll be like, wait a minute, I was I was doing so much better for a while, but now I'm just back to who I was. And and they're really not, but that can be what the devil would say or that what they would kind of reflect on that maybe I didn't really even change after all But maybe there's something in your own life, maybe you're trying to do better in Bible reading. Maybe uh again there's a an area of your life that is grieving to other people. Maybe it's uh your anger and and and you try to work on it and it doesn't seem to budge too much or you do better and then you have a big fall and and you just kinda wanna give up 'cause you're thinking, What's the point? Well, this story here, this true narrative of David moving the Ark of the Covenant can really help us out. to understand why we fail to see real change or real progress in our life. I want to just read a few verses, if you'd look with me, please, at 1 Chronicles chapter number 13. Verse number one, and David consulted with the captains of thousands and hundreds, and with every leader. And David said unto all the congregation of Israel, If it seems good unto you, and that it be of the Lord our God, let us send abroad unto our brethren everywhere that are left in all the land of Israel, and with them also to the priests and Levites, which are in their cities and suburbs, that they may gather themselves unto us. And let us bring again the ark of our God to us. For we inquired not at it in the days of Saul. And all the congregation said that they would do so, for the thing was right in the eyes of all the people. So David gathered all Israel together from Shihor of Egypt unto the entering of Hamath to bring the ark of God from Kirjath to Yerim and the This is where it has been now for twenty years, and if you ever want to look back, uh don't do it in the middle of the message, but first Samuel chapter seven talks about um that it landed The Philistines had captured it. You might remember the Philistines captured the Ark. They thought it had some supernatural power they could use and they brought it into the land of Philistia and it started um creating real problems, right, for the people there who know that story. And so then they would pass it to another city. It's kind of funny how they'd be like, hey, we want you to pass this arc to you and uh and the next city would take it and things would happen to them and and it went around to five different cities and finally they returned it. And they said, uh, you know, come and get it, you know, basically. And the men of Kerjak U Aram came and got it and there it stood, there it sat for twenty years. And now David's saying, let's move this. And verse number six, and David went up and all Israel to Baalal that has secured Jashir, and which belonged to Judah, to bring up the ark of God, the Lord that dwells between the cherubims, whose name is called on it. And they carried the ark of God in a new cart out of the house of Abinadab, and Uz and Ahio drave the cart. And David and all Israel played before God with all their might, and with with singing, with harps, and with psalteries and with timbrels and with cymbals and with trumpets. And when they came into the threshing floor of Chidon, Chidon, Uzzah put forth his hand to hold the ark, for the oxen stumbled And the anger of the Lord was kindled against Uzzah, and he smote him, because he put his hand to the ark, and there he died before God. And David was displeased because the Lord had made a breach upon us, and therefore that place is called Pira Uzzah to this day, which apparently means And David was afraid of God that day, saying, How shall I bring the ark of God home to me? So David brought not the ark home. And the ark of God remained with the family of Obed-Edom in his house three months. And look at this. And the Lord blessed the house of Obed-Edom. And all that he had. Interesting that the time that it was there, God blessed him and David all those months. Missed out on God's blessing. And he asked the question in verse twelve, the last part, how shall I bring the ark of God home to me? Have you ever wondered how the true change you're looking for is going to come, how the significant change that something you struggle with for a long time, how will finally take a place that doesn't Grieve the Holy Spirit, grieve other people, and grieve yourself, and finally be put in its proper place. How shall I bring the ark of God home to me? Let's pray and ask God to help us, and then we'll preach on Why we fail to see change in our life. Let's pray. Father, help us now. You know that this is the message for this appointed time. And Lord, I just pray that, even though it has been, no doubt, a long day for many here, I pray that they would be able in their hearts and minds to settle down into your word. Lord, they're in the right place. They're in the best place in the world. They're in your church at the right time. And we just pray, Lord, that you reward them for coming. And for doing what it took to get here. No doubt the devil would have tried to throw some things up. And uh perhaps, Lord, there were some real challenges today. But Lord, may you be able to break through all that. and just the natural um hardship it can be to focus when we're physically or mentally tired. I just pray that you do great and mighty things. I pray spiritually you would help someone in a great way tonight that they would be able to see how it is. And that true change can come. So may your Holy Spirit be here, and we are wanting to step out of the way so you can say what you want to say to us. Help us, I pray now in Jesus' name. Amen. So there are things that God wants to do in all of our lives. And he was the Lord no doubt was pleased is what Dave was trying to do here, but it ended in a major failure. In fact, the guy loses his life. And David gets all discouraged and certainly it was almost like uh they had this parade and they're doing this for God and then It fell apart. I wonder if you've ever felt like, you know, how is it that I can see some things change or how is it that how sometimes other people They talk about these things that go on in their life that are that God is doing, or an answer to prayer here, or something they've seen amazing things, but it doesn't happen for me. And I've tried and and yet I quina kinda don't get that far. You know, have you ever been in a situation where I mean I have So maybe I'm the most unspiritual person here, uh perhaps, no doubt. Uh but uh you ever heard someone give a great glowing testimony about something and uh you know that God answered this prayer or God did this and and you could sit there and be like, hmm Um, I don't really haven't seen that lately. Or at all. And so we're not we're supposed to be happy for other people, right? If they have a great prayer request that was answered or something. But you can be like, Well what's wrong with me? Or does not God love me, whatever it is? So we don't see some of the mighty acts we'd like to see. Sometimes we're looking for a miracle and you hear that God has done other things and we don't always see that. what are the reasons and there are some there are there are three reasons that we'll give tonight about why we fail to see The desire change. And if you want to write these down, these are not hard, but we'll just give them to you in order, and then we'll be done. First of all, the reason we don't see mighty acts or miracles perhaps or we're looking for or the real progress we need is because we don't listen. Now this is not all of it, but this is sometimes part of it. We don't listen and then obey. Now, I don't know about you, but God has a lot to say to me sometimes. And the question is, am I listening? Am I really listening? David was attempting to do something noble, but as it turns out, and some of you who know this story and have maybe heard preaching on this uh or maybe preached it yourself or taught it yourself. You know where we're going with this, the at least part of it. But David, although attempting to do something great for God He didn't do it all God's way. So he was all about God, but God had given some directions. And God gives directions for a reason to be followed. Men have you ever put together you bought something to put together and you're like, forget the instructions, you know. I mean that's that's almost a sign of weakness, right? Uh to have to read the especially if it's Chinese and you can't figure it out anyway. Um but uh and you're kinda like look at it, they left out, you know Th they say go look at figure four and they left out figure four. You know, and it's just like but it's ridiculous anyway because it takes me it takes me longer to read the directions. than to just put it together. And so of course you put the couch together or the briro together and only got three legs and and you tell your wife, it'll have to do for the next twenty years. I mean Three legs are better than two, okay, and uh and uh why you're looking at me, I've got other things to do. And uh uh but uh we're not good with instructions Sometimes we don't even want to ask for instructions, right? Like men, again, now this is I guess I am getting ready for the men's camp out, preaching against the men, uh to the men. Uh do you ever get lost and refuse to ask for directions Okay, now you all look at me like, no, no, that has never happened to me. Okay. So you just keep going. But uh, you know, there's that idea of that we don't sometimes want to hear, and we sure don't want to hear our wives say Are you lost? Like, no, I just I want to drive off the edge of the Grand Canyon cliff, you know? It was it was part of the plan. You know, why take the donkey down when you can just fall off the edge, okay? And uh to the bottom. But the the point is that sometimes we're not so good at listening. And if we do listen, sometimes we're not so good at following through and obeying. So we mean to. Well what was the the problem here? How many of you would say, I kind of know the situation here with David and the and what they were trying to do and how they kind of did not do it right? Do you know what it is? Okay. So we kind of have an idea, but just to to as a refresher for some So there's a couple things here in verse number six. They're going to move it. And all Israel's excited. And then verse number seven says, They carried the ark of God in a new cart. Okay. And then it says in verse number eight, they were playing uh the instrument and orchestra and they're singing and there might have been some type of a real And then verse number nine, um this man is going to um try to keep the ark when the oxen uh stumble. He's going to try to keep the ark from from falling over. So he was he's trying to do what he felt was right and then and God has to step in here because there's a number of things here that are not right. And I'll just point them out to you quickly. First of all, with reference to Descartes Actually, there wasn't supposed to be a cart. I'll give you a couple of references here. In Numbers chapter 4, verse 6. The arc is supposed to be moved by putting staves in the rings, right? So these these long these long poles. and uh the of of of wood or or whatever you'd put them in there and uh the fact in another place in Exodus twenty five, fourteen to fifteen it says you're supposed to keep the staves in there And then when it comes to actually moving it, so that was one part of it is have the staves in there so you can carry it, but then you when you're supposed to carry it, number 79 says, how are you supposed to carry it? on the shoulders of the men. And so we have here some different things they're not doing. They're putting in a cart which was not was not part of God's instructions. And they're supposed to carry it up with staves, they're supposed to carry it on their shoulders. And the second thing is in Numbers 4. 15, so a lot of this is for Numbers 4 and Numbers 7, in Numbers 4. 15, it says, don't touch the ark. Now this would be the one that we'd more naturally realize that oh yeah you're not supposed to touch it, you know, or look in it or anything like this. In fact back in in uh 1 Samuel chapter 6 Um some of the Israelites did get the ark back before the men from Kirjath Yarim got it, they got it and they looked in it and God did a a huge thing. And so we have these instructions, but what's interesting, I just want to point out to you kind of incidentally, but in verse 7 They're carrying the ark in a new cart, which they're not supposed to, and so people are uh driving it. Okay, so this is that's not right. In verse number eight They are singing and playing for the Lord. That is right. Verse number nine though, of the touches the ark, that's not right. So just in three verses here, out of three things, two of them were done wrong. Right. But they had the verse number eight, they they had the enthusiasm there. And they were sincere, weren't they? But see, sometimes we gotta look and say, okay, I'm sincere, and I can actually be wanting change But then we move ahead and God may be like, wait a minute. I understand that. But enthusiasm doesn't offset God's previous instructions. My desire to do something great for God doesn't undo direction and directives he's already given. And sometimes we feel like we can skip some steps. Sometimes we feel like we can jump over some steps. You know, maybe I will be praying for God to do a great thing. Well I already am, but let's We'll put it hypothetically, maybe I'll be praying for God to do a great thing this weekend in the men and boys camp out. And the Lord speaks to me about some unkind words I've said to her lately. And I know that I would tell my son that if he talks meanly to his sister, that he needs to go get that right. Is that true? I would say you need to go apologize to her. You should not have said that. But you know, it's different for me because I'm a I'm a preacher. I mean I could say. You know, here I am praying for God to do big things. I want God to to really help us out and and really meet with us and and um You know, God talks about if you've caused an offense to someone, leave your gift at the altar, right? And go and make that right then coming off of your gift. So I can be giving my life to the Lord and say, Lord, you know, I don't want anything in my life that, you know, immorality or um you know wrong things, you know, all sorts of things and And here's my wife, and I've s I've yesterday I spoke to her unkindly. And I wonder if God would say, Hmm. I wonder if you need to go get that right with her. Are you with me? So I'm I'm like I'm over I want to be over here. And God's like no not so quickly. What about this? And sometimes in our desire to do the big thing for God, He's going to bring us back to the little thing. So we don't listen sometimes, or if we listen, perhaps we don't follow through and obey. I want to read you a story. How many have heard of the Famous pilot named Chuck Yeager. Chuck Yeager is is legendary. Chuck Yeager is a pilot and he was flying an F-86 Sabre. This is in his His biography, apparently her autobiography, he was flying an F eighty six saber over a lake in the Sierras when he decided to buzz a friend's house near the edge of the lake. During a slow roll, so a buzz is apparently you know where you come down right right over the house. Be a lot of fun. But as he so as he did though, he said he suddenly felt what's called is called an aileron lock. An aileron is is apparently something I'm not a pilot or an a- or an airplane type guy, but um an aileron has something to do with the wings, and when he went over, something locked up. And he says this, quote, it was a hairy moment, he says, flying about 150 feet off the ground. Can you imagine? And upside down. And the writer said the lesser pilot might have panicked with fatal results, but Rager let off the G's, pushed up the nose, and sure enough, the aileron unlocked. And he was able to go up. So climbing to 15,000 feet where it was safer, Jaeger tried the maneuver again. And it says every time he rolled, the problem reoccurred. No, listen. Jaeger knew that three or four pilots had died under similar circumstances. But to date, the investigators were puzzled as to the source of the Saber's flaw. So Yeager went to a superior with a report about what had happened and the inspectors went to work. Now remind you, three or four guys had already died. They found a bolt on the aileron cylinder had been installed upside down. Eventually the culprit was found in a North American plant. He was an older man on the assembly line who ignored instructions about how to insert that bolt because, listen, because he knew that bolts were supposed to be placed head up. Not head down. In a sad commentary in Meager's book, he says nobody ever told the man how many pilots he killed. Why? I guess why would the guy do that? Why would they not tell him? I guess it just was Incidental at this point, and he was older anyway. But the man never knew. He you know he was wiser, quote unquote, than everybody else. Here he was. You know what you put you put Bolton like this, not like this. We don't listen sometimes. Now, you know, I don't know, is that that's about a job, but sometimes we can do that with God. And God is wanting to do great things, isn't he? And we're asking God to do great things. But God will show us what we ought to do and help us know what to do to begin to work on a problem if we'll just listen. Isaiah thirty twenty-one says that you will thine ears will hear a word behind thee, saying This is the way. Walk ye in it when ye turn to the right hand and when ye turn to the left. 1 Kings 19, 12 talks about the still small voice. And sometimes we have not heard that still small voice because we didn't listen enough, or we heard the still small voice and didn't follow through. In a humorous way, uh humorous story, there's a boy who went to the store and he had seen on TV a commercial for a laundry detergent, and he figured it was time to give his cat a bath So he went to the store to buy something when the grocer heard that what he had in mind for the detergent, he said, No, no, that detergent will be too strong for the cat and it'll kill him. Now some of you are already excited, yeah. Kill the cat, that's one less problem in the world, right? So but other ones you would love cats. He said it's gonna kill him. That's the turtle is too strong. The little boy said, No, I know what I'm doing. So a few days later he came back to the store and the grocer said, How's the cat doing? And the boy hung his head down and said, Oh well, he died. And the grocer said, see I warned you. And the boy jerked his head back up and said, No, no, it wasn't the soap that hurt him. It was the spin cycle. Some of you are offended at me already. But the fo fact is that we've got to do it God's way. You know, I I just think that it comes down to things like We can miss church and justify it. And and we can say, well, but the guy's saying, No enemy here And and he has a voice for us and a word for us if we'll listen and then obey. You know, sometimes It could be even a matter of tithing, it could be getting rid of something in in our in our life. You know, this these days, as as well off as we are in America, there's all this stuff that we can be interested in and get, right? And sometimes we can get something and it can just flat out be that it wasn't God's will for us to get it. We say, well, but that's I mean that was the better deal, you know, to to upgrade to that thing or to to get that bigger thing or to, you know, get the surround sound or put that, you know addition on or or or w whatever it is and and we and we have all these reasons and sometimes it's it has taken us down a road that we shouldn't be down now. You know, maybe you have bought something that electronics or some type of technology and and it and it's really not helping you. And that's that's that's the light way to say it. It's making you more just more American Christian and you know, the more the American Christian idea, the more the Christianity that has it all. Just it's like the American dream except for some Christian slaver put in there. You know, there could be things in my own life that I would buy and think, well that's good, but you know, I've got I've got children that are watching me. And you know, and Yeah, the Bible talks about in more than one place the sins of the Father. And the sins of the father show up becoming the sins of the son. Remember Abraham, he lied about Sarah, his wife being his sister? And what did Isaac do? Years later, Isaac did the exact same thing with Rebecca. So we can't just say, well, you know, i i it was a good deal or by you know bundling the that with that I got a better deal, but then it's like okay we understand the on paper, economically and checkbook wise, it looks a better deal, but look what it brought into the household. Look what it brought into your life. Look at look at how the inroads now, the world are are stronger there. And maybe God's going to say to you, or has said to you, if you want to be more spiritual, that's going to be at the cost of your worldliness. And a worldly mindset is in opposition to a spiritual mindset. And you can't have both. Not if you're going to get the arc home. Not if you're gonna get the place where God wants you to get. God was all about getting the ark to Jerusalem. And then David was. But he left off some of the things that God would say, to get the thing there, here's how you gotta do it. And if I'm gonna get to a place of spirituality, I'm gonna have to get there the way God says to get it. I'm gonna follow the blueprint I can't be like, well, you know, Pastor says, you know, to put both in this way. He says you need to do the things this way. He says you ought to do this with your family. You ought to do this with your kids. Or you ought to not do this with your kids. And I'm like Come on. I appreciate his stance. I appreciate, you know, his love for the Lord, and I appreciate his family and everything, but as for me and my house, we put both in this way, spiritually speaking. We're going to let our kids do this. I'm going to do this. I'm going to hang out with these kind of people. And God's like. I'm not going to fight you on it. You're going to have to listen and obey. You know, you can go to the New Testament, uh, I don't know if it's Matthew, I didn't look up the reference before the service, but The story of the the sea the the house on the rock, remember? You know, the the wise man built his house upon the rock. We all know these songs and we know these things. And do you know if you study that that parable out Literally, everything's the same except for one little phrase that the foolish man He built his house and everything. And the Lord says though the difference is between the foolish man and the wise man. Whose house stood. I mean, there was a similar storm, there was similar everything, but what happened is the difference, except the foundation was different, between sand and rock. And you take it back to what the Lord says, the difference means in reality, and he said The foolish man heard the word and did not do it. You can you can you can literally take You could get a word process, you could get your open your word doc and copy and paste the passage in there, side by side, almost the exact phraseology all the way down. The one difference besides the foundations, which take us back to, well what is this the difference is, what's that mean? The one difference is the second guy, the wise man, heard his words and did it. And it made all the difference between a house that fell and a house that did not fall. God is into his own words. And if I'm going to see the change I need in my marriage, if I'm going to see the change I need in my prayer life, if I'm going to see the change I need in my personal life, if I'm going see the change I want to see in my family. If I want to get the arc home, if I say I want to get it There, I know where I know what God has for us, I know what God wants for us, I know it would please him. Then if it would please him to help me get it there, then I'm gonna have to let him be pleased to see me doing the exact steps to get it there. Then you say, well God's not a harsh God, no, I understand that, but words matter. And when God speaks to me, that matters. Now I can misunderstand God's will or you know, if God told me to to sell everything and you know move to a mountaintop or whatever, you know, w I I I I'd go to my pastor. say, hey, uh you know, I've got a I need some counsel here. But the point is sometimes I don't even don't take us the wrong way. Sometimes I don't need counsel to understand what God was saying to me. Now there are times where I need counsel to understand how to work the thing out and what that means if other people aren't on board or or what about this and this. I understand. But what I'm talking about is maybe God would speak to you today about something right now. I just randomly mentioned, I don't even know anybody here. And that doesn't need a lot of counsel about that. Maybe it's simply a matter of you need to get a filter on your phone. Because at 11 o'clock at night, men, when you're looking at your phone, the devil's killing you. The flesh is killing you. So now listening. Are you listening? Number two. We'll move along here very quickly. Why we fail to see desired progress is secondly we don't humble ourselves. We don't humble ourselves. So James 4, 6 says, But he, God giveth more grace. Wherefore he saith, God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace unto whom? The humble. James 4 10, a few verses later. Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he shall lift you up. So this is a matter of God lifting us up to the place we want to be or need to be, getting the ark where it needs to be. Humility. The opposite of humility is what? Pride. One author has said, you know, we we tend to you we can be proud, but we don't know how how grievous it is to God. This writer said this, talking about how bad pride is. It's through pride that the devil became the devil. So anything that smacks of of what took a third of the angels Out of God's plan. And the and this great now fallen angel, Lucifer, Satan, the great dragon, the snake. What was behind all that? Pride. So when God sees pride in my life, do you think he's going to allow me just to keep moving forward? Or is it going to have to come back and say, Dave, I appreciate your heart, but you got a lot of pride. I don't have to humble myself if I'm going to get the ark home. Luke 18 talks about the Lord spake a parable unto the certain which trusted in themselves that they were righteous and despised others. Two men went up into a temple to pray, the one a Pharisee, the other a publican. The Pharisee stood and prayed thus within himself. God, I thank thee that I am not, if other men are. I fast twice in the week, I give tithes of all that I possess. And the public is standing afar off would not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven. Smote upon his breast, saying, God be merciful to me, a sinner. I tell you, the Lord says, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other. Here it is, for every one that exalteth himself shall be abased. And he that humbles himself shall be exalted. In God's kingdom, you know who becomes princes? The ones who act and feel like paupers. Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of God. If I'm a proud person, no matter what else is going on, God is going to have to deal with that. The two thoughts about humility. Humility is what God is looking for. Psalm fifty-one David says, For thou desirest not a sacrifice, else would I give it. Thou deliest not a burnt offering, the sacrifice of God are a broken spirit, a broken and contrite heart, O God, thou wilt not despise. So sometimes God's not even looking for us to do something more for Him. He's often looking for us just to be something. And I may have to just look and say, God, I I I'm gonna start listening because God has a way to brain and our parade. God has ways of letting life not work out so great till I get back and begin to look at the blueprint and say, now which step did I skip? Where was I smarter than God? And this humility, sometimes I gotta realize where, you know, perhaps Where am I not listening to someone who cares about me, my wife? Men, do you have a problem listening to your wife? Say, well The way she says things to me aren't the best. So What's your response to the way she says the things to you that aren't the best? And do you humble yourself? Think about the last argument you had. Did you humble yourself or did your wife humble herself first? Parents, if you got an argument with your teenager, was there anything you needed to get right? You say, Well, they should not have done that. I understand. But if everybody's not getting right with each other, and we just expect the the kids to be right with the parents and It's like sometimes I as a dad I can be wrong with God as well as my child can. Is that true? And if I'm wrong with God, then I've got to get it right. Right. And it's not all about this. It's often about this, getting right with the people around me. So this is what God is looking for. You could write down 1 Kings 21. Ahab. Let me ask you, was Ahab a good guy or a bad guy, generally speaking? Yeah, he was very bad. And he did very abominably, verse twenty six says, in following idols. And what happened is God came and said To him, some dang some terrible things are going to happen. And it says this it came to pass when Ahab heard those words that he rented clothes and put sackcloth upon his flesh, and fasted and laying sackcloth. And went softly. And the word of the Lord came to Elijah the Tishbite, saying, Listen, this is about Ahab, terrible man. And the Lord says to Elijah, Seest thou how Ahab humbleth himself before me? Because he humbles himself before me, I will not bring the evil in his days. But in his son's days will I bring the evil upon his house. See what God is looking for, even in a person who is way off the mark. Humility. Humility. This is what brings us close to God as well. Psalm 3418. The Lord is nine to them that are of a broken heart, and save us such as be of a contrite spirit. Psalm 18 138, 6. So the Lord be high, yet hath respect unto the lowly, but the proud he knoweth afar off. Can you look with me over at chapter 15 in 1 Chronicles 15? Look at verse number two. Then David said, None ought to carry the ark of God but the Levites. For them hath the Lord chosen to carry the ark of God and to minister unto him forever. You know, David could have been deflecting the whole thing and act like you know God was too stern, or that you know he could have blamed it on something else But he says, No, okay, this is how we need to do it from going forward. Now I'll have to carry the ark of God. He and he talks about how he do it. But then look over at verse twelve. And he said to them, You are the chief of the fathers, sanctify yourself, both you and your brother, and that you may bring up the ark of the Lord God of Israel unto the place that I prepared for it. Here we go, verse thirteen. For because you did it not at the first The Lord our God made a breach upon us, for look, for that we sought him not after the due order. Isn't that interesting? David acknowledges we did not do it right the first time. And my friend, it may be that God is going to have to speak to you before you can move the ark forward, before you can take that step that you need to take, that you want to take. Maybe God is you're looking for some direction In your life. And God's going to say to you, I'm all about giving direction, but are you listening to the past direction? And have you humbled yourself about where you have not listened to the past direction? And the last thing finally is this. Not only do we fail to see the progress we need because we don't listen and then obey. And we don't humble ourselves, but thirdly and finally, I think it often happens because we are not desperate. We are not desperate. We are basically happy with the way things are right now. We don't want God to disturb too much. Although we do have that glaring situation over here that we can hope to get some help on. And God is often looking for us to just be desperate. Let me ask you, do you have a A thin problem that you're still somewhat, you know it's wrong, but you're still somewhat justifying it. Like the reason this happens is because this, or or I would not do that if someone else didn't do this. Or if you knew the way I was raised, then you would understand why I act this way. Well, someone who's has all these, you know, pages and pages of why they do what they do, that's not desperateness. In Isaiah chapter six, Isaiah says, I'm undone. Are you undone over your way? We forget that if God is coming to c going to come through, he comes through for desperate people. Not for people with a good heart. David had a good heart. He had to get back to place where he was really listening And here the the Ark of the Covenant sat for all those years, for all those months, blessing Obed Edom, when the blessing could have been David's. As we close, I want to leave with you the passage in Genesis 32. You know the Jacob. Jacob the next day is going to meet his brother Esau, who he had not seen for many years. And the Bible says In Genesis 32, 24. And Jacob was left alone, and there wrested a man with him until the breaking of the day. And when he saw that he prevailed not against him, he touched the hollow of his thigh. And the howl of Jacob sigh was out of joining and he wrestled with him. And he said, Let me go. The angel said, Let me go, for the day breaketh. And Jacob says, I will not let thee go except thou bless me. And he said unto him, What is thy name? And he said, Jacob. And he said, Thy name shall no more be called Jacob, but Israel, for as a prince hast thou power with God and with men, and hast prevailed. You know, Jacob had to get desperate. He'd realized that he had had a life. Of trickery and deception and underhandedness, and his name even meant trickster, supplanter, deceiver. And here this angel of God is wrestling with him, and the angel says, I'm going to lead now. And Jacob says, No, I'm not going to let you go. You gotta do something. My brother, I'm meeting my brother tomorrow. And he's bringing four hundred men. And he might kill me and my family. And rightly so, because of what I did to him so many years ago. I'm not going to let you go unless you bless me. And the angel said, Well, what is your name? He knew his name. He was getting Jacob to admit what his name meant. He said, Jacob, a trickster, of a liar, of a cheat. And the angel blessed him and said, Now, now, now. Now you have power with God, and now you have power with men. Because You have prevailed. My friend, before your family would ever get to where it needs to be, maybe God's looking for you to listen. Listen again. I mean really listen. Then humble yourself. And God come through for desperate people. Are you desperate about that problem? Do you really want what God wants? Do you really want what you say you want? That thing for God? Let God do a work in your heart. Maybe it'll start tonight. Let's pray together.