Oh even um uh brot brother Bard, Devin Bard with the uh trio last week, he's like what why why a missions month? Why not a missions conference or or what have you? And that's That's not really the direction I'm going as far as one opposed the other, but the focus this evening, just kind of answering that question for the church, is why missions? Why missions? Why have a focus on missions? And we are choosing this year to kind of take it and look at it as a whole and one month do this instead of cramming it into one week. As we were standing around in the foyer or the auditorium here after church today, myself and the Petersons, we were trying to name the flags. And most of them, uh, you know, they've been up there for a number of years, and I was telling them they're actually also in the same order because we put them back up in the same place. So we ought to be getting pretty good. And I thought, well, one benefit to a missions month Is the flags are going to be up for a whole month this year instead of just you know about ten days. And so we got a lot longer to uh kind of look at and and say, oh well I'm not sure what that one is, and most of you can look that up on your phone right away and and and reference and and then try and remind yourself. Now don't do it during the message, you know. Trying to name all the flags and pick which one you're you know, you can do that while you're sitting around and fellowshipping and such Uh but try and learn uh the flags of all those. These of course are the flags of the fields that are represented by our missionaries that we currently support or that are here with us this uh during this missions month. Uh our goal as a church is to just have a heart and a and a mind for missions. I want to take a few minutes tonight and just look at this importance, uh how important this is for a church and a ministry to put a focus on this area of missions literally not just for a month, but for part of their overall program. And uh just giving you some basic Bible principles tonight. We're going to move relatively quick. I don't think we'll be here too long. After all, we've got pizza coming. Amen. And uh uh you gotta eat dinner anyway, so uh we've got Maria's uh Maria's pizza on its on its way, and uh you know that'll that'll be good. We can fellowship together, have some pizza, spend a little bit of time with the missionary. He'll be hitting the road in the morning. He said probably by about nine o'clock he'll be heading out And so last opportunity to spend any time with them, talk to him about the field of Guam and his call and what God's doing in their life will be at the close of this evening. But I want you to consider with me several things that motivate us as a church to emphasize this idea of missions. in our ministries here. First of all, and I would say both in importance and in points tonight, but the first thing really is that we have a very clear command from God. As a church, we understand that there is a command from God. We have, of course, that great commission which is given to us in Matthew and in Mark and in Acts. The Great Commission and and most of you could quote the Great Commission from probably all three of those passages. Uh the idea that we know that uh you know that our church is to be about the master's business and keeping the main thing the main thing. We have a command from God to go into all the world and preach the gospel. Maybe a little less uh prevalent or well known, uh but the idea is given to us in Luke chapter 24 in verses 46 and 47. And he said unto them, Thus it is written, and thus it behoove Christ to suffer, and to raise from the dead the third day. And that repentance and the remission of sin should be preached in his name among all nations. Beginning at Jerusalem. The idea, the command of God given to us to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ, beginning at Jerusalem and out to all nations. We know that this is God's command. Beloved, somebody said this. There's one thing that you cannot do about missions, and that is get away from your responsibility. There's one thing you cannot do with regards to missions, and that's get away from your responsibility. It's very clear that God has given us this command. Time is short. Days are are running into weeks and weeks into months. Soon, the soon appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ, our Savior, is just on the brink. We don't know the day or the hour, but it could be any day. The world is waxing worse and worse, and the time to reach them is getting shorter and shorter. We know that the night cometh when no man can work. So we have a command from God to be going out and ministering. Charles Malek, a Lebanese ambassador to the United States. He asked in a speech that he was giving He said, what has been the greatest American contribution to the rest of the world? Has it been money? Has it been food? Has it been industrial know-how? Has it been medical skill or military might? He let it pause there and then he answered his own question when he said the greatest thing ever to come out of America, to go into the rest of the world, is the American missionary effort. Those quiet men and women whose selfless sacrifice caused them to leave the comfort and security of their homeland and bring the gospel of Christianity To other nations. The greatest thing. We've got a command to God to be about this thing of missions. A church without missions is a church without a mission. A church without missions is a church without a mission. The goal and overriding program of the church ought to be about reaching the lost. Somebody asked, would you believe in the necessity of missions if you traded place with somebody in another country? We soon become convinced of the value of it when it impacts us personally. Beloved, a church that's not reaching out is soon going to pass out. This is why our goal and our focus for this year is reaching out. And we are taking many different opportunities, casting the net, throwing another line in the water here, another line in the water there. doing several things to try and reach out and let God use us to fulfill this which we know is a command. Not only do we have the command of God, beloved, but we also have the cry of people. We've got the cry of people. You know, in uh Acts chapter 16, verse number nine, this Macedonian call is something that you're very familiar with. And a vision appeared to Paul in night, and there stood a man of Macedonia Macedonia and praying him, saying, Come over unto Macedonia and help us. I want you to know, beloved, there's people all over the world that are calling out, that are crying out. Even here in the United States, in Cockysville, and in our surrounding area, there are people that are looking for a savior. There are people that are looking to to find some hope somewhere. And they need somebody to go and tell them. There's a group of hungry people longing for the truth. They just need somebody to come and carry the message of the gospel to them. Just like Paul, God in a miraculous way was able to give Paul a vision and he could see the cry of the people saying, Come and help me. Can you see the cry of the people? Can you see that cry of them looking for somebody to come? Christ tells us, beloved, to lift up our eyes and look on the field that's white and ready to harvest. There are people that are looking and longing for the truth. Olaf was a little boy. In Papa New Guinea, was raised in a grass hut, his little village. Of course, had a witch doctor. He was raised as a little boy to believe, like the rest of the village, that the There were bad spirits and everything in life was dictated and controlled by these spirits. If anything bad happened to you, it was because somebody else uh paid to have a bad spirit do something to you. Or you did something to offend a bad spirit, and he lived his life in fear of these bad spirits, and and they were they were So superstitious in every area of life. Every if you do this the wrong way, that you'll offend the spirit and then it'll come back and it'll get you, and this will happen, and that will happen. Literally walking around in fear every day as a young boy. Yet in his mind he walked around and he saw the beauty of the flowers and the amazing, intricate detail of the animals. And he thought in his heart and mind, if there are bad spirits that do bad things, there must be good spirits. Or or how in the world d did all of this beauty come about? Where do these good things come from? Where do the blessings come from if all these things are bad things and So he thought i if somebody could pay and pray to a bad spirit to get that bad spirit to do something to you, they actually had a a a man in his village that was called the poison man And the poisoned man, he believed, lurked right in the shadows. And the poisoned man was said to carry around a tin can. And he and if you spoke Inside of his hearing, he would hold his tin can and he would capture your voice and close the lid and you would never be able to talk again He was convinced of this, and at night he would look in the shadows to see, before he spoke up, to see if there was a poisoned man there But he had all of this fear, and Olaf thought there's got to be some good spirit somewhere. So he went out by the river one day Didn't know really what prayer was. He was just seeking the good spirits. And he just said, if there's bad spirits, there's got to be good spirits. And he went to the river and he stood there and he said, Good spirits, would you please send somebody to tell me about you? I have people that tell me about these bad spirits, and they've explained to me all of what they do, but there's got to be a good spirit. Could you send somebody to tell me about you? Every day for three years, Olaf walked to the river by himself. And asked the good spirits to send somebody. One day, as he was walking home from the river, he saw a strange-looking man in his village. This man was dressed very different than anybody else he had ever seen. This man was carrying a little black book in his hand. This man began to talk and The amazing thing about the leading of the Holy Spirit, I don't know if it's wisdom that the missionary had or what, but he began to describe and explain how the great spirit The Holy Spirit, who lives in heaven, wants you to know Him. And Olaf sat there just couldn't believe this finally this somebody came to tell me about the good spirit and he began to soak up everything. The missionary said and he said This book is here and this book tells you all about the good spirit, the God of heaven who wants to be And hell and the grave and power over all of these bad spirits If you've been taught about Olaf, he has power over all of them. And he wants to come and he wants to live in your heart. And Olaf accepted Jesus Christ. What I'm saying to you this morning as there's a cry from the people that are looking for somebody to come and tell them, and they just need somebody willing to go to Guam and carry the gospel message And as a church, if we're not going to go, then our job and responsibility is to send somebody to go for us. That's what missions is about. Listen, if you can't hear the cry of those that are here on earth, maybe you'll hear the cry from hell. We know, beloved, that the rich man, the Bible says. Being in torment. See Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom, and he cried and he said, Father Abraham, have mercy on me. Beloved, there's a cry from hell today. As we heard in the testimony this morning about the row and row and row of people buried there in Guam. Buried next to or behind these big statues of saints, people that have put their faith and trust in a picture or a statue or a saint instead of Jesus Christ. Do you hear their cry? Missions is important because of the command of God. It's important because of the cry of the people. It's important, beloved, because of the compassion of Christ. The compassion of Christ. We know that Christ said in Matthew chapter 9, verses 36 through 38, he says, But when he saw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion on them. Because they fainted, and were scattered abroad as sheep having no shepherd. Then he said unto his disciples, The harvest truly is plentious, the laborers are few. Pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest that he would send for. forth laborers into his harvest. Jesus had compassion on the multitudes. When he saw them, he was moved. Beloved, we are to be like Christ. As Christians, we're to be like Christ, I wonder how long has it been since the multitudes have moved you? He was moved with compassion in his heart because he saw all these people that were as sheep without a shepherd. You look at the direction of the world and the chaos that's out there, and there's sheep without a shepherd. They've got no direction, they've got no leading, they've got no hope without Jesus Christ. Do you have the compassion that Christ had? He told the disciples, we need laborers. When you see the multitude, you see the need We need more people to go and tell the world about Christ. Beloved, I pray God would allow us, Hunt Valley Baptist Church, to send labor. Why have a missions month? Because just maybe one of these missionaries are here, somebody in this room. One of these young men, one of these young ladies, will see the need and say, God, is that what you want me to do? Lord, I'm not sure if you want me to go to Guam or to the Philippines or to Mexico. I don't know exactly, but Lord, I I see the need and I'm willing and I want to go. Our focus on missions as a church is to put it before God's people so we continue to have a burden for the world. I look for the day, beloved, when we when we send our own out When we send our own out, not to make a lot of money, not out to sow their wild oats, but out with the blessing of the church and the support of the church to preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. That's the mission of the church. You know, every church really should be a training ground, a preparing ground for people to go. And we're not all just supposed to come here and stay, but we're supposed to train and prepare and equip people to go out and do the work that God's called them to do. That's what our internship program is about. It's pretty encouraging to me when I get a text or a letter or one of the interns communicates with my wife. They they communicate with her and Melissa the most. Uh but they they stay in touch interns all over now, serving in churches and teaching in Christian schools and working on bus routes and in ministries all over the w the United States. You know, in 2012, God brought Pastor Derek here as an intern. Pastor Derrick knew that it was God's will for him at some point to be a pastor. But he felt he needed some more on hand preparation. We were looking for somebody to come and work like a dog We were looking for somebody to come and serve in the church and You know, I don't know, but God knit our hearts together. Pastor Derek and I, when he came and served as an intern. And uh he had determined in his heart and mind that Hunt Valley is where God wanted him to take that next step of training. When he graduated from college and finished up his master's, he came here. Wasn't married yet. We got the privilege of having their wedding here, seeing them get get married and it's pretty mind boggling. That next year will be ten years. You know the average tenure for a youth pastor is less than two years. Less than seven percent of youth pastors Stay in one place eight years. He's coming up on ten and I was hoping and praying when he came that God would keep him here ten years. That's a long time. And as a church, we've gone through some amazing things together. And he's he's been here. But I want you to know this is a training ground. And Pastor Derrick knows that when when the time's right, when God's leading is correct, he's gonna be a pastor. And I've seen in the last couple years a huge step in his life and growth and preparation. And uh I'm not telling you tonight that he's leaving That's not what I'm saying, but I'm saying that this is a training ground. And we've got to be prepared and ready because The the plan was never for him to stay here forever. The plan was for him to get ready and then for us as a church to be able to send him out to go do the next step. that God wants him to do and support and help him to accomplish God's will in his life. That's what the church is about. And it's the compassion of Christ that motivates us or makes us willing to make sacrifices, to prepare the next generation, to realize it's not about us, it's not about our own kingdom here. It's about God and furthering the cause of Christ in any way possible. I want you to see, beloved, that Y missions Yes, because we've got the command of God. We've got the cry of the people. We've got the compassion of Christ. And how fitting was our song that we had for a special tonight because we also have a crown to win. The Bible is very clear, beloved, there's five crowns and awards that are represented by crowns that the Christians uh can earn or win in their Christian life as they yield and surrender to God and do what God wants them to do. Paul talks about it in Second Timothy In 1 Thessalonians 2, 19 through 20, he talks about that crown of rejoicing, the soul winner's crown. He says, For what is our hope, or joy, or crown of rejoicing? Are not even ye in the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ at His coming, the crown of rejoicing? God has promised in His Word Rewards to those that are involved in reaching the lost. In carrying the message of the gospel to a lost and dying world. Beloved, I'm looking towards with great anticipation that day, the day of the Lord, when we stand in his presence. Paul said in Philippians 4, verse number 1, he said, Therefore, my brethren, dearly beloved and longed for, my joy and crown Stand fast in the Lord, my dearly beloved. The crown. You know, in that day when we stand before the Lord, I don't want to stand empty-handed I want to be able to lay crowns at the feet of Jesus. I don't want to go into the gates of heaven alone. I want to be able to go in and bring those that I've had the privilege and and and the joy of pointing to Jesus Christ Telling them about the cross and the Savior who died for them and they make the decision to put their faith and trust in Christ alone. Beloved, the Apostle Paul was convinced that the investment of his life in reaching the lost was the greatest thing that he could possibly do. The investment of his life in carrying the gospel to the lost world. There's many things that we do with our time, but the greatest thing we can do is share the truth, the message of the gospel. Right. Paul was convinced that he was using his time wisely. You know, I I believe you probably have all heard the story of the little factory that had to shut down because they had a piece of equipment that they couldn't get fixed. Finally they heard about this uh very skilled uh uh machinists that that could fix this piece of equipment. So they brought him in. The machinist came into the factory and he looked at the piece of equipment. He walked over to the counter and he grabbed a hammer and he came back and he He he hit the motor. Ping. And the motor started to spin. And he said, there you go. And he walked out and he sent him a bill for $1,500. The owner of the business was like, what? $1,500 for five minutes work? He says, I want an itemized bill. And he says, okay. Itemized bill said $10 swinging a hammer. $1490 for knowing where to hit it. Knowing where to put the focus. Knowing where to invest the energy. And beloved the Apostle Paul found out where to put the focus. And we as a church strive to put the focus on the gospel of Jesus Christ. in reaching the lost. Now there are other steps. The the Great Commission goes on and says teaching them to observe all things. Whatsoever I have commanded you. I don't know how many of you know who Stephen Furtick is, and I would not recommend you listen to him. He's a pastor of Elevation Church, a a a you know, uh the church is gone. But you know, he he he said something uh He they try and give the gospel, but he he said something in one of his messages. He said, if you are saved, if you're on your way to heaven, then Elevation Church has ceased to exist for you. as of this moment. Once you've made a decision for Christ, that is the total focus of our ministry. We are no longer here for you. The goal is to reach somebody else I don't believe that's quite biblical because I think that our our goal is to teach them to observe all things whatsoever I've commanded you. The Great Commission goes beyond just salvation. And they've chosen to to make it about salvation decisions and salvation decisions alone. So I want you to know as a church we we we do try and continue that progress and and provoke one another to love and good works, amen. But at the same time we can't lose sight of the lost. Yeah. But I hope that our holiness Doesn't cause us to forget about the lost. For the gospel of Jesus Christ sees the lost. And them that need the crut need the gospel. Paul invested his life in winning, winning soul. Hebrews chapter 12, verse number two says, looking under Jesus, the author and the finisher of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising his same, and is set down at the right hand of God. hand to the throne of God. The joy that was set before him was the souls of men. He endured the cross and kept his eye on the joy. All the pain and suffering and sacrifice of the cross was endured because of the joy that was before him. of those that would put their faith and trust in Jesus. Why missions? Because we've got a command. Because there's a cry from the people. Because we are to have compassion like Christ. And because there's a crown to win. Little is much when God is in it