Tonight we're going to talk about the prophet Jeremiah. If you would turn to Jeremiah chapter 20. Jeremiah chapter 20, verse number 12 is our text verse. We're going to deal with and talk about the idea that God tries the righteous, the trying of the righteous. On the surface, it doesn't seem like it's very um like that's uh really what you want to do. You know, somebody that's being righteous, that's that's doing right, like why would you want to try them? Why why would you test them? Why would you put them through uh a battle or a struggle? God does try the righteous. We see in Jeremiah chapter 20 and verse number 12 says, But O Lord of hosts, That triest the righteous, and seest the range of the heart, let me see thy vengeance on them, for unto thee have I opened. My cause. We spoke about vengeance this morning in Sunday school, and I hope that lesson was uh was a help to you being reminded to let God have his place. Let God sit in that throne of judgment, the throne of vengeance. And let's let's just have the spirit of the Father, which is spirit of forgiveness. And to just let God take that. But this evening we want to talk about Jeremiah here, and Jeremiah means The one whom Jehovah appoints. Jehovah appoints. And God appoints all of us to particular tasks. Like Jeremiah was appointed to be the prophet of God. He was called and told of God, this is what you're going to do. But not only are we appointed unto a particular task, but we are also appointed to some particular test, to some particular trials. There's some things that God knows that you and I need to go through to prepare us for the future. And He does it in a loving way, but just want to look at the life of Jeremiah here, and we see, first of all, his persecution in Jeremiah chapter 20 and verse number one. The Bible says, now Pasher, the son of Amar, the priest, who was also chief governor in the house of the Lord, heard that Jeremiah prophesied these things. Now what are the things that Jeremiah prophesied? He prophesied these things. Well, the things that he's talking about there is back in chapter 19. If you look back in chapter 19, just the last two verses, verses 14 and 15, you'll see the things that Jeremiah prophesied that Pasher didn't like too much. He says, Then came Jeremiah from Tophat whether the Lord had sent him to prophesy, and he stood in the court of the Lord's house and said unto all the people, Thus saith the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, Behold, I will bring upon this city and upon all her towns all of the evil that I have pronounced. He says, I'll bring it on to you, all the evil I have pronounced against it, because they have hardened their necks that they might not hear my words. So Jeremiah prophesied the truth. He told what God wanted them to hear, and Pastor didn't like it. Pasture gets mad at him, he smokes him, he puts him in the stocks. You'll see there in verse number two of chapter number twenty, he was put into stocks. He said, Then Pastor smote Jeremiah the prophet and put him in the stocks The stocks was an open place, a place of bars, a place where Jeremiah could be mocked and made fun of, a place where uh the goal, the the intent of Pasher was that Jeremiah's message would lose its credibility. That Jeremiah's the truth that he preached would be brought down and people wouldn't believe it. Because he was being mocked or made fun of. Now Pasher was a religious leader. You know, everybody that claims to be a Christian is not a Christian. And everybody that claims to be a leader of Christianity or a proclaimer of the truth of the Word of God is not necessarily proclaiming the truth. Pasher was a religious leader. He was the chief. And he put them in stocks. Many times, beloved, attacks are going to come with from somebody that you would say is almost from within. Although I don't know that I would pronounce it as that, somebody from within, if they're preaching falsehood and false gospel. J. Burning McGee says this about this text. He says, notice with me from whom the persecution originates. It began in organized religion. Today, the Word of God is being hurt and hindered the most by organized liberal churches who have rejected the very Word of God. They align themselves with some most shady characters, boasting of their brotherhood, their love for everyone, and their broad-mindedness. But when it comes to accepting a fundamentalist, someone who stands for the Word of God, I have found that their broad-mindedness and their open-armed love seem to disappear. There is more opposition to the furtherance of the gospel of Jesus Christ originating in organized churches than there is from the liquor industry or from any political group that I have ever known. This physical persecution of Jeremiah began in the organized religion of the day. And beloved, that is the truth. You've got to be very careful, and it sounds good, but in the world today there are So many they talk about open-mindedness, they talk about brotherly love, they talk about accepting everybody, and you'll see the religious leaders of the day standing on pulpits and on platforms around the country, maybe televised nationally and talking about how they're embracing one another and and that we're just uh we're we're finally breaking down the walls of division and and bringing about unity and Using words and terms like this that sound good, but the Bible says, Come out from among them and be ye separate, saith the Lord. And we should not stand on the platform with somebody who denies the virgin birth who denies the deity of Christ, who denies the Trinity of the Godhead, who denies the resurrection of Jesus Christ, and put our arm around them and say they're a brother. And there is way too much of that going on in the world today, and it's hurting the cause of Christ, not helping. Persecution comes from that sometimes, but Jeremiah wasn't going to have any part of it. His proclamation we see next in verse number 3. Jeremiah stands up and he says, And it came to pass on the morrow that Pasher brought forth Jeremiah out of the stocks. Then said Jeremiah unto him, The Lord hath not called thy name Pasher, but Magor Misabib What a name. Magor Misabib. Magor Misabib means terror on every side. You see in verse number four, he says, For thus saith the Lord, Behold, I will make thee a terror to thyself. and to all of thy friends, and they shall fall by the sword of their enemies, and thine eyes shall behold it. He says, you're a terror on every side. You are causing more harm than you are causing good by the falsehood that you're teaching. Look down in at verse number six. He says, And thou Pasher, and all that dwell in thine house shall go into captivity, and thou shalt come to Babylon, and there thou shalt die, and shalt be buried there, thou and all thy friends to whom thou hast prophesied lies. His proclamation, I'll tell you what, he stood up. Jeremiah stood up. This governor, this one who had the authority to throw him into the stocks, and Jeremiah stood and preached the truth, we need to, as we talked about today, stand. for truth, live on biblical principle, uh, purpose in our hearts that we're going to do what is right. And Jeremiah did this as a prophet of God, even though it was going to cost him Jeremiah stood up. We see his prayer beginning there in verse number seven. He says, O Lord. Thou hast deceived me, and I was deceived. Thou art stronger than I, and hast prevailed, and I am in derision daily Derision means to be laughed at, to be mocked. He says, I am in derision daily. Everyone mocketh me. Because of the message that he was preaching, because of the truth that he was sharing, Jeremiah is talking to his God and he's saying, They're mocking me, they're making fun of me. Daily, they're they're they're laughing at me. He says, For I for since I spake I cried out, I cried violence and spoil because the word of the Lord was made a reproach unto me and a derision daily. Verse number nine he says, Then I said, I will not make mention of him. Nor speak anymore in his name. This is where Jeremiah was deceived. He was deceived into thinking that what he could do is have the word of God, the message of God in his heart And it not come out. You see, Jeremiah said, because they've mocked me, because they've made fun of me, because they've they've laughed at the way I dress and they've mocked the my my church participation and and because they've made fun of the way I talk and because I don't tell dirty jokes and and I don't uh participate in in the the conversations around the cooler. You know what, I've had too much, Lord, and and it's too hard for me I'm not going to say anything else about God. I'm not going to bring up religion anymore. And I'm not going to praise God. And I'm not going to ask people to come to church because I'm just tired of being abused by these people But where he was deceived, we see as this verse goes on, there's a but in that verse right there. And this is a familiar passage of scripture. He says, but his word was in my heart as a burning fire shut up in my bones, and I was weary for the bearing, and I could not stay. He was deceived in thinking that he could have the message of God in his heart and not share it. You see, Christian, one of the reasons that you're not sharing the message of God is because it's not in your heart. The reason you are able to stay and to not give out the truth is because that truth is not inside. The Bible is very clear that out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh. The Bible is clear in the book of Acts, it says that we cannot help but speak the things which we have seen and heard. We will begin to share whatever is in our heart and whatever is in our mind. And when we fill our heart and life with the things of this world, that's what comes out. The problem is we've hidden too much of Hollywood in our heart and not enough of the Holy Word of God. Because when the Word of God is hidden in your heart, that will come out. Jeremiah said I just I was deceived. I I I thought that I could hold it in. I thought that I could hold it back because I was tired of them mocking me and making fun of me. And I'll tell you what, you get tired of that in this world. You get tired of people sneering and laughing and making jokes and oh you you know religious and goody two shoes and you know you crutch you let lean on that crutch of religion because you need that to survive and all all of the stuff they say and you get sick of it But when you've got God's word and the hope of God inside, you'll be like Jeremiah and you can't help but get it out. You see, that's what happens, or what should happen, for all those that teach and work in the Sunday school ministry here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church and work in junior church. Work in master clubs throughout the week you you get a lesson. You get a message, you get something from God, and you begin to pour over that lesson in preparation. You begin to think about the truths of that and how it could impact and change the lives of those kids in the classroom. And throughout the week you're pondering and thinking about that. And you're thinking about how I can apply it. And how how can how can we apply this to the lives of these kids? And that message is growing in your heart. And then come Sunday, you get in front of the kids, and that message flows out. It's from an abundance of time in God's Word, and an abundance of time of study and in preparation, and the message just flows out to the young people. And then the next week you do it again. You get in God's word and you start digging and you get a message from God and you begin preparing and you begin thinking about it. And God starts growing that message in your soul and preparing you to share it with these young people. That's what it is. See, that's why we need to have our personal walk with God. So that you're putting God's word in. You know it's pretty amazing, young people. It's pretty amazing that you can sit down and watch a movie for an hour and a half and not think anything of it, but you can't spend fifteen minutes with God. You can you can play video games until somebody says turn it off but you can't find time to spend 10-15 minutes with God daily. You think about what it is that we're putting it in and why we're not getting this out. Jeremiah said, I was deceived. I thought I could hold it in, but I can't. And you know what? You can't. What you have inside is what's going to come out when you're talking to people Our problem, Christian, is not that we're too shy or we're too bashful or we we're not real. No, there are different personalities Everybody knows we've got personalities here from both extremes. On the back row you got This is Norman over here on the far right and on the far other extreme. You got Brother Greg. You got different personalities. You know, it's just but God will use you and your personality wherever you're at. You you if what's inside of you is gonna come out. Problem is we're just not putting it in. I don't know how many of you young people have a personal walk with God. Could I implore you? One of the reasons you're wondering if this if this church stuff and and and the Bible and all that is is of any value is because you don't know God personally I implore you to just spend some time with God every day. Say, man, I read the word and I don't get anything out of it. Yeah. Join the club. You guys think every time I open the word that I've got a three points outline in a poem that just jumps off the page? No. That takes a lot of extra study. On average, about six hours of study for me, for one message. But you get in God's Word, and the Bible says His Word will not return void. And what you're putting in is what's going to come out. Hide God's word in thy heart, that thou might not sin against God. We see his promise in verse number eleven He said, But the Lord is with me. A mighty, terrible one. Therefore my persecutors shall stumble, and they shall not prevail. And they notice how many times the word shall is in this text. Therefore, my persecutors shall stumble, and they shall not prevail, and they shall be greatly ashamed, and they shall not prosper. And their everlasting confusion shall never be forgotten. Why? Because God is with them. You see, those words shall is like a promise. It's a promise of God. We need to grab a hold of the promises of God. How many promises of God do you know? We've got that little Bible that we gave away a couple years ago and we've given away as gifts, but you know, just a list of lists of the promises of God It's not a bad thing, maybe, even just to prove that and look at it, just to see all the promises of God that God has given to us. We can grab a hold of those promises God was with him, just as we talked about this morning about God being with Daniel and closing the mouth of a lion. When you spend time with God, God's with you. It's evident. You have God's hand on your life. You have God's blessing on your day. Those that have made it a habit, a part of their life, they've testified over and over and over again when they start their day because of chaos or because of whatever. And they they miss that Bible time, they miss that time with the Lord, they they've testified that like all day they feel like something's missing. All day there's just they just don't have that quiet peace. that walks with them through the day because they missed it. Develop that quiet time with God. Begin your day with God. Have a relationship with Him. You'll have the promises of God to walk with you through life. We see his proving in verse number 12. He says, But O Lord, of host that triest the righteous. God, I've been doing good, and now you're going to put me through a test. God of hosts, the one that tries the righteous. No, God's going to try the righteous. We're not talking about chastening. For when we're doing wrong, we know that God will chasten us when we're doing wrong, but we're talking about a test. We're talking about Him testing us to that we may come forth as gold. God wants us to grow. You know, beloved, we're supposed to add to our faith virtue, and to virtue knowledge, and to knowledge temperance, and to temperance patience. Patience godliness, and to godliness, brother kindness, and brotherly kindness charity. For in these things be in you and abound they make you that you shall neither be barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. We're supposed to be adding to our faith, Christian, always growing, always moving forward for God, and that's what our trying does That's what God does, how he builds strength in us, how he builds faith in us. God brings you through a little storm And you see God victoriously bring you through that, and your faith is strengthened. So that you can endure and go through the next storm, and so that you can help others. endure and go through the storms that they might face. As a church, we never want to become comfortable and stagnant where we're at. We want to continue to move forward. We want to continue to strive to accomplish something for God. To push forward for God, that something can be done, and we can impact our community in some way that we can get the gospel out and reach another person with the truth. Sometimes we feel like we are doing all we can, but then when we get through it, we think, well, that's done. I think we can do something else. And we do a little bit more. That's how we build our faith. That's how we build our strength. But God's only going to use those that are willing to move forward for Him. God tries the righteous just like an orchard owner will take his apple trees and prune them so that next year they'll bear more fruit. You know the bad trees, they just get cut down. They just get removed. But those fruit, those trees that are still producing, God will prune them. That they'll bear more fruit. Up in New York, where my dad lived for a lot of years, there's a lot of apple orchards. He actually had a guy in his church that he's been he's been here and helped do work several times. Uh but he managed several very large orchards for a lot of years and He knows all the science behind it and and trimming the trees and what you do and and why you do it and and and how to bring the most fruit out of each tree. But that's what God wants from us. As we might bring forth more fruit. So he tries us. Like he did Job. We're in pretty good company if you're going through a test with the others that God has tried. We see lastly this evening in verse number 13, we see his praise. Verse 13, he says, Sing unto the Lord, praise ye the Lord, for he hath delivered the soul of the poor from the hand of the evildoers. He said, sing unto God. He said, wait a minute. It was just one verse before. He's saying God tries the righteous. You see, beloved, when you know the God of heaven. And you know that it's God that's bringing you through something, you can still praise Him. Because you know He He is in control and you know that He is directing the Steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord, and ultimately he's going to bring you through, and he has a cause, and he has a purpose, and there's a reason for it. And so you can trust him and you can still praise him. You can still sing unto the Lord. Even though you might be going through a trying time. Praise, beloved, helps us to recognize the provider. Praise takes our mind and eyes off of what's happening right here and gets it on him, the one who's going to take us through the challenge. Phrase acknowledges that he has a plan. There's a reason. We know nothing happens without a cause, without a reason. A hair doesn't fall from your head without God knowing it. We acknowledge and recognize he has a plan, where he accepts the present circumstance Joyfully accepting as part of God's perfect and loving plan for you what He's brought into your life. The guy who knows God can praise even at this time. What amazing truths we learn this evening from this prophet, Jeremiah