And uh seeing what he lost and what he gave up and and that was where the the message began. And I just kind of began studying and and w I didn't want to re-preach the entire Sunday school, so I thought, well, there's some other people in the Bible that that lost some things, and so I was kind of going down through the scriptures and seeing other people that made some brainless bargains and the the message was developed. But you know the ultimately the thought or the idea behind this morning was a was a consideration of Hey, if I would have had my brain engaged, if I would have been thinking, I would have realized that uh this was not the wisest decision. This is not what I should have done And you know, I can't be the only one that has done something like that. Uh I know that there's others here that feel my pain. Uh that you have uh, you know bit off something that was uh you know not what you thought it was when you when you first picked it up or uh you know bought something that looked better than it ended up being And the fact of the matter is hopefully as we get older and as we as we mature now this has happened last year, so so much for me, but uh but hopefully as we mature we start to learn and be able to recognize those things. I mean We get those scam texts, right? Those texts where I mean you want to just text them back, hey, why don't I just give you my social security right now? You know, I mean you're just obviously such a blatant scam, somebody trying to get information out of you and and you get those emails from Nigeria where they have, you know so many millions of dollars that are locked up and all you gotta do is send them the shipping and and they'll send it to you and so many of those things, you know, you've got the you you look at that and you say, Wow They're still doing them because they're still scamming people. They're still getting people, and that's why they're they're making uh the the profit uh uh why the wh why they continue to do it. I like watching uh these people that call the scammers back and they scam the scammer. Uh, you know, those are fun to watch and and you know they catch them and and tell 'em they're tracking them or they looked at they can see Uh I don't know, Brother Aaron Fukes, he probably knows about how you do this, but you could look uh, you know, because you can track IP addresses and see where they're coming from and they can tell the scammer, hey Uh we see that you're at this address and we know right where you are. We've sent the police and they're on their way and the scammer hangs up real quick. You know, um but The thing is we've got to get wise about how we handle our finances and thinking about uh what we're doing with what God has given us. You know, the question I have for you tonight is uh that's been asked of me many times over the years is why do I have financial trouble? Why i do it does it seem like I can never get ahead? Why is it that, you know, doesn't the Bible say that my God shall supply all your needs according to his riches and glory? Well the Bible says that, Pastor, then how come I'm continually in need? Well, Pastor, can you help me understand? Doesn't the Bible tell us very clearly that, but my God shall supply. But my God, oh, how come I'm in need? Why do I have financial trouble That's something that so many of us deal with. And so I want to answer that question for you tonight. Would you look with me in the Word of God at Matthew chapter 6, verses 31 through 34? We see the principles given here My life's verse is in the midst of this, but we see beginning in verse number 31, he says, Therefore, take no thought, saying, What shall ye eat, or what shall we drink, or wherewithal shall we be clothed? For after all these things do the Gentiles seek. You're saying those that are lost, that don't have God, that don't know Jesus as our Lord and Savior. They don't have a promise from him. They're the ones that live after the flesh. They seek these things, but your heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of all these things. And then he says, but seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. Take therefore no thought for the morrow, for the morrow shall take thought for the things of itself. Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof. Beloved, we have here some thoughts given to us regarding uh our planning for life and and trying to look and figure out how to maybe solve our own financial needs and realizing that our priorities ought to be on seeking God first and his righteousness and all these things shall be added unto you. I want to be very practical this evening. This would actually be a great Sunday school lesson And we're not going to be here very long, I I know, because the link to my notes is is very short. But just some practical thoughts. Now I know this tonight is not for everybody. Some of you here are doing okay. And you know what? You're like, Pastor, God's been good to me. Financially, I'm not in trouble. I don't have a problem. But I want you to know that there are many people that do This is something that so many people face and struggle with, and sometimes they're asking the question, why? Why do I have trouble? Why does it seem like I can never get ahead And so I want to try and help you tonight to maybe put some things in perspective and thinking about your finances. First of all, many times why people have financial problems is because they are violating scriptural principles. Beloved scriptural principles work every time, regardless of who you are, or regardless of your situation. There are people that are lost and undone and don't know the Lord is your Savior, would never darken the door of a church, but regarding their finances They exercise or they use scriptural principles. They they they use good uh money management skills. They they and and those things God says uh that it will work, it's gonna pay off every time When you uh are careful, you manage well, you're going to be okay. Well We've got to be careful, beloved, that we're not violating scriptural principles. God said, But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. As a child of God, we have a fiscal responsibility to honor God with all of our finances. That is first and foremost. When God blesses us with something, the Bible still says in Malachi 3, 8 through 10, will a man rob God? Yet ye have robbed me. But ye say, Wherein have we robbed thee? In tithes and offerings. Ye are cursed with a curse, for ye have robbed me, even this whole nation. Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse that there may be meat in my house, and prove me now therewith, saith the Lord of hosts, if I will not open the windows of heaven, and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it. We have a scriptural principle here. We have a guidance here for the believer, for the Christian, that we are to be honoring God with the first fruits of our increase. We are to be bringing a tithe, the 10% of what we have and make to the Lord. I've tithed my whole life since I was an infant in the nursery. When I didn't even know I was tithing, dad and mom would take whatever money that somebody gave for us for whatever every Sunday it was part of their practice. They would put us in a nursery and they would say, here's his quarter for the offering And that continued on through Sunday school. I would come with my own little baggie of my money for the offering. That, of course, was just from dad and mom. It wasn't anything that I earned at that point, but mom and dad were teaching us to give to the Lord. And I look at my life, and many times I've looked and seen how God prospered me or God blessed me financially. And I look back and I attribute that to something that really wasn't even up to me. I mean, it was instilled in me. It's something that we've always done is to honor God with the first fruits of our increase, to give to the Lord. And I believe that God blesses that. How can we expect God to bless or multiply or increase what we have if we're robbing from Him? I mean, just in a practical sense, if anybody here found somebody that was stealing from you. I mean you may be very gracious and kind and you might just forgive them and let it go. But I'm pretty sure you're not going to say, oh hey, you've been stealing from me. But you know what? Hey, here's here's some more, you know, just just just to just because I mean you're not gonna hand over some extra Well, why would we think that our Heavenly Father is going to do that for us? Why do so many people so many Christians believe that they can live life the way they want to? disregard the scriptural principles, the guidance that God has given, and God is just supposed to be okay with it. That God is still going to bless me financially, God is still going to multiply and increase what I have when I'm not honoring him with my increase. Sometimes the biggest reason why we're dealing with financial trouble and struggles is because we're not we're violating scriptural principle. One of the greatest things that you can do for your finances is honor God. Sometimes we can let good things keep us from the best thing. Beloved, we do need to provide for our family. There's no question in that. We do need a job We have to have a job to pay the bills and earn income, but sometimes we let the needful thing keep us from the best thing. We let the job keep us from church. We let the job and that need to provide for the family say, oh well, I can't honor God with this. God's going to understand. Sometimes we need to get our priorities straight. It's possible God allows financial hardship to come into our lives that we might get our priorities back where they need to be We need to remember that we're to seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. The problem is our focus is on the wrong thing. Our desire is to acquire more of what this world has to offer, to get enough money so that we can get a nicer house. or so that we can have a nicer car, or so we can get our own property, or so that we can have a retirement fund, or so that we can have we have all of these visions and dreams instead of seeking God. And letting God bless. And beloved, if you're just seeking after God and God will start to bless in over time, you'll look back and say, man, I'm embarrassed about how good God's been to me. I I just look I mean I certainly don't deserve any of this. I haven't done this. I haven't accomplished this on my own. But look at what God has done And you'll be in awe. But if you seek after this world and what it has to offer on yourself, you'll never be satisfied. You'll always be looking for one more. I think it was Rockefeller they said, how much is enough? And he said, one more dollar. Just one more I was listening to Warren Buffett this week. I like listening to guys that have managed their finances well. And uh, you know, they said he's worth $77 billion right now. And he's like, he said, that's does nothing for me. He said, all of my stock certificates do nothing for me. 100% of it is already assigned to world charities. To this society is going to get all of it. He said, there is nothing that all of that can do to buy me one ounce of happiness. He said I'd be he said I I I would he said he said I would per I would be perfectly happy to just live on a hundred thousand dollars. He says it's all it's all in stock certificates, it's not cash. And you're like, yeah, I'd be happy for that too, amen. I know. He's in a he's in a different ballpark than we are, okay? Somebody is worth seventy-seven billion, a hundred thousand is like fifty bucks. You know, I mean it's it's the the comparison is just drastic. It's uh it's shocking. Um I'm not going to chase that rabbit. But you know, he had it right in just that it doesn't matter how much you have, that's not what's going to buy your happiness. So sometimes we have financial problems because we're violating scriptural principle. Sometimes we're having financial problems because we're violating stewardship principle. You see, God has given you and I all that we have. And we understand that in theory We would certainly, at least I think 99% of the people in here, maybe 100% of the people in here, would give the correct theological answer if you were asked, yes, it all came from God and it all belongs to God. But are we really living that way? Are we really living that way? You see, he has given to us all that we have, and he has made us a steward of that which he has given to us. He has a plan for what he's given to us. He has something that he's expecting. He has an expectation out of us. Luke 6, 38 says, Give, and it shall be given unto you in good measure, pressed down, shaken together, and running over, shall men give unto your bosom. For with the same measure that you meet, with all shall be measured to you again. You see, beloved, many times God will give through you what he's not going to give to you. If God knows that you're a trustworthy vessel, He's going to bless you in amazing ways because he knows that as he touches your heart or as he brings opportunity, you will see that and seize it, and you will give And you will be used of him to meet that need. It is truly fun. It is truly more blessed to give than to receive. I praise the Lord that we have a very giving church. There's no question about that. Anytime a need is presented, uh another brother or sister in Christ is a struggle or we say, hey, here's something that you guys can help with, and the church Without question, you guys, very, very giving church. But God has an expectation of what He's given us and what we're supposed to do with it. When we take that and use it foolishly, we put ourselves in a bad place. I'm saying as we put ourselves in that position We haven't planned for the future. We haven't made ourselves ready for the next catastrophe. And those things are going to come. We live beyond our means today, and then when any kind of hardship comes, all of a sudden we're sunk. And we say, Well, I didn't know that this was going to come. You're telling me you had no idea that cars break down? That that that just didn't cross your mind that flat tires happen? That water heaters go out? That 25-year-old furnaces don't let don't run forever? I mean you had no idea that that's a possibility Okay, the fact of the matter is you're not thinking. You're not planning. You're living for today, like Esau. You see, God has an expectation that we would be good stewards of what He's given us, that we would plan. Many times financial problems are just a result of poor management. Dave Ramsey always says that uh finances is 80% behavior. It's really not as much to do with how much you make. It really has a lot more to do with uh how you manage what you made. I would encourage you, if you're having any financial struggles at all, to listen to the Dave Ramsey show. For one, there'll be some people that will call in that are in way worse shape than you, and it'll be an encouragement to you. You're like, hey, at least I'm not that bad, you know. Um but you'll start to get some good financial advice just how to manage your funds. And and what to do with with different financial questions, you'll start to learn some things. I mean it it would be a a help to you. He's got people that call into his show that that make forty thousand dollars a year and they're wanting to know where to invest. their money. And he's got people that call their show what call his show that are making $400,000 a year that are living paycheck to paycheck. They don't know what they're going to do. And you're looking at it and saying, man, if I made $400,000 a year, I would be swimming in money. Probably not. Probably not. Because it really is management of what you have. It's not about how much you make. It's how well you manage what you've got. When you and I don't do the right thing, we put ourselves in a mess. Proverbs chapter 10 and verse number 4. Why don't you turn there? Proverbs ten, chapter chapter ten and verse number four. Want you to tell me uh What he tells us there, he says, he becometh poor that dealeth with what? You tell me. With a slack hand. He becometh poor that dealeth with a slack hand. That's a loose hand. That's an undisciplined hand. That's casual carelessness with your finances. But the hand of the diligent maketh rich. Dave Ramsey always says your number one wealth-building tool is your salary. You know, it's using your salary for the right things, managing it. You know, you can do the right thing with regards to the church and tithing. You can be giving to God, you can be giving to missions, you can look at it and say, hey, God said Give and it shall be given unto you in good measure, pressed down, running together, shall men give unto your bosom. And listen, we don't give to get. Amen. We've got to keep a proper perspective on that. This is not a prosperity gospel where hey if you plant your seed of ten dollars God's going to give you ten thousand do it today amen no that's not what we're saying you honor God with the first fruits of your increase and God will honor you God will bless you but you don't do it to try and receive, but God will. And so you say, well, I'm honoring God, I'm tithing, there's no question about that. I'm doing it, I'm doing this right. But if you're not managing well what you have left, you can't blame God for the problem that you have. You can't say, well, God hasn't met all my needs. Well, yeah, he did. You just took what he gave you for the light bill and spent it at Outback Steakhouse. You see, you've got to manage what he gives you. You've got to have a diligent hand. You've got to be careful. Don't have a slack hand You ought to listen to some of the differences between uh rich people and poor people You know, when I was running a Christian school and was a principal and we launched a uh uh candy sale program, we would go out and sell candy and Uh the first year our our school sold $80,000 worth of candy. And uh the candy company came and said, we want you to go around and teach other schools how to sell candy 'Cause they I said, no, that's not what we're in business for. We we're just they're like they're like, how did you do that? Where do you sell? And he said, Do you go door to door? I said, Yep. He says, Do you like stand in front of Walmart? Yep I didn't tell him any of our secrets. But you know one of the things is? If you want to sell a lot of candy, you don't go to the rich neighborhood. You go down to the hood. You go down in the hood, you walk down the street, and some guy that has nothing will buy six boxes off of you You go into a high-rise, a guy that's got all kinds of money, and he's he know he's not gonna buy ten dollar box of chocolates. You know why? Because the reason he has lots of money is because he's not buying ten dollar boxes of chocolate So you want to make a lot of money. I mean one place to clean up on a candy sale is in car dealerships, man. Those salesmen sitting around, they will just buy chocolate like crazy. And uh there's several of these other they have been here, they've gone through the candy cells and they know. Uh but you go down a poor neighborhood, man. I mean some of the neighborhoods I took them teenage boys into, if their parents knew where we were, they would not be happy with me I said, Lord, please protect them. All right, boys, go sell. But the fact of the matter is, is those people deal with a slack hand. And that's why they've got nothing. That's why they're living from paycheck to paycheck and they got to go to a payday loan to cash their check early to pay their they're paying extra to get their loan their their their paycheck cash before because they owe somebody money today You can't deal with the slack hand. Beloved, I'm talking about the buy it now button on Amazon. I know that one click is just it's too easy. I'm embarrassed about how many Amazon boxes show up at my house. I've got teenage and adult children living there now. And and sometimes I'm like, whose box is that? And I'll come in later in the same day I'll come and there's another box from Amazon. And then I'll come back later and all three of those weren't the one that I ordered. I'm still waiting on my box to show up, you know. And it's like that one click from Amazon's killing some people. Oh, it's only five dollars, it's only ten dollars, but in a month it's five hundred dollars You don't realize how much it adds up. You don't think, oh, it's just this, oh, it's just a little bit of that. Hey, uh it it it's just it happens without you even realizing it, and there's no Hitting the pain center in your brain, like when you have to turn over cash and you hit that one click and you don't realize how quick it's draining the bank account. For things that are nice, things that aren't wrong, it's not sin to have, but you're dealing with a slack hand, and that makes you poor. I'm talking about the subscriptions that you have. You know, they did a survey I don't know how many thousands of people that they talked to about this, uh, but they they interviewed you know thousands of you know they they s pick a segment of society and say, okay, and they ask them, what how much money do you spend a month on subscriptions? The average return number was $26 a month. They said, on average, people felt like they spent $26 a month on subscriptions. Do you know that that number in that same group, the average, was $300 a month? They're dealing with a slack hand. They don't even realize where their money's going. Do you know there's companies that you can pay? To track your subscriptions for you? So that and they say on average a home saves how much ever a month because They didn't even know they were paying a subscription for these things. You know, you've got your your Amazon subscription and you've got your Walmart subscription and and Audible and uh uh HelloFresh and I don't know what other subscriptions you guys are spending money on. There's so many subscription-based services out there today that you can spend $5 a month on or $10 a month on and oh it's only $10 a month. You know, Apple, you need a little bit more memory and it's $2. 99 a month. It's only $3 a month that you can pay for a little bit of extra space. It's $4. 99 a month and it's only $7. 99 a month. Well it was $2. 99 a month three or four years ago when you signed up. You didn't even realize now it's $9. 99 a month. It's gone up $2 a month every year uh over the years and now you're paying ten dollars a month and don't even realize it What I'm saying is you're dealing with a slack hand, you don't even know where your money's going. At the end of the month, you're wondering why, how come there's nothing left? You're dealing with a slack hand. And God's very clear Look at Proverbs chapter twenty-three and verse number twenty-one. Proverbs twenty-three and twenty-one. He says, for the drunkard and the glutton shall what? Come to poverty. The drunkard and the glutton shall come to poverty. What he's saying is the person that is self-indulgent is going to come to poverty. Listen, Christian, we need to learn to tell ourselves no. Can I he's not here, so I can and he's probably not watching. He's got his own church. Can I tell you somebody that was really good at this that actually Like made me feel guilty sometimes. Pastor Derek. He was very good with his finances. He watched his pennies. I mean we would start we're driving and we stop at a gas station I fill up with gas and I'm like I'm gonna go in and get something to drink. You want something? He's like, no, I'll be okay. I'm like, come on man, you're making me feel bad for spending a dollar ninety-nine on this drink, you know. Uh uh but he no, I'm okay. I'll stop and get something to eat and say, Would you like something? He's like, no, I'm gonna wait, I'll eat I'll eat at home And I don't mean once, I mean very consistently. He did not deal with the slack hand. He was not self-indulgent. We're too self-indulgent today. We don't know how to say no to McDonald's. And McDonald's meals are not cheap anymore. We don't know how to say to no to the fast food. We feel like, oh, it's only fift twelve bucks, it's only fifteen bucks, it's just one quick meal. It's gonna be faster than eating at home. It's gonna be, you know, and we end up The drunkard and the glutton shall come to poverty. It's a scriptural principle. You see, we're violating the stewardship principle, and a lot of times that's why we have problems financially. When we could be getting ahead. We're too self-indulgent. If we're going to be a good steward of what God has given us, we cannot be self-indulgent. We cannot deal with a slack hand. If we do, we can't blame God that our needs aren't met. You see, you and I, we need to plan for the catastrophic event. We need to plan for the flat tires and the broken water heater and the leaky roof and the situations that life brings. Nobody here is ignorant. Everybody knows that things break. That problems come. Dave Ramsey calls it an emergency fund. Establish a fund that's there for you to take care of that catastrophe. that thing that came up out of nowhere, which for a lot of people sinks them because they haven't made any preparation for it. As a church, this last year, meeting with the deacons, we said, listen, we have 15 air conditioners here on the property. We're going to have to start planning now to replace those. We're going to have to start putting money aside because they're Anywhere from ten to fifteen thousand dollars apiece right now. Fifteen of them. That's a lot of money. And so we need to start planning and saying, okay, we're gonna put this much money outside every year as we're coming up here because we know that some of those are going to start breaking. And we need to plan to have the money on hand so that when it breaks we can a church can say, well I don't have to come in here and say, hey church, the air conditioner broke. I need you guys to give so that we can we can get this fixed. No, we've planned and we've put the money aside so that when the air conditioner is broke, we can say, listen, this money is here, we're ready to buy this, we want to replace this broken air conditioner. Well, we ought to do that in our personal finances We ought to be thinking ahead. We ought to realize and be a good steward of what we've done. The problem is that a lot of people stick their head in the sand and pretend That things aren't as bad as they are. No, I'm trying to help you tonight. I'm just being very practical, and that's the thing, is they just pretend that things are going to be okay. They stick their head in the sand and they go ahead and stop at McDonald's when they don't have ten dollars to spend at McDonald's. They go ahead and stop at the gas station. They get some drinks when they don't have money to get a drink. and and they they buy an exorbitant amount of Christmas presents for the kids when they don't have money to buy Christmas presents for the kids, and they're just not being a wise steward. And they're continually, continually, continually putting themselves further and further behind, pretending that it's all going to be okay. Now Brother Nash has gone on to be with the Lord. Brother Nash reached the point where he had $70,000 on credit cards. And he told me and gave me permission to use his story to try and help people. Every dime he was making was going to pay the interest on the cards. He could no longer pay anything on principle. In his mid-70s, he had to sell his house with no place to go to pay off his credit cards and had nothing Right now you're 30 or 40 or 25 or whatever. You look at it and say, well, I'm not going to be there. If you continue like you are, you will be. I'm trying to tell you you can change it right now if you will button down, if you'll use some discipline. If you'll be careful with your funds, manage them correctly, you can start to get ahead and you won't be in that position. What does Proverbs thirteen twenty-three say? Proverbs thirteen twenty-three. Much food is in the tillage of the poor, but there is that destroyeth. What is the last part of that? For want of judgment. There is that destroyeth for want of judgment. Here's the thing. Sometimes you just don't know You need to get advice. You need to swallow your pride and ask somebody that knows. I wish, and I've always been relatively decent with money. I've never had a hard time making money. I could always go make money. If I ever needed money, I could go get it Lord's blessed that way. But as a young man when I first got married, you know how we are, right, Brandon? It's our home. We're establishing our home. This is us. Finally, I'm by myself. I'm out from under my parents. We're setting up our own home. We're gonna do things the way that we wanna do things and and the fact of the matter is is I wish I wish Somebody I would have had the foresight to sit down with somebody when I was just married and say, okay, here's where I am financially. This is exactly what I have. Here are my possibilities. What should I do to Looking ten years down the road, where do I want to be and how do I get there? Instead of just living for right now and saying, well, this is what I have, this is all that I can do, I can't really You can't really save anything, I can't really plan for anything. If I knew right now, if I knew then what I know right now, I would be at least ten years financially ahead of where I am right now But I wasted 10 years. I did not have any foresight. I didn't think to ask. I was too proud. I wanted to do things my way, and this is our family, and nobody needs to know what we do with our finances. And I wasn't in a mess. I've never been one to go out and buy a $25,000 car when I didn't have the money. I mean I I I I never did that. The most I've ever paid for a car until I bought this suburban that I have out here was about $5,000 And you know, we paid cash for those. And I paid cash for that one too. But So I I'm just saying if I would have had a little wisdom, if I'd had somebody tell me, hey, here's what you can do. Look at your finances. If you discipline and put some money aside, here's where you can be. I would be ten years ahead of where I am Can I tell you how many of you that are 50 or older say that it happens fast? It happens fast. You younger couples, you look at it, Heather and Jacob, you got the young family, also exciting. It's going to be like that. And you're going to be at the place like, wait a minute, retirement's only 10 years away. Oh, what am I going to do? You need to be thinking now about those things. You need to be planning. What I'm saying is it is that destroy it for want of judgment. Sometimes just you need to get some advice You know what, if you're an ol if you're good with finances in here and you would be willing to help somebody Would you come to me later? And I'm not talking about financially help somebody. I'm saying if you would be willing to sit down with maybe one of these younger men or or something and say, hey uh here let's look at your finances let's see where where where you're going. I would like to if you're willing to do that for somebody else would you come and talk to me and some of you younger men I would encourage you to come and talk to me and say hey Who who can I sit down with? I want to get some wisdom. I want to make wise choices. I want to plan accordingly and set my family up for success financially instead of being listen A few weeks ago, I sat down with Andrew, who's in the sound booth right now, and he said, Dad, I would like to move out of the house. And I said, Amen. I want you out of the house Hallelujah. Yes. I said, but here's the thing, son. I would not be fair to you if I let you move out right now. Because you have the opportunity right now without very much expense, while you're living under our roof, you need to be working 70 hours a week You don't have any family. You don't have any responsibilities that you need to be banking money. You need to be just saving. You need to be you could right now in two years You could put the position of your family ten years ahead of most young married couples. If you would take this time right now seriously, I I said the problem right now is Andrew, you don't have any pressure on you You don't have a $1,500 a month house payment and a $300 a month car payment and a $400 a month electrical bill and a $200 phone bill And a $9 Amazon bill and a $7 Netflix bill and a $12. I mean, you don't have all of these bills. And so there's no pressure. And so you're like, oh, I'm doing good. I made $400 last week. That's not enough And so what I'm trying to do is help him and say, listen, you've got the opportunity right now to get ahead. You could be putting money away and preparing so that when the Lord brings you the right young lady and you get married and you start a family You'll be in the right position to be able to provide and care for them and you'll be working. How many of you that have reached that point, isn't it so much better to live from ahead instead of always from behind? I can tell you, young couples, that it literally took Mary and I twenty years. Twenty years to get to that place where we were working from ahead instead of behind. And this is what I'm saying, if I would have had some wisdom given to me as a young man, even this, there was a point where Mary and I were given 50% of our finances back to God. Now that's an admirable thing. But I wish I would have had somebody with some wisdom come to me and say, listen, that's probably not the white, and I don't regret it at all. God has blessed me beyond measure, and I I He is a debtor to no man But what I'm telling you, as a young man married with three kids, that was not very wise. Somebody with some spiritual discernment should have come to me and said, Caleb, boy, I appreciate your heart. You want to give it all to Jesus. Amen. But you've got a family to take care of. Your wife needs to eat. Kids need diapers, okay? So it might be wiser if you maybe cut that back a little bit. What I'm saying is I just needed some wisdom. And if you would do it, it could really help you. Lastly, tonight, I want you to see that you might be verifying, I'm sorry, you might be, yeah, it is verifying the faith principle. Now You can help me with this last one because it's not alliterated and I could not come up with something that fit this thing. But but here's the point Sometimes it has nothing to do with the fact that you're being gluttoned, has nothing to do with the fact that you are being self-indulgent or you're not honoring God with your increase. Sometimes God is just testing your faith. Sometimes you may be doing everything correctly and you're managing your finances well and you're on track and you're doing what God wants and As far as you know, you have a clear conscience before God and say, to the best of my ability, I'm doing this right, and financial hardship may still come into your life. How many of you have lost a job unexpectedly Jacob. Yeah. I mean just in a last week. I mean sometimes it doesn't you may be doing everything correct, but sometimes God still brings financial hardship. And what he's trying to do in those situations is to test our faith. And teach us something. To see if we're willing to really stop and look up. Are we still going to honor Him? Are we still going to be faithful to Him? He says, now I know your faith, that thou withholdest not thy son, thine only son, from me. And then he makes a way. But sometimes God brings things into our lives just to maybe get our attention. Beloved, you and I know that there is nothing that gets our attention like finances. I can tell you right now, if you went home tomorrow and checked the mailbox and you got a $10,000 check-in and mail, you would be like, hallelujah Yeah, all right, you were telling everybody, look at what God did. And if you went home tomorrow and you got a $10,000 bill, you'd be depressed And any one of us would. There's nothing that gets our attention like financial struggle or financial blessing. And so God sometimes will use those to get our attention. To test us, to confirm, to verify our faith. It doesn't mean you're in sin. It doesn't mean that you failed to honor Him with the first fruits of your increase. It just means that God's trying to test you. God's trying to prove the sincerity of your faith and your dedication and maybe wants to help you learn some lessons Maybe he's trying to teach you to trust him through it. Maybe he's trying to teach you some patience in the midst of it. Maybe he's trying to teach us that we don't need all that we think we need. Maybe he's trying to teach us to look up. But my God shall supply all your needs. And he might be just trying to get you to pause and look up. Job was The paramount example of this, a man who is upright and shoot evil, and yet God tested him in a just unbelievably severe way. We look at it and we even even in our minds we we say, I don't know how. That can even be like, why, here was a man that was doing right. And I don't know if God put recorded that or did that to Job just to be such a powerful lesson for all of us. So Job had to endure that. Just so that all these years later we could see that example and say, listen, none of us have been through that. And God was good to Job, God will be good to us. But just to trust him We know in the end, God richly blessed Job to even a greater major than he was in the beginning. So I I can't assume what your situation is, and I don't know what you guys are going through. This just was very practical tonight. Uh I've answered some questions recently uh for several different people regarding financial needs and uh As this morning kind of touched on this idea, I felt led to just address it for everybody tonight, uh, because we really need help in this area. And it is such a blessing when you finally get to the place where you're working from ahead instead of working from behind. And I know there's people in here right now, you are so sick and tired of working from behind. You're just sick and tired of never having enough to just make the ends meet. A lot of it is what we talked about tonight. God can help you with that if you use wisdom. And there's others that are willing to help guide you if you're willing to get some some judgment, some some discernment from somebody older. Would you stand with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?