Turn your Bibles this evening to First Corinthians chapter fifteen. First Corinthians fifteen. We could essentially say that this message this evening would very easily be the last point of this morning's message. It's kind of a thought in and of itself, but would conclude or tie in with this morning's message on emphasizing the eternal. The title of this evening's message is Why We Labor. And the fact of the matter is, if we are properly emphasizing the eternal, we are going to be laboring for the Lord. And so the thoughts that would go in line with this would uh continue or tag team very well with this morning's message, but Uh I just want to encourage you this evening. We see in 1 Corinthians 15, verse number 58, our text verse for this evening Therefore, my beloved brethren, be steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. For as much as you know your labor is not in vain in the Lord. There are several principles that are found here in the Word of God as to why we labor, but if we are indeed looking to the future, if we are indeed pondering the eternal. We're going to invest our time and energy in that which uh is going to be sending on ahead. We're going to be putting our thoughts and effort, our labor into the future, into eternity, not into this world or the things that this world has to be a part of. I had the privilege of growing up in a Christian home. I'm very thankful for the heritage that I have, the mother and father, the family, the siblings that I have, the uh heritage that I have of of serving God with our life. Not only did I grow up in a Christian home, but uh one step maybe closer to the ministry in regard to that. I grew up in a pastor's home. And uh so uh what that means is that that means you do everything that nobody else wants to do Uh you you get the jobs handed down to you. You end up laboring laboring early and laboring late. You end up doing a lot of work in the ministry, whether you really want to or not. as growing growing up that's just the way it was and my children will attest to that. Uh during some of their teen years we heard them say things like, The only reason you had kids is so you would have a labor force So you'd have somebody to work. And uh that's not really true, uh although it's a great reason, amen. Uh we labored a lot in the ministry and there's always something that needs to be done. There's always a job that needs to be finished. Uh Lauren was just saying in her last week here, I think she was talking to Melissa about the work at the church and and she's like every day we get this work done and I in my mind I'm thinking like what else is there to do There's nothing else to do. And so the next day we would come in and Pastor has this whole list of stuff that has to be done and we're like, where'd that list come from? And and there they We're going to tackle this job. And she's like, we get all that done and we're like, there's nothing else to do. And the next day we come back and there's another list. And Melissa said, there is always something to do. The better not to ask, right? Just don't know what there's always something that needs to be done. And that's the case. That's the fact of the matter is, is in the Lord's work there's always work to be done. And we as God's people, anybody that's a good Christian, is going to be laboring for the Lord. We're going to look for opportunities to labor for the Lord, to do something for God. Listen, there's a lot of things we invest time and energy and effort in in this world that mean absolutely nothing I mean some of their uh th they're a means to an end. You you've gotta work for a job in order to get some money so that you can pay your bills. I mean That's a means to an end. It is a necessary evil in society today. You've got to work on the car, you've got to change the oil, you've got to uh you know, you've got to mow the grass, you you've got to do some things that are part of life But uh listen, uh the labor we do for the Lord is important. And there's some reasons that we labor that he tells us here in this text. We ought to labor. The fact of the matter is, or the problem is, in society today, the mentality of the world has crept into Christianity. There's people that in the world they they want everything for nothing. They go to the workforce and uh you know uh I saw a sign on a on a business that said, sorry, this business no longer hires Gen Z. If you're Gen Z, do not apply. Because you do not know how to work. You you and they put the example on there, something about uh the last Gen Z or I hired uh had a problem with me telling her that her boyfriend could not stand next to her for her whole shift That her boyfriend could not be here, that he had to leave and she had to work. And they just don't understand. And this mentality uh of of just getting everything for nothing. You know, people today get, I mean, hey, you need a vacation. Nothing wrong with a vacation. But it's mind-boggling to me some people are at four six or eight weeks of vacation in a year. I mean that's amazing to me that you can be paid not to show up for work for for two months out of twelve That's just phenomenal. I mean, hey, if they're willing to pay you to do it, whatever, I I'm not going to say anything about that. But that mentality in the world today is crept in the church where people want to come into church sit and soak everything up. They want to just enjoy and get what they can get out of it. But where is the labor force for God? Where are the people that are giving time and energy, effort to the things that are eternal, that are serving God in any opportunities they can? The Bible says, therefore, my beloved brethren, be ye steadfast, unmovable, always abounding. Abounding. That is the idea of increasing. That is the idea of being involved in, uh, energetically investing in the work of the Lord. We're to be abounding in the work of the Lord. Hey, if the work of the Lord is not important, then let's just not do any of it. But if it is important, if it's worth doing at all, it's worth doing right. Amen? It's worth doing our best at. It's worth putting some energy and some effort in. And it's a sad commentary that for many generations the Mentality or the idea of the church has been that there's 10% of the people do 90% of the work Now that we don't have that percentage here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. I believe we have a working church. We, by and large, have a great number of people that serve and invest in work for the Lord. The testimony of that is Vacation Bible School and and I there's very few members of Hunt Valley Baptist Church or even people that call Hunt Valley their church church home that might not be a member that weren't involved in laboring for the Lord all that week and doing what they could for for God. And that's what it takes for the work to move forward. People with a heart to work, a mind to work, abounding in the work. The Bible, we're supposed to work, beloved, because the night is coming when no man can work. The songwriter said, We'll work till Jesus comes. That's what my kids think is my theme song. They think that dad's on his theme song again. So uh Timothy was down in Chicago. I talked to Pastor Rogerson when I went to visit him, and they were roofing the roof there at uh Pastor Lewis's church in Chicago. And uh they had like three days to get this whole roof done, right? So they're working, and at the end of the second day, uh Timothy looks at Brother Pastor Rogerson and says, Man It is a good thing that you and my dad did not keep working together. Because you guys would have just plum killed each other by now. Would have flat out killed each other. Pastor Rogerson th thought that was very funny. And it is probably a good thing. Pastor Rogerson is is a worker and uh he was working them boys pretty good that that week on the roof uh getting that job done. But there's work to be done and we ought to be willing and ready to do it. In the context of what we're talking about here, as I mentioned, this goes right along with what we were talking this morning. Would you back up to verse number 51? 1 Corinthians 15, look at verse number 51. He says, Behold, I show you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall be changed. In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump, for the trump shall sound in the dead in Christ The dead shall rise incorruptible, and we shall be changed, for this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality. So when this corruptible shall have put on incorruption and this mortal shall have put on immortality, then shall Be brought to pass the same that is written. Death is swallowed up in victory, O death, where is thy staying, O grave? Where is thy victory? The sting of death is sin, and the strength of sin is the law. But thanks be to God, which giveth us the victory through Jesus Christ our Lord. And we get to our text verse, he says, Therefore Therefore, he says, hey, because of the fact that the resurrection is coming, because of the fact that one day this corruptible has to put on incorruption, because one day we're no longer going to be here. Therefore, beloved, be ye steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. There is something that we are supposed to be doing in the time that we have left here on earth, and that is getting something done for Jesus. That famous verse, only one life will soon be passed, and only what's done for Christ will last. That's all there is, is one life, and the only things that are going to matter is what we do for eternity. There's many things we invest our time and energy in that are of no value. So why are we going to continue to labor? That's what I would like to answer tonight. Why do we labor? Yes, the Lord is coming and we have little time left, but we labor. There's several things he gives us here. First of all, I want you to know we labor because it's not in vain. I almost asked my wife if she would feel like singing this song with me tonight. It's not in vain. I love that song. It it's just Anything you do for God is not in vain. A week ago the guys got together and they load up in the car and drove some people total uh probably an hour and a half's worth of driving to go down to the prison. They got into the prison, got all through security and sitting down ready to do a Bible study, and no prisoner showed up. Listen, that's not in vain. That's not in vain. That labor was not in vain. That heart was present, and the desire to please God was there, and it was not in vain that you went and did that. The Lord knows and the Lord will reward you accordingly. Anything that you and I do for the cause of Jesus Christ is not in vain. It lasts for eternity. There's so many things that are just part of getting getting through life that are in vain. They mean nothing. But everything we do for Jesus, every song we sing, every track we hand out every opportunity to witness that we uh take advantage of every proclamation of God's goodness to us before a lost and dying world Every testimony we give, every bit of service, whether it's vacuuming the floor or serving in a nursery or washing dishes down in the kitchen or putting things away from vacation to Bible school, whatever it is, none of it's in vain. It's all because of God and for God, and it will last for eternity. You're sending investments ahead that will pay dividends forever. I like investments that pay dividends. You get some of the profit from those companies that are doing well. They take the profits and they divide it up and they give a little bit of dividends to all the people that are invested in that company. And when the company's doing good, you're getting some good dividends. Well, these dividends are going to pay for eternity. The labor that we do for the Lord is not in vain. I think sometimes I Am not doing the church any favors because I really desire to make things as simple and as easy for you guys as I can. Beloved, we need to be getting our hands dirty for Jesus. We need to be serving the Lord. Participating, getting involved in some aspect, serving on the bus route. Helping out here at church. I mean, I was meeting with the deacons this afternoon and talking about work party and talking about next year and how our work parties are going to be run and what we can do uh next year to make the work parties a little smoother and maybe get some more people involved. Listen, this is your church. I mean I understand you can't come to every work party. I I know that life's busy. We all got stuff we gotta do, but you ought to be able to make it to one every few years I mean at some point, right? I mean, come i there's no easier place to labor for the Lord than at work party. I mean all we're talking about is wash some windows. Vacuum a floor, clean some lights, change a burnout light bulb, clean some some uh uh scuff marks off the baseboards or uh you know whatever, just keep in the house of God. It's just something that can be done It's an easy place to serve the Lord, to get involved, to labor for God. We need to be involved in the thing is the exciting thing is it's the most important thing that we'll do that week, probably. Because it's going to be an investment in eternity. And it's fun to get together and work with God's people. When you're working together, it reinforces the fact you say, man, there's other people that think this is important. There's other people that that think that this is worth working for and that that God is doing something here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church and this is exciting laboring together Going out and passing out John and Romans as a big group. I mean it's fun knocking out a whole neighborhood at one time. I mean passing out fifty thousand John and Romans by yourself, that don't seem that doesn't sound very fun But I'll tell you what, you have a hundred people or or fifty people that are willing to pass out a thousand and you're like, man, we can get a thousand out and then we can pass out fifty thousand. All I gotta do is a thousand, or you get a hundred people that are willing to pass out five hundred and you're like man I just five hundred of these in And we've got 50,000 John Aromans done, and you're a part of it as a team all laboring together, and 50,000 John and Romans gets done that easy. When there's a hundred people involved, when there's ten or twelve, it's a little bit more work. We still got it done. And there was more than ten or twelve, but I'm saying whatever is happening at the church, we ought to have a desire to be a part of it. Why? Because time here on earth is short. And we need to send our investments on ahead. And the labor that we do for God here right now is not in vain. Vain means empty, meaningless. But it's not in vain. Our work for God is not in vain. The church needs to be working together. Galatians 6. 9 says, and let us not be weary in well-doing, for in due season we shall reap if we faint not. We just got to stay faithful and keep on serving. I know there's high days and there's low days and there's days when you feel like it and days when you don't. You know, Ms. Rebecca, I remember years ago reading uh somebody said there's two times when you should read your Bible. There's only two. If you can read it at those times, you'll be doing okay. When you feel like it and when you don't. When you don't feel like it. We ought to have a desire and want to labor for the Lord and know how important it is, realizing how important it is. You know, beloved, the fact of the matter is, as we find time to do what we want to do. No, I haven't been out golfing yet this year, but I'm trying to find the time. I'm I'm looking for the time. I'm gonna I'm gonna get to go here soon and and We're going to spiritualize it and go with a couple of men of the church and and we'll talk about Jesus while we're out there, you know. But but we're gonna we're gonna get some time to go golfing and there's nothing wrong with that. Go have have a good time, enjoy a game of golf, or go do what you like to do. Those things are okay, but what I'm saying is you know we find time to do what we want to do. The only thing that we do that is 100% not in vain is our labor for the Lord. I would like you to see, turn to 2 Corinthians chapter number 5, we labor because it pleases God. We labor because it pleases God. In 2 Corinthians chapter 5, verses 9 and 10, he says, Wherefore, or because Or why we labor, he says, wherefore we labor that whether present or absent, we may be accepted of him. Accepted, that word accepted literally means well pleasing. And he says in verse number 10, for we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ that everyone may receive the things done in his body according to hath he is done, whether it be good or bad. We're going to give an account one day at the judgment seat of Christ of all the things that we've done in our body, whether those are good or bad. He says, we labor for the Lord. Why? So that we could be accepted of the Lord, well pleasing to God. Do you desire tonight to be well pleasing to God? Our labor for the Lord is well-pleasing. It's acceptable to God. You know, beloved, after death is too late. Our time, our opportunity to labor is right now. But you know, not just after death is too late. You know, and I praise God for all those that were involved in vacation Bible school, uh, but you know what uh as an example I could say the opportunity to be involved in vacation Bible school in 2024 has passed. That's gone. If in your heart and mind thought, well, I I want to be involved in BBS. Well, not this year. That opportunity's gone. You can be a part in next year, but but not not this year. That's gone. We in our lives are gonna miss some opportunities and those days will be gone. I still will never forget it. I went to a campground up in uh Kansas, I'm trying to think of the small town where the camp is. Do you remember? The cam the camp in Kansas wasn't in Tonganoxie. Uh it's it's a little ways from Lawrence there. It's a small town. There's a whole lot of little ones around there. But we were in Lawrence, Kansas. The church was given twenty-six acres as a campground and Uh as long as it was a camp to reach kids, the chur the property was given to the church to use for that. And we went up there and there was a few buildings there, a little bit of stuff to get the camp started with and so on. And there was a man pulling out, and I I stopped and I talked to him for just a moment and uh he was in his mid-80s. I was just chatting with him, and he had been there serving on that campground for a number of years. And he was pulling out and he had tears coming down his face and he says, you know, I wish that I would have done more when I had the strength to do more. He says, now I desire so much to serve God. I desire to be out here and help get this grass mode. I I want to serve and help get this camp going and I I want to do all these things. He said, but I am so weak. I come out here and I work for an hour or two and that's all I can do. I've got no more energy. You know, beloved, our opportunity to the Bible says it's good for a man to bear the yoke in his youth. These young men, these young ladies, they got strength. They can handle it. They ought to be working But you know what? All of us ought to be working. And using the opportunity that we have right now, the strength that we have. Because the strength we have right now, we're not always going to have. I turned fifty this year. Yeah. Thanks, Joe. Brother Aaron Fukes is still older than me. Said, man, fifty-two, I didn't know he was that old. No it's not. That's right, it's coming quick. Uh but you know, I was laying that carpet this week. And uh can I tell you that this body felt it? I've laid a lot of carpet in my life. Worked with dad to lay the carpet in here. And a lot of other we've done gymnasiums and churches and a lot of carpet, but I can tell you that I'm like, man, this is not as easy as it used to be. Trying to kick that carpet and move it around and getting up and getting down and spending all those hours on my knees, you know, is just you don't have the strength you once did. The opportunity to do it's not it's not there. So we need to labor right now while we have the time. Why? Because it's well pleasing to the Lord. Paul said, if any man's work abide, which he hath built thereon, he shall receive a reward. You're going to be rewarded for that work. For the work we do for God. Whether that's passing out flyers or John and Romans or Cleaning the church, singing, practicing to to play the instrument for a service or uh do a special or part of choir. All of these things are for God and they're well pleasing to Him. God is pleased with that. It's fun to make our Heavenly Father happy Proverbs 15 verse number 3 says, The eyes of the Lord are in every place beholding the evil and the good. A lot of times we talk about the eyes of the Lord being there and seeing you. Better not do that. God sees it. But you know what? God sees that what you do is good too. He sees the good things you're doing. And it pleases him. It pleases him. We labor, beloved, because it's not in vain. We labor because it pleases the Lord. We labor because he saved our soul. In 1 Timothy chapter 4 and verse number 10. 1 Timothy chapter 4 and verse number 10, the last verse we'll look at tonight. We need to get back to just pondering and thinking about the fact that God saved our worthless soul from an eternity in hell. In 1 Timothy 4 and verse number 10, he says, Therefore we both labor and suffer reproach. Because we trust in the living God, who is the Savior of all men, especially of those that believe. God is the Savior of all men and provided salvation to all who believe on Him. We labor because He has saved us. It is the love of Christ that constraineth me, Paul said. It is the understanding. An acknowledgement of the fact that God saved my soul. Because He saved me, I'm going to serve Him. When we're faced with the reality of what God has done, we cannot help but labor for Him. Have you ever had anybody go above and beyond for you? I mean just really do something special for you. Serve you in some way, provide for you, meet a need, go way, way beyond. And you know, if they would happen to have come back and said, Hey I I gotta get down to the airport today. Would you mind taking me to the airport? You would jump at the opportunity. Man, that's the least I can do I'd be glad to take you to the airport. I I I mean man, I I am so thankful for all that you've done for me. Run you to the airport, that's easy. I'll be glad to do that. Beloved, when we ponder and think about all that Jesus has done for us. And then he says, hey, would you be willing to serve in this capacity? Would you be willing to just help out here or accomplish that or participate in the ministry in this way? Oh, I don't know. That means I got to get to church 20 minutes early. I don't know if I can do that. Are you serious? Getting to church 20 minutes early to be on time for a ministry is a problem Here's a wrong focus if that's the case. We ought to be looking for the chance. Oh yeah, I'll be glad to do that. Be glad to help pick up that load to take that need to carry that. You know what? Bob Ayler, he's sick. He's fighting cancer. You know, every Sunday morning he would come in here at about 5 a. m. Not really. He would if he could. But he would come in about 7. 30. And get all the lights turned on, turn all the screens on, get all the PA system on, get everything connected and turned on and ready to go. So as people come into church, it's all on and ready. The last couple weeks I did it. This morning I waited to see how long it would be before anybody else did it It was after nine o'clock. All that stuff should be on before nine o'clock. Everything here should be ready. We ought to be telling people when they come through that door, the message that we communicate to people is that what God has for us today is important. We are open and ready for business. We're here and excited about what God is doing. It should never be, oh, wait a minute, let me turn this on or turn that on. We got to get get going. I'm just saying there's a small need. Bob filled it for a long time, but he's sick right now. So who's going to get here early and make sure that that's all ready to go? It's something small. But gotta be to church early. Oh. I don't know. You know, it's kids, young people, they will put all kinds of effort into playing a ballgame. I mean they they'll give it a you know a hundred percent they're out there I mean sweat running down their face and they're playing this game and they're having a time and boy it's all fun and they're really enjoying it And then you say, okay, um, I need you okay, you're all done with the game. Uh I need you guys to uh get this done or that done. And your normal kid would be like, oh, it's too hot out here. We can't be working in this heat. It's too hot out here. Is it, oh dad, I don't feel good Oh, I've got a headache, and all of these problems arise all of a sudden. They could have been out there, you know, for three hours playing in the sun, but now that there's work to do, for some reason they've got ailments I wonder how many of us are like that with God. We got time and energy and effort and health to do what we want to do. When it comes to serving the Lord, oh I'm not sure I can do that. I've got this, I've got that, I've got these situations in life. Listen, there's so many things that are going to mean nothing in eternity If we're going to be emphasizing the eternal, we're going to be laboring for God. Our labor for God is not in vain. We labor because it pleases him and we puts a smile on God's face. And we labor because we know what he's done for us. And the least that we can do is labor. Serve him. Would you stand with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?