Every man that asks you the reason of the hope that is in you what makes this in fear. Notice the word answer here, okay? All right, so in Sunday school here we're going to talk about why, chapter, and verse Why chapter verse? Let's have a word of prayer, and we will begin. Heavenly Father, thank you for this opportunity. I pray, Lord, that they will hear you and your word and not me. And it'll be convicting and that as a result of this, that lives will be changed, children will be raised for you, and souls will be saved. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Why, chapter, and verse. This has been drilled into me since I was eleven and a half years old. However, the Lord made sure that I understood it. Because when I got done with Bible college, I wound up getting a job at the largest prison in Indiana. Over 3,000 inmates. They were all males. Some thought they weren't, but they were anyway, amen. But still, what I'm saying is that I was an officer there, and they told me when I walked into training that even though I was a preacher, I was not allowed to carry a Bible into the institution. It was considered non-state related material However, they said the inmates were allowed to ask you any question they desired. It was up to you whether you answered them or not. Well I got through the training and got into the the the the the place where you work and they started me off in midnights and I was there for three years before the ministry started And I was one night with this Christian officer named Officer Bussey, and he started asking me these Bible questions. And I started finding the answers like I'd been trained from memory, chapter and verse. He was very impressed with this. The next day, when the uh inmates woke up, he told those that knew the Lord about this. They started asking questions. It started spreading around the institution like wildfire It wasn't long before my name wasn't Officer Barker anymore. It was called Preacher Man. Matter of fact, on my van you'll see a license plate in the front that says Indiana Preacher Man, 1 Peter 315. The inmates made that for me one year for Christmas. Amen Little did I know that I would have eighteen and a half years there. I call it eighteen year after eighteen and a half years extra Bible college. There wasn't a day that went by or a night that went by. I didn't get to talk to somebody about the Lord But the thing was, is everything had to be done completely from memory. I saw Muslims, devil worshipers, agnostics, you name it, come to the savior knowledge of Jesus Christ by using the Word of God from memory. As a result of this, God led me to start scripture memory ministry. With the time I had off in the state, which is quite a bit, we started traveling around the country, and now we've been doing this about 14, 15 years full-time, and we are really excited about it. In this verse here is the first point. It talks about the Bible commands you to have an answer. How would you like to walk into work every morning and have this happen? Preacher man, what's the verse for the day? Now figure that out. Work in a place like Isaiah for 18 and a half years, you can't give in John 3. 16 every day. What do you do? Well, I decided to pick out categories of salvation, salvation that's not at work, eternal security, depending on who I'm talking to, and I would give them the verse every day out of that category. It worked The officers would write these verses down, take them home and study them. The inmates would write them down. They'd take them back to the dorms and have Bible studies. Inmates wound up getting saved over this. I loved it. But you think about it, be ready always to give an answer. The Bible tells us that we have definite answers. Praise the Lord. Now, if you were to go to your radio and listen to Dr. So-and-so from the Theological Cemetery, they might say, ladies and gentlemen, I'm here to present to you the Bible. Now, nobody knows for sure what the real interpretation is. We won't know till we get to heaven. You ever heard that before? Well, praise the Lord. We don't have to worry about that. Amen. The Bible says in Proverbs 22, 20 and 21, have not I written unto thee excellent things in counsels and knowledge? that I might make thee to know the certainty of the words of the truth, that thou mightest answer words of truth unto them that are sent unto thee. Proverbs 1528 says, The heart of the righteous studeth to answer, but the mouth of the wicked poureth out evil things. What changed my life about memorizing Scripture, we'll talk about this more tonight when we talk about memorizing, is memorizing for answers. Having a purpose of why you're memorizing the verses If all you're memorizing is a bunch of information, you'll have it for a while, and then all of a sudden it's going to erase and you're going to come to the preacher man and say, I have a bad memory. That's one of that's excuse number one, by the way, people coming with I have a bad memory. Bad thing to say to the preacher, man. Okay? Anyway, if you have a bad memory, you come on out tonight, we'll take care of that. Amen. But not seriously here, look at the verse. It says, Be ready always to give an answer So why are you memorizing? Is it just to impress somebody? Is it just to say, look what I have done? Or are you memorizing to get prepared for God's service And there's the difference. Memorizing for an answer. Now the second thing is this. It saves time. I need my wife to come up here. She not only comes along, but she's also a good actor. Now let's say that we were members of Hunt Valley Baptist Church, okay? And I know for a fact that your pastor believes in going out and knocking on doors, amen? So let's say that we're going out and we're knocking on doors and we're going visiting. And so you know how it is, how most people knock on doors, they walk up to the door and go like this Oh well, nobody's home. Let's go to the next verse. Right? No, no, no. You Okay. And the guy opens the door. Yes. Hello there. My name is Dave. This is my wife, Mary, and we're from Hunt Valley Baptist Church. And we like to invite you out to church to Sunday school. We tell them about the times of the services and our wonderful church and how handsome our pastor is and how wonderful he is and all that. And then we get to the $64 question. And of course, if you die tonight, you know for sure you're going to heaven. Well, this guy's a little different. He says, well, I understand that part, but I have a different question for you. I see that you have a Bible in your hand Who wrote the Bible? Did God write the Bible or did man write the Bible? And I look at him and I say, Well actually both did. He said, I like to see that from the Bible. So what do I do? I get my Bible and I start flipping through. Well let's see here. Where's that here? Let's see here. Ephesians, Acts, John. Pastor Patrell just talked about this a couple of weeks ago. I said, man, where's this at? Man. Can you help me? I I can you help me at all? Yeah, can you help me? I can't find this anywhere. And where's this at? Um oh well, um I'm praying for the Oh thanks, thanks, thanks. I really appreciate you. Yeah, okay. And by the time you find it, you know how it is. Aunt Susie pulls up in the driveway, the phone rings, the baby starts crying. Thank you, you may be seated And your time here that you had to talk to that person is gone. That's why you need to be prepared. The Bible says in Ephesians 5, 15 and 16 See them that shall walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise, redeem in the time, for the days are evil. The Bible says in Colossians 4, verse 5, walk worthy toward them that are without, redeem in the time Psalms 90 verse 12. So teach us a number of days that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom. How many times have we wasted our opportunities going to a door saying, I'll get back with you, but we're not prepared, but whipping through our Bibles And then we wonder why we're having a hard time leading someone to Christ. Think about that. You know, I mean the I I I had when I worked up to prison, you know, I had to deal with Jehovah's Witnesses and Muslims a lot Believe me, they knew their stuff. They were prepared. They were telling me that that's part of their training. Well, it's about time we got trained. Amen So it's so important. So here the next thing is this. We're going to go on the scenario. The next point is, if you are prepared, you have a verse for everything you teach. So let's do this the right way. This guy asked, and I say, well, sure, no problem. Here, I'll tell you what. I'll open my Bible here to 2 Timothy chapter 3. And you read, and I'll quote here, 2 Timothy chapter 3, verses 16 to 17. Look at the first verse here that says, all. All scripture is given by inspiration of God. And it's proper for doctrine, for proof, for correction, for instruction, to righteousness, so the men of God may be perfect through the furnace unto all good works. You see here, God was the one who wrote the Bible But he also told men what to write. So I go to 2 Peter 1, verses 20 and 21. Knowing this first that no prophecy of the scriptures of a private interpretation For the prophecy came not in the old time by the will of men, but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. You see, God told men what to write The guy's getting interested. So I said, well here, let me give you seem interested. Let me give you a few examples. One from the Old Testament, one from the New Testament. Old Testament. Exodus 20, verses 1 through 3 And it doesn't say, and Moses spake all these things. And God spake all these things, saying, I'm the Lord thy God, which brought thee out of the land of Yeshua, out of the house of bondage. Thou shalt have no other gods before me. Example from the New Testament, Revelation 1. 19. Write the things which thou hast seen, the things which are, and the things which shall be hereafter. He said, This is really neat. I said, Well not only that, did you know that God told men what not what also what not to write? He said, Really? Yes. Revelation chapter ten, verse four says, and with some of the thunder said under the voices I was about to write And I heard a voice from heaven saying unto me, Seal up the things which the seventh under, and write them not. Now isn't that a little more impressive than trying to flip through your Bible and finding things? Look how much we covered in just a short amount of time, just being prepared with a chapter and verse at the tip of your tongue. We're going to teach you how to do this tonight. It's so, so important. It's so so important. Now, also, there's a benefit to this. You can teach the Bible anywhere. You can teach the Bible anywhere. Okay, let's see. We got to pick in one of these preachers' kids here Uh your name sir, the with the brown suit coat. You're Caleb. All right, we're gonna pick on Caleb here. I love picking up preachers' kids because I'm one of Anyway, let's say the Caleb here works in a factory, okay? And he does this all day long, piecework. Working along, you know, and he gets to working there a while and people find out that he's one of the preacher's kids, you know, that goes to the Baptist church down the road. And so they start harassing him and they say, Hey Caleb, hey, picture boy, did you see that special that T read last night about the unicorn? It was too bad, you know, that guy got that unicorn got lost and never made it to the ark and Caleb pipes up and says, Well Last night was our midweek service. We were having Bible studies. And he's oh they go, Oh, well you were over there trying to get your religion. We were over there getting the truth on TV Caleb pipes up and says, Well did you know that the unicorn's mentioned in the Bible? Really? Yeah, and besides that, the unicorn wasn't the ark because every verse about the unicorn is always always after the flood. Yeah? Yeah, here let me give you the example Job thirty-nine verse nine, will the unicorn be will observe thee or abide by thy crib? The Bible says in Numbers twenty-three, twenty-two, God brought them out of the land of Egypt. He has to wear the strength of a unicorn The Bible says in Psalms ninety two verse ten, but my horn shall thus oil like the horn of a unicorn. I shall be known it with fresh oil. That's pretty good, preacher boy. Hey, tell you what a break time. Can you sit down and write those verses out for us? And he said, I'd be more than happy to. Now notice he didn't waste any time at all, but he was able to teach the Bible anywhere That's kind of neat, huh? One of my favorite parts of working at the prison was going on trips. I always wanted to be the second officer because I got to sit next to the inmate. And when you're going to Indianapolis, which is the two and a half hours away, you've got yourself a captive audience, amen. And so, you know, and a lot of times the inmate was already interested, so we talked loud enough, of course, so the charge officer could hear, you know And he usually have questions, but I'll tell you what, it was neat. And this was also neat. When I worked in the prison at midnight, the Muslims had two sides to them. When everybody was awake, they were always harassing you, making fun of you, trying to make mismeat out of you. However, when everybody went to sleep, Then some like Nicodemus's would come out to the day room and say, Preacher man, not everybody's asleep. Can you please answer some of my questions? Yeah, right in the middle of the night, one, two o'clock in the morning, what am I doing? Quoting verses. Amen. You can preach and teach the Bible anywhere. By the way, some of them wind up getting saved. It took six months to a year, but I'll tell you what, it was worth it. Amen. Now the next thing is this. The scenario here with Caleb here. People can check you out. So now it's great time. So he writes down the verses, he puts them on a piece of paper, hands them to these guys They go home and for the first time maybe in their whole lives open up a Bible and say, wait a minute, this guy here was telling the truth. Look, here is the unicorn. And every time it's after the flood, they go You know, this guy's not so dumb after all. So they got a different attitude. They come back to work to say, hey, hey the preacher boy, can we talk to you at lunchtime? We got some questions for you. What happened? He just started his own ministry. Amen The Bible says in Acts 17, 11, These were more noble than Thessonicah, but they received this word already as a mind and searched the scriptures daily. What if these things were so? Proverbs 18, 13 says, He that answereth matter before he heareth it, it's a follow that shame out of him. Proverbs 18, 17 says, He that seemeth first in his own cause seemeth just, but his neighbor cometh and search of him Proverbs 14, 15 says, the simple believe every word, but the prudent man looketh well through his going. It's really neat because if you have a chapter and verse, people can check you out. That's unusual, but it's worth it. I loved it because they would write down these verses, they would check me out, they go and have Bible studies, then they come back and ask more questions and more questions, and this was my favorite part. After you get established and they start telling you their religious statements, I can look at them and say, Where in the Bible does it say that And they're looking like you got your name and say, hey, wait a minute. You expect me to have a chapter and verse? Where's your chapter and verse? Amen. Touche. But it works. I'm telling you, this works, it works, it works But what happens is you earn a reputation. And that's what happened to me at the prison. I earned a reputation. And before you know it, everywhere I went, people were asking me Bible questions, not just officers But inmates, captains, lieutenants, even the chaplain was calling me up and asking me Bible questions. It was kind of deep. It really was It really was. But you see, the whole thing was, is I earned a reputation. So my question to you is, is what kind of a reputation do you have? With your family, with your workplace. Do they know who you are? If you call yourself a Bible-believing Christian, can you back it up with what you can tell them from the Word of God? And not just say, this is what my church believes, this is what my pastor says. No. You need to have an answer from the Word of God for what it has to say. Amen. Now take your Bible to Psalms chapter 19 You said we had to be done by 1015, right? Okay, good. We're perfect here. Psalms 19. Let's go on to the next thing here. This is important. Psalms 19, verse 7. It might be familiar to a lot of you, but how much have you really looked at this verse? It's one thing to be able to rattle the verse off, it's another thing to understand what it says Proverbs 9, I mean Psalms 19, verse 7 says, The law of the Lord is perfect. Now look at this, converting the soul. The testament of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. Here's the point. The Bible does the convicting, not you. Remember that. The Bible does the convicting, not you. If there's any reason why you need to have a chapter and verse and if your tongue, this is it right here. The word of God was given to us for a purpose. This is our weapon. I have a book on my back table, the last one every wrote during COVID. I finally got to slow down enough to write, amen. But anyway, one of the things I put the Bible way of soul winning is this. Sometimes when we go soul winning We get in the way of the Holy Spirit. You say, what do you mean? What I mean is this, yes, we have a burden for souls And we are so busy trying to get that person saved. We're trying to jerk them out of hell by some tear-jerking illustration to try to push them into a decision that we're not letting the Word of God do the work like it's supposed to You can't make that person make a decision. They have to do it on their own, as you well know. Every man has their own free will. So I have learned through the years that if you present to them the Word of God and let it do the convicting, it makes all the difference. in the world. I'll give you a prison illustration. I gotta have a one inmate story. I was working on a dorm called Six Dorm. And uh this prison is kind of different than most you think of a prison, they all have cells. Well this one had it for the bad guys, but we had dorms and you're walking around with these guys shoulder to shoulder anywhere from 120 to 80 inmates on a dorm Well, I was on sixth dorm, and this is the kitchen dorm. A lot of the guys worked in the kitchen, and below we had another dorm. And it was the time of the day where they're coming and going to the library and, you know, different things, kind of like a free time Well this guy from downstairs came up. He was a big husky fellow. I never forget. You know, he had bear claws, you know, tattoos all over his arm, big muscles, one little swipe, and you're done, you know. And he started talking to me about the Bible He got downright mad and right in the face and started cussing me out, swearing at me. I thought he was going to haul off and cloud me. He thought, ma'am, this is it, Lord, I'm going to heaven, you know. Then he walked away and I thought, phew, thank the Lord He came back two days later, about the same time and he said, Preacher man, I've got to apologize to you. I said, what? He said, yeah. He said, first of all, I apologize for cussing at you, but he said, not only that, he said, I should have listened more closely He said, what you told me, I couldn't get it out of my mind. I kept on thinking about it, and I've come back to learn some more. How come I couldn't get it out of my mind, Preacher Mann? I said, I'll tell you why It wasn't my words. It was the word of God. Boy, that really got him. And I quoted Isaiah 55, 11, so shall the words be that go forth out of my mouth It shall not return unto me void, but it shall accomplish that which I please shall prosper the thing for unto I sent it. I was able to answer his questions and lead this guide to the Lord. Now that was sweet. Remember this big muscular fellow he went downstairs and he started talking to guys at his dorm and he said this Hey you guys when you get the chance you gotta go up to see that preacher man I told you you you go up I'm making you Amen. It was great to have a guy like that in your side, amen. But the thing is, is look at who's the convicting. The word of God did So instead of me getting this big clobber from a great big bear claw, the word of God did the convicting in this guy's heart. And I could tell you story after story after story after story, just at the person alone, how the word of God did the convicting And I have learned for the years, I'm a preacher's kid, and I remember going visiting with my dad and sitting in people's living rooms and they asked these questions and all he simply would do is give them chapter and verse, chapter and verse, chapter and verse, and they'd write them down And I see their hearts getting convicted. And then they they get saved and they come to new Christians class. And then they get baptized and then they start joining the church and then start growing. And then a couple of years later you see them working in a junior church and whatever at Sunday school and All this, because somebody had a chapter verse in the tip of the tongue, and the word of God did the convicting. Keep that in mind. The word of God does the convicting, not us Luke 24, 32, I love this verse. And they said one to another, did not our hearts burn within us? When he talked with us by the way, when he opened unto us the scriptures. Here's the setting. You know, here's the disciples who are on the road to Emmaus. And Jesus risen from the dead, and he's talking to them, and then all of a sudden he disappears. And their hearts are convicted. Have you ever been sitting here at Hunt Valley Baptist Church and you're listening to Pastor Petrell preach? You're going to amen, brother, preach it, then all of a sudden he starts preaching on your pet sin. You think, wait a minute. Has him and his wife got some kind of a secret movie camera been watching me all week? And you get more and more upset and red in the face? And then when the invitation is given, you think, you know what? I'm not going to go forward. I'm going to go out that door and I'm never coming back and I'm going to have roast patrell for dinner. Why? The word of God convicted your heart. Don't get mad at the preacher, amen. All he's doing is presenting the word of God. The word of God does the convicting, folks. It has been for years and years and years and years. It's so, so important. Acts 18. 28, this is Apollos. For reminding the convinced the Jews and publicly showing them by the scriptures that Jesus was the Christ. I love this verse. Because back in Bible times the Jews were very knowledgeable of the Bible. Remember, they went to the synagogues, you know, and they had the Pharisees and they had They followed Deuteronomy chapter 6. They had Bible verses all over their houses and so on. They knew the Bible. The problem was that they didn't understand who the Messiah was Well, Apollos took care of that because he knew his Bible well enough that he convinced them, even though they were Jews, to prove to them from the Word of God. Remember, all they had was the Old Testament back then To show them from the Word of God that Jesus was the Christ. I like that. My point is this. I was telling Brother Vetrell this before the service this morning. Most of us know the Romans Road. Most of us know John 3. 16. But we're living in a day and age. Well that's not going to be enough most of the time. People have questions. People would my dad used to say have a lot of baggage that you've got to deal with. And like he also used to say, sometimes you've got to get them lost before you can get them saved And that takes time. And they're interested in someone that actually has answers. Why are the Jehovah's Witnesses so successful? I've talked to several that have come that have saved an hour Jesus Christ. I'll tell you why. They're prepared. When people ask them questions, they've got an answer. They're trained with an answer right there in the tip of their tongue. Isn't it about time that we had answers on the tip of our tongue? And let the word of God to the convicted like it's supposed to, and watch the word of God and the light turn on in their head, say, wait a minute, and they want more, they want more, and they want more, and they want more. It works, it works, it works. Now take your Bible to Proverbs chapter 27, please. We're on the last point here. Proverbs 27 And verse one, another familiar verse. Proverbs twenty-seven, verse one. Boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring for forth. As I mentioned, I had 18 and a half years extra Bible college at the prison. One of the things that was drilled into my head was, is take the time you have with a person and use it wisely. Because you might not have another opportunity. Invariably, when I would talk to an inmate, the next day they would be transferred to another institution. Or they might be going home and I didn't know so. Or I had this happen several times. Later on, the inmate would walk up to me and say, Preacher man, you saved my life. I was about ready to commit suicide before I talked to you. He said, really? Yeah. And I tell him, well, I didn't save your life. The word of God did. What I'm trying to tell you is, is that let's take soul winning a little serious. When you talk to that person behind that door, Sometimes they might be a little be upset because you interrupted their day. But let's look on the other side of the picture a minute here. They might be having a rough day. They might have just had a big fight with their wife. Or they might have just lost their job Or they might be down to the dumps and depressed, ready to commit suicide, and here you have the nerve to knock on their door and stop them. Keep that in mind. This is your opportunity. And as you're prepared, you can help that person. We are not vacuum cleaner salesmen where the pastor is a contest that the one that wins the most souls wins a vacation to Hawaii. Amen? That's not what it's about, folks. This is a matter of heaven and hell and life and death. And how well you're prepared with answers might determine whether that person is willing to accept what you have to say. Or find the answers somewhere else. How many times do you have to say, I'll get back with you? Oh yeah, that's the famous statement. I used to say that all the time, and I got tired of it. I said, wait a minute, that's not working. Because I thought, how many times will I actually get back with the person? You don't! You know, you cover this house and you go to the next territory, whatever, you hardly ever get to go back to the house unless they're really, really interested, then you're going to write down the name in Azure so somebody goes back and visit it. I know how that goes, but wait a minute How prepared are you at that opportunity, that moment to talk to that person? Think about it. This is what soul winning is really all about 99% of our opportunities to soul win is when you least expect it. May I say that again? 99% of your opportunity to soul win is when you least expect it. Yes, you have times where you've got put aside where you'll go knock on that door and you're going to visit, but wait a minute What about the opportunities at work, like we talked about with Brother Caleb here? What about the family gatherings you have at your house or at their house? Or what about when you're in the neighborhood and you're talking to neighbors and all of a sudden the subject comes up? You'd be surprised how many times at the prison And the least I expected that it comes up, even just driving officers to a tower in the morning to deliver the midnight shift. Bible question would come up, an opportunity to talk about the Bible, or even lead someone to Christ Because she had answers from the Word of God. You see, my dad used to have a plaque in his office. It didn't mean much to me when I was a boy, but it means an awful lot to me now. Said this, only when life twill soon be past, only what's done for Christ will last. The last few days of my dad's life, I remember hearing this story. It's just such a blessing to me. He was in a nursing home. Running around in a wheelchair with a big smile on his face, telling everybody about the Lord, wheels himself into the office to sign his hospice papers. He looks at the doctor and says, you know, I know I'm going to heaven. The hard part's waiting to get there. The doctor looked at him and said, you that sure? And my dad says, you're not? We need to have a Bible study right now to make sure that you're going to heaven. Amen. And you can but your bottom dollar. My dad was prepared to give him chapter and verse of what that doctor needed to hear to know for sure that he was going to heaven. My dad was on his way to heaven. He wasn't worried about dying, he was worried about that soul. Now that's a testimony I will never forget. That's the way I want to be all my life. Be ready always to have an answer. and the tip of my tongue, so that I can use every opportunity that God gives me wisely. Tonight we're going to talk about how to memorize Scripture And hopefully it'll be a blessing to you. Let's have a word of prayer and we'll get ready for the morning service