Amen. Well, in uh God's way, now he just leads and directs. That's a great opening to the message this evening. I'm going to preach tonight on winning over worry. Winning over worry. And uh as is the case many times uh before I bring a message, there's been something that's been happened in my life or something that has uh transpired that God has stirred my heart with a particular thought and from that a message is birthed or a study is undertaken and ultimately the message comes to you at some point down the road Sometimes that's a long time down the road. It's something that we began a study and it might be six or eight months until the Lord gives liberty to preach it to the church, but other times it's very current, very present. And uh I just Bearing my soul and being completely honest with you tonight, there's been some things transpiring in my life that have uh pushed me to worry. that have pushed me to really give extra caution and concern and and more heart time towards and uh my kids are getting older. I got three of 'em heading off to college. They're they're gonna be gone and outside the protection of the home and that worries me. I've got two older ones that have somebody that they're interested in and that worries me. Uh I I I got uh different challenges that have arisen and and some financial concerns and different, you know, heartaches and struggles, things that come into your life, burdens that come, and you wonder, okay, how am I going to take care of this now? And and You know, the the air conditioner uh went out on the suburban while I was in Mexico I'm in Mexico serving Jesus And the air conditioner goes out on the suburban, which is supposed to be a new vehicle. It's new to me. It has 170,000 miles on it now, but uh the air I'm like, now what? You know, now I gotta try and fix this. And it just seemed like there's been one thing after another another and I was given to to fretting and and my heart was Kind of getting burdened with some of these concerns and I was getting overwhelmed a little bit. And really, to tell you the truth, I'm not given to worry I'm not the kind of person that that worries about much. That can be a blessing, but that also can be a heartache to those that care about you because sometimes they think You just don't care. Because you you're not worried, so you must just not care. I mean that's not the case. I I do care. Uh it's just it's not my personality or my heart necessarily normally to be given to worry. But in recent days I have really found myself being given to worry. I found myself putting my head on my pillow at night instead of just going fast asleep, I was pondering and considering and trying to figure out how to work these things out and what can I do with this and what can I do with that and and and really kind of taken up with a little bit of extra concern or that that that buzzword anxiety. Anxiety I want you to see in the Word of God some familiar verses. The Bible says in Philippians chapter 4, did I tell you to turn there already? Oh, get go to Philippians chapter number 4, that's where we want to be. We'll read those in just a minute. You know, as a pastor I have opportunity to get into many different homes and and I'm around people. And sometimes they're they're their hour of greatest adversity. And sometimes when those situations arise, I go with the Spirit or the heart that I'm going to encourage this person, or at least that's my desire as I want to try and encourage them. I want to try and help them to have hope in God. I want to try and help them see what God is doing or that He's possible. And I'll go and they're in the midst of an amazing trial or heartache and they end up encouraging me. Because of their faith and their reliance on their Savior. But you know, sometimes I'll go into the home or I'll be around somebody who really has a lot going for them. They're really in pretty good position. God has really blessed them abundantly. There's a whole lot of things that could be looked at and said, Man, look at all that God has done, and yet those per those people are overtaken. With worry, with anxiety. Look in these familiar verses, Philippians chapter 4, verses 6 and 7. He says, be careful for nothing, but in everything, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your request be made known unto God. And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus Beloved, it is the peace of God that is to carry us through, and when we understand that He is faithful, that He has always been faithful, and He has been true, and when we are able to Rely on that and remember that it'll carry you through and it'll allow you to be have victory to win over worry. I don't know this evening if you are given to worry, if that's maybe your may maybe it's your besetting sin. Maybe it's something that you just you you just have uh you worry about everything As just might be your way and something that you struggle with. But I want you to know that God is faithful. The Bible is clear, beloved, that it shouldn't be the habit of the Christian to be given to worry He says in Matthew chapter 6, verse 25, he says, Therefore I say unto you, take no thought for your life, what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink, nor yet for your body, what ye shall put on. Is not the life more than meat and the body more than raiment? Worry, worry. Beloved worry affects every relationship you have You see, worry impacts your relationships because when you are consumed with worry, you're irritable You're maybe down downright impossible to get along with. Because you're consumed with worry and you don't have a light heart You can't enjoy anything because this worry is taking over and consuming your life Worry steals your joy. It robs you of your most valuable resource, time. Somebody said worrying is like rocking in a rocking chair. It's a whole lot of activity, but you don't get anywhere. That's kind of what worrying is like. It doesn't really accomplish anything, but it is impacting your relationship. Not only is it impacting your relationship with others, but it impacts your relationship with God. I want you to understand, beloved, that worrying is sin. Worrying is sin. You know, on a keyboard. That your left hand rest this finger rests on the S, and you know where the W is. It's right there, you know, just right above that on the keyboard. When you're typing, when I was typing to save this message, I inadvertently hit the S instead of the W. And I typed sinning over worry. And I thought, how fitting is that? Because worry is sin. I changed it. I put it winning, because we want to be winning, amen. We don't want to be sinning. We want to be winning over worrying. Don't let it impact your relationship with God or your relationship with your family or your loved ones. Worrying, of course, we know it impacts your health. It's been proven that somebody given to stress and worry over prolonged periods of time end up with many physical problems. They're compounded and the given to the extent somebody is consumed with worry, it impacts their health Ultimately, can lead towards headaches, back aches, hypertension, heart attack, depression, and literally crippling physical diseases Well you guys I was talking about the comics today, so you guys know who peppermint patty is? So some of these kids are like what Well, in a peanuts cartoon, she was given a report in school. She said, this is my report. My report is on daytime and nighttime. Daytime is so you can see where you're going, and nighttime is so you can worry. That's the way many people live. But as Christians, we should be winning over worry. If you don't want to lie in bed and worry, if you want to win over worry, first of all, you need to exchange supplication, exchange your sadness for supplication. I think I inadvertently put that in the wrong order on the thing that I but you need to exchange your sadness for supplication. He says, be careful for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication. He said, Don't be overtaken with worry. Don't be so consumed with the burdens and the trials of life. Give yourself to prayer, give yourself to uh supplication, to talking to God, and in direct proportion to how much we spend time we spend praying, we will have victory over worry When we spend time praying and supplication, we're reminded of the faithfulness of our God, and we are giving victory over that worry That the Bible there, the next verse, talks about that peace of God, the peace of God that passes all understanding. And we want that to rest in our hearts, and yet we give all of our time over here to our worry. To what is making us sad. Instead of giving our time to supplication, where the peace of God can rule in our heart. Hey, to avoid worry is not the same as avoiding the problem. It's not a matter of just sticking your head in the sand and pretending it doesn't exist. It's not a matter of just completely ignoring it and acting as if there is no problem there. Some people might be good at that. They might find it easy to just ignore it as it were. But that doesn't fix the problem. But we know a God who can. And if we give ourselves to prayer, he can fix the problem The fact is, beloved, is we each make a choice to live in sadness or to allow God to bring victory through supplication. It is in direct proportion to the amount of time we spend in prayer, the amount of peace that we'll have in our heart. You and I, we can pray and have the peace of God, or we can give our heart and mind to worry. It's up to you, but the Bible tells us to cast all your care upon Him. For he careth for you. Casting your care upon him. Leave your burdens at the cross. Amen. You remember the story of Hannah in the Bible where she was desirous of a child? She she was bearing the reproach of that day for a lady who didn't have a child. And it was really looked at as possibly she had sinned or done wrong, which is why she hadn't been given a child and And and sometimes uh in in that culture it really was a bad thing if if God hadn't blessed you or given you a child yet and and she desired a child and wanted to bear a son and You know the story, she went to God and begged God for her son. And Eli, the priest, he thought, you know, she was praying so fervently that he thought she was drunk. The Bible says in 1 Samuel 1. 10, he says, and she was in bitterness of soul and prayed unto the Lord and wept sore. But God saw her prayer, God saw her tears, God saw her sadness when she carried it to him in supplication. And he answered. The man of God, Eli came and says, God heard your prayer. And you're gonna have a son. And in verse number 18, it says, And she said, Let thine handmaid find grace in thy sight. So the woman went her way and did eat, and her countenance was no more sad. You see, beloved, you can exchange your sadness through supplication. Spending some time in prayer. Let God carry that for you. Hey, if the problem's too big for God to do something about it, What do you think your worrying is going to do? And if the problem is too small that you don't want to bother God with it, Then why are you worrying about it? If it's so small it's not worth worrying about. And if it's so big you think there that nothing can be done, your worry is not going to help. But God can If you want to win, you need to exchange your thought for trust Your thought for trust. In Matthew 6. 34, he says, Take therefore no thought for the morrow. For the morrow shall take thought for the things of itself. Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof. Beloved, it's human nature to worry over the past, to worry over the future to such an extent that we miss today. Linus was talking to Charlie Brown and he observed I guess it's wrong always to be worried about tomorrow. Maybe we should just think about today, Charlie Brown replied. I'm not giving up that easy. I'm still hoping yesterday will get better And that's where we're at with our worry. We're still worrying about yesterday or something in the past that you can't do anything about. Or worried about tomorrow. The Bible says, give no thought for tomorrow. The problems of tomorrow are sufficient for the day thereof. Live in today, let God do something today, just trade your thought for tomorrow for trust in God Just trust God. Can you trust Him? The fact of the matter is, they have said that 80% of what people worry about never happens. 80% of it never comes to pass. One lady heard that and she said, Man, that's great. It must be working. She didn't quite understand. No, the worry is not changing anything. It's just hurting ya. Yeah. It was uh interesting in Mexico when we got to go witness and and communicate in a uh past out traction, Jewish community. You know, really uh Got a lot of respect for Brother Sasher because the Jewish communities, man, they're hard. The you you know you knocking doors in a Jewish community, you find out right away. And uh they are some of the most uh the least patient and graceful people um in that we got to pass out a bunch of tracts and we got to be a witness There's one Jewish fellow who tells a story about an old man who was standing on a crowded bus. This young man was standing next to him and asked, What time is it? And the old man refused to reply. The young man moved on. His old man standing there looking at his friend, he says, Man, what's wrong with you? Why were you so discourteous to this man? He was simply asking for the time. This old man said, if I gave him the time of day, next thing he would want to know is where I was going. Then I might have to actually talk to him. And then he would want to know what my interests were, and if we had anything in common, he might invite himself to my house. And I probably would end up feeding him. If he did that, it's very likely he would meet my lovely daughter. And if he met her, he surely would fall in love. And quite frankly, I don't want my daughter marrying a man who can't afford a watch. Sometimes we let our worry just take us take us down this path. We start worrying about it and that gets worse and this gets worse and this before we know it, man, we are way down here and and this has nothing even to do with the problem. I want you to know that's Satan that does that. He's the one that's pulling you down in there and getting you all bound up in knots over some things when we need to cast our care upon the Lord. Trade your thought. Don't don't get don't let your thoughts go down that road. Just trust. Just trust. Can you trust him tonight? Jeremiah 17, 7 says, Blessed is the man that trusteth in the Lord. That happy is the man, blessed, right? Happy is the man that trusteth in the Lord. Lastly, you want to exchange your apprehension for action Exchange your apprehension for action. You see in this verses here, back in if you're in Philippians, hopefully still, he says, Be careful for nothing, but in everything, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your request be made known unto God. And the peace of God which passes all understanding shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. And then it goes on. I know you know these verses. But he says, Finally, brethren Whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report, If there be any virtue, and if there be any phrase Think on these things. Verse 9 says, Those things which ye have both learned and received and heard and seen in me, do. And the God of peace shall be with you. You see, sometimes God gives you something to do. And you can let your apprehension keep you from following through or doing what God would have you do to make things better, or you can put some action into it. And make the change. Do what's needed. You say, man, I'm so worried about this relationship. Well, are you doing what's needed to build the relationship? Oh, I'm so worried about this this I I don't know if I'm going to have enough money to pay this bill. Well, do you have some free time you can get a second job? You could deliver some pizzas one night a week. Is there something that you could do to make up the difference? I mean there's sometimes there's action that needs to be done for us to dispel or take away that worry. We've got a lot of apprehension, but sometimes there's some action that we need to put into place. What I'm saying is you need to do what you can do to alleviate the problem. And then when you've done that, give it to God. Do what you can do, but when you've done all that you can do, who does the rest? God does the rest. We gotta do what we can do, but then God will do the rest. John Jacob Astor was told about his ship that has sunk in the South Pacific. It was a complete and total loss. It was at the bottom of the ocean. When he heard of this great loss, he put his coat on and went to the theater. Asked how he could possibly do this, he replied, What would you have me do? Stay at home and worry over that which I cannot change. There's nothing that he could do about it. At that point, it was out in the middle of the ocean. It sunk to the bottom. I mean He said, There's nothing here that I can do, so I'm not going to worry about it. You might have something that God wants you to do, and you better you better do it. Put some action in place. But if you can't, then turn it over to God You remember, beloved, the children of Israel? It was unfounded worry that kept them in the wilderness for 40 years. You see they went into the the promised land and looked it out and spied it out and said, Oh my goodness, there's some big guys in there. Yeah, there's a lot of bountiful things, a lot of prosperous, certainly a land that flows with milk and honey, but I I don't know if we can do that. And they got a little worried about it, but God had told them what they needed to do. But you see, they didn't trust. And they let that worry keep them in the wilderness. Maybe God has something for you to do and you need to trust God and just do it. Do you remember the story of David? I don't know if you want to look at that story of David when he was praying for the life of his son. If you want to look at it, 2 Samuel chapter 12 2 Samuel chapter 12, I'm going to read you a few verses from this. But you know, I mean, I know you know the story. What took place. His son was dying. He was in sackcloth and ashes. He was fasting and praying for the life of his son. In verse number 19, he says, But when David saw that his servant whispered, David perceived that the child was dead. Therefore David said unto his servant, If the child is dead, is the child dead, and they said he is dead. Then David arose from the earth. Reading verse number 20 here. Then David arose from the earth and washed and anointed himself and changed his apparel And he came into the house of the Lord and worshiped. Then he came into his own house, and then he required they set bread before him, and he did eat. Then said his servants unto him, What thing is this that thou hast done? Thou dost fast and weep for the child while he was alive, but when the child was dead, thou didst rise and eat bread. And he said, Well, the child was yet alive. I fasted and wept, for I said, Who can tell whether God will be gracious to me that the child may live? But now he is dead. Wherefore should I fast? Can I bring him back again? I shall go to him, but he shall not return to me. You see, David had a time, a window of opportunity there. He had something he could do. He could pray and he could fast and he was doing that and saying, if If there's any chance that God would be merciful to me and and I understand I deserve it and I understand it was this child was born out of sin and it was wrong and not right, but maybe Maybe God will be merciful to me. He knew he had a merciful God, and he prayed, and he sought God, and he fasted earnestly and fervently. But after the child was dead, he arose. He said, I've done what I can do. I can't do anything else. The child is gone. So I'm giving it to God. And beloved, if there's something that you need to do, Exchange your apprehension for action. Put into action. Do what you need to do to overcome that, whatever it is you're worried about. But if you've done what you can do, then just trust God. Trust God. Tonight you might need to exchange your sadness for supplication to win over victory. Or maybe you need to exchange your thought for trust. Or exchange your apprehension for action that you can win over worry. Worry is a sin. And Satan loves getting good, Bible-believing, faithful, surrendered, godly people. Who look at a lot of things in life and say, boy, I would never get involved in that sin. That's so wicked. But Satan's got you all bound up in worry. I think he's winning in a lot of lives instead of us winning over worry. Or would you stand with your heads bowed and your eyes closed? Ask the pianist to come and to play a moment of invitation. Are you winning? Overworry. Lord, as we have an invitation, I pray that each and every heart will just respond and yield to you. Help us, Lord. I know that there are many things in this life that grab a hold of our attention and They they capture our heart and mind and we get so burdened and heavy. But Lord, we know that you're still on the throne. The steps of a good man are ordered by you and God that you're still in control. And if we could just remember how faithful you are and yield to you, Lord, we would cast our cares and our burdens upon you. We ask it in Jesus' name, Amen. As a pianist plays, if God spoke to you, you do what God wants you to do. Are you winning? Satan winning a victory in your life and causing you to be bound up with worry and concern over. They're very real problems. I'm not saying they're not real There are very big heartaches and and there are things in your life that truly are important But I know that greater is he than you than he that is in the world. So