Turn to the book of Timothy, if you would, and Paul had some encouraging words for Timothy, his son in the faith. Timothy was about ready to you know continue on in his ministry and do what God had for him to do, and Paul was exhorting him and encouraging him, saying, Hey, as you go on as as a son in the faith I want to help you. I want to prepare you. I want to give you some last-minute thoughts. Paul says, you know, he he takes that, he seizes that opportunity like any instructor would, like any parent would. The last opportunity before they head out or before they take those steps. And Paul says, I want to give you a couple of words of encouragement. And there's several that could be drawn from our text. today. But if you're in 2 Timothy chapter number 3, I want you to see the first word of encouragement that I see given to us, he says in chapter 3, verse number 14, but continue thou in the things which thou hast learned and hast been assured of, knowing of w whom thou hast learned them. The first word of encouragement I want you to see says, continue. Continue. Continue in the things that you've learned. Young people, your parents would want to encourage you and exhort you to continue in the things that you've learned. They would want you to maintain and continue to do what you've been instructed in and how you've taught I would like to incorporate this word or kind of kind of sister this word with the word growth. Just continue, continue to grow, continue to do what God wants you to do. Continue to be what you've been taught to be. I can tell you one of the saddest things for any parent, any teacher, any instructor, any pastor. Is for when for those whom they've loved and led and labored to help and prepare them. One of the saddest things for them as a parent is when their children Just disregard that and walk away. After all those years of investment, after all that instruction, after all that love, all that labor, and all that time. The kid decides, uh no, I'm just going to go this way. The word of encouragement for you is to continue Don't be like the selfish-hearted, self-satisfied young person who's going to completely disregard all the instruction mom and dad gave them and Set that aside and forget about what the youth pastor taught them and forget about what they learned in the church house and go live for themselves Don't do that. Paul says to continue. Continue in the things that thou hast learned, because you know of whom you learned them. Somebody that taught you that is somebody that loves you. Somebody that wants to help you, somebody that wants what's best for you. Although many times young people grow up and they get bitter and they get angry and they get frustrated with their mom and dad and they feel like, oh mom's had me, and dad's had me in these chains and bonds and they don't let me do anything. And now I'm free and I can live my life. And they want to throw off those shackles and they want to run and go do whatever they want to do and disregard all the instruction that had come before. Could I encourage you tonight, young people, continue in the things that you've learned. Keep holding to those truths. Don't throw it by the wayside The things that God has given you. Paul told Timothy several things, and we're not going to look at them all tonight. Just a couple. He encouraged him to continue in. One is he wanted him to remember that all scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, instruction, and righteousness. Continuing the things that you've learned, young people, remember that this is the Word of God. It is the final rule for faith and practice. This is the instruction book, the manual for life. You've got that knowledge. As you grow up, don't set that aside and walk away from it. Continue in the things that you've learned. Remember those truths that you've been taught and hold on to them, hold fast to them. Actually, in 2 Timothy chapter number 1, verses 13 and 14, Paul tells them: Hold fast the form of sound words which thou hast heard of me. In faith and in love, which is in Christ Jesus, that the good thing which was committed unto thy keeping By the Holy Ghost which dwelleth in thee. Hey, Paul says, I've given you these things. Hold fast to them. Hold fast to them. Continue in those truths. Young people, you need to continue. Oh, I know the world wants to get you to walk the other way, but you continue in the things that you've learned. Remember, beloved, young people, remember to be an example. Paul says, Let no man despise thy use, but be thou an example of the believer. You all have been the benefit of many great examples. There have been before you faithful men and women of the church. Youth pastor and family, pastor, assistant pastor, mom and dad, many great examples before you. But now it's time for you to be an example. Now it's time for you to not just live your life, but be an example of the believer. He exhorts you to the Paul exhorts you and we tonight encourage you to be an example. Be what God wants you to be. Could somebody look at your life and say, There's a Christian young man? There's a Christian young lady. There's a godly individual. Are you that kind of an example? You say, well, I'm just a kid, I don't have to be an example. No, no. You're not a kid anymore. You done graduated. Okay, you stepped it up. You've achieved something, you've accomplished something, you've completed this, and and we congratulate you tonight and we honor you, and we're glad we're glad that you've made that that victory in your life. But with age and maturity comes responsibility. So you've got to be an example of what God wants you to be He said, be an example in your conversation. Is your conversation something that people would follow? Is it an example people could pattern their conversation after? Be an example in your love, your spirit, your faith, your purity. Are you that kind of an example? Would anyone accuse you of being a Christian? If you're going to continue in the things that you've learned for very long. It's a sad thing, beloved, when somebody graduates from high school or graduates from college and six months later they're not in church. If you're gonna continue in the things that you've learned, when you don't have that loving arm of mom and dad saying, Come on, let's go to church If you're going to continue in the things that you've learned for very long when you don't have that outside influence exhorting and encouraging you week by week, Then you have to do what Paul told Timothy to do when he said, stir up the gifts that are in you. He says to him in Second Timothy chapter one and verse number six, he says, Wherefore put thee in remembrance that thou stir up the gift of God which is in thee. Stir it up. There's got to be some time in your mind where you remember those things that God has taught you, and you remember those truths that your mom and dad have invested in you, and you stir those up. As you go away from here and God takes you down that next step, whether it's college or the military or or wherever you're at in in nursing school or whatever it is, you have to determine yourself. I'm gonna do what's right. And in order to do what's right, you might have to stir it up inside of you. You might have to remember those truths. Remember what God had taught you. And stir that up. Say, oh, I need to get back into church. I need to be around God's house. I need to be in God's word. I've got to stir that up. The tendency, beloved, is the fire goes out. That's just the way it is. We obviously burn wood to keep the house warm. You know it never has all these years. I never have come down in the morning and the fire was stronger than when I went to bed. It's never happened. The fire goes out unless you stir it up. Unless you kindle those flames and you add some more wood. So continue in the things that thou hast learned. And if you're going to continue to do it for very long, you've got to continue to stir. Stir it up means to kindle to kindle that flame. Keep walking with God, young people. We need young people that stir up and have a hot desire to please and honor the Lord. We need young people whose heart is on fire for God. Don't just put it in neutral Don't just put it in neutral. Whatever gift you have, stir it up for God. Secondly, I want you to see a word of encouragement he gives him in 2 Timothy 2, verse number 2. 2 Timothy 2, verse number 2, he says, And the things which thou hast heard of me among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men. who shall be able to teach others also. The second thing I word of encouragement I have for you is commit. Commit thou to faithful men. This is beloved, I would like to sister this word with the word giving. People have given to you. People have invested in you. People have trained you. They've taught you. They've helped you for all these years. And it's one thing to stand up and say, thank you. But it's another thing to take what you've been given and start to give it to somebody else. Commit it to someone else. Use the talents that God has given you, use the skills that God has given you, and start investing in somebody else's life Serve others with your skills. Give to others. Paul committed to Timothy continually through his life, and he says to Timothy, now it's time for you to commit to others That word commit literally means to deposit. It's to invest in. I use that term a lot, especially as we're talking about like the the interns, how We've had them here for ten weeks and we got ten weeks to invest in their life. That is literally that principle of committing. Ten weeks to commit to them, to give to them, to invest in their life what we can. And young people, as people have done that for you, there comes a time where you've got to take what you've learned and you've got to start giving it to someone else. You've got to share that. You know how to lead somebody to Christ, you should be a witness. You know you know how to to teach a Sunday school class or to tell a story or to lead a bus route or you ought you ought to be serving God. You ought to be doing something with the talents God has given you. Paul wanted Timothy to be ready and prepared to go to war. So he committed these things to him, but now it was Timothy's turn to commit them to others. If God's given you a skill or a talent, you should be committing it to someone else. You have the ability to play an instrument? Are you teaching someone else? Are you are you helping someone else learn? Are are you taking that skill and investing it? He encourages him to commit, to give. You see the last word that he encourages. We see in 2 Timothy chapter 4 and verse number 9. 2 Timothy chapter 4 and verse number 9, he says, Do thy diligence now, sorry, do thy diligence to what's that next word? Come. Do thy diligence to come shortly unto me. The word I want to sister with this is gratitude. He says, hey Timothy, as you're out there serving, as you're out there doing what God wants you to do, continue. Keep going for God. Hey, take what you've learned and commit it into somebody else. He says while you're doing all that, why don't you why don't you come by and say hi? Why don't you come back and and I mean Paul's not saying, but he's saying just pay your respects. Just just stop by and and express some gratitude for for all this love that's been you've been given. Too many young people forget all about those that have invested in them for all of their life and they just go on and go do whatever they're gonna do and they're just living their life. But you wouldn't be where you are unless somebody fed you and clothed you and taught you and trained you. Year after year after year after year. And Paul's saying, Hey, don't forget about me. Would you would you come come shortly whenever you get a chance come come and see me come by and and and visit actually uh there he says In verse number 21, if you look down at that verse, he says, do thy diligence to come before winter. He's saying, make it a point. Do thy diligence. Make it a point. Do it on purpose. Come. And you know what? Come before winter. You know, wintertime, we look at wintertime as a time of kind of it's it's dark, it's cold, it's discouraging. You know those that have invested in your life, they get discouraged too. And one of the greatest encouragements for any parent, anybody that's invested in another's life, is when that person comes back and says, Hey, thank you. Paul's saying, you know what, this winter's gonna be long and cold. Boy, sure would be encouragement to see you. to see that you're doing well. Come by and visit. Be with us. He tells them, don't be like Demas. You see that in verse number nine? He said, Do thy diligence come unto me. And what does he say in verse number 10? For Demas hath forsaken me, having loved this present world. You see, Demas all involved in his own life, doing his own thing. Forgot all about Paul, the ministry. So young people, church family, we see some words of encouragement. Continue in the things that you've learned. That's good for all of us. Just to continue in those things. Take the things you've learned and commit them to others. Share it. It's not at some point you gotta stop soaking it up. You gotta start giving it out. And then come or could we say express some gratitude. Come quickly. Come shortly. Come around. Don't forget about those that invested in you, young people. Express that gratitude and thankfulness. And one of the greatest things you can do, one of the greatest expressions of gratitude that you could ever have is to continue in the things you you've learned. That brings the greatest joy to those that have invested in you. They just want to be proud of you. They want to love you. They want to see you succeed. It's a selfish young person that disregards all that compassion and all that love. Yeah. And ignores it and goes their own way. So could I encourage you, some words of encouragement from Paul tonight for our graduates and maybe maybe even a little bit of us that are a little bit older to do these things.