As we began last week looking at and considering the topic of balance in the Christian life, we dove in and dealt with, first of all, the fact that balance is a requirement and that that requirement is possible. God expects us to live a balanced life, and that expectation also comes with a uh an ability to do it. It is possible to live the balanced life. Without it, we will end up At the very least, causing problems and maybe causing a lot of pain and destruction because of an unbalanced life We talked about how the fact that the balance that we hold shows the priorities that we hold. Obviously, if I am very heavily weighed down, I told uh Andrew, I said, you messed up my illustration because He was using all of his strength to keep that bucket level. I said, I wouldn't have put so much weight in there if you would have let one side go down. I was trying to illustrate that it was uneven, that this side was heavier, but he was using all of his strength in his He was holding it up. He said his neck hurt for a couple of days after that. Uh I said, Well, you weren't supposed to hold it even. You were supposed to let it go down, but he's like, Well, you didn't tell me that, so Uh I didn't explain my illustration so well, but you understand, of course, that if we are giving all of our time, energy, and effort to one area, it's very obvious to everybody else What our priority is, whatever that might be, and the imbalance that is present. Then we talked about how in the Christian's life we should Have progress. The longer we're saved, the more mature we are as a believer, we still struggle with balance, there's no doubt We all do, and we'll never get to the point where balance is not necessary, but there should become less and less effort made, and the corrections should be less and less. God should uh have narrowed down those areas in our lives where we tended to get too far in one way or the other. So tonight we're going to look at the balance of the believer and balancing work and worship. Work and worship. These are two necessary things in our Christian life, to that when you sum them up and talk about all that they entail, they They they really encompass a lot of our life. They are very, very important. If you're in Luke chapter 10, look down in verse number 38. There's a familiar passage of scripture here About the story of Mary and Martha. Now it came to pass as they went that he entered into a certain village, and a certain woman named Martha received him into her house. And she had a sister called Mary, which also sat at Jesus' feet and heard his words. But Martha was cumbered about with much serving. And came to him and said, Lord, dost thou not care that my sister hath left me to serve alone? Bid her therefore that she help me. And Jesus answered and said unto her, Martha, Martha. Thou art careful and troubled about many things, but one thing is needful, and Mary hath chosen that good part. Which shall not be taken away from her. The balance of work and worship Newton's Laws of Motion. The third law of motion states That whenever one object exerts a force on a second object, the second object exerts an equal and opposite force on the first. When we're striving for balance in our Christian life, when there is on that part in that area of my life Something that is demanding and pulling so much of my time and my effort You ever feel like you're pulled in one direction? You're you're maybe pulled in a bunch of directions, but there are some things that are really strong pulling in our lives. Well, there, in order to have balance in our life, we've got to have the opposite thing pulling with equal force on this side of the rope. In order that there is a balance maintained. Otherwise, we are gonna get pulled in that direction. We've got to have equal and opposite force pulling on both sides in order to have balance. In our life. Martha of Bethany, the sister of Mary and Lazarus, had the rare and cherished privilege of preparing a meal for Jesus. Can you imagine? Jesus is coming to your house this afternoon, Armando. I mean, can you imagine he's gonna he's coming over? And wow, what an honor. This is awesome. I mean, hey, let's go. Let's get ready. We're gonna do all that needs to be done. Of course Martha loved her Lord deeply and was looking forward to serving him with all her heart. She was glad to do it. She wanted to do it. She was desiring to do it. I mean, what a privilege to have Jesus at her house. At the same time, Mary, hearing of his coming to the house, was looking forward to sitting at his feet Now, I'm going to challenge some of the conceptions that we have with regards to this passage today. So don't get mad at me. I don't think I'm going to be preaching heresy. I'm just asking you to rethink a little bit About what it is, and I I think you'll you'll see what I came to see in the scriptures. But first of all, what I want you to understand with regards to balance in our life is that we have a propensity. To avoid balance. What I'm saying is we are given in our lives to a particular pattern or way of living. We have what's called the old nature. We have our old habits We have what we are in our flesh that we would do. I think you could say it like this: the less that you walk in the spirit, The more you will tend towards your old habits. The less you walk in the Spirit, the more you're going to tend towards your old habits. It would be nice if at the moment of salvation Christ would take that old nature away. It would be nice if at the moment of salvation we could be granted a level of grace that would give us that perfect balance in our life that was maintained all the time. Would take no effort. That would be awesome. That we had that level of spiritual wisdom and knowledge. But the fact of the matter is, there's a tendency that we all have, whatever it might be. This evening we're talking about Mary and Martha. And we're talking about the tendency that they have in their life. To act in the way which is very clearly given to us here in the story in Luke. But I want you to know there's three times in the Gospels where Mary and Martha and Lazarus Interact with Christ. And all three times you see the same things take place. The third has a very small, minute change, which I think gives us a little bit of insight. You see here in Luke, Mary is sitting in line with our title tonight, she's worshiping at the feet of Jesus. And Martha is working. You see, each of them had their tendency. I want you to know that both tendencies are needed. In the work of God. But I hope tonight to shed some light on the idea of achieving balance in this area of our life You see, tonight the church would be in a lot of trouble if everybody in the church was like Mary. We would be the most serene, the most spiritual group of people that were getting nothing done Right. I mean, we would just be so spiritual, but we would be accomplishing nothing. But I want you to see as well that we would be in an equal amount of trouble tonight if we were all like Martha. For we would be accomplishing a lot. But Jesus might not even be present. He might not even be part of the scene. We would be cumbered about and busy with much serving and Christ not even be part of it. To the extent that Mary and Martha were walking in the Spirit, we see them achieve this balance in their life. Turn to John chapter number eleven. I want you to see the second place where They are interacting with Christ. You know the story where Lazarus was sick and nigh unto death and he died and Christ didn't come and didn't show up and they were all upset at him and so on. And Jesus comes on the scene here in John chapter number 11 and verse number 20. He says, then Martha, as soon as she heard that Jesus was coming, went and met him. You see there, Martha is about action. She's gonna do something. She's moving. She's going to meet Jesus. But where do you see Mary? But Mary sat still in the house. Now I don't know. I I mean I'm not gonna shoot Mary, but I want you to understand tonight that there's been a whole lot of bash uh Martha bashing been going on for a lot of years. About everybody down on Martha because she's serving. And spiritual Mary was sitting at the feet of Jesus, worshiping her Lord. Well, in a very similar circumstance in the book of John, we see Martha going to meet Jesus, and where is Mary? She's sitting. Jesus isn't there. I think maybe Martha Mary was just giving to sitin. I think maybe Mary just enjoyed sitting And maybe that's why Martha got so upset at Mary when she was cumbered about with much serving. Because she knew her sister. She knew that Her tendency was to sit. What I want you to understand is both things are necessary, and I want you to understand is that they are both necessary in every one of our lives. We all need equal portions of the spirit of Mary to sit at the feet of Jesus and the spirit of Martha to serve. None of us should be saying, well, I'm a sitter. They're a server. I'm a worshiper. They're a worker. I'm a worker. They're a worshiper. No, that we need balance in our life in these two areas. The spirit of Mary and of Martha is needed in every church. Every believer should try and achieve a balance of each in our lives. Would you consider with me as we show the problem that comes from not having balance in this area? Turn back to our text in Luke, chapter number 10. We'll be back there in a moment. But there's a problem that comes from not having balance. First of all, when someone is giving to sitting all the time, whether we want to attribute a level of spirituality to Mary and she's sitting at the feet of Jesus and she's worshiping him and and that that is the Indeed, what we want to give to her, if that's the Spirit, and it is what we're looking for as believers, is sitting and worshiping the Savior. Well, when someone is giving to sitting all the time, the fact is, is the work goes undone. The work is not accomplished. There is a problem when the work does not get done. We can be as pious and as spiritual and as full of the Holy Spirit as we as you want. And what I think should be registering in your mind, you cannot sit at the feet of Jesus for very long without Jesus telling you Get working. Now I know in this par in this uh story, not a paramount, in this story Jesus said, Mary hath chosen the good part. And that shall not be taken away from her. What I want you to understand, I believe, that this is in the context of the fact That Jesus was present with them and was not going to be with them for very much longer. So she was seizing the opportunity. To worship her Lord while the opportunity was there. But the fact is is if we're given to sitting all the time, the work doesn't get done. I think everybody here understands that Jesus Christ was all about the work. From the time he was twelve years old, he said, I must be about my father's business. I must work the works of him that sent me. Work, for the night cometh when no man can work. We know that he said, Pray ye therefore, the Lord of the harvest, that he would send forth laborers into the harvest Don't think that it is God's objective or Jesus Christ's objective in this teaching that our goal should be always to sit. There is work that needs to be done. Secondly, a problem that arises when you're given to sitting all the time is that you discourage those that are working. You see those that are cumbered about with much serving They get discouraged because this super spiritual, super godly Christian Who loves the Lord and wants to shout Amen and lifts his voice up in song is nowhere to be found when it's time to pick up a shovel. I can't tell you how many conversations I've had with Christians who ask me, Pastor, why is there nobody else here? Where is the church? I thought this was a church event. I thought this was a church project. I thought we were all going to do this. I just assumed everybody was going to be here. And I just tell them, listen, we don't ever worry about who's not here. We praise God for who is, and we just keep going on. But listen, Christian, if you're given to sitting all the time, even if you want to say it's at the feet of Jesus, I want you to understand if you're truly that spiritual At some point, Christ is going to touch your heart and say there's things that need to be done. Come on. There's things that need to be done. There's work that needs to be accomplished. On the other side of that rope though, is when someone is given too much serving. And let me say this. I believe in our American culture, this is the greater problem. This is the greater problem. I I don't know that we have people that are spending too much time at the feet of Jesus. I don't know that we're too heavy on that end of the rope very much. I think this is the greater problem when we are given to serving all the time. You see, Martha is a loving hostess. She's determined to do everything that she could to make this visit of Jesus Christ to her home a perfect one. This is the day of days for her. Christ is entering her home. Yet this day, with all of its sunshine and joy, there creeps in a cloud of a bitter Spirit. Why? Because the harder she worked, the more worked up she became. What happens when you're cumbered about with much serving, when you're spending all your time working and not worshiping, you develop an attitude problem. You begin to look at those who aren't there and get upset that they're not there. You see, when it first started out She, Martha, looked for the joy of having Christ come to her house and she wanted to serve Jesus. I mean, can you imagine she may have even wanted to do it by herself. Maybe because she was a perfectionist, wanted it done her way. Maybe that's why Mary sat down. She knew she wasn't going to make Martha happy anyway. She wasn't going to get up and help her and just have her complain about what she did. But she wanted to do this. Have you ever seen a kid that wanted doing something for mom or dad? They're doing a craft or they're doing a project for mom or dad. And one of the siblings come over and want to help. And they know, no, I'm doing this for dad. You ever seen that? I could see that spirit in Martha in the beginning where she wanted to do it for Jesus. And we as Christians, we have that heart. Boy, I want to do this for God. And we're excited about serving the Lord, and we we indept we get out with the opportunity to serve Christ and we're all gung-ho and excited. But what happens when we get full of service and we're not spending any time worshiping? We get a bad attitude. We get a bad attitude and we start to look at others who aren't serving and say, why aren't they here? It's not about them. I thought you were thrilled to serve God. I thought you were happy about the opportunity. But when we stop worshiping, we lose the reason for why we're working. We lose sight of that. She developed a bad attitude against Mary when Mary had done nothing wrong. You know many times the problems that Christians have amongst each other are based in very little, if any, truth. Most of the time the problems are so so small and minor we've just I mean can you see Martha as she's carrying the dishes in? She's carrying all those dishes as she walks past Mary sitting there And she begins to fume. Like, man, I'm doing all these dishes by myself. And she's setting the table. She's getting everything. And then she's back and she's got to take the trash out because it's getting full. And she walks through the living room there. And there's Mary sitting there and Martha's taking the trash out. Every time she's walking by, she's getting madder and madder. She's getting more and more upset that she's doing it by herself. She's developing this attitude. Mary may not have even known that Martha was mad. She didn't know Martha needed help. She was just talking to Jesus. But the whole time, Martha's getting more and more upset. She thought there should be someone helping her carry the load, and that someone was letting her down. that's not true. Not only that, she began to get upset with God. Look in verse number 40. She says, but Martha was cumbered about with much serving. And came to him and said, Lord, dost thou not care that my sister hath left me to serve alone? So she was mad at Mary for not helping, but she questioned the compassion and the love of Christ. Because Christ hadn't rebuked Mary and told her to come and help. She said, You don't even care for me, God. You don't even care that I'm doing all this work all by myself. Do you see the attitude problem that arises? Christian, I can't tell you how many cantankerous, bitter old codgers there are in Baptist churches all over the world. That they're still doing the job they've been doing for fifty years, and they'll let everybody know how bitter they are about it. There is no joy in serving Jesus. There's no love and satisfaction in getting it done. They've been fulfilling and serving that position so long. But when's the last time they sat and worshipped him? You see, you need the balance Of the worship to remind us for the reason for the work. And we can't continue to sit and worship all the time without fulfilling the need to work. There's got to be balanced The implication that she put on Christ that he did not care. She thought she knew just how Jesus should demonstrate his compassion for her. She told him so. She said, Would you tell Mary to get up here and help me? And Jesus said, no. What? He said, this is not going to be taken away from her. She hath chosen a good thing. There is times that we are to be worshiping, and there's times that we are to be working. The balance in the Christian life comes when we learn through the Spirit of God when is which. She went from wanting to serve her Lord, looking to it as a great honor, glad to do it and may be glad to do it alone. To being bitter and upset. It ruined her whole day Because she was not worshiping her Lord. I want you to understand Christ did not rebuke her for her service. He didn't rebuke her for her service. He reproved her for her attitude. And it was a gentle reproof. He said, Martha, Martha. You know, you can see the compassion in his tone there, Martha. You're coming about with many things. He's saying you're so concerned. She was distracted and disturbed and forgot why she was doing what she was doing in the first place. Her attitude created a bad circumstance, a bad situation. You need to remember that your circumstances are not going to make or break you. It's your response to them that will. How you respond. And we look now lastly at the practice of balance in our life, the practice of balance. Understand this, Martha put this work on herself. Christ said, You are cumbered about with so many things. You see, Jesus did not demand of her that she get out to find China and prepare a five-course meal. Hey, paper plates and beef stroganoff would have been okay. But Martha of her own desire wanted to do this for Christ. And so she got so concerned about every detail being perfect and everything prepared, and she's so overwhelmed with all of what she's got to do, and Jesus doesn't even care But Jesus did not ask her to do all that. Christian, many, many, many times the problem with us being out of balance is that we've taken upon ourselves Work that God did not give us. Work that was not supposed to be ours in the first place, but that we wanted to do. Can I give you just one simple illustration? Let's say that you want a particular car that you cannot afford. So you go out and you buy this car that you can't afford, but the problem is in order to get that now you have to work overtime that you don't have time to do. Now you're working overtime and expending time that you really don't have on the job, and that leaves things at home that aren't getting done that need to get done. So that creates a problem in the house between you and your wife and and the situation at home and there's a lot of bickering and problems that go there, and you don't have time to to go and to spend with the kids like you want to because That problem can be traced down even further and further to the problems it creates in your life, but it all goes back to the fact that you picked up something that God did not want for you. You picked up something that you wanted. And then you're trying to ask God to help you get balance in your life. We need to prayerfully consider the decisions that we make and only pick up those things, those responsibilities, those duties that would be given to us by Christ. She was overdoing it when Jesus didn't ask her to. Now let me just throw this out. God is not honored by shoddy work or by one neglecting your responsibilities I'm being slightly uh facetious in my comment about paper plates and beef strogano. We ought to do our best for Christ. But you understand the principle of what I'm saying is that she was putting too much on herself that was not asked of her of God. Does that make sense? At the same time, you and I have to be sure that what we pick up is what God intended for us. Even at church. Even the responsibilities we're doing here. Listen, I know there's a lot to do at church. There's all kinds of responsibilities and positions that need filled. You need to pray about it. Say, God, do you want me to do this? Before you say yes to even me as your pastor. When I say, hey, would you pray? I I've uh anybody I've asked about serving in a position, I say, would you pray about helping us in a sound? Booth. Would you pray about helping us in the in this or that? Because I want you to have peace in your heart that this is something God wants you to do. Because it's a commitment. And I want you to know that it's something that God gave you to do. What you're doing may be good, but it might not be best Sometimes we don't have balance, like Martha, because we've loaded up one end of the rope with lots of stuff that's not supposed to be there. Sometimes we don't even have time for worship because we've loaded up the work end so heavy that it's pulling all the time. We we just we feel like there is no time to add anything to that side because it's all over there. What that means is we've got to change it something. We've got to take something off of that end so that we can balance it with worship. So that when we come in and do the work, we can do it with the right spirit and the right attitude. Mary chose the good thing. As I said, I believe she did what she was supposed to do. At that time, because Jesus was there, because they had him at their house. They could clean the house another day. They couldn't sit at the feet of Jesus another day. So you need to use the opportunities that God has given you. There's sometimes there's only a time to serve or to work, like let's vape vacation Bible school. That's one week. Have it one week out of the year. It comes and it goes. If you're going to be working, that is a week to be working. You can't say, oh, I want to take this week and and I'm just gonna spend an extra hour and a half in worship every morning during this week. Well pray for VBS then. I'm just saying there's times that we need to be working and there's times that we need to be worshiping. That's why we don't allow anybody in the church, or we strive very hard, not to allow anybody to serve in more than two services a week Right. So that you're not working all the time. Whether that's in ushering or Sound booth or Sunday school class, you can be cumbered about with so much working that you never come in and sit down and are fed the Word of God. We work very hard to try and make sure that people that are attending here, that are serving in the ministries here, are not serving in the nursery on Sunday night and serving in junior church on Sunday morning and serving in master clubs on Thursday night, and they are never sitting under the ministry of the Word. And hearing the songs and getting to just sit and and and just sit with Jesus once in a while. That's why we work very hard to do that, because there needs to be a balance in our lives I think maybe Martha figured out what was necessary. Would you turn to John chapter number twelve? Here's a third situation, a third time where they interacted. In John chapter number twelve, verses one through two 3. He says, Then Jesus, six days before the Passover, came to Bethany where Lazarus was, which had been dead, whom he raised from the dead There they made him a supper, and Martha served, but Lazarus was one of them that sat at the table with him. So you see Martha serving? She's got a tendency to do that, doesn't she? Martha's serving, but what I want you to understand is there is no problem here. There is no problem mentioned. Look at verse number three. Then took Mary a pound of ointment and spikened very costly and anointed the feet of Jesus. And wiped his feet with her hair, and the house was filled with the odor of the ointment. What I want you to see is you have both of them mentioned here I think that you see a measure of service in Mary in how she took what she had and gave it to Christ. She sacrificed for her Lord. Now, yes, she's still sitting at the feet of Jesus, but she's got a measure of service. And you see Martha serving, but not upset about it. Not bitter that Lazarus is sitting at the table and she's serving and and Lazarus is doing nothing. I think maybe by this point they figured out how to do it. They figured out how to have that balance of work and worship. We see both of them in their quiet service to their Savior. And worshiping him here. We need to learn what Martha needed to learn. Effective work is dependent. Upon effective worship. And what Mary needed to learn, effective worship will result in effective work. They're both needed in every one of our lives. And to the extent that we walk in the flesh, We will go to the tendency that is ours. Some of you are given to be workers. That's just who you are. You're just a worker. You need to walk in the Spirit so that you don't leave off worship because worship is necessary. Some of you are great at the worship. But you need to walk in the Spirit, or you're going to leave off work. And the work that God would have you do is not going to get done. Balance of the believer. Between work and worship