And for tonight, I'm going to have you in a passage that is pretty familiar. I'm sure you've heard it preached on, but I like to just say this. It's in Matthew chapter 6. That you know what's neat about the scripture is it's alive. And so, you know, for me, I've been reading my Bible through now for six eighteen years and I can still read passages that just jump out at me and blow my mind. Well why is that? Well, because the Bible is alive. And the word of God is alive. And so that's uh that's the benefit. So so I hope you don't ever come to a passage, maybe you heard it from And you're like, I already know what's going to be said, and I already please don't do that because you're limiting the work of God that He could do. And so uh I did come up with a title uh for tonight and because he asked me so I so I worked at that. I'm just not that kind of a creative a guy, but but the title I had tonight is Worry. It isn't even for the birds. So that was as good that was as good as I can get. I had like fifteen of them written down. I was like, what do you think, Ashley? What do you think about this? She's like, I don't like that one. I was like, okay, let's keep going. Worry, it isn't even for the bird. So let's look at Matthew chapter 6 and verse, we'll start in verse 25. It says, Therefore I say unto you, take no thought for your life, what you shall eat or what you shall drink Who we have for your body what ye shall put on. Is not the life more than meat and the body than raiment? Behold the fowls of the air. They sow not, neither do they reap, nor gather into barns. Yet your heavenly father feedeth them. Are ye not much better than they? And which of you, by taking thought, can add one cubit unto a stature? And why take ye thought for ramen? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow. They toil not, and neither do they spin. And yet I say unto you that even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. Wherefore If God so clothed the grass of the field, which today is and tomorrow is cast into the oven, shall he not much more clothe you? O ye of little faith Therefore take no thought, saying, What shall we eat, or what shall we drink, or wherewithal shall we be clothed? For after all these things did the Gentiles seek. For your heavenly Father knoweth that you have need of all these things. things, but seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. Take therefore no thought for the morrow. For the morrow shall take thought for the things of itself, and sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof. You know, there are certain things in life that if you never learn or never understand, it's life goes on. You know, like if you never learn to write a skateboard Can you write a skateboard? And you're s and you're still getting married. So I mean like obviously it wasn't a prerequisite of the woman, right? She has to write a skateboard. You know, if you never learn to throw a changeup pitch, you can still buy a car. That's that's a great, right? Did you never learn how to master a Rubik's Cube? Right? Only if you you only have if you've watched YouTube, you know that. That's just Just admit it. You got to watch a video on it, right? But we do know that there are things in life where if you do not learn or you you do not understand, they can permanently alter the direction and quality of your life. And one of those things I believe is really in this passage here in Matthew six here that we looked at, Jesus brings to our attention one of those principles. And this is a principle that has been abused. And misunderstood. It's been abused and misunderstood. And as we get into it, I'm going to bring up some of the ways it's been abused and misunderstood. But it's talking about seeking the kingdom of God. That's what it's talking about. And when I would think of seeking the kingdom of God, in my mind, I usually thought of it in a church context. And that's absolutely one of the applications of it, obviously. If you're going to seek the human God, you've got to be involved in His work, in His house. Obviously, He died for us, He died for His house, and that's an aspect. But when you look at all that Jesus has said up to this point. And around this, then I'm sure that you'll see that that's too small of a view. I if you only relegate this to the house of God. Because seeking first things in God isn't just about coming to church on a Sunday. Sunday, though that is part of it. And it isn't just about being active in outreach efforts at the church, although that is part of it. It's much more than that. Seeking the kingdom of God is much more than that And so in this section of Scripture, Jesus brings up some of the most necessary and essential things of life. And he makes some very strong statements about them. Like food and clothing and your life. And he has opinions about it. He has some statements about them. And at this time in history, it's it's really important that you that you just remember it if if if you didn't know That as we look at what he has said, that most of humanity at this time was literally living off of what they were bringing in on a day-to-day basis. That's how they were living. If they wanted food, they had to raise it, or farm it, or cultivate it. If they wanted water, They'd have to go and find it somewhere. They had to make sure they had wells. There was fighting in the Old Testament over wells. Why? Because you need water to live. And if you couldn't find your food, then what would you do? Well, in desperation, you'd fish all night We saw some of the disciples doing that themselves. This was a pre-industrialized society. And many people got paid even in the food, by the food that they had for that day. That was their payment. And so for the most part they lived on a day-to-day basis. And Jesus even expressed this sentiment in the Lord's Prayer. We said, give us this day our Daily bread. I mean it wasn't weekly or monthly. It was like uh I need it today and I need more tomorrow. Daily bread. And yet Christ is here and he's telling these people, his followers, not to seek those things. Not to. In fact, he goes even farther than that. He tells them that if they do seek to those things, then they would be identifying with a Gentile. Now that may not mean a lot because you're probably a Gentile like me. Please understand how shocking and insulting that would be to a Jew. To be called a Gentile. To be labeled that. Remember the Grecian woman who came to Jesus asking a request and what he said to her? It's not meat to take the children's bread and cast it unto the dogs. I mean that that that's that's pretty strong statements. Don't put them on CNN, that'd be really bad. Don't cast them to the dogs. They would have been shocked because Jesus' view of the Gentile was, well, he doesn't have a God. He serves his own self and he's it's a pagan thing. And and so he is saying that if you do find yourself seeking these things, that well that's what the Gentiles do. And you're lining up with that. And I'm telling you that they would have been shocked at that comparison. Because food and clothing, I mean how Uh could they not seek those things? This is a day-to-day event for them. This is a day-to-day livelihood. So what Jesus is doing is in this section of verses 25 to 34 is he is bringing us back to the idea that he's already laid down in the previous verses. And if you're ver familiar with verse 19 to 24, I'll just kind of skim through that for you. He says, Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth Where moth and dust doth corrupt and where thieves rake through Nurstillah, and he tells the he goes down to the end of that verse twenty four, no man can serve two masters So Jesus is laying out the fact that if you're going to follow me properly, it's going to demand that you live a certain way, and that is going to look a certain way. And you can't have it both ways. And so Jesus has laid out this idea of the focus of your life. Where is your life pointing? Just like he talked about this morning. Where is your life focusing? And so what he does now in verses 25 to 34 is he shows us what that looks like. So you don't want to serve two pastors? What does it look like? Okay, don't take thought. He says therefore. So now that you understand the principle, let me put some teeth to that principle. Let me show you how what that looks like in a day-to-day context. If you are living this correctly, then what you would do is take no thought for those things. And he says that three times. If you look through the passage in verse 25, he says it in verse 34, he says it in verse 31. He says this the same idea And what Christ is not saying, let me just get this out of the way first, what Christ is not saying is this. He's not saying don't plan out your week. He's not saying that. Okay? Jesus was the one who said, what man is going to go out and build a tower and doesn't first sit down and consider the cost? Whether he has sufficient to build. Jesus is against a wrongly focused life. And what a wrongly focused life not only leads you to, but keeps you from. And he's going to bring that out. In the 28 chapters that Matthew wrote, there are only seven times that he addresses the idea of worry, and six of those seven times are in this chapter alone. And he addresses it through the idea of take no thought. That's the idea of worry. Six of the seven times in all 28 chapters, they are right here in this passage because he's trying to make the argument to us. Now he makes this argument based around three examples. And each one's targeting a different area. The first one are the birds. And you see this in verse 25 to 26. Let's look at just verse 26 again right there. It says, Behold the fowls of the air. What about them? They sow not, and neither do they weep, nor gather in to barn. Stop there now. I think this is fascinating because when you go to the scripture, I'm sure that you all have done this, and I'm definitely Eustace, you better do this. When you have all these kids, a good book for you to be in is Proverbs. Because it's like here's a statement, man. Live that statement today. You know, cease from strife. That's the big one we use in our house, right? Cease from strife. Every fool is going to be meddling. Don't be meddling, alright? Get out of it. And so we use Proverbs a lot. And in Proverbs, God will use different animals or different parts of his creation to illustrate principles for us. Like if you have someone who's lazy, go to the ant, thou sluggard. You could learn from him. And even the locusts, they don't have a band, they don't have a leader, but they travel about in bands and they do great things without a leader. And God has kind of elevated or he has highlighted different parts of his creation that we can learn something from, whether it's a work ethic or a planning ethic, but you don't see a lot about birds In the positive sense, that they don't make provision for the future themselves. They don't. He just does it. They don't gather in the barns. But what is Jesus' commentary on them? Yet your heavenly father feedeth them They're not like the ant. They're not like the the the the the coney. They're not like the locust. But what's but are they taken care of? Absolutely There's no worry in the lives of birds. There's no anxiety in their lives. They just live. That's why I said worry. It's not even for the birds They're they're not even engaging in worry. Now he's not advocating laziness. We understand that if a man doesn't work, he shouldn't eat. That we that's we understand that. The birds, though fed by God, don't sit on a branch. And wait for food. They go and find it. They build their nest and they prepare and they migrate to where food is. But the reality of the bird is it doesn't focus on this. There's no attempt of birds to pile up goods for the future. You don't see birds flying around with little suitcases just in case there's going to be a famine or a drought. They don't do that. And the point that Jesus is making is simple. If the birds who can't plan ahead and don't plan ahead, they have no reason to worry, then certainly you don't. Uh God takes care of them. He doesn't take care of you. There's no reason for you to be filled with anxiety, especially because you have a heavenly father who feeds the birds, he'll feed you. Now he goes on to the second example, the second argument, and that's about our stature in verse 27. Which of you by taking thought can add one cubit unto Histature, now for a long time I read that, and I just thought uh that that phrase stature was talking about height And uh even if it even if it does or it doesn't, it doesn't really change the principle, but after having studied it, I I really believe that the word well I know this is true, the word for stature can also mean a a period of time or like an age Okay, and we know a qubit is a measurement. And so what Jesus would be saying is, um, if you worry about your life, are you really going to add to it? I mean I I don't I don't m most people would not want to grow this this tall anyways, you know, a cubit. It'd be kind of awkward. Some of us would love that But some of us that that would probably be messed us up. So I really think that the context fits the idea of Jesus saying, if you worry about your life, are you really going to add on to it? Matter of fact, I think there's so much evidence to the contrary. That we could look at the data and look at the studies and see that worry has been proven in numerous instances to shorten our stature. To shorten our lives. And that when we engage in worry, it creates physiological problems. It can create ulcers, it can create anxiety, it can create a breakdown in our life And what Jesus is saying is you're you're gonna make it better? Uh isn't our lifespan uh your lifespan is a gift from God Your food is a gift from God. Your clothing, these are all gifts from God, and worrying about those things doesn't change anything. I mean, you realize that God could have made it so that if we were to engage in worry, it benefited us. But when we engage in worry, we actually uh in a way our bodies are punished through it. It's kind of an indication, don't worry. It's not a good thing for you. And then he goes on to the last example in verse twenty eight. He says, And why take ye thought for raiment? What's his argument? Well he's the lilies of the field. He's goes to the flower. Look at the flower, how they grow, they told not neither they spit. Now I think that this is even more amazing. And it really it should be because if you see what Jesus is doing, he's making an argument from a lesser to greater position here. He's starting off with a simple thing like the birds, and he's going to get even more airtight in his argument, and now he's going down to the flower, which is even more astounding because birds are at least active. Like birds will at least go and get food. And they'll if they see a a a troop of toddlers running at them in a field, they'll get out of the way. But if you have a bunch of toddlers running towards a patch of flowers, they're probably not gonna make it. They're not gonna move. They're gonna get trampled. They can do absolutely nothing to change location. And what catches my attention and probably yours about flowers is their magnificence. What do you mean by their magnificence? Well, they're beyond the best that any human art can achieve. You think about this man, with all of his ingenuity and all his ability to plan and and to postulate things, he cannot replicate a flower We have learned how to make guns in a printer, a 3D printer. We can do all kinds of crazy things. But go and try to find flowers. Plastic flowers. You can spot them a mile away. Maybe not a mile. But you can spot them. And if you're like, okay, let's let's go to silk flowers, but let's go up a notch, you can still notice that they're different Because you can't replicate that. It's a nice effort, but they don't have the grace and the beauty of the real thing. Because A real flower, there is a texture, and there is a fragrance, and there is a substance and a magnificence and a color that is unmatchable. And so Jesus is saying, if God, if my father, who creates with such extravagance and loving care something as fragile as the flower that today is and is tomorrow is gone, if we get a heat A heat wave, they're all gone, all billions of them are gone in the field. If if he takes that much time to make them that majestic that they would outdo the greatest king ever to roam this earth Then don't you think that his care for his higher creation would also be higher? Don't you think that would be greater? Don't you think it would be more? And some would argue this, well, does God really provide for the birds and Does God really provide so bountifully as as it says? I mean, do you know that tons of birds are killed every year and sometimes for lack of suitable food? Uh are you aware that uh the experience of many Christians throughout history who have suffered persecution, in that persecution because of that, um were deprived of things and ultimately came to starvation? And are you aware of the fact that right now we're fifty percent they say of all believers live in the two-thirds part of the world that is below poverty? And that there are many cases where Christians are on earth right now who cannot obtain enough food and adequate food, and that some die through famine And you're gonna sit here in America and all that, and you're gonna sit here from the pulpit and say, Yeah, God cares for you What about all these people? What about all that? And you're going to sit here and say that? It doesn't seem as if God is providing properly. It doesn't seem like Jesus really means what he means. And I'm here to tell you that that's he does mean what he means Well, what does he mean? Well, I really believe after again studying this that the all the when he says all of these things that Jesus references will be added unto you is very much like the one in Philippians 4. Now, if you're familiar with Philippians 4, Paul's talking about giving, and he says, My God shall supply all your needs according to his riches in glory. And the context, I think, would be very fitting that this is not referring to everything you need as in need itself. But rather, it's everything you need in order to glorify God. Okay, well the truth is that God calls some people to glorify him by dying. That's what our Savior did. How did He glorify God? Through His death. Was God providing? Was He not providing? No, that's what was the plan of God. God does that sometimes. And so uh you know here I come away with this. I don't want to live any longer than God wants me to live. And I don't want to live any less than God wants me to live. As a Christian, I think we should live exactly as long as he wants us to live That should be our mindset. And that will be as long as the plan he has is in enforced for us to fulfill. I believe that. And if you can have that mindset, then what did you worry about? The flowers, the birds, your life? Is it going to change anything if you do engage in worry? No, if God has a plan for you, He's going to give you all that you need to fulfill that plan. If if God has given me the gift of life and He has called me to serve Him in this world then God will make sure that I have all the things that are necessary to sustain that life and that calling as He sees fit And if you don't have something, it's because you don't need it. It may be that God has withheld something from you to drive you to a new lesson. That could be why. Now I I understand that that is not a natural way of thinking. It really isn't. And that's why Jesus brings it up and he connects this to the issue of faith in verse 30. He says, shall he not much more clothe you? And look what he says next, O ye of little faith. Because those without Christ, well they're entirely consumed by all these things. That's all they have. They have one life, and that life is completely up to them. It's only going to be as good as they make it. And so they have all these slogans, live it up and live as get it get as much as you can. They have all these ways of living, but in direct contrast to that, God's children and God's people are to be characterized by faith. By faith in a loving heavenly Father that made us. And that He knows what's best for us. And this is what makes worry such a big deal, because worry strikes at the very nature and character of God. God's not good enough. God hasn't done right. And it's the exact opposite of trust in God. And that's why I believe that Jesus pins this whole all three arguments down to the issue of little faith. It's not an accident he ends there. That's why he identified the person living this way as if they were a Gentile. Because when you live worrying, you are living as if there isn't a God who has made you and cares for you and signs your life. You're living just like a Gentile who is going through their day with their whole life up to them I've got to come up with my substance. I've got to come up with my life. If I want to get that, I'm going to have to go out and get it. And God's people can sit back and s and not be lazy and idle, but we can understand promotion coming from the north We we can have a different way of approaching life. And the only antidote to that kind of worry is then what he says in verse 33. It just naturally follows. He says, but so here's the solution for that. Here's what I want you to do. Seek ye first the kingdom of God. And this is the truth that I want to drive home tonight. Here's the truth. Because you and I have less fear in our Western society of securing our daily bread. Because we have less worry and less effort and less time into securing that, you know what that means? We should be even more liberated to seek the kingdom of God. Even more than they were. We're not going day to day for food and most of us aren't. We we don't have to have that burden on our back to go out fishing all night because if we don't, we don't eat that night. We don't have that burden. So therefore with that time that has been freed up We should be able to invest that into the kingdom of God. And while their daily concerns were whether they would have dinner that night, our daily concerns are more so Uh what hobby do I want to fulfill? And what time is that show on? And is it from seven to eight or is it eight to nine? You know what? Is it on Saturday? Are we going to binge watch that? I mean, what what is it about? And the sad reality for I think Western Christianity is that instead of using our liberation from these day-to-day needs, instead of using that to seek the kingdom of God, we so often use them to pursue lesser things. And to pursue our own things. But isn't our life more than bings watching a series? And isn't our life more than a hobby? Isn't our life more than getting a title at work? Isn't our life more than a sports team and the staff? Isn't that more than a high score and a video game? Isn't our life more than just getting up and going to work and coming home and getting up and going to work and cut Isn't our life more than that? Yes, because our life is more than these things And that's how the lower creation lives in the mundane cycles of life. But God has made us for a purpose, a greater purpose, because we are his greater creation. And we have a greater purpose. Well, what's the purpose? Why does God have me on this earth? Seek ye first, the kingdom of God. Don't wait till you get out of school. Don't wait till you're 18. Don't wait till retirement age. Don't wait for a certain time. He says, seek the kingdom of God first. And this isn't just about, again, let me let me reiterate, this isn't just about you getting more involved in church ministries. Although that is an application. It absolutely is. This isn't God will make your finances better if you give. This is where this has been abused. And some Pentecostal offshoots. Wow, just if you'll serve God, you'll get that BMW You'll get all that. No, this isn't this isn't that. This isn't God will make things better if you give. What this is saying is this if you you if you give You don't have to worry about those things. That you can seek the kingdom of God fully and not have to worry about these things In other words, you can love him with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength, because you know that as you do that, that all these things that you're needing will be added unto you. That you as a Christian we work. But as we work, we work under the Lord. And He takes care of us. And in that work, if we get fired for having a testimony, if we get fired because we went and lied to cover our boss. If we get fired because we wouldn't fudge the numbers and change things up, if we get fired for that, then we know that there's a Father in heaven who will take care of us. And we don't have to manipulate the system. We don't have to do that. And I'm not speaking uh a platitude. I we've had to go through this when I uh before I went to Topeka And I served there for for almost nine years on staff as I was finishing up Bible college and I was working at the bank and we had our first son and he was probably just born, I wasn't that th that that far into into like eight months or something. I was working at a bank. My wife was staying at home. And and I worked hard. And I was moving up and I was getting trained in more areas. And I had just been cross-trained as a banker. into more a clientele basis where you have to uncover needs and financial things and mortgages and annuities and I was being trained in that. And uh so but my work knew the whole time that eventually I'm leaving Because I'm going to go and pa and pastor or be in ministry someday. They already knew that. I was up front with this. So as I'm there, I was there for a couple years, finished enough, school. And over the it was coming down to to March time frame and I was uh went o went down to up to Topeka to kind of candidate, if you will, and to check out the church and they were gonna look at me and we're gonna vote and all those things. I went there And I came back after that weekend, and as I'm at work on Monday, the natural thing to do is talk about the weekend. So as I'm talking about the weekend with uh the different clients that came in, I was telling him, what did you what did you do? Well I went up to this church and I was looking because I plan on going into ministry at some point. And my manager overheard that. And I came in to work the next day and my area manager was there. That's not too common. And uh I go in there and we just went to Starbucks, which I never went because I call it five bucks. Went to Starbucks and I we spent like thirty-five dollars probably on two lattes And so I go in there and I'm carrying this coffee 'cause I was like, hey uh we're we're doing better now, I'm getting trained and I go in there like, Oh, you're fired. I was like, Wow, this is put that down. And I could could have used that five bucks. And so I'm I got fired and and and and the grounds for the firing was conflict of interest. And that is true. I mean I mean if you're in a job and you're and you're openly talking about other jobs you're seeking, that's not a good thing. But the the thing is is it's it's it was so convenient. They knew I only had two months left And then I was going out. It was understood for all years, but you see, why would they do that? Well there were some things going on behind the scenes that you don't know about. Um like they were wanting to engage in parties on the weekend and I never would go to them. They were talking about new things in the breakfield and I would either walk out or I would object to that. And the w the last straw was um The last straw was when they wanted to do this this campaign where if everybody gave to one of these institutions like the United Way or something, if everybody gave so much money to that, then they would have a branch pizza party and it's pretty much almost like a day off and away And uh I didn't want to do that. And so I got cornered in the break room by some of the employees, like, man, you're so selfish. You're not gonna give look at these people have needs. You say you're a Christian, you're not gonna give? These people have needs And I'm like, uh I don't know. I give to my church already. I I I give all the time. It's not an issue of giving. I just don't agree with that cost. And so what happened is I was the one who didn't allow for I became the pinata because I eliminated the pizza party idea. Because I was the only one in the whole branch that didn't give any money to the comms And so that was just kind of like it it just escalated so much over over this undercurrent for so long that as an opportunity came up that worked, they could release me from that. And I lost my job. And at that point I only had two months left. So what are you going to do? I'd already worked at Walmart, so I didn't go back to Walmart from there. I was like, I'm not going back to Walmart. I was already there. And so the natural thing is to go into, you know, like uh like insurance. 'Cause I was being trained in theirs. So I went down to different uh insurance agencies and I applied for a job. I was like, man, I like your resume, come on in. So I went in there and we get to talk and then it came up with what do you hope to do? What do you hope to accomplish? And it was like, Well I know what you want me to say, make millions of dollars and make you lots of money. I was like, uh honestly, I just need two months and I'm going into ministry. Well I didn't get hired obviously, because why who would want to hire that guy? You're gonna the you're gonna have a month of training that they're gonna spend on you, then you're gone? Like why would you do that? So needless to say, I couldn't get a job. I could not get a job. And we were newly married, newly firstborn son, still paying a college bill, no income I didn't get a job until June. And so we lived off of savings. But you know what happened? By the grace of God, because I haven't always done this. I I I I have to Just to tell you, I'm not perfect. So the grace of God, during that time, we didn't worry and engage in things, and you know what ended up happening? We had those stories. I'd only heard about these stories. I I kid you not, it that there was food one day at our house. Groceries. I'm like, that's awesome. I've heard about guys talking about that. It just happened for us. It was so cool. And then our church found out about the fact that we had lost I had lost the job. And they had voted, uh, he called me and said, hey, that we heard about the fact that you lost a job on account of coming here. And so the church voted unanimously to backpay you. All the way back to March, this is in May, we're going to pay you all two months of your salary in a lump sum, and then we're going to put you on our weekly payroll and continue to pay you until you get here, whether it's in June or July or August, whenever it works out, we're going to take care of you Praise God. Praise God. You see, seeking the kingdom of God is a mindset. It's a mindset. It's not Lord, I'm offering you the things of my life. No, it's Lord, I'm offering you my life. And I've never found this to be more true than even right now. Like the losing my job was scary, but this is even crazier what we're doing. I'm getting in a van and I drive five hundred and fifteen hours around the US without a set income and hopefully have a place to stay that night and food to eat? Yeah, let's do that. God has provided and provided and prov I don't have a place to lay our our head unless God's people do that, unless God works in his people to provide for us. And I'm just trying to say this today, that sometimes we have this incredibly high bar before we get involved in seeking the kingdom of God, and before we serve And I'm not talking about being full time, if you will, in missions or or pastoring or something like that. I'm just talking about getting involved in the church. We can set the standard. We can approach it almost as if it's like a calling Uh, if I want to help a nursery, if I'm gonna go to that project, I gotta I gotta make sure that I know that I know. But I don't know anybody who sits down before they watch Netflix for the whole night and says, we should pray about this. We should probably pray about it before we spend our whole night watching this. You know, I don't think we put a second thought to spending ten hours in a hobby or spending ten hours a week in an interest of ours. But if it if it were to come the ten hours this week serving in the church Some people would balk at that. It's see, it's a mindset though. And I understand that many have to work forty hours a week, fifty hours a week, sixty hours a week, but the the question I would ask is when you get off work, what do you think about? No, what what do you focus on? Is it the kingdom of God? Do you think about those that are lost? Do you think about the church? Do you think about the needs? Do you think about expansion and the kingdom and all those things? Because the reality is our whole lives are meant to be about the kingdom of God. That's what they are made for. This is the Sermon on the Mount. This is the whole point of it, that we glorify our Father. And so my challenge to you would be this, instead of using your liberation from the worry of daily needs and the securing of those daily needs, Uh pray and see how God could help you to re-utilize that time into focusing on the kingdom of God. And when when it comes to the church, if there's a need for serving, instead of dragging your feet about it, just volunteer. Okay, in my in my understanding, unless your plate is full of serving the kingdom of God, can you really get a wrong thing? Can you really engage something wrong? And when you find yourself beginning to worry, please recognize it for what it is. It is an issue of faith. It is. And then pray about it. And remember that God made you for a purpose. And so go to Him and share your burdens with Him, but then leave Him with Him. And that's how you can deal with the worry. Now I I I do want to end on this because Jesus does in verse 24 and we'll we'll wrap it up here. He says that take therefore no thought for the morrow. Now they they they they say this it's there are two days God won't help you with yesterday and tomorrow because they don't And so although God's provision and God's care for us are absolutely guaranteed, What Jesus is saying here is that does not exempt you from troubles. He's not saying it's going to be be a hunky dory, it's going to be all great, but here's what he's saying You can be sure that no matter the trouble you find yourself in, it's not one worth worrying over. Because if you worry, you're going to shorten your stature. That's the argument he's making. And if so if you put the proper amount of attention on the kingdom of God, God is going to make sure that the proper amount of attention is put on you. You're his child, and he's your father. But that is a truth that is only realized by faith You have to have faith. You have to believe them. So tonight, what is your commitment level to the kingdom of God? What is it if you were to put it on a scale of one to ten? What is your commitment level? Because I believe that this is one of those things that if you don't get this right when you stand before him in judgment, you're gonna wish you had And there's no reason. This will permanently alter the direction of your life where your focus is. And a lot of that is going to be based on your faith and what God has said about it already.