The economic reality, the only certainty is uncertainty, and the conventional wisdom is usually wrong because we think more money is the answer. No, we need more of God Last time I read it's still on the Bible. In God we trust it's on the dollar bill as well. We need a moral revival, and if it's going to start, it's going to start with us as a Christians But you know what I see? You're seeing this. We're seeing an aging population in the church. It's wonderful to see young people today. But you and I know there's an aging population in our churches. And then there's an apathy in our church. Let someone else go do it. We've gotten comfortable with all our abundance. We've gotten comfortable and then we don't realize that the storm is coming. The conventional wisdom is usually the wrong. Do seek God's wisdom and we need a nation we need a nation that's going to seek God. This pandemic didn't turn people to God. What is I don't know about you, but I've in the past three weeks I've had eight friends of mine pass away. From the COVID, you know, all right. And uh some of you say I'm a mask and I'm a no-mask or whatever you are. i it the reality is I know eight people are dead. They wouldn't have been there. And uh and and and so the conventional wisdom is n is not going to work that we just trust in ourselves And then, you know, thinking, well, if we can find a better investment, that would be better. No, no one investment is going to work perfectly every time. Yeah. I would say this, if you don't have a house, one of the best things you do is get a house, right? Well how do you get a house? I can give you a whole lot of ideas. That's a whole nother seminar. And I would just say read the book, Rich Dad, Poor Dad, and you'll figure it out real quick. It worked for me. I'd say it worked for me. We did it very, very easily. Yeah. Um no one investment works every correctly every time and correct principles work correctly all the time We need Bible principles that will work. And so what we're seeing is because we've gotten away from God, We've got the worry man's blues in all our and across our country. We're fearful and fear is gripping our hearts. And I don't believe God wants us to have fear. Uh trust in the Lord with all thine heart and lean not unto thine own understanding. But some of us don't understand it anyways. Yeah, we just know you got a dollar, you buy a you know we used to say you got a dollar, buy a brick Now you've got a dollar. No, you need ten dollars to buy a two by four. All right, well it's up to nine dollars. I see it's gotta get as high as nine dollars. Like seventy five dollars for a two by ten. Who's going to build a house there? You're not going to build houses, and what's going to happen? More unemployment, more people out of jobs. And I want to tell you this morning what we need to do is not trust in the uncertainty riches of this life. We need to trust in God. We need to trust in God. Uh most of the stuff we worry about, by the way, are never going to happen. Most of the things we're we worry about. I read a story about a uh a judge I mean he was a district federal judge and um he was very fearful that someone was going to crack get in and get into this cocaine case. He was on a real high profile cocaine case And he was fearful that even for his own life. So he decided to get away for a couple of days with his wife, just to get away from the pressure where no one would know where he went And uh yeah, what do you when I go away on some like and I go to converts, what do you think my wife's gonna do? With six grand kids she's gonna find in here's a goodwill store You're laughing 'cause you're guilty, aren't you? Yeah, she's gonna find uh well this judge's wife, she found one of these stores And uh and and she went out there and she f bought him a nice tie. Boy, this is you know, sometimes you get some pretty good ones there. Yeah, and so um anyway she bought her husband a tie and then they went out to dinner that night and she presented him this gift and he opens it up and finds there's a tie in there. And Then he feels that tie and he feels like something's inside that tie. He says, where did you get this tie? Where did you get it at? She says, Oh, I got it at the Goodwill store. Well, who sold you at the Goodwill store? Somebody, somebody's trying to bust this case wide open. They probably put a bug in there. And so they were worried and the next morning they'd rush off to the post office, send it to the FBI headquarters in Washington, D. C. to make sure that there's no bug and someone's not bugging this case and gonna bust it wide open. Maybe they're trying to kill us, you know, as a judge. And he's all this you know. And sure enough, when they said it there They sent it to D. C. and they're worried, worried about it, but the next day, he got a he got a phone call from the FBI in Washington, D. C. after they had took an analysis of the tie The he was phone the j he was phone someone phoned him from FBI and said we found out what the problem is. When you squeeze it, it plays jingle bells. You see, the things we worry about, most of them don't ever happen. And we're all worried about the economy in the you know in my 401 K P plan. Listen, we're all in it together And God's still in control. God's in control of the economy. Some people think they are up in Washington. No, they're losing control because of their green. Uh it was Mark Twain Mark Twain said, I am an old man, but I have no and have known many troubles, and most of them never happen. Yeah. Yeah. Most of the things we worry about never happen. So there you know we're looking this morning, the concerns of worry. Yeah, the most prevailing characteristic of our day, the concerns for for worry Um twenty-eight trillion dollars a GDP. Anyone know what the GDP is? Gro gross domestic product. So you take the gross domestic product. That's the sum of everything, everything for a whole year bought or sold. Anything you buy and every every household and everybody, the sum total of everything bought and sold comes only $22 trillion. But the government is in debt to $28 trillion. So if we took everything from everybody, anywhere, anywhere in the US, took it away from them, and gave it to the government, we still couldn't pay the debt. Now somebody go to Washington and tell them, stop. Because my I like to see my grandkids grow up. Yeah. Stop this. The concerns are worry. Worry is created by continually thinking about unsolvable problems. We don't have an answer. Man's greedy heart is going to keep spending like this. And the way politics is, well, anyone know what the definition of a politician is? Polly needs money and a tick is a bloodsucker No, we we got many of those, many of those. And and worry is continually thinking about those unsolvable problems. You can do nothing about them. And your energy is turned inward, uh inward against the one who seems to cause problems. So now we give it all this energy getting angry at the government. It's just human nature. We just need somebody who's you know, but you tell somebody you're a Christian, boy, you're against this, this, and this. They they list everything you're against Well, it's not so much I'm against, it's what I'm for, the Bible. And you're against the Bible. That's something that we really be curtison's heard about when you're against God. The concern for where the cause worry is worry is a result of focusing on oneself rather than on the promises of God. When you focus on yourself, Ah, yeah. It's like uh it's like a person who has his mind pulled in two direct directions. You got your mind's going one way over here, but you're worried about that over there I'm going to say something here and say, because this is going to divide us up here. Some of you men will drive your car I know I have. I drive it right down to the E-line on and the red lights on And my wife, she's got to refill the tank up when it's only halfway. All right, go ahead. Yeah. Is he guilty? Come on. Anyone else? I confess my sin But fortunately I have my car and she has her car. But woe unto me if I do that in her car and then bring it back and the red lights off Oh my, you know, we the cause worry. Sometimes we just don't have the control over it. And we think we ought to have control. Mark Twain's statement was very clear. I'm an old man have known many troubles, but most of them never happen. I I remember this guy named Archbishop Trench. Some of you don't know that was a some theologian way back when Fairly farm uh famous guy, Archbishop Trench, came to a time of his life where he was uh fearful that he was going to lose his legs. You know, you have this pain all the time and just one of these days I'm gonna have I'm gonna lose my legs. And I just kind of have no feeling my legs. It's gone worse and worse And so, anyways, and people who knew this theologian and were friends with his pastor or minister. they they knew that he had this fear that he knew he felt like he knew for sure he was going to have to have his legs amputated because he had had no feeling in them And uh and a come and go. And then the one, you know, and it got worse. And one night he went out to dinner. And uh so they went out to dinner with some of his friends and they all sat down around this table waiting for the right waitress to come and so on. They sat down the table and And uh, you know, some people put your hands on the table. What do you do? Just lean against the table when he put his hands down here. And then He's hitting his legs and he said, it happened, it happened. I have no feeling into my legs. And he's slapping his legs and I have no feeling in my legs. Worrying and scared. This has finally happened. And then the lady next to him said, My dear sir, I'd have you to know your hands are on my legs. You see, we get ourselves so worked up for something, we convinced it's going to happen to us and it isn't. And you drive. I know I'm I'm I drive my wife crazy because I let that E thing and the light comes on before I put gas in it. Now I'm trying to change that. Yeah. So now she doesn't drive my car, I don't drive her car. We got a deal. All right. But most of the stuff we worry about never ever happens. Here was a study up in the University of Wisconsin came up with this, that University of Wisconsin study said 40% of things we worry about never happen. And 30% of them have already happened. 22% are petty worries, leaving only 8% of things that we're really worth worrying about. But we could we can come up with a list. If we had to come up with a list of the stomachs wouldn't have a problem and come up with about a hundred things we're concerned and worried about In reality, it's only 8% of those worried. And it goes Charles Mayo, the Mayo Clinic. Some of you ever heard of that Mayo, that may the Mayo Clinic, but anyways, hope you never have to go there. He said, I never known a man to die of overwork, but of overworry. I have never known a man to die from overwork, but many of overworry. The trouble with worry is it's interest paid before it's due on the troubles of tomorrow. We cannot carry two days in one. The Bible is very clear today with the concern to worry, the cause of worry. The command, do not worry. Don't be worried. The command, be careful for nothing. Well that's it. God tells us not to worry. Be careful for nothing but in everything by prayer and supplication. Yeah, I I'm concerned about the COVID. Yeah. There's some things I may disagree with, some of others here, but you know, I'm married to an ER nurse, so I I've got a little bit more information. And uh we've got three Bob Jones girls living with us who are in their master's and nursing program. And so we w we get a little bit of different information than the average person we get on the street. And we're seeing people we know who have passed away. The most amazing one, how many know Pastor Robert down in Winchester? Anyone? Here's a man who had COVID. Really bad. They got the family together and said he's gone. He just won't make it. Everybody and the pastor did I mean the his son's assistant pastor and then the uh head deacon and his family, they all went to the hospital and said that he's not going to make it And while they're standing there, you know, the hot mark, beep, beep, it stopped. For five minutes it stopped. That's brain damage. Two minutes. And all of a sudden it started killing again. And it came back to life. After they pronounced that he preached on Sunday, Easter Sunday morning, I was there and he used to preach on Up from the Gravy Rose You know, there's there's there's things like that really do happen. And God's still in the miracle business. It ain't over till God says it's over. But we worry about it and worry about it and worry about it. And we can't do anything about it, most of it. Like Charles Mayo said, I've known many a man who have who have died from over worry, but only a few that ever died from overwork. Yeah It's just taxing on the system. Be careful for nothing, the Bible does in Philippians 4. 6, the command not to be worried. O. S. Hawkins says, many of us assume that God merely looks upon worry with a frown, but the fact is that God strictly forbids it. God forbids us to keep worrying. So we're worrying about this economy. We're worried about our job. We're worried about I think, where's the next generation? Give me five minutes and I'll show you all my grandkids, you know. Uh any any proud grandparent would say the same thing. But I'm really concerned what they're gonna face. Yeah. Because we're we're facing a moral revolution that has d when when Herod asked Jesus What is truth? And everything rises and falls on truth So now you can redefine what truth is, because truth is what you feel, not the fact. And when truth becomes what you feel, and then the government starts making decisions based on how people feel, we're in a mess. Yeah. Many of us have worried and found worry and worried over this. I'm saying God is still in control You know, Matthew chapter 6, 25 to 34. I don't need to read all of that, but uh it tells us not to be worried about food. Consider the birds of the air. I don't know. I we got a bird feeder I don't know if you got a bird feeder in your back yard, we got a little bird feeder on the back porch. And if the birds don't get it That squirrel. That squirrel he is he is he's the only guy I know can hang by his tail. Fearless Freddy, that's what my wife calls him. Fearless Freddy. He gets up there and hangs upside down by his tail over a branch and grabs that bird seed Peter. You know, it God can take care of us. God has a way of feeding us. The living. He takes care of the food. He takes care of the food. And then it talks about, you know, worry about fashion. Fashion. We're all concerned about what we got to wear. Don't dress to impress. Yeah. Now these days they don't know what they're dress they're not dressing. There's no sense of decency and morality. I was a lifeguard in the seventies. What we wore then and what they wear today is a world of difference. Back then it was grandma's old bathing suit. It went down to your knees. I still remember that. I remember when I grew up as a kid in Canada, in French-speaking Canada in the 60s, they had the girls had to have it below their knee. Yeah, now it's okay. You couldn't even watch part of the Olympics, see what's going on. I love to watch the diving. I did some judging on the diving and You know, you can't even watch that anymore because we lost our mole compass. Uh we're fearful. Fearful because of food, fearful of fashion, fearful of our fitness. fearful of our finances and we're fearful of our future. What's going to happen to America? You know, and Watch my time. My heart was broke on Friday as I saw the what was doing in Afghanistan. And and if you look if you got relatives and family members who've gone over there, I know the many soldiers gone there. And we just turned our back on that. Those very good Afghan people who went and put their life on the line to help us, to try to help them, now we left them for the butchers. Worry? I'm worried about this government. Because God's judgment's gonna come. The answer is not politics, the answer is prayer. Yeah. You know, prayer starts with us, my people, who call by my name. So humble themselves and pray. The considerations Jesus gave us not to worry. Why shouldn't we worry? Why should we worry about all this? The fowls of the air. Behold the fowls of the air. Are they not much better? Are we not much better than they? So he gives us the reason why we shouldn't worry. Consider the fowls of the air. If God takes care of the birds, he'll take care of you. What about the flowers in the field? The flowers in the field, Solomon was not arrayed like one of these. Wow, you know, we got some beautiful wild flowers until the deer come in our backyard. Oh my. And we're we're uh I got a house that goes back to a creek. It's not a very big creek. It's you know, just about you know, and maybe three or four inches of water in it and a good day. But boy, all the deer come back there and they want to eat all the flowers and they we got wild grapes, raspberries and stuff that are that just grew wild. And uh, you know, I'm looking there and saying, okay, leaves those raspberries for me and leave some of those blueberries for me, and you know the deer's over there saying, God put these for me. Yeah Solom was not arrayed as much as the flowers of the field. God takes care of that. Some of the most beautiful places I've ever seen was I've done some diving down in the Caribbean. My wife dragged me on a cruise ship once. And so I'm I want to go do some diving on and uh it's beautiful underwater, the miraculous stuff, the colors and it's beautiful. Some of those Is he gives him some nice aquariums? Well now see that when you're in the aquarium, it's God's aquarium, the the Pacific or the Atlantic to see it what God takes care of them. The flowers of the field, we see the fowl of the air, that God takes care of them. And then we see the the faithfulness of worry. O ye of little faith. When you're worrying, it's you that's having lacking faith. Because worry is nothing more than you and your your lack of faith and trust in God. We worry, and when we worry, we're showing we're not trusting God. Hey, I I'm concerned. I yeah, legitimate concerns. Like that judge, I would say I'd be concerned if he thought it was a bug planted in there. But most of the stuff we worry about never happens anyways It's a lack of faith in what God says in His Word. And then we see the foolishness of worry. Or which you can take by by taking thought can add one cubic to a statute. None of us can make ourselves just thinking about it doesn't make you grow an inch. But you can think about it and say, I wish I was taller, I wish I was shorter, I wish there was, you know, and you got all your wishes you were wish you were different. Now just thank God for what you do have. God made everyone us different. Individuals. And many times we worry. About the future and the foolishness of worry. You know what the cure for worry is? We need to turn to God with our words. You know, our tr you know, in uh I got a dollar bill and it reads reads on the dollar bill, In God We Trust. Even on our coins, in God we trust. We need to trust God. Part of me says that won't last very long, not with the current administration. In the next four or five years you'll see that taking off the coin too. Just like we got men and women on the restroom stores. Take it all away. Yeah. We need to turn to God with our worries. If my people are called by my name shall humble themselves and pray. Friends, we need to pray like everything depends on God, and we need to live like it depends upon us Friends, instead of worrying about anything, we are to pray about everything. Philippians 4, 6 says, be careful for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication, let your requests uh with Thanksgiving, let your requests be made known unto God. We're to turn to God. We're to talk to God about our worries. Most of the worries can be traced back. to the fact that we haven't talked to God about it. The more I talk to God, the less I have got to worry. Sometimes you ever find yourself, I know, I said, Lord, I just don't the answer. And Lord, this is your problem. Someone sent me this thing, a text on my phone one day, and I keep it on the phone now. If God will bring you to it, God will bring you through it. Amen. If God will bring you to it, He will bring you through it. And some of you are you're carrying some heavy burdens, financial burdens, friends, family, burdens. Take it to the Lord in prayer. Oh, what needless pain we bear, all because we do not carry everything to God in prayer. Those loads are too heavy. Yeah, when a mother says, Hey, my child, I don't think she's gonna make it, and and it's only three weeks old. Yeah. We got one of those grandchildren that hey you gotta put her in the emergency room. She's only three weeks. Okay, what's going on? You know what it did? It got us praying like we didn't pray ever praying. It got us praying. Friends, we need to get to that point now, not after the fact, but we need to pray for our nation. We need to make make sure we're trusting God through it all. Turn to God for with your worries. Be careful for nothing, nothing, but everything by prayer supplication. And we're talking to God about our worries. Most of our worries can be traced back to the fact that we haven't talked to God about it. And then we're to trust God. Trust God about our future. Trust to the Lord with all thine heart and lean not under thine own understanding. In all thy ways he shall direct your paths. You know what do we ought to trust? Trust God's power. Because God's got power just to speak it. He breathed it. And he can speak it and the universe became in existence. Trust God's power. Trust God's promises. Carry everything to God in prayer and supplication. Let your requests made known unto God. God's promises. God's not sitting on the edge of the universe and saying, oh, let me get that one. Bing, hit you off the head. No, God's not doing that. That's some cartoon character you got. But that's not God. God is always up to something good in my life. I can trust him. You ever have things don't go your way? You ever ha you got it all figured out and and it doesn't work your way? Let me tell you, as a pilot, I've been there. Taken off, get up off the ground, going up, climbing up, climbing up, then the engine dies. Bang. Yeah. Whoa. Yeah. So what do you do? Say a little prayer real quick, and then you do everything you were trained to do and don't think anything else. This is bing bing bing bing, you know, and it took us less than fifteen seconds. We got the engine started backing up. But 15 seconds when you're a heavy piece of metal, you can go down a long way. Yeah. Trust God. Trust God. I um watching our time. How many know David Gibbs? Attorney David Gibbs, anyone? Yeah, okay. A few of you know that you've heard some of the stories? Yeah, you don't want to be an object or those stories. Well, anyways, David Gibbs, he he was up in uh Anchorage, Alaska. Now and had to go from Anchorage all the way up to Fairbanks. Now that's like going from here to South Carolina. It's it's not just next door. And then you only have one road. And that road winds through the mountains and up over the hills and all there and and then they got frost heaves on the road. What you know what frost heaves when the ground gets it gets so cold when you get fifty, sixty below zero in Alaska, the moisture in the soil, when something freezes, it always expands. So now you got frosties on the road, you're going down the road and and every year they've got to redo some of these roads And there's only one road. They said, you don't want to take and and drive this. He said, I want to see the senior. Listen, I got a friend over here. He's got an airplane and he'll fly you up to Fairbanks. So you go preach the you're preached down here Sunday morning at Jerry Preval's church and then you go to Dunk Durch on Sunday night and you can preach there Okay, and then you got the men's retreat Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday. You're gonna have this men's retreat. We're gonna have a bunch of men come from all over the state, come preach them. Okay, he finally said, okay, I'll do that. And uh and so they met at the airport. That Sunday afternoon and they took off and uh went up climbing up. Here's he doesn't fly it, but he was sitting in a f- if you know him, he's Yeah, he needs every bit of the room in the front seat for it that way. So the plane took off as it climbs up, and here's one of the deacons in the backseat and another member of the church that owns the airplane. And all of a sudden, as they were climbing out, gotten maybe a thousand, uh, fifteen hundred feet and started to turn north, the guy in the pilot, he went He was gone. I mean D-E-A-D is with a capital D. Exclamation point gone. Dead. What do you do? You know what you do? Panic. And some of you that's just what you do. You don't know what else, and then you just scream. Well, great. So and then Come on. And are you okay? Come on. He didn't even bunch. And and then all of a sudden he falls upon the the yoke. He falls forward on the hey hold him in the back. What's the matter? The guy in the back. Just grab hold them, keep 'em from falling over on the yoke or something. Because if you get on that yoke and push it down, you're going that's not the way you want to go. But it's on autopilot and they and then he grabs the microphone. Help, help, help, help, help, help. Screaming in the take your finger off so that somebody can talk back to you. You know, worry and panic. Yeah And that plane just so when they did that and they took the frame of somebody way up above, one of those jumbo jets that flies from New York to Tokyo and they fly over Anchorage heard this guy scre heard David Gibbs screaming on there help and and uh they got a word in and said what's the problem the guy's dead the pilot's dead we don't know how to fly this thing Where are you? We just took off from the Anchorage Airport and we're climbing up in the pilot's dead. Wow. So anyways, that that guy up above called the Anchorage Airport and told them what happened and the Anchorage Airport got back on the same channel where they were and talked David Gibbs into landing that airplane. And if you've ne never landed an airplane, the odds of you doing that is very rare that you would even make it, even if you had some instructor. It's it's not it's not something that anybody and everybody could do. Coordination and you better listen to everything he says And fortunately, when the the guy in the tower called, he said, look, there's a guy next over here down here, uh one of the controllers, he has an airplane just like yours And they'd got him on, and he talked David Gibbs into landing that airplane. Brought it back to Anchorage. They're up there, you know where Wassilla is. You drove the fly back about thirty miles back and you get down there and and uh you land. He got it down to the runway and it came down, you know, boom, boom, boom, bouncing and and then he Yeah. You don't if you never steer with your you steer with your hands, right? Not in an airplane, you steer with your feet. And if this is the first time you ever did that since you were a little kid and tried the little cars that you pedal, you're not gonna W especially when you're going eighty or ninety miles an hour stealing your feet and you'd never done it before. All of a sudden you know they landed it, it bounced all around and then it went off into the gravel, but they stopped the plane. They got it stopped. And they lived through it. Then the real scary thing happened. The dead man came back to life. He had narcolepsy. FAA is not going to let you fly with that. And he and he l and they live. They all live to tell him about it. You know, get your prayer life caught up to date before you get up in an airplane. Here I am a pilot telling people do that. No, we we uh y you you need to spend some time in prayer. I like it when I get on a plane and I get someone who's panicky. And I said, why don't we just turn this over to God right now? Yeah. And I love to take young people like these people down here in the front. I'd love to take them. Take them up on the airplane, then they take my hands off it and just pretend I'm dead. No. I'd love to see it when a teenager says, I've never flown in an airplane You know, there's uh six billion people on the earth and only 180,000 pilots. If you get to fly an airplane, that's something My son's dad, don't do that, don't do that. I said, what do you mean? And I said you mean this? No, don't do that. I said, well you're spending a hundred dollars or six flags to get them to do that for you. I'll give it right in everybody. That's the right of one. Panic, panic. Fear often comes from ignorance. And if you don't know the Lord today, you're going to be panicky. In the day and time we in we're in, there's some real dangerous things coming up in the future. Make sure you know the Lord Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. Turn everything to God in prayer. George W. Truett, a famous theologian from years ago, said, worry is a mild form of atheism. And when we're worrying, we're acting like there is no God. And that's what we do. We're we're pretending there is no God. I remember reading a story about a little girl who uh her daddy was a captain of one of the ships, one of those big steamers way back in the early 1900s. And uh and they lived in England. And every n uh once in a while they might be able to go with their father on the ship. And they get out there. If you've ever been on one of these big ships where the thing is rocking, I don't care if it's a cruise ship and carnival or wherever it is, you know, Norwegian, they all rock. Up and down, and then you get a really bad storm. Uh and I've had times where the front end the the bow went down over a wave and then waves came over the top and then it comes up this way and the wave comes over the back end and that's enough to swamp it. And yeah, worry, worry, yeah, worry, and talk about it. And um, you know, this little girl got on that ship. And she got really fearful. Really fearful. And then she thought for a moment and she says to her mother, is father on deck? Meaning, is her dad daddy the captain? Is father on deck? And the mother said, yes, honey, father's on deck. Then she went back to sleep and fell on Friends, father's still on deck. Right? Father's still on deck. No matter what the economy does and what the presidents do and whatever these radical people are trying to do, father is still on deck. God is still in control.