Turn your Bibles if you would to Galatians chapter number five. Galatians chapter number five. I sat down on Tuesday, which is my normal habit to uh write devotionals for the coming weeks. Uh uh Pastor Derek and I are ever uh got those devotionals before us and we try to after Tuesday morning we meet for a few minutes as staff and We pray uh for the church and uh current needs and we uh kind of talk about the schedule and what we need to try and tackle that week, and then usually Pastor Derek and I go lock ourselves in an office for a few hours and write some devotionals at least enough to get us through the next week. And uh sometimes we can get ahead, you know. Most of the time he's ahead much further than I am. Uh but uh strive to at least get those done. And I sat down and began to write and I wrote the devotional that day, uh, that you will read I think this coming Wednesday. And um It's it's amazing to me how God works because the entirety of this will not be evident until we come to the conclusion of the message tonight. But I was stirred as I wrote that devotional to bring it to you this evening in a message to go beyond what I could write in just a few paragraphs. Because I was challenged in my heart about this idea in a much greater way. In Galatians chapter 5 and verse number 7 You'll see the title of the message and the title of the devotional that was chosen over a year ago. The title was chosen, the passage that I was going to write on was chosen over a year ago, but I sat down on Tuesday to write it. The significance of that will be evident to you as we continue through this evening. Would you look at Galatians chapter 5 and verse number 7? He says, And ye did run well. Who did hinder you that ye should not obey the truth? Would you read it aloud with me? Ye did run well. Who did hinder you that ye should not obey the truth? Lord, we come to you tonight and we turn this service over to you. I know we've not taken time this evening for testimony. Certainly many of God's people may have on their heart a testimony they would love to share. And Lord, I pray keep that for another another week, but tonight we've Kind of moved into the service quickly and we're here looking at your word. And I pray, Lord, that you would take the thought that you would challenge us as you've challenged me. About this idea of running, the running, the race that you've set before us. God, we pray that you would do a work in our hearts tonight. In Jesus' name. Amen. Now, beloved, you know that the Christian life in the Word of God is likened to many different things. We are likened to a farmer as we hear about how we are to be out planting seed and we're to be sowing the seed and of course that we are to bring forth fruit. We're to have fruit come and and fruit that remains and we're to be uh you know, there's a harvest that we're involved in and that harvest time is a is a set amount of time and the fields are white unto harvest and we've got to get out And we've got to work for the night cometh when no man can work. And certainly that description of the Christian life. But we also see there's a description of the Christian life where we're called soldiers And we know as soldiers of Jesus Christ we're to put on the whole armor of God and that we're to uh you know war a good warfare for Jesus Christ and that we're in a battle and It's not a a recreation room. It's not just a a a game time, but it's a battle for Jesus Christ, for the souls of men, and for right and wrong, and we've got to stand up and fight. We see that description of a soldier, and we see the description of a servant we're given, where we're to be a servant of Jesus Christ, a servant fit for the master's use, a vessel of honor that God can use for his honor and glory, and a servant who surrenders his will to the master and doesn't have a will of his own, but understands that ultimately he's in control and we just yield to him. In all of these different descriptions of the Christian life. Paul is certainly familiar with and uses them all. But of all the descriptions that the Bible uses to describe the Christian life, I believe Paul enjoys most the description of an athlete. And specifically the runner. You know Paul describes the athlete. He talks about the wrestle, the wrestling. He he talks about uh uh beating the air or so d describing maybe boxing. Uh Paul describes being in that Olympic arena. But over and over again, I mean, we could almost be wearied tonight if we just took time to walk through the scriptures and see all the places where we're described as being in a race, where we're to be running, where we're to be pressing towards a mark, where there's a finish line, a goal that we're to be trying to strive for. Paul loved this application, it seems, more than any other. In our verse that we're looking at this evening, I want you to see first of all the implications. The implications. He said, ye did run well. There's many implications, and I began to list them and had to leave some of them off, but And as you consider or think about this, first of all, there is the implication that there's a race to run. There is a race to run, that there's uh uh something that we're supposed to be doing and By definition, beloved, a race is something that has set boundaries. A race, no matter whether it's just picked up in the backyard by a couple of kids, And they're gonna race and and they just say, hey, I'll I'll beat you. Well they're gonna set some they're gonna set some boundaries. We're gonna race from this crack in the concrete To the car. The first one to touch the car, you know, it wins and and they're going to race. They set the boundaries. Here's the start line and here's the finish line. Beloved, could I tell you tonight that For the Christian, the start of your race is the moment you put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ. When you trusted the Lord as your Lord and Savior and you gave your life to Him, He at that moment He set a race before you. He said a race before you that you're supposed to be running. And the finish line, beloved, the finish line is either when God comes and breaks the eastern sky or when God calls you home. Until then we're to be running the race. You know there is actually uh there's rules in races. I'm not going to spend much time here, but there's rules everywhere. And people don't like rules. I don't understand why, but there's rules in races. People think well you can't have any fun if if there's rules. Well, the next football game that you go play, you tell me it's not any fun. Because there's rules in the game. There there has to be some rules. And there's rules in the race. There's a There's an objective to achieve. There's a finish line we want to get to. There's uh a chorus that's set forth. If you set it if it's a marathon or something like that, there's a pattern, there's a path that you're supposed to take. If you're gonna run well in that race, you've gotta complete it having followed and gone through all the checkpoints. The implications are that there's a race to run. Beloved, not everyone's race is the same. God has set for me some things to run in my race that are not for you. You don't have to worry about them. They're not part of your race. You have some things in your life that God has set for you to run that are not part of my race. Everybody's race is a little bit different, but uniquely established by God and set forth for you to run. For some of you here tonight, part of your race is to be a mom. You've got to be a mom and raise those kids and You've got to train them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord and maybe that includes homeschooling and the labor and the effort of of training them in the basics of math and science and history and and striving to make sure they get the education. that they should have, but your race is involved, at least this lap of your race right now, is involved really in training and raising those kids for God. Some of you men, maybe your uh part of your race to run right now is you you're a provider for the family and you're Job a responsibility is to make sure that the needs are met and you're earning enough money to be able to pay the bills and And you're at least helping with it, amen. You're striving to strive to meet those needs and you're running that race. As parents, you're raising your kids up for God. Here at the church, we have a dedication ceremony And you know that that dedication ceremony, in that ceremony, there is no special endowment of grace given to the child. We don't baptize them with holy water and and somehow secure that child's soul. We don't uh by by you dedicating them here in the church, they now have two guardian angels instead of just one. The whole process of of the dedication is a public testament of mom and dad saying we are going to do everything we can to raise these kids in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. And train them up. And that may be a very large part of your race right now. But part of your race might also be if If you're teaching a Sunday school class or working in the nursery or working in the sound ministry or singing in choir, you've got as part of your race to be to continue to run and to do well in those things. We don't mention Darcy much. Darcy, part of her race, is to work in the music ministry of our church. Not just as thing is special here or there, but to she she works tirelessly continually in the music ministry helping so many different groups prepare and playing the piano for all different types of things and planning the schedule out for the the choir music and being here before and after and early and all these events, investing so much time and energy in the music ministry of our church. I rely heavily on her to help me keep the music of our church the standard high. What we're singing and what we're what we're doing is is right and God honoring and we don't want to let those standards slip. And I rely heavily on her to to help with that. It's part of her race. That might not be part of your race, but that's part of her race right now. Of course, me as pastor, my race is to lead the church. To point the church in the right direction and try and keep a fervor and a fire in the hearts of God's people about reaching the lost and keeping a world vision that we can see the rest of the world and the needs that are out there and that we don't come so focused on here that we that we forget about that and yet We still need to take care of home too. And and we've got to keep the fires burning at home because the light that shines the fire that shines the brightest here. And we've got to keep that balance there. and and keeping the ministries here going and all of that and and that's that's my race to run right now. John and Stephanie are just picking up the bus ministry. To lighten Gus's load a little bit. They're in a transition period right now where John and Stephanie are going to be leading the bus ministry. They're picking up that that's this lap right now, this lap's gonna the bus ministry. It's gonna be a large part of their race right now. To have vision and goals and desires for that You see, beloved, a race is something that by implication is something that we run, not walk. A race is something that that that we have a little bit of drive and ambition towards. It's something that we are going after. Have you ever said about somebody or maybe heard somebody say is, well, I gave this person this project and man they just ran with it. You know, they just ran with it. I just gave them this job and boy they just ran with it. I I I gave this and they just ran with it. That idea of they took it, they owned it, they took off and and and maybe the plan was to to do this and this and this And they did this and this and this and this and this and this because they were running with it. They were excited about it. They had vision for it. They had goals for it. And beloved, I don't know what your race is, but there's far too many Christians tonight who've put it in neutral, who've stopped driving, who've stopped pushing forward, they've got no vision, no ambition, no desire, no goals beyond just getting through the week. And we need some of God's people that have a fire in their heart to say, I want more out of my Christian life. I want more out of my service for God I want more out of my ministry. I want to see God grow it. I want to see God do something. I want to see God use me in a powerful way. And they stay they they take what God has given them, the opportunity to serve, and they run with it. We need some Christians that are running for God. Yesterday we went out on John and Romans distribution as we get as we gathered to get out the John and Romans I said, hey, it's going to be a beautiful day. And today's a day to get them out. You know, let's get them out. Because uh next week it might be pouring down rain. In a few weeks it's gonna be cold. Let's let's maximize the time. So a good day. Dependent upon your area, a good day is if each person could get out 50 John and Romans. That's a pretty good day. It's a good balance. If you've got a little bit easier area, you can do that pretty quick If you've got a harder area, that could take you some time to get out 50. I mean that could be some time. And so it just depends on your area. But we set out yesterday and we wanted, well, I encouraged everybody to do a little extra. So let's do some extra. We're gonna try and do double. We're gonna try and get out a hundred per person. And that looked like a lot. We went into an area and and it wasn't necessarily easy, but I would say it was it was halfway. Uh i it was some townhomes. We had some houses too, but the townhomes were uh they had drive they had sidewalks about from here to Jacob. And you had to walk all the way down the sidewalk and over ten feet and back up, you know. A couple weeks ago I was doing that in that same neighborhood. There's an older man that he he saw me coming up the porch and he said, You could save a lot of steps if you walk across the grass. And I said, yeah, I know, but I don't like to walk on people's grass. He said the mailman don't care. I said, well, the mailman people are expecting. Me people aren't expecting. And so when I he's like whatever, and as I was leaving, I walked out his his sidewalk all the way to the end. I got about halfway and he goes walk across the grass I was like okay but I did one street and then I did the rest walking on the sidewalks but But it was kind of a little bit of you know, that's just arduous, man, walking all the way down that sidewalk to go over y you could almost jump across the grass, but it looks kinda dumb for a guy forty-five years old to be To be dry, I'm not as agile as I used to be, you know. Uh Tim probably could jump across and not get on the grass, but anyways we went out and and praise God we did it. We got out a hundred per person By setting a goal and having some drive and saying this is what we want to accomplish today. Yes, it took a little longer than normal. We we ended up being out a little after we would normally be out, but But we we met the goal. We had some vision. This is part of our race to run right now. We said we're gonna do our best at it The implication here in this statement, beloved, is that there was a time when these saints were running far better than they are now. He said ye did run well. There was a time when these saints were on fire for God. There was a time when these saints were reading their Bible faithfully when they were praying and seeing answers to their prayer, when they were memorizing Scripture, when they were passing out tracts, when they were giving John and Romans, when they were involved in outreach, when they were part of a Sunday school class, when they sang in the choir. When they were excited about what God was doing in God's church, there was a time when they were on fire for God. Ye did run well, but there's the implication that something happened. And they're no longer running quite as hard as they used to. They've put it into neutral, they've lost the drive, they've decided it's not as important as it once was. We all have heard of that man in the scripture named Demas. Beloved Demas was said to be a fellow laborer with Paul. Right. I mean can you imagine being a laborer with Paul? Going on a missionary trip with Paul, seeing him w witness the people and expound the scriptures and and plant churches and I mean just wow To be able to do that, that's amazing. Demas did run well. But he forsook, having loved this present world. When Jesus began to teach the hard truths of the scripture When Jesus began to tell those that were following him that, yea, they that live godly shall suffer persecution. Many of those that were following Christ began to turn away. They did follow Christ, but all of a sudden, when when that aspect of the Christian life was revealed, when When he started talking about giving and being faithful and tithing and being part of missions and going to church more than just Sunday morning, oh my goodness, I'm not sure that's what I want to do, and they turned away To the point where Jesus Christ even looked at his own disciples and said, Will ye also go away? We all tonight. Could think of those who used to sit in these pews on Sunday night, who used to run well, who used to be a part of the different ministries of this church. But something happened. Sometimes it could even be a pastor that gets discouraged. The weights of the ministry and burdens of people and the struggles of of of fulfilling that role gets to be taken. too much and they call it quits, walk away. Say, I'm done, I'm done I was talking to a pastor this last week. He said the year of twenty twenty was was attacked from without. Twenty twenty was saw all this church stuff and you can't meet and and we couldn't get together. And he says, I was glad when we moved into twenty twenty He said about twenty twenty-one turned to be a about the year of attack from within. He said more than once. I've been in my prayer closet and said, God, if you'll let me, I'll leave. Listen, Christian, I'm I'm I'm on top and and I'm not discouraged, but I want you to know that people that lead uh they get discouraged. And sometimes they give up and quit. We we look sometimes at missionaries. They've come here and told us their goal and desire to go and reach the world and and and they're going to go to this field and they're they're all on fire and and we get behind them and Begin to support them. We've had more than one in our small number of missionaries, but we've had more than one that was out on deputation for another six months or eight months or a year, and then we find out, oh, they're not going to the field anymore. Ye did run well. Ye were on fire. Ye were excited. Ye did run the race that God had for you. You were doing it, but something came up and you stopped doing what God wanted you to do. What about you tonight, Christian? I think of a man in our church in Lawrence, Kansas. who actually had just left when we came in two thousand He had just left his wife. He was on fire for God. He was the kind that he was running a bus route, teaching junior church. He knew his Bible so well. He he was the guy in the in the audience that if Pastor began to to quote I Isaiah 34 verse 8 and he he was like, wait, wait, what what is that? That guy could finish it for him Every time that guy would finish a verse. But then he started missing Thursday night prayer meeting. A little bit here and there, and his wife made excuses for him. His wife said, oh, yeah, he's sick tonight. He's just not feeling feeling good. And just pray for him. Pray that he feels better. When she knew he was just sitting at home watching TV And then you started missing Sunday night. Wasn't wasn't too long and and and oh Pastor, I'm not gonna have time to do the bus route. You know my work's getting busy right now and And and a after all, I'm I'm missing a couple of services here and there, so I I'm not going to be able to do the bus route. And he gave up his bus ministry. And without that responsibility on Sunday morning he said, Hey I I I don't I I don't know. I'm not gonna be able to make it this Sunday. He started missing Sunday services. And all this time his wife's making excuses for him And just before we got there, within a couple of weeks, she came into the pastor's office and said, My husband left me yesterday. Six kids under the age of ten and one on the way, and he left. You did run well. You say, why is it a big deal when we just miss a service here and there? You did run well. Oh, we can make all the excuses that we want, but beloved, we're in a race and God wants us to be running the race that He's set before us, and there ought to be something in our heart that motivates us and desires that challenges us to run as good as we can for God. And when we see ourselves kind of slacking off a little bit and we see ourselves getting out of the race just a little bit. Not being as bald as we used to be and maybe sitting on the sidelines and oh I'm gonna start watching the race now. But God wants ye to run. Ye did run well And we see Lord that we can't just be playing church. It's gotta be real. I'm more burdened than ever for the next generation. I think about it. I've been here long enough. I've been here long enough. Who's he well? Titus, can you help me a second? They usually stand over here. Titus, come here. Why don't you just stand stand right up here? Right, next step. There you go, face that way. I've been here long enough to remember when kids this age were singing in children's choir. The world behind me, the cross before me, the world behind me, the cross before me, the world behind me I remember them when they were here. And tonight they're not even in church. You can go have a seat, thank you. Melissa and Sajani stand up here. Singing song this morning. Did a beautiful job. But the song you sang better not just be something that you're doing with the tone of your voice and trying to project and sing beautifully to to impact and influence people. It better be something that becomes real in your heart because you will not be here in a few years. Unless there's something in here that keeps you running the race that God has for you. It's it's it it breaks my heart to think about those that stood behind this pulpit and gave testimony and and talked about how they made decisions at at youth camp and and man God did such a miraculous thing in my life. And today they're not even in church. Ye did run well. Not only is there an implication that we need to think about, but there's an inquiry that we see here. He says, who did hinder you? That ye should not obey the truth. Who did hinder you that ye should not obey the truth? He says there's some opposition. And beloved, it is your responsibility to find out what is hinder or who is hindering you. Who is hindering? Who did hinder you that ye Obey not the truth. The fact is that there is opposition. Oftentimes, whatever problem you look at in your life and You talk to anybody that's not in church today and they could say, oh, uh this and this and this happened, and I guarantee you, regardless of the ramifications of the problem, they can put a face to that. And they can say, Okay, this person, that person, that who is what got in my way. But you've got to realize and and see what it is that's hindering you and then make sure that it doesn't. Now I'm not going to spend any time here, but there's also the idea that we we have got to be careful that we aren't hindering anybody else. Because it's not too hard to be a hindrance. Look in chapter five there at verse number ten. There's people that trouble you. He says, I have confidence in you through the Lord that ye will be none otherwise minded, but he that troubled you. Shall bear his judgment, whosoever he be. He's saying, God's going to judge him. Whoever it is that's causing you the trouble, God's going to judge them. But you still need to be running well the race that you were supposed to be running. Don't let them hinder you. Look at verse number 12. He said, I would they were even cut off. Which troubles you. He says, I wish there was a way to take those that are causing you problems and cut them off at the knees. Then you could run your race But I don't have the ability to do that. God's going to deal with them in his time, but between now and then you've got to be aware of the opposition and you've got to just keep running the race that God has for you to run Don't let them hinder you. Sometimes, beloved, it might be a boy or a girl that hinders you. You see the that uh a young man gets on Timothy smiling over here. I talked about a girl, amen. He's wishing he didn't know. You know there's young young man, young lady on fire for God, serving the Lord, serving God in the church, being being used and and then they get interested in somebody. And that person hinders them from serving God. That person hinders them from doing what God wants them to do. I've seen that over and over again in my life. Sometimes, beloved, it's your mate that hinders you Sometimes the wife is on fire for God and wanting to serve the Lord, and the husband is throwing cold water on that. The husband is discouraging that. Or maybe the the husband wants to serve and wants to do more at church and wants to be at work party and wants to go out on John and Romans just distribution and and wants to get involved in many things and then the wife is like you're always down there at that church. You're always at the church. Why are you down you care more about the church than you do me I can't tell you how many times I've seen that. Hindering you. It's mind-boggling to me, but sometimes parents hinder children. They do foolish things, like keep them home from church. Like punishing them by keeping them from a church activity. That's your punishment. Because the kid wants to go to a church activity, that's how they punish them. That is foolishness. That's the one thing that's supporting you as a parent. That's the one thing that's pointing them to the Christ. At a time when your child wants to be at church, you're going to say no. You can't go. Take away the stupid video games. You're gonna keep 'em home from church and let them play those dumb games all night. Sometimes children and I've seen this they'll come home from youth camp and God did something in their heart and they'll come and they'll say I believe God wants me to be a pastor or missionary And parents will say, nah, it's just a bunch of emotionalism. You you better be sure about that. Why don't you put that down for a while, let that go? I don't know about that. Besides, what you need to do is you need to get a good job. Parents hinder. See young men at college age. Oh, I want to go to Bible college. No, no, you can't go to Bible college. You need to go to whatever college to get a degree. Yeah. They're ready to serve God with their life, but making money is more important to mom and dad. You're hindering your child. Not only is there opposition, but we know that oftentimes there's obstacles. In Hebrews 12, verse number one, he says, Wherefore, seeing we are also comforted about with so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight. And sin which does so easily beset us. God has set a race for you and I to run, and there's some things that get in our way. Sometimes it's just weights We wouldn't try and run a race with wearing extra weight. It might not even be a sin, but it's something that we need to be willing and ready to let go because it's hindering us. It's our responsibility. He says, what has hindered you? There's something that's hindering you from being all that God wants you to be. And you know, for y there may be a wait, you know, and it's for some of you, you may be staying up late on Saturday night And and you can't focus on Sunday and get what God wants you to get out of the church because there's nothing wrong with staying up. You want to stay up, but you can't stay up if you know that you're not going to be able to stay awake in church So you gotta decide, you know what? Instead of staying up and reading a book till one in the morning or or staying up and watching something that maybe nothing even maybe maybe you're watching the Discovery Channel. That'll put you to Sleep in a heartbeat. But maybe you like the Discovery Channel and you're watching those animals in Africa run around the prairie and you enjoy that, it's keeping you awake. I think that's good sleep medicine myself. But if you're watching that, nothing wrong with that. But then on Sunday morning you can't stay awake in church. It's hindering you. Maybe there's some weight you need to look and say, man, there's nothing wrong with this, but I need to just let it go. It's keeping me from being and doing all that God wants me to do for him. What is the most important thing, Christian? Seek ye first the kingdom of God. I was telling somebody this week that one of my greatest joys about living down here in the parsonage is that when I'm mowing the grass, I'm mowing the church property. I I when I when I if I'm picking up leaves, I'm picking up leaves off the church. Instead of Brother and sister Turner, you got leaves coming. You got leaves coming. Boy, my kids dreaded the leaves. All that time invested, I I looked at that as as a wait. Like it's time invested and it's stuff you have to do. But it's a wait. It's a wait. We know that sin hinders you. Sin hinders you I need to hurry, but sin hinders you, beloved. In Galatians chapter 5 and verse number 9, there's a familiar verse, which is also found in Corinthians, but He says, there a little leaven leaveneth the whole lump. Beloved a little sin. Keeps you from being able to run how God wants you to. I want you to see one last thing that can be a hindrance. And that is we've got to be careful about the opportunities that we allow to come up or that we take in our life. life. Look at Galatians chapter 5 verse number 13. He says, for brethren, you have been called unto liberty. Only use not liberty for an occasion to the flesh, but by love serve one another. That word occasion there literally means opportunity We know that we're not supposed to make provision for the flesh. That is, don't give your flesh the opportunity. Right. But for the grace of God, we're only one opportunity away from being in sin. So we've got to use not the liberty we have in Christ to provide opportunities. We've got to guard against that. And do you know Satan? He's real good at providing opportunities. He will bring the opportunity for you. I can give you examples in my own life of things that Satan brought up or put right in my way. I in such I would say an opportune time, but an opportune time to do wrong. A time when there was no accountability, a time when no one else was there, a time when when I could get away with it. Any other time it wouldn't have been a temptation because my dad was there or somebody else was there, but here's an opportunity We've got to be careful because they will hinder you from running. Lastly tonight, and I'll try and move quickly, I want you to see the inspiration. This whole verse, this whole idea is it stirred my heart. I want to run well. I want to finish my race. I know that you all here know the story of Eric Liddell, the Olympic runner, who won the gold medal. You know he was a Christian and That he determined that he was not going to run on Sunday. He had a testimony before the world that when he ran, he ran for God. He told everybody, I run for God, and then when they put his race, which was the 100-yard dash, they put his race on Sunday. He said, I'm not running on Sunday. And they said, we're not going to move it. He says, I'm not running on Sunday. And the prime minister came to him and said, Eric, you're being selfish. You aren't running just for you. You're running for a whole country. You're representing a whole country. You've got to run on Sunday. Don't you realize how important this is to your countrymen? And he says, I know I'm not running for me. I'm running for God. And how can I run for God on God's day when I'm supposed to be in church? And the sad thing is, is today we'll have Christians stay home from church to sit on a couch and watch somebody else run. That's our level of dedication. Eric said, I'm not gonna run in the Olympics. If it happens on Sunday. If we had a few more athletes like that, the Olympics wouldn't be held on Sunday. Along with all the other games. Eric said, I'm not going to. He said, I'll still run for my country, but I'll run the 400. They're like, Eric, that's not your race. There's no way. You don't have a chance of winning that one. You can't do that one. He says, Well, I'm gonna run something and I'm not running on Sunday. He didn't run on Sunday. He ran in the 400 and you know he won the gold medal. Eric ran for God. When he ran he finished running and won that gold medal for his country, he could have written his ticket to anything he wanted. They m offers from all over the country came in to give to him a blank check and and open a training institute or come and teach in our college and run our athlete program and this and this and this and And he said, No, I'm going to China as a missionary. He went to China as a missionary and continued to run for God. He said that he woke up every morning and spent an hour in prayer asking God for somebody to help that day. For somebody he could help that day. When the war broke out, he sent his wife and kids to a safer country, but he stayed there to minister to people. Ultimately, Eric Liddell was put into an internment camp where just a few months before the end of the war, he died of a brain aneurysm The amazing thing is, is he ran his race all the way to the end, and now, today, in China There is a school at that prison camp that trains 2,000 kids a year, and every student has to learn the Eric Liddell story. They have a room set up that was a mock of his prison room. And in there, they have a wax replica of Eric Liddell In a communist country, they have a wax replica of a Bible preaching missionary. Because he ran well. All the way to the end. I want to run well. Not just yesterday, not just earlier in my life or in days by gone, but I want to run now. And I want to run faithful and strong and true all the way to the end. I've seen so many throw in the towel and quit and give up. And I'm just asking God to help me to be able to run to the end. As I sat down to write the devotional Tuesday morning. My good friend, Gene Sharp, posted to Facebook A tribute to his wife. Tuesday was the one year anniversary of his wife's. Homegoing. He wrote this about his beloved wife Benita. As many of you may know, today marks the one-year anniversary of the passing of our dear Benita. If you had opportunity to know her, you were blessed by her. Her life was a life well-lived. We celebrate the sweet fragrance that her life left behind, a fragrance that points to everyone, to her redeemer. And to Jesus Christ. In her absence from us, we should all ask ourselves the question: Is my life well lived? Benita's life was good and her memory so sweet, not because of her contagious smile, not because of her love of hospitality and coffee. Not even because of her beauty, both inward and outward. Benita's life was well lived because she lived for her Savior. Jesus redeemed her and she walked with him daily. She served her family and her church tenaciously. She honored her God consistently Is that how we are living? When the Lord calls a righteous person home to heaven's gates, it's our duty to lay That to heart, and to make the changes necessary so that we could honestly say, at our home going someday, their life was well lived. I was writing this. Ye did run well when this post came through. The title, the passage, was chosen over a year ago. But here is a live testimony of somebody that ran well till God called them home. And beloved, I want to run well. But I wanted to say, well, he did. He used to. He used to be. I pray God will let me run well until the end