The the last one here is going to take a little bit more time to deal with here, but you must be born again. Um you've heard the phrase, uh have you been born again? You've uh been asked the question or people have said it. Uh I've been born again or or whatever, and sometimes we maybe we're a little bit like Nicodemus and we don't quite understand what what does that mean. Um but the key thing here with this uh with this presentation of the gospel is that you use this when you're dealing with somebody who feels that they're religious. Who feels that they're going to get to heaven because of what they're doing. They think they're going to get to heaven because they are going to church on a regular basis, or because they have been confirmed, or because they are observing the sacraments, or because They have done this or that, and they've got a whole list of peop things that people feel religious that they're doing, and uh they might feel their merit is is going to get them there, and that's where you want to use what we're going to cover today is John chapter 3. And there are a lot of people that fit into this category. And then there's a couple, the last two pages here. We're not going to get into these, but some shorter passages that are dealing with salvation. And if you're deep struggling with somebody, at the end of today's lesson, we're going to give you a little bit of stuff on problems, how to deal with some problems that you might face or arise. You know, this is some extra scripture that you can use. Faith cometh by hearing and hearing by the word of God. And so you'll want to Get that out. Now there's lots of things here to help you as far as presenting the gospel. I showed you this last week. We've got John and Romans, and these are marked. There's been many times I've been out passing out John of Romans. And got to talk to somebody and I just opened this up and started showing them right in this. It's all marked for them and then I can give it to them and say, This is this is yours. See how this is marked? You can read those verses and the future, uh you know, and that is convenient for them. We obviously have our um invitations, you're in your invited tracks. that uh we also have a small book that Pastor Derek put together uh that I did not show you. This gives you more detail uh and really goes into a lot more things as far as dealing with people in a lot of other areas And uh if you are really interested and would like something like this, uh we can get it to you. Um but there's key Bible promises verses dealing with forgiveness, with the Holy Spirit, with peace, with joy, with answered prayer, Christ's return. Um promises that God gives you when you feel guilty, when you feel despair, when you feel disappointed, when you feel depressed, when you feel persecuted Uh you know, when you're dealing with today uh a lot of people, that whole list of things I gave you, a lot of people would say they're all of those. Oh yeah, I'm depressed, I'm in despair, I'm I feel persecuted, uh, I I feel, you know, un in distress and so Um there's a lot of verses dealing with those things. Um are you struggling with lust? Are you struggling with addiction? Are you struggling with apathy? Are you struggling with uh the responsibilities you have with establishing a new home? Tempted to be bitter? Are you tempted to neglect church? Are you angry? Are you jealous? See, there's a lot of things in here just dealing with somebody comes and they're talking to you and they say, oh You know, I'm just dealing with this friend and and they're taking all the credit or whatever comes up and in your mind. You could have this just stuck in your Bible or or close by and you say, well, I've got some verses on that. And you can open that and it gives you a lot of those questions right there. And some of the key ones you might go to quite often. And there's some other helps here when we get to the problem areas at the end of the lesson today. There's some common soul-winning objections. Like sometimes you're leading somebody to Christ and they'll say, well, I'm too bad. I I'm just too bad God couldn't save me. Okay, there's a list of scriptures here for that. What to what to tell them what to do with that. Um I would have to give up too much. Um what do you tell them when they say that? Um I'm better than some church people. That may be true, but our salvation has nothing to do with what we do. Our salvation is what because we have because of what Jesus Christ did. And uh so the Christian life is too hard for me. Um There are hypocrites in church. Yeah. I can't because of my family. Uh no one can know for sure. So there's several things here to answer problems. Problem areas, and then on the last page is just a list of verses here like dealing with salvation assurance, somebody needs assurance or confession, accountability. devotion, uh forgiving others, forgiveness, parents, guy-girl relationships, homosexuality, finances, uh, television, music music, soul winning. So there's a lot of topics there just covering things, a lot of help uh for you as a soul winner if you're going to be dealing with people. Uh and maybe they're already saved but they say, Man, I'm really struggling with this and then you would have some scripture verses that you could could you could give them. So that could be a help to you. So we're dealing here with sharing your faith. One day D. Al Moody was uh out are you guys awake? I've been I've been I've been running since uh since we sat here and I got a lot to cover today but uh uh how many how many you guys know Jeremiah thirty-three three? The song Call unto me and I will Alright, if you know it, let's sing it together. Jeremiah 33, 3. Call unto me, and I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things thou knowest not Amen. Yeah. So that's a good one. Uh let's see we learned one a while ago. I think it's first Timothy two uh twelve, let no man despise thy youth. Is it first Timothy two twelve? 214. Thank you, John. Let's see. Let no man despise thy use, but be thou an example of the believer. Let no man despise thy use But be thou an example of the believer in word in conversation in charity and spirit, in faith and purity. Alright, very good. So I'm gonna get back to my lesson. D. L. Moody was uh out witnessing to somebody and he found somebody there and he began to talk to him and he said, Sir, are you a Christian? And you're going to hear this if you talk to many people. The person said, that's personal. It's none of your business. You're going to hear them say that. That's personal. Well D. Al Moody he he said it's none of your business, and D. Al Moody looked at him and said, Sir, actually that is my business. That's the business God has called me to. And I am commanded by God to go and make sure people know that they're a Christian or not. And God has called us all to that. To to share the gospel, to let people know that they can have a home in heaven and to be assured of it. And three weeks later, D. Al Moody was able to lead that man to the Lord Jesus Christ, because he made it his business. And uh people just want to use that as an excuse as any other thing and say, well, that's none of your business. Um, you know, well, it is personal between you and God, but how should they hear without a preacher? They need somebody to show them. So that's what we need to be doing. And this morning we're dealing with specifically dealing with religious people. There are a lot of religious people in the world, but they don't have much of a relationship. with God. So you guys should already be there, and I'm not there yet, but John chapter number three, that's where we're going to be looking at the entirety of this text. Now I'm going to give you some other verses really. You don't necessarily have to use these verses But John chapter 3 is where the main thrust of this lesson is found, talking about the idea of you must be born again. Here is the story of Nicodemus, a religious leader, somebody that felt they were getting to heaven because of their works, because of what they had done. And in Our text here, first thing we see is the demand. The demand is that you must be born again. Verse number one says, There was a man of the Pharisees named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews. The same came to Jesus by night and said unto him, Rabbi, we know that thou art a teacher come from God, for no man can do these miracles that thou doest except God be with him. Jesus answered and said unto him, Verily, verily I say unto thee, except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. So there's a demand. The demand is that they must be born again. This is stated several times in our text You must be born again. You see, people think that they can get to heaven because they're working their way or because they've achieved something, because they have uh gotten to a particular place in their life or they've uh you know kept the Ten Commandments or they've not you know, killed anybody. Uh there's a lot of different things and there's a common belief out there that, well, my good's gonna outweigh my bad and I'm gonna make it. I mean I'm a pretty good person. And if they're really hung up on the idea that they're pretty good people, then you can take them to John chapter 3 and say, well, let's find out how you compare with Nicodemus. You see, everybody must see themselves lost before they can get saved. You've got to get them lost before they can get saved. And if they're hung up on the fact that they're pretty good, They're not going to call out for a savior. Nobody out swimming in the ocean or in a pool yet cried out for a life preserver until they were drowning. They're out there swimming and you could come out all gung-ho running out there with a life observer. Oh, here you go, here you go, and they'll look at you like what What are you doing? It's foolishness unto them. The Bible says that the preaching of the gospel is foolishness unto them. They look at you like, why are you telling me this? Because they don't see themselves as lost. So you've got to get them lost first. They've got to first realize that they're lost. Here's a complimentary passage of scripture, but Matthew chapter 7, verses 21 to 23 says, Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven. There are a lot of people that know about God and they even call God Lord and they they they go to church on Christmas and on Easter and they celebrate the resurrection of Christ and they know all about God And one day they're going to get to heaven. They're going to look at him and they're going to say, Lord, and what what does he say here? He said in verse number twenty, he says Many will say to me, in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? In thy name have we not cast out devils, and in thy name done many wonderful works? And then I will profess unto them, I never knew you. Depart from me, you workers of iniquity. You see, it's not about what we do. It's not about our works. Here are these people, he says they're going to get to heaven and they're going to say, Lord. We served you gladly. We cast out devils in your name. Well, I mean, we we uh did so many things. We praised you publicly in the streets. We said, God is so good. And we recognized him and said, Amen, and God's going to say, Depart from me, I never knew you. That would be just like me saying, I I could talk all about how much I know about Trump I could tell you all about Trump. I could act like he's a personal friend of mine. I mean he tweets me all the time. I've just actually I've never been on Twitter, not one time in my life. I don't even know how to use it, which is probably bad because I'm not very culturally relevant, right? Uh but Yeah, not necessary. But the thing is, uh I don't know him do I? And I c I could go up to the to the White House and I could bang on the gate Say, hey, I know him. Let me in. Trump's gonna look out and he's gonna say, I don't know that guy. Who's that? I know all about him, but he doesn't know me. And that's the problem with people that are just religious but don't have a relationship with Christ. They know about God and they could tell you all about God and oh about baby Jesus and they could say, Praise the Lord, and this is the day that the Lord hath made. But one day they're going to stand at the gates of heaven. They're going to be saying, Lord, Lord, yeah, we know you. We know you. And he's going to say, I don't know that guy. Now he knows who you are and he wants you to be saved, but access to heaven Forgiveness of our sins does not come because of what we've done, because of what we do. It comes because of our relationship with Jesus Christ. Nicodemus was a Pharisee Now, to be a Pharisee, you had to do several things, and I threw these out last week, but you had to be very zealous. You had to fast two days a week. That wouldn't hurt some of us to fast a couple days a week. Might lose that extra uh pounds I'm carrying around. But uh he had to fast two days a week to be a Pharisee You had to tithe a part of your income. You had to pray for two hours every day in the synagogue. Fasted two days a week, prayed two hours every day. So you could ask them, say, how are you stacking up against Nicodemus He fasted two days a week. He prayed for two hours every single day in the synagogue. He memorized word for word and could write out by hand the Pentateuch. Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy. How much of the Pinatu can you quote? Yeah. Gotta start, brother, you gotta start. Yeah. Um they had to believe and keep the Ten Commandments. Pharisees were righteous as any man could ever be. They were not hypocrites as we think about people today as a hypocrite. hypocrite saying one thing and doing something else. Oh no, they did right. They did what they were supposed to do and they were proud of it. But they were proud of all of what they did. They didn't have a relationship with Christ You see, look down in verse number 13, in John chapter 3, here, verse number 13. It says, And no man hath ascended up to heaven. But he that came down from heaven, even the Son of Man which is in heaven. What he's saying here is no man hath ascended up into heaven. He's saying no man yet has been able To climb his own way to heaven. No man's ascended up into heaven except he that came down from heaven, Jesus Christ, would take him there. No man could get to heaven on his own. And you can't earn your way to heaven. So here we're dealing with the idea of them recognizing the demand that they must be born again. As it's written, there's none righteous, no, not one. Every man is in need. Of being born again. So you could ask them another example. You could give them, you say, Do you believe that the Apostle Paul was uh a zealous Christian, that the Apostle Paul was by uh works, would you say he was saved And many people would say, oh yeah, the Apostle Paul now he got saved on the road to Damascus, but before his salvation, before he met Christ, he was very zealous. And he was like Nicodemus, a ruler, a leader. And in Philippians chapter 3, verses 6 through 9, Paul gives his credentials. uh which give him a lot of clout, but they don't give him a relationship with Christ. So we first we see the demand is that you must be born again. The distinction is between the flesh or the Spirit. In John chapter 3, here in verse number 5, he says, Jesus answered, Verily, verily I say unto thee, except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God. Verse number six, that which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the spirit is spirit. You understand every single man is born physically. When you're talking to people about this, you just say, obviously. You're you were born one day. Do you know your birthday? And they'll say yes. They know their birthday. They'll give you the date they were born and they'll tell you, they'll tell you that. They recognize it. And you you can illustrate or talk about the fact that, you know, what he's talking about here being born of water, when you were in your mother's womb, you were in a uh What do they what do they call this? The the womb that was full of water. And they you know once a lady's water breaks You know the baby's about on its way. I mean there's not much time after that. It's gonna happen. And uh so one night my dad drove to uh take care to to take a lady to the hospital and the police gave him an escort there because he stopped on the side of the road and he says, Hey, uh there's a lady having a baby and it's this far away and he said, No problem. He turned on his lights and my dad followed the police officer all the way to the house. Well they get to the house and mom and dad and the kids and you know mom's laying in the bed and dad's in there and all the kids are in there and they're all trying to get ready to go to the hospital and dad's gonna help this lady to go to the hospital, right? And uh so her water had already broken And she's on the bed screaming. And they come into the room, and there's the police officer there, and the police officer says, okay, all you get out, get out, get out, get out, get out. He walked out and closed the door. So my dad's in this room with this lady whose water is broken and the baby's on the way. Now praise the Lord he had already had six kids because he delivered that child right there. So that's how Dad says that's how he got his doctorate degree. Then they got things together and You know, ended up I don't remember if they called the ambulance or if they took her to the hospital or or what, but it was not dad's in plan. He was planning to take her to the hospital. Walked in the room and the officers like okay, let's go. But he sh Once the water breaks, you're born of water. That's what it's talking about. You've got to be born of water, but also of the Spirit, he says. That which is born of the flesh is flesh, but that which is born of the spirit is spirit. So you ask them, do you know your birthday? And they say, yeah. There's no question about that. Well, do you know your spiritual birthday You see, it's not about what we do. It's not how good we are. It's not how many laws we observe. It's not how much scripture we can quote or how much we go to church. Do you know your spiritual birthday? Oh. There should be no question. Now you might not know the exact hour, you might not know the exact date, because a lot of times, especially when people are are uh led to Christ when they're younger. They they tend to forget. But it's important, especially as you lead people to Christ, it's a great habit to get into. If you give them a New Testament or you give them a John and Romans or something, and write down in the front of there, this is your spiritual birthday. And put that down for them so they recognize it. And they know that so you don't want to forget this day. And I'll usually give them a reference point because they might not remember the date, but I'll say it was two days after Thanksgiving. And that they'll stick in their mind. And they can remember that was my spiritual birthday. You know, it was a week before Christmas or whatever, some kind of a reference point for them so they can remember their spiritual birthday. And uh you can in some ways give them a spiritual birth certificate as it were. Um Because they need to know when their spiritual birthday was. Nicodemus was a Jew, a ruler of the Jew, but he still needed to be born again. No man can be made religious, uh no man just by his religion can get to heaven. He had religion but not a relationship with Christ. His religion didn't satisfy him. You understand Nicodemus came to Jesus? He was doing all these things and he came to Jesus and he wanted to know. Hey, what what is this? And with all that he was doing in his spirit for religion and for uh good things, he still was searching for something because he didn't have a relationship And many people trying to fill that need for a relationship with God, with religion, feel very empty. They really feel very empty. They put their heads on a pillow at night and they still don't know if they're going to go to hell. They still don't have any assurance of a relationship with God. They spend their days and work and don't have a relationship with God. So they should know that, the distinction, that they've been born again, just like they were born physically. The deliverance comes from Christ. Look at John chapter 3, verses 14 and 15. And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish. but have eternal life. So here is a story that you might have to explain. And you see that the children of Israel had been bitten by a snake and and they were many of them were dying because of the infection of the snake. the snake and they came and they said, What can we do? And Moses prayed to God, and God told him to fashion a serpent and to lift it up. And anybody that would look to the serpent would be healed. If they just by faith would look at that serpent and say, you know, you say, Man, that's crazy. That that doesn't make sense. I mean you can't be healed of a snake bite just by looking at something like that. But it's an exercise of faith. Saying, I believe God has the power to do that. And they looked at the serpent and they were healed. And if they didn't, if they weren't willing to look at the serpent, then they weren't healed. And they ended up dying from it But that illustration he gives here in John chapter 3, and he says, even as a serpent was lifted up in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lifted up. That's Jesus Christ. And anybody that would look to Jesus Christ could be saved, could be forgiven of their sins. They will not perish, but have, what does it say? Eternal life. Again, you want to point them to the scriptures. You want to let them see it, look at it. What does it say? That if you look to Jesus, you'll have eternal life. There's nothing in here about what we do. That deliverance comes from Jesus Christ. So many people are under the judgment and facing death. They must turn to Jesus for salvation. You understand? If man could do it on his own, Jesus Christ wouldn't have had to die. If we could have somehow been good enough our own If we could have just checked off this list of things and achieved, it's very good for you to go into this with somebody because they have never really thought about it. Jesus, God sent his only son to earth to die on the cross for you. And they know about it. They're probably religious. They've probably observed that. They've done some things like this. And you say, listen, if you could have got to heaven by just doing this and this and this and this, God could have just gave us that list and said, Hey, do this and you'll go to heaven. But we can't achieve righteousness before God by what we do. If we could, Jesus wouldn't have had to die. God wouldn't have had to send his son. But he did. And Jesus did die. Why is that? Because we needed his perfect, sinless blood of Jesus Christ to wash away our sins. Galatians chapter 2, verse number 21 is a supportive passage for this. He says, I do not frustrate the gospel of God. For if righteousness come by the law, Then Christ is dead in vain. If righteousness can be had by the law, if we could just observe the law and get to heaven, then Christ died in vain You don't think Christ died in vain, do you? And they, of course, will say what you said. No. Well, why did he die? To save me. To forgive, to wash away my sins, to forgive me. Right. So understand, you must be born again. And that deliverance comes from Jesus Christ Then the deal, the deal is what I've labeled this, and that is that it's free salvation. Everybody likes to get a deal, don't they? Everybody likes to get, I mean, you know, Pastor Derek and I are always watching the the list of free stuff on Craigslist. Craigslist free, man. He texted me the other day and said somebody's giving away steel, uh some steel beams. And uh so I called the guy and said, Hey, uh can I come and get him? He said, Sure. And he told me where he was. I thought, uh, I don't know if it's worth that. Just down in Bethesda. But I had just bought some steel for the house and Steel is expensive. And uh it's crazy how much money it is. So I said, Well, it's worth it. I'm gonna drive down there and get it. And since it was only about seven miles from Dr. Yoon's house, I called Dr. Yoon and went over to his house and we had breakfast. and and uh spent some time together and fellowship for a bit. So I killed two birds with one stone. Uh but got got it free. Everybody likes a deal. That had nothing to do with the lesson. I don't know if but The Bible says, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. This is a key verse in this passage of Scripture. Verse number what? 16, yeah. This is this is it. This is the the crux. This is the heartbeat of it. And if they are religious at all, they probably know this verse. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth him should not perish, but have everlasting life. If they don't want to perish, if they would like to have everlasting life, then they need to recognize the free salvation that was given to us by Jesus Christ. He, God the Father, gave his Son first. He gave it to whosoever. Whosoever would what? Believe. Whosoever would believe. And you could put their name in there for whosoever. We could put your name in there and say, well, if John would or uh You know, if Jim would or Bob would or Carol would or whatever you whoever you're talking to, put their name in there, um to believe is to believe that he can And will forgive you of all your sins. Just like those in the desert there with Moses had to look to the serpent to be saved, these you have to look to Jesus Christ. and believe that he has the power to forgive you and to save you and then believe that he will. And some people say, well I'm just too bad, God's not going to forgive me. Is there anything God can't do? And you might have to share some other verses, some other scripture with him and uh then get them back to this point and say, okay, can you believe that he can? Can God forgive you? Yes, he can. Could. Okay? He has promised to do so. Would would you believe that he would do it today if you asked him? And then hopefully they would say they would say yes. So they there at the crux of that hopefully trust Jesus Christ. And at that point is when you would want to uh bring them to a point of decision and say Do you believe God can? Do you believe God gave his son? Do you understand that it's a relationship, not religion? It's not how righteous we are in ourselves. It doesn't matter how much good I do. And talk about the free gift of salvation again that this God gave. God gave his son. It was free. He gave it to us. And a gift by its nature is free. If I had to get baptized in order to get to heaven, that changes that verse. If I had to go to church in order to be forgiven of my sins, that changes that verse. Jesus Christ gave himself freely. To you and I. And we do other things. We serve God because we love Him, because He first loved us. Not to get to heaven, but because we're on our way to heaven. I mean, if I gave uh Richard twenty five thousand dollars And then I says, hey, would you mind taking me to lunch next week someday? I think you probably say, no, no problem at all. Uh no I'd be glad to do that. So did he take me to lunch in order to get the $25,000? No. But he's excited to take me to lunch. Why? Because I had given it to him. Well Jesus gave us eternal life, and we serve him not to get to heaven, but because of what he's done for us. And what we can do for him is so small in comparison to what he's already done for us. So the determination, the last thing is the determination I want to give you. And what we're talking about here is assurance. In John chapter 3, verse number 18, he says, He that believeth on him is not condemned. When you believe on God, you're not condemned. But he that believeth not is condemned already, because he hath not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. So you deal here with assurance, talking about once they've trusted Jesus Christ as their Savior, once they bowed their head and said they realize that Jesus is the only way to heaven and That it's not in their religion, uh not in their how good they are, but they recognize they're in a sinner and in need of a savior, and they trust Jesus Christ. And then you can point them to this and say, Hey, he that believeth on him is not condemned. Did you believe on him? And they'll say yes. And you say, okay, then what does the verse say here? That you are not condemned. You've been set apart. There's two people listed in this verse, those people that believe and those people that don't believe. Which are you? Oh, I believe Okay, then you're not condemned, right? According to this verse, once you've looked to Jesus, the condemnation has been removed. You've been born again. Just like your biological father, you carry his character traits. Maybe you have your Elisha is so funny because Elisha is so much like his dad. If you know Brother Wright at all, you know you I see his dad in him so much. Uh and uh you know you probably know either yourself or somebody like that that their dad is really evident in them. And we carry the character traits of our biological father. Well, you know what? Once you've been born again, now you carry the character traits of your spiritual father. Father. You see things that before were foolishness unto you, you'll start to understand. You used to read the scripture and it didn't really make much sense. Now as you're starting to read it, you're going to start to be able to understand it. Now as you sit in the church service and the preacher used to be preaching and you thought, man, that's goofy. That doesn't make sense what he's saying, now you'll sit there in the spirit because you have the character traits of your your heavenly father in you. And those character traits should be evident in your life. You have a spiritual nature alongside your physical nature. Then dealing with assurance, you want to ask questions. Okay, did you just pray and trust Jesus Christ as your Savior? And it'll say yes. Okay, did you mean it? Yes. Okay, then what happened? God saved me. Uh right, God save you. Now, uh if you died tomorrow, where would you go? And they would say heaven. Then I like to ask them this, if you would have died yesterday, where would you go And get them to acknowledge the fact that this was the day of salvation. Things are different now between yesterday and today. And if they have truly trusted Jesus Christ as their Savior, it will hit them the fact that if I would have died yesterday, I would have gone to hell. But now I'm saved And I'm on my way to heaven. And then you talk to him and go a little further and say, okay, if you died ten years from now, where would you go? in heaven. And then you can explain why I mean look do you can talk about the physical relationship if they wonder about that. Like I'm always safe, yeah. We'll talk about your physical relationship with your father. Aren't you your de your father's son? Your father could disown you on paper. He could go to the courts and have your name changed. But you're still his son, are you? You could do everything where your father didn't want anything to do with you, but there's no way you can change that. You're his biological son, and I'll tell you what, if you committed a crime, they could pull out some DNA testing and they could find out exactly who you belong to right right well just like that you've been born spiritually and you are now in the family of God And you can never lose that position. Now you lose favor when we do wrong. Our Heavenly Father is not very happy, just like our earthly father doesn't like it. And we might need to work on that relationship sometimes, but the position is secure. And you can deal with that a little bit of assurance to the believer there asking him some questions like that.