Here we want to start the year off right. And that means we started off with following the Lord's will. So this morning, uh what we're going to look at is uh your daily devotional life. Your daily devotional life. The fact of the matter is anybody through history that has successfully lived as a Christian Anybody that has lived this life in and with and through the power of God has done so by maintaining a personal Walk with God. A personal time of devotion every day. You cannot live this life just coming to church on Sundays. You can't make it. You can't maintain a level of spirituality in your heart. You can't continue to grow as God would want you to grow. It's impossible. It takes personal walking with God. This is something that has been taught and is something that we should do. If you're in Mark chapter number one, look down in verse number 35. Our text this morning, verse 35 through 39. You follow along with me as we see an example of Jesus Christ here. He says, And in the morning, rising up a great while before day. I know we lost some of you right there. You're like, huh? Forget that. We lost, hey, a great while before day. He went out and departed into a solitary place And there prayed. And Simon and they that were with him followed after him. And when they had found him, they said unto him, All men seek for thee. And he said unto them, Let us go into the next town that I may preach there also. For therefore came I forth. And he preached in their synagogues throughout all Galilee and cast out devils. As Christians, if we're going to have a successful year, if we're going to have a successful life, It really boils down to and is in direct correlation to how successful our personal walk is. You find Christians that struggle spiritually, they just they're up and down as a roller coaster ride, and they're on top right now, and then they're all down the dumps. discouraged about Christianity and about their life and all of this over here. And then they're back up on top and they're they're in church this week and then they miss church next week and and they there's just this this inconsistent pattern of spirituality in their life and there's such a struggle and it's so hard to be a Christian and you ask them, are you walking with God? Well, Pastor, that's something I've always struggled with. It's evident. It's evident. And it is a struggle. Because we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities and powers. And I'll tell you what, old Satan would do anything he can to throw a monkey wrench in your plans. To try and walk with God. To try and grow spiritually, to try and be what God wants you to be. You you set a time and I'll tell you what, everything in the world will go wrong to hinder it for you from getting with God during that time. And uh it's just the the fact of the matter is, as we wrestle not against flesh and blood, it's not just this old body that we've got to get under control, which is A hard enough task. But we're also fighting against Satan and the devil who doesn't want this to happen. So it is a battle. It is a struggle. But if we're going to succeed as Christians, we've got to commit and strive to have a personal walk with God. And Satan would like to make you think, well, uh, I missed a day or I missed a week, so uh, you know, I my plan was to start this year and and have a personal walk with God every day and here we are uh on the what is the fifth. And I haven't done it yet. So, well, forget it. I've lost another year. No, you haven't. You only lost five days. You can start today. The day's not over You can start in the morning. You can pick up right now. And that's the thing, is don't let the devil defeat you in the future for something that's happened in the past. So we want to talk to you about your devotional life today. First of all, what is the motivation? What is the motivation for having personal devotion? What is our motivation? What is it that causes us, you know, is this idea of a personal devotional time just something that modern Christianity has come up with as a means to uh you know get Christians involved in the church and and get them more faithful to the house of God and build the church or is this something that's just been come up with uh in modern era that we're supposed to daily walk with God? Well, I don't think so. I think we see in the Word of God from the early pages of the Old Testament all the way through the New Testament, patterns given to us for Christians to walk with God. You have the pattern given to us in the scriptures, first of all, as a motivation for why we do this. Isaac meditated in the field at the evening in Genesis chapter 24. He went out into the field and he meditated on his God and what his God meant to him and spent time thinking about that. David, of course, you know, David prayed. consistently actually uh three times a day he prayed he spent time meditating and thinking about God that great psalmist of Israel David prayed you know Daniel The story of Daniel who was cast into the lion's den for daily, for consistently having a time where he prayed and talked to his God. All through the scriptures, there's a pattern, and we could go on character after character after character through the scriptures that gave us a pattern Of walking with the Lord. But the greatest pattern we have is Jesus Christ Himself. We're to be like Christ. And certainly he sets the standard for us, not other men. And if we were to watch and look at him, Christ Himself, who is God in the flesh, as we read this morning, stopped and took time. To get alone and pray. He went out into a solitary place and he prayed. Jesus gave us this pattern. Not only that, it gives us the power. to grow spiritually. It gives you the power to grow spiritually. If you want to be successful as a Christian, you've got to continue to feed spiritually. uh you're not going to grow otherwise. It's just not going to happen. You say, well I come to church once a week. Okay. Well how about you eat once a week? Physically. You just decide, okay, I'm just gonna eat once a week. And uh see how healthy you are, how much growth you have in your life. How strong you are. And you wonder why spiritually you're so weak. And you come Thursday night and You know, you're getting those times of nourishment and strength. But if that's all you're getting, beloved, you are anemic as a Christian You're literally anemic. You're withering away. You're on a fast from God every week. And you're weak spiritually. Strength comes by consistently walking with God. We grow. The Bible says that man shall not live by bread alone. We know that our physical life is sustained by the taking in of good healthy food. Amen. Now that we're past the holidays, we can get into that. Talk about the healthy food we're supposed to be eating, you know. Uh hopefully most of the desserts have been cleaned up in your kitchens, you know, the leftovers from the events that we had. We still have some cookies and things like that. But you know that eating that stuff is how you're strength. But man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God. We're supposed to be taking in spiritual nourishment. That's how we grow. That's how we grow physically. That's how we grow spiritually, is taking in spiritual nourishment. gives you the strength to grow spiritually. Your strength comes from being near God. James 4. 8 says, draw nigh unto God and he will draw nigh unto you. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners, and purify your hearts, ye double-minded. Drawing nigh to God gives you strength, gives you what you need to grow spiritually. In 1 Chronicles 28, verse number 9, the Bible says, And thou Solomon, my son, Know thou the God of thy father, and serve him with a perfect heart and a willing mind, for the Lord searcheth all hearts and understandeth all the imaginations of the thoughts. If thou seek him, He will be found of thee, but if thou forsake him, he will cast thee off forever. Solomon's father was saying, hey son, if you search for God, if you follow after God, if you seek him, God is there, he's ready. He wants to strengthen you. He wants to guide you. He wants to give you the light that you need for your life. But listen, if you cast him off and decide you're just going to live and do what you want to do, God's going to cast you off. And none of us want to be in that position. And you know, of course, the story of Solomon, how when God came to him and said, Listen, what what would you like? And and And what is tell him he said, I need wisdom from God because I don't know how to go out or come in. I don't know how to rule these people. You're saying, God, I I need you, I need your presence. presence, I need your wisdom to lead and to do what you want me to do. And God said, hey, because you've asked for wisdom, I'll give you a lot more. Beloved, we need the wisdom of God to live this life. And it only comes by walking with God daily, daily, spending some time in the Word of God. Every one of us needs spiritual nourishment. We grow through the Word of God, strengthen through the Word of God. Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way? Psalms 119, 9 through 11, by taking heed thereunto, unto thy word. With my whole heart have I sought thee. O let me not wander from thy commandments. Thy word have I hid in my heart that I might not sin against thee. We grow by the word of God. The fact of the matter is that it needs to be a priority. of our life, a priority of our soul. Look at verse 36 and 37 of our text there. You know, of course, Jesus went out, found a solitary place to pray. But in 36 he says, and Simon and they that were with him followed after him. Jesus went to be alone. And they're out looking for him. And when they found him, they said unto him, All men seek for thee. Do you feel like that sometimes? Everybody needs something. Like I just wanted a couple minutes alone and the kids are coming in asking for this and the the dog needs that and the the the stove's on fire and I mean it's it's it's Right Margaret and the stove lit on fire just a couple weeks ago. Her stove caught on fire. Hey it seems like no matter what, everybody needs something. Jesus went to be alone for a few minutes. And all men seek for thee. Listen, there's a lot of things in your life that demand your time. There's a lot of things, and I know that you feel the pressure sometimes as being pulled in every direction. And to literally try and stop for a few minutes and put life on pause and sit down in quiet uh tranquility with your savior seems impossible. Like how in the world can that happen? It has to be a priority. It has to be a priority. It has to be something in our hearts and minds. that is so vital to our existence that we say, I have to spend this time. It's necessary for me. Whatever else I have to let go, I've got to spend time with God. I've got to get in the word. I've got to fellowship with my Savior. I've got to let that go. I've got to quit doing that. I've got to put that off. Whatever it is. It's got to be a priority of our life if we're going to do it. You've got to decide that it's important and that it's a priority that you're going to do it. You've got to do it. If we only meet the needs of the present, that is the emergency. The thing that's demanding your time. And those come up all the time, nonstop in our lives. There are things that must be taken care of right now. But if that's all we're doing is putting out fires and meeting the needs of the current emergency, we are neglecting God's overarching plan for our lives. What does he say in verse number 39 of our text? He said verse number 38 he says, And he said unto them, let us go into the next town. That I may preach there also, for therefore came I forth. He said, Okay, I've been alone with God, I've got what I need spiritually, I've I've I'm strengthened and ready. He says, God has a plan for me. I was put on this earth for a reason, which we know was to seek and to save that which was lost, was to bring salvation to the world, to provide a means whereby sinful man could gain salvation And go to heaven and be forgiven of their sins. You see, he spent time alone, but he realized there's a goal for his life. God has a goal for your life And if all we do is put out this fire and put out this fire and we just run around and handle the emergencies and we never stop and pause and get alone with God, we will lose sight of and neglect God's overarching plan for our lives. We're just going to be running to and fro and we're going to be as busy as we can, but it'll feel like we're accomplishing nothing. We'll feel like we're spinning our wheels. And I know I see head shaking all over the room. I know that we've all been there. We've all felt that way. Like I'm doing an awful lot, but I'm doing nothing. I'm not accomplishing a thing. Boy, I'm as busy as can be, but what did I really accomplish? It is in that quiet time with God where our lives are brought into focus, the priorities are given importance. And we find meaning for our lives and what God wants for us to do. That's why it's so vitally important. Vitally important. You also find this, you find peace and stability. In a very familiar passage of scripture, Philippians chapter 4, verse uh 6 and 7. He says, Be careful for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication, let your request be made known unto God. We know that verse. We're not supposed to worry so much about life. We're supposed to give it over to God. We're supposed to pray. You know as well as I do that that's easier said than done. You know, uh it's it's awful difficult when when there's the bill on the counter that you're not sure how you're gonna pay and You know, y you can't just say, okay, God, uh you know about that bill, so I don't have to worry about it. And you just let it go, right? Lord, I I got the phone call from the doctor and and he said there's uh there's a problem and I've got to go in for more tests. But Lord, you know what? I've told you about it, so I ain't gonna worry about it. It's not that easy, is it? Although it is what we're told to do. We're told to be careful for nothing. That is to worry and not have anxiety over anything because you turn it over to God. But the next verse there says, and the peace of God which passed all understanding shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. Many times we separate those two verses when we're when we're talking about things. Do you see the means by which the peace of God comes into our heart and our life? Is by spending time in prayer, by walking with God, by fellowshipping with Him daily. That's how the peace of God takes over in our heart When you're facing it'll it'll almost be unnatural, uncanny. People will look at you and wonder, how can you go through that and be so calm? And you in your mind will be like, I'm not sure. Uh I don't know how that is happening. I really should be more stressed about this. But because you've been walking with God, God gives you that peace. This is important for us, Christians. So we've seen here our motivation. I think there's some motivation there for why we should do this. But let me talk to you practically speaking about the method. And many of you probably already have a method. You've got something you do for your quiet time with God. And I'm not trying to change that. I just want to give you some thoughts, maybe something you could include with what you're already doing or that you could change up what you're doing. But we're just going to talk practically about walking with God and the method and how to do this. And uh so, first of all, we see that he rose up in the morning a great while before day. He went out and departed into a solitary place. and prayed. You need to seek private time and location. Seek a private time and location A place where you can get alone with God. A time when you're the least distracted. Some like it early. You know, some like it late. Um but you know The time is not as important as a time. When is not as important as doing it. You have to have a time. Now if you in your day you you maybe have to be to work at seven and it takes you thirty minutes to drive there and And it takes you 30 minutes to to you know brush your teeth and get the cobwebs out of your uh eyes and and get ready to go. So you you're typically you wake up at six. I mean if you're gonna do it in the morning, you might have to wake up at five. And you say, Pastor, are you nuts? Listen, I'm not going to fault you for that. You know, isn't it amazing how we're more understanding with areas that we struggle? I'm not a morning person. I can sleep with the best of them. I mean, uh I enjoy rest and I like sleeping and I and I can sleep. You know, I'm I I'm looking forward to getting old. Because all these people that are old tell me, when you're old you can't sleep anymore. You just you don't sleep. And I don't have that problem. Yeah. That would be the only reason I'm looking forward to getting old. Because it is literally a battle with my flesh to get myself out of bed. It doesn't matter if I have to get up at five in the morning. Or ten in the morning. You say, what? I still whatever I can get out of bed at three in the morning if I need to. I set my alarm and get up. Whatever time I gotta get up, I can get up. But If I don't have an alarm to set and tells me when to get up, I can just sleep. I can sleep. He said, Man, Pastor, I can't sleep. Good for you. Get up early. I think there is something about starting your day with God. And I would encourage you if you can to do it in the morning. Start your day with God. But I also know That if you struggle and in the morning your brain hasn't turned on yet and you are not awake and you might be out of bed and you might be walking, but you really aren't functioning yet. It's not gonna do any good to spend a few minutes looking at the scriptures when you have no comprehension of what it is you've read. It would be far more profitable to you for you to find a time later in the day, maybe that's during your lunch break, maybe that's in the evening, maybe you finish your day with that, where you can actually get something out of it. Find a time and a solitary place where you can be alone. That's one of the benefits of the morning. Most of the time the morning is a time when the kids aren't up yet. When The day is quiet when there's aren't things demanding your time. You know how it is, you think, Well, I'm gonna do it on my lunch break, and then your boss comes in and says Hey, I need you to get this done and we've got to cut your lunch break short and you barely had time to eat and you didn't get to do it. Always something gonna come up. Something's gonna be seeking for your time, right? But you've got to make it a priority. You gotta set a time, whatever that is. Maybe have a backup time because sometimes the time that you had planned gets taken. And you say, okay, well I wasn't able to do it at ten o'clock, so I'm gonna do it this evening at nine o'clock. But set a priority and make sure that it happens. Set a time. It's valuable. Consistency is more important than quantity. You know, I've been criticized as a pastor by other pastors for our devotional program because we only read one chapter of the Word of God. That's not enough reading, Pastor Coobe. Listen, you guys can read as much as you want, but I think sitting down and reading one chapter of the Word of God every day. is far more valuable than reading ten chapters today and not reading anything for ten days. We don't eat physically that way. I mean when you go to a buffet and you eat all that you can eat, I mean you you you just you just fill up with everything and then you have dessert after that. You think, man, I'm not gonna eat for two days. What happens about eight o'clock, nine o'clock that night? You know, I mean you get to suffer and maybe maybe you're able to miss supper. You're like, man, I'm still full from lunch. That was a good lunch. And most of the time that happens if you've eaten pretty good food. If you've had junk food that just doesn't stay with you. But if you're eating good, healthy food, it kinda stays with you, you've got, you know, I'm full. Maybe you can sip skip supper. But what happens by the next morning? Man, I'm hungry. Spiritually it's that way. You can't just get one day just all kinds of the word, oh man, I really soaked it up today, and so I don't need to get in the Word of God for a week. It doesn't work that way. Consistency is more important. Hey, if you feel like it, you've got time, read more than a chapter. But set a priority and say, At least I'm going to read the chapter that we're reading as a church. We're going to read that chapter every day. set as a goal and this is going to be a important and a pattern for my life. I'm going to read that chapter. And listen, if you've got time and you're you're interested, you can read on. You can study more. You can read some, read a Proverbs every day of the month, you can read in Psalms, you can do something like that, but at least read a chapter of the Word of God every day. So find a time, be consistent when you're alone. So Matthew chapter 6, verse number 5, he says, When thou prayest, thou shalt not be as the hypocrites are, for they love to pray standing in the synagogues. In the corners of the streets, that they may be seen of men. Verily I say unto you, they have their reward. But thou, when thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and when thou shuttest the door, pray to thy father which is in seeking And thy father, which is in secret, shall reward thee openly. Find a time to just get alone with God. You know I've got a lot of material here, but when I was in college, we were in the dorm. We're in what many people today would call seminary, Bible college, studying the Word of God. And uh It's amazing in the dorm there with the guys how pious we got, you know. We're all studying the word of God and we're so spiritual and And, you know, you get your Bible and go out into a public space. Brethren, I'm just going to spend a few minutes with Jesus. Please don't disturb me, you know. If you don't want to be disturbed, go find a closet somewhere, man. Go go get alone. I mean we had in the dorm there we had private study rooms, we had practice, piano practice rooms, places you can could go and shut the door and get alone. But people didn't want to do that because nobody could see them studying God's word, you know? Hey, the most profitable is when we're in secret You really need the quiet to hear the still small voice of God. That time is when you'll hear God talking to you and be strengthened. Spiritually. Solitude makes communion with God effective. So you seek private time and location, then you need to spend some time in prayer. Some time in prayer. When you pray, what you know what should you pray for? Let me give you several things. When you're praying, you ought to you ought to praise and thank God for who he is. Colossians 4. 2. Continue in prayer and watch in the same with thanksgiving. There ought to be a time of thanksgiving in your prayer life. One of the reasons that we're so disgruntled and discouraged is because we haven't counted our blessings. We haven't spent any time thinking about how good God is to us and what God has blessed us with. And if you spend a little bit of time every day just thinking, man, God, thank you for the strength to get out of bed this morning. Thank you, Lord, for the the home that is mine and for the means by which I can uh pay these bills and at least I I'm not out on the street. Thank you, God, for my family. Thank you, Lord, for for the blessing of a place to work, although uh might not be much of a place, but I I got a job, amen. And thank you, God. I mean you just spend a little bit of time, you start counting your blessings a little bit every day, and pretty soon you're going to be full up with the blessings of God. Realizing how much he does for you. Spend some time pray praising God, thanking God in your prayer time. Have a time of confession. 1 John 1 9. If we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us. We understand that none of us have arrived. None of us are as holy as we can and should be. That that there's still things in our lives that we struggle with. Maybe it's the fact that we missed devotions yesterday. It wasn't our plan. Our goal was to be every single day. But Lord, forgive me for not spending time with you yesterday. Forgive me for not getting into your word and putting enough priority on that. I mean, forgive me, God, for how I treated my wife this morning. Forgive me, God, for how I I talked to my kids and and I I lost my patience with them. Just spend some time confessing your sins and and ask God. You say, well I haven't sinned. Okay. Uh Just ask God, search me, O God. And then get quiet. Say, Lord, tell me where I wherein have I transgressed thy law. And the Lord will start putting his finger on some things in your life. You may not like that, but but hey, we need to spend some time in confession. We need to keep short accounts with God Keep short accounts. If you spend a little time confessing your sins each day, just being close to your Savior. Then you need to have a time of supplication. This is the time that we don't have a problem with. This is where we ask for our request. Let your request be made known unto God. This is what most of what our prayer time is, right? It's our want list. We're treating our Savior like Santa. Lord, would you give me this? Would you give me that? Would you do this for me? Hey, there's nothing wrong with with asking. The Bible says you have not because you ask not. John R. Rice wrote a book, the title of it, Prayer is Asking. That's what prayer is. So there ought to be a time of supplication where you come, and let me encourage you to have a list. Have a list. Break your list up into days of the week. You can't pray for all the needs that you have in one sitting. You're going to pray for your your your family, your kids, you're going to pray for your extended family, for your mom and dad. You're going to pray for their needs. sicknesses, the things that they're dealing with, the financial problems they have. You're going to pray for the missionaries that we have at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. You're going to pray for all the other church members at Hunt Valley Baptist Church. You're going to pray for the court case that the Hunt Valley Baptist Church is going through. You're going to pray for all these things every day. So maybe maybe you want to split that up and say, you know what, I'm going to pray for these three missionaries on Monday and these two on Thursday. Thursday and these two on Wednesday. And I'm going to divide that up. I'm going to pray for my family. There's some things that you ought to pray for every day. And personally, I'm going to pray for these things. But have some type of a list, something to kinda guide you through. You know what it is like when you start praying, the devil's gonna put all kinds of junk in your mind. You'll be trying to talk to the Lord and then all of a sudden all these things start coming to you. So build build a list. We have a prayer list that we give out from the church here. uh on Thursday nights that you can take and use that and then just kind of add some things personally to it or or build your own prayer list. There's a numerous prayer list apps available that you can use, have on your phone, keep your list and add to it, subtract from it. The apps have check marks where you can press answered and it gets automatically put into an answered prayer request list. And you can keep those. It's great to review. In your time of praise, you can thank God for the answer prayers. Lord, thank you for answering these prayers. Thank you for doing this. So a time of supplication. Pray for your needs. Pray for other needs Then you ought to have a time of intercession. This is Bible as well, and that's a time where you pray for other needs, other other people. and and their needs. Pray for other s spiritual conditions, for the lost, the unsaved. Bring the needs of others before God. I exhort thee, 1 Timothy 2, 1, I exhort thee, I exhort therefore that first of all supplications, prayers, intercessions, and giving of thanks be made. for all men. Um then spend time in meditation. Spend time in meditation. Yeah, that's the main one. And spend time in the Word of God. Spurgeon said this, I am sure to have the most happy day when I have got a good text in the morning from my master Spend time meditating on the Word of God, thinking about it. Read some, think about it, let it become part of your life. Finney said this. We must pause and pray over it. Look at it verse by verse, compare it, dwell on it, digest it, get it into our minds until we feel that the Spirit of God has filled us with the Spirit of Holiness. he said that. Tom Malone used to say this. They asked him, how much Bible do you read every day? He said, I read it until my heart burns. Some days that doesn't take much, but other days it takes a lot. I read it, he just said, I read it till my heart burns, like the road like the men on the road to Emmaus, did not our heart burn within us? So maybe that would be a worthy ambition. But commit to read something every day. Read and meditate on the Word of God. Moody said this, study the Bible carefully and prayerfully when the Holy Spirit touches the eyes of your understanding and you see Christ shining through its pages, it becomes a whole new book to you. But that takes meditation. It takes time. Meditate on God's will for you, looking at the text and what does this mean? And that gets us into our last point, which I've got to give to you in about four minutes. So mimic. What is the mimicry of devotions? Mimicry is to copy. Mimicry is a practice, an act, an instance, a performance. What I'm saying about this is don't disconnect your spiritual walk in the morning with the rest of your life These two should be intertwined. As you study the Word of God, as you meditate on it, it ought to be looking at the pages of Scripture. Not just what does God want for Christianity as a whole, not just what does the Word of God mean for the church or for the world, but what is this saying to me personally? How is this part of my life? What does God want for me? What is his will for me personally? Yes, time in the Word of God is an oasis out of the world. It's a time of refreshing and rejuvenation as a Christian. It gives us strength. But too many Christians Have a disconnect from that private place to their life. Do you understand that there's people in the Word of God that are that are Sorry, there's people in the world that are studying the Word of God on a purely intellectual basis. Maybe they have a great understanding of Greek and they enjoy the beauty of the word the King James Bible and they'll study it purely for intellectual purposes. They know a lot about the Word of God, but it has literally never touched their life. It has not changed them. It does not guide them throughout the day. Somehow you've got to connect the two. As a Christian, studying the Word of God Should change how we live. It should impact our walk day by day, what we're doing as we go through the day, how we respond. When we begin to worry about something, that text, be careful for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication ought to come to our mind. The Holy Spirit bringing that back to remembrance and saying Man, I've got to turn this over to God. I shouldn't be tied up. I shouldn't be in knots. I'm full of anxiety about this. I gotta trust God. You're letting that verse and that time of study impact you. So you pause for a second, you give it to God, you say, Lord, help me to trust you. It's hard. I'm struggling with this, Lord. But I want to trust you. I want to give this to you. Give me that peace in my heart. Try and give it to God. And go on. You're letting it impact your life day by day, hour by hour. Finney said, Bible study without living the truth is of no avail. Did you no good unless we're willing to try and apply it to our lives. From the Garden of Eden until today, God has desired that his people walk with him. The walk starts in our private time, but it should continue throughout the day. One of Moody's friends talked about Moody's relationship. relationship with God. And he said we would be in the car driving somewhere and talking about something. And then just all of a sudden Moody would start talking to God. As casually as if he was talking to another person in the car. That easily. You see, let me give you this illustration and I'm going to close. We just took a trip, drove to Michigan. You understand we've got friends all over the country. Hardly a state we drive through that we don't have somebody that we know that we could stop and see that they've said, hey, come in and visit. You know, stay with us. If you're if you're coming by, I want to be mad if you don't stop. You know, when we're driving. We want to get there. And so we look and we're like, man, we would love to stop and see them, but they're an hour off of our road off of our track. We're going to have to drive an hour out of our way to stop and see them and an hour back. And if we spend an hour with them, that's three hours. Now instead of getting there at seven o'clock, you know, we're not going to get there until ten o'clock. Uh I don't think it's worth stopping. Here's what I'm saying. God wants to walk with you. You shouldn't have to go very far out of your way to be with God. If He's close to you, if you've been walking with Him, it should be as natural and as easy as just Saying, hey Lord, could you help me with this? Lord, would you guide me here? You've been with them. The problem is that so many Christians are so far from God, they haven't spent any time with God in their life, they think, if I'm going to go try and get a hold of God, I got to go a long ways. And that's discouraging to 'em. And they're like, man, I'm so far from God. For me to get God's help or God's guidance or God's strength in this, I gotta go a long ways off my path. But it's shouldn't be that way, should it? We should be close to God. Walking with Him every day. Sometimes we step away. That's okay. I'm not condoning it. I'm saying that happens. Spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak. Just step back and continue on day by day. If you're going to have a successful year, it's really going to be in direct correlation. to how successful your personal walk is. I hope you commit to have time with your Lord every day, at least in some some time, some portion. Let's close in prayer. But we thank you for your love. We thank you this morning for the your word and how it challenges us. I pray, God, that you'll be with each and every person here about this. Important matter of walking with you. Lord, I ask you this morning if there's one here that does not know you as Lord and Savior, that's where our walk starts. It starts by coming to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ and having our savings sins forgiven. Or just just spending time in the Word of God day by day. Lord, we need first to come to a saving. We need first to come to you and be forgiven of our sins, to become a child of God. Lord, I pray if there's one in the mor room this morning that doesn't know you as Lord and Savior, that they would get that settled this morning. Lord, be with us each and help us to walk with you day by day. And Lord we'll thank you for it. Go with us in the morning service now. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen.