Uh but this morning we're going to talk about your personal schedule. We send out that little uh email to let everybody know the topics for today. Uh you know, hopefully you're uh excited about hearing it and Uh let me encourage you to uh we're gonna g I give you a bunch of different references. I don't know that you know which one maybe to have you turn to specifically, but we're going to be looking at different passages in the Word of God in Ephesians chapter number five, uh a key passage that we'd be dealing with this. In Ephesians chapter 5, verses 15 and 16, familiar verses, the Bible says, See then that you walk circumspectly. Not as fools, but as wise, redeeming the time because the days are evil. See then that you walk circumspectly In Colossians chapter 4 and verse number 5, it says, walk in wisdom towards them that are without, redeeming The time. Redeeming the time. In Ecclesiastes chapter three and verse number one, another familiar verse. The Bible says, To everything there is a season and a time to every purpose under heaven. Well, we want to talk this morning about your personal schedule. How you schedule your time, how you use your time. In 1967, the U. S. Senate heard expert testimony. Stating that all of the time and labor-saving technologies being developed and introduced into the world were in fact going to revolutionize how we work And how we play. They went on to say that within 20 years, the average person would only work 22 hours a week. This was in nineteen sixty-seven. They said within twenty years the average person would only work twenty-two twenty-two hours a week. would only work thirty-two weeks out of the year and would retire by the time he's forty. They missed it by a little bit. They went on to say the biggest problem facing the American people in the 1990s was going to be What to do with all their excess time? Well, we've reached 2020. And I think I doubt there's anybody in here that is struggling to figure out what to do with your excess time. I don't know that any of you are just sitting at home wondering what am I going to do with all this available time to me Occasionally I've heard someone say, which I'm sure you've heard someone say, something along the lines like Someday my life's gonna settle down and I'll finally get around to. I'll finally get around to doing What I really want to do, I'll finally get around to doing what's important to me. I'll finally get to do this or to do that. Well, listen, that's not going to happen. Life's not going to settle down. There's a couple reasons that this is not going to happen. First of all, none of us are guaranteed the someday that you're talking about. We don't know that that day is ever going to come. We're not guaranteed tomorrow. Secondly, you could ask any of the gray heads in the room today and ask them how much their life has slowed down. Ask them how much time they have to just waste. To just you know that they're trying to figure out what to do with. You see, you're gonna have to let go of that dream that that someday is gonna come. And if you want to get something done, You're gonna have to seize the day and get it done today. You're gonna have to determine to accomplish it now. You've got to accept the fact life is not gonna get easier Your days aren't going to get longer and your responsibilities aren't going to become less. They change and they modify with time. Your responsibilities get they they they become different. But I think that you're probably like me, and that the end of each day I find myself laying my head on the pillow with things that I would like to have accomplished that day that I didn't get done. That's just the way it is. The cold hard truth is the fact that the difference between getting something done today Or pushing it off to tomorrow, or ever accomplishing it at all, many times boils down to time management. It really boils down to how you're scheduling your time. Someone did a study and concluded that the average American wastes eighty percent of his time. He only uses 16% of it in any type of productivity and in all actuality only uses 4% to his fullest potential. I think that if you and I were honest with ourselves, those numbers might be adjusted a little bit for different people in here. But I'm saying if we were really truly honest with ourselves, I think we would have to admit that it's not too far off. You see, because when you're under the gun and you gotta get it done, you find a way. You find a way. When Alicia was home for Christmas, I sat down and I talked to her and I said, You know, isn't it amazing? You've been in college for one semester. Isn't it amazing what you can get done in a week when you have to? You know, she was homeschooled her whole life. And she's a great student. She always applies her hearts to learn. She always did the books. She got them done, spent many hours. But it wasn't like being in college. I mean getting out of bed early and happening to fulfill assignments and complete responsibilities and go into the kitchen maybe and prepare breakfast all before class starts, going to classes all day, getting out, going to the practice for the string ensemble, traveling for the for the college, completing ministries at church, working in different services, singing, singing and doing responsibilities in Sunday school classes, serving on a bus route, getting all of her homework done and getting back up to do it again tomorrow. the next day. I mean this the schedule is grueling. But you can get it done when you have to. They say the last five minutes of a football game, the players perform at their top level. Because they know they've only got five minutes left and if they're going to score, if they're going to bring this game to a win, they've got to give it 110 percent and they push themselves and perform to their peak level of performance. They've had a whole game they could have been playing hard. But they just give it that like the last quarter mile in a race, they just punch it. And the same thing is true in our lives. When we've got to get it done, when we're under the gun, we find a way. Many times the problem is, is we do have extra time And so we waste a lot of it doing unnecessary things and then struggle to accomplish what is necessary Everyone has twenty-four hours a day. Many of us will get done what we absolutely have to We don't maybe have a problem getting done what we have to get done. But do we do anything else? You know, we get done when we have to and then we feel like it's our it's our right to waste the rest of the day. I mean I've talked to my kids about this. I said, you know, y you do what I ask you to do. And I appreciate that. It means a lot to me as a dad that you do accomplish what I've asked of you. It means a lot to me that you never give me a hard time when I give you a job. I told Andrews last week when I was talking to him, I said, you know, I feel like a bad parent. Like I'm not doing my job as a parent when I let you play video games too much. I want you to have a good time, I want you to have fun. So but as a parent, I feel like I'm not doing my responsibility to help you maximize and utilize the time God's given. you to its fullest potential. How much time are you wasting? I say what what what do you think about that I said, son, you do what you have to. But let me ask you, is that o is it okay, as long as you did what you had to do, is it okay for you just to waste the rest of the day What do you think? I mean, is it okay? Well, many of us live our lives that way. We get done what we have to, and then we reward ourselves by by just wasting the rest of the day because we did what we must. Well, with any God-given opportunity, and let me say that every minute of every day is an opportunity given to us by God. With every God-given opportunity comes also a responsibility. A responsibility of stewardship Whatever opportunity God's given you, and you can apply this to many areas of your life, any opportunity God's given you, He hands it to you as an opportunity, and He also gives you the responsibility of stewardship. of that? What are you going to do with it? How are you going to manage, steward what God has given you? Every hour of every day is an opportunity. How are you going to steward your opportunity time. If we are going to effectively steward our time, then we first have to determine the priority. We have to determine the priority Psalms 90, verse number 12. Does anybody know it off the top of your head? Psalms 90, verse number 12. It says, so teach us to number. So teach us to number our days that we may apply our hearts. We've got to number our days, consider our time, look at our life. We know that time is the most valuable commodity we have. Every one of us here understands that No matter how much we have, we realize and understand we don't know if we have tomorrow. We don't know not just how much quantity of time we have left, we also don't know how much quality time we have left You see, how many of you, I'm just going to be real blunt, older people in here, would be willing to express to the younger generation That things at the stage of life you're in right now are much harder than they were a long time ago. It takes so much more work, so much more energy, so much more strength, it's a lot more of a struggle than it used to be. I know some of you look at me and you say, Pastor Caleb, you're just a kid. Pastor Caleb, you have no idea what aches and pains are. You do not understand what it means to get out of bed in the morning and every part of your body hurt. How just to go through the day and and this it's exercise and discipline just to move, let alone accomplish something. How much of a struggle it is. And you some of you you look where I am in my life and you say, man, to have that energy again. Man to have that strength and that vitality. And I look back at 20-year-olds and say, man, to have that energy, to be able to stay up all night and not make any difference. To be able to eat whatever I want and not gain any weight. To be able to, man, to be like that again, that would be awesome. What I want you to understand is wherever you are in life However hard it is for you to get out of bed, whatever pain you're dealing with, whatever struggle you have where you are right now, you don't know that the quality of life you have right now is going to be with you next week. You look back and say, boy, what I would get done this week if I had Pastor Caleb's strength, his energy, if I wasn't dealing with all these aches and pains I have. Just a couple of months ago, Brother Garland got up one morning and was having trouble with his eyes. In a matter of days, his eyesight went from fairly functional. I mean, he could drive and work and do whatever he needed to do. To where he could barely see. He was standing from here to there in front of his car. And he said, Pastor Caleb, I can't read that license plate. He said I had to quit driving. He said, hey, I'm I praise God, I'm thankful that I can still get up, I can still walk, I can still You know, I can still get out and come down here to the to the barn and and and piddle around. I can do what I need to do. You know, I gotta get a ride, but it it's a struggle and he's praying that God will help his eyes get better and he's going through some treatments and stuff, but what I'm saying in just a matter of days, that ability you had was gone. You don't know the quantity of time you have left. You also don't know the quality of time you have left. If you are going to get something done in your life, you've got to seize the opportunities you have. You've got to maximize them. You have to determine what is the priority of your life. Do you understand this morning that there is something that influences your decisions? There is something that guides your structure. that determines what it is that you're going to do throughout the day. There's something that's the center of your life. And I know there are parts of your life you have no control over. You have to be at work. You have to do this. You have to do that. But what I'm saying is outside of that, when you are in full control of your time, what is it that guides you? What is it that determines what you're going to do What do you put your heart into, your mind into, your energy into? For some, it might be their mate. That's at the center of their life and their decisions revolve around them. For some it might be their kids. For many families, it's their kids and life revolves around the children. I knew one man that it was his yard. Any free time, all spare money, all went into his yard. Planting beautiful, beautiful roses had amazing grass. I mean if his grass grew like a half inch, he went out and mowed it. That's what he gave his time to. It might be the pursuit of success. For some it's a job. Might be your hobby or your boat. These things are not sin. But what I'm wondering is, you tell me, should they be at the center of your life? I know that you know my life's verse. Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness and all these things shall be added unto you. Beloved, when we get Christ at the center, Everything else fits in a lot better. It fits in a lot better. Christ needs to be at the center of our life. You need to determine the priority. That's what's going to dictate your schedule. Christ needs to be at the center. Then what's next? What is the next most important thing in your life. And I I'm not going to try and lay out a order of importance tonight. I'm saying if you are going to schedule your time effectively, it's got to begin with you establishing some priorities. Maybe it's your family that's next. What's next in the order of importance in your life? Listen, if it's a family, I mean we can list it. I know we could if I asked anybody here before we even started today, I said, what's number one in your life? It would be God. What's number two, family? Right. We can list it, but I'm going to ask you, are you living it? Do you understand when I take overtime instead of go take my wife out for her birthday? That I'm not living it. I can list it, I can say that family is most important. My wife comes second. My kids come third. I can talk about my priorities, but what am I living? What am I living? You see, you've got to live those priorities. Let me just say that relationships are far and more important than projects People are more important than projects. We're going to talk about this tonight, but you remember in Mary Martha. Oh yeah. You remember how Christ said that Mary had chosen the good thing. Relationships are more important than projects. All of your time, money, and energy, you might want to think about it and consider what is it going to amount to at the end of the day of my life. When you're determining the priority that's going to dictate your schedule, that's going to establish your use of time, think about at the end of your days, what is it going to equal? Many, despite their rushed lifestyle, their running to and fro endlessly, would still be very hard-pressed to identify anything. of eternal value that they've accomplished. They are are run to a frazzle With their life and what they've got to do and what all the things they've got to get done. If you ask them at any time, they'll say they they've got more to do than they can possibly accomplish. But when you narrow it down and say, of all that you have done, what of it will amount for eternity? They would be hard-pressed to define it. to say what it is. So you've got to determine what is most important to you. Find it out, and then give time and energy to it. I was listening to a message this week by Brother Terry Angel, pastor out of Bourbon A, Illinois. Mrs. Angel is coming to speak for. ladies conference in the fall. And uh I know this is going to be a blessing to you ladies. She she speaks all over the country. Um and we're very blessed to be able to get her to fit into the schedule here. We had to move one of our events in order to make it work where her schedule would allow her to come. Um, but Brother Angel was preaching in Canada at a at a conference and he saw a young man there in the conference that was everywhere. He said the guy was he was helping with set up before anything began. Then he was helping the school kids as they were uh busy getting ready for something. Then he was part of a skit on stage. And then he was singing in the choir. And then before the message he was singing in a singing in a special. And then he gave some announcements. And then at the conclusion of the night he saw him running a vacuum and vacuuming up things. And then he was locking the doors at the end of the evening. And Brother Angel said, man. That guy seems like he seems like he's everywhere. Who who is this young guy? And the pastor said, You're not gonna believe this. He says that young man went to the most Prestigious university in Canada and graduated with an engineering degree top of his class. Upon his graduation, he was given four re four recruiters from top companies in Canada came to him and said, We want you to work for us. They went after him. He came into my office, the young man's name was Eric, and he said, Eric came into the pastor's office, and he said, Pastor, I just want to tell you what's going on. He says, I got these four companies, and and here's the company, and here's how much They want to pay me. And here's this company, and here's how much they want to pay me. And he went through the list and he was going to get exorbitant salaries from these companies. And the pastor's like, well, uh I I can't tell you necessarily which one would be God's will for you. y you need to pray that you know, consider the practicality of it, uh make sure they're gonna allow you to stay here and serve in the church, be active, whatever. But and he said, No, Pastor, that's not what I was thinking. He said, Pastor, what I was thinking is, you know what? I have an ability with math. I could teach calculus and trigonometry. There isn't a math subject really that I could not effectively teach I could teach your higher sciences, I could teach physics without any trouble. He said, Pastor, I was wondering, could you use me in the Christian school? And Pastor kind of said about what he said, listen, whether we could use you or not is is irrelevant because There is no way we could possibly get anywhere near the salary that these people are offering you. Not only that, the the the salary that comes with the teaching position here in the school is so small You have to work a second job in order to teach in the school here. The school does not have the funds to give you even a living wage. And he says, well, a second job? He says, Pastor, would the church have anything small that I could do for a second job? He says, well, if you came to the church, we have a position available in maintenance, custodial. If you did that between those two positions, you probably could earn you would have to you'd have to crunch, but you could earn a living wage. And Eric said sign me. Yep. He said that's what I want to do. Why? Because for him it wasn't about dollars and cents. He was looking at his life and he said, when I get to the end of my days and I look back, I want to know what I've given my life to was of something of eternal value. And this is what's going to matter most. And it's not about how much money I make, it's about what I'm doing for eternity. What I'm saying is if you are going to effectively schedule your time, you have to determine the priority. Then you need to develop a program. You need to develop a program. This is actually build a functional schedule that supports the priority that you've established. How many of you know that you can be very, very busy and not really be accomplished in anything? How many of you know that you can be very busy doing good things and yet not really doing the best thing? Maybe doing something that needs done but not what you really should be doing. This happens often with children. Who've been instructed to do their math. And they are eagerly, they're they're they're a week and a half ahead on science. And you come in and you find them doing science. Wait. Yes, science is important. And science is good and you need to do science, but you know what? You're behind in math. But we don't like math and so we don't want to do math. And so math gets put behind and we are the same way as adults. We we just we we put things that we don't really want to do, even if they're important, even if they're should be done, we push them off. So you've got to build a functional schedule and make it work. The plan must focus on the priority. You must seize the day, the opportunity that God has given you. Manage your time. The fact is, most people allow Satan to steal your time because you don't have a schedule. You just live life as it comes and whatever I get done or don't get done or whatever, you just you're not living by a schedule. You're not demanding of yourself that you accomplish a certain thing by a certain time And living by that, you just go through your day doing whatever, and therefore you're not as effective as you could be. Someone said the secret of your future is hidden in your daily routine. It's hidden in your daily routine. How are you living your daily routine? Some of us are addicted to the rat race. You know how you know if you're addicted to the rat race? When you approach a stoplight and there's two cars there Do you look at the cars and the drivers and evaluate which one's going to move first? And choose and choose the appropriate lane. What about this? When excuse me, when you're in the grocery store and it's time to check out, you go down the lane and you find the shortest one. That's normal. But how you can tell if you're addicted to the rat race is when you've chosen your lane Do you continue to watch the other lanes and see where you should be if you were in that lane? And the guy that would have been behind you gets out before you and you're really frustrated about it? You might be addicted to the rat race. CNN did a poll that reported sixty-six percent of Americans said they would like to slow down And live a more relaxed lifestyle. But most don't. You bring your future into the present by planning it, by living by a schedule. A schedule will allow you to accomplish more in the time that you have. Just like I said at the beginning, when you're under the gun, you find a way to get it done. And when you put yourself under the gun, you say, I've got to accomplish this by this time. That takes self-discipline. But you'll accomplish more in the days that you have. You'll be able to do the things that are important to you that you think, I don't have time for that right now. I don't have time to to read. I don't have time to do something special with the children. Isn't it special that I'm taking care of them? That I'm feeding them, that I'm putting clothes on their back. Isn't that special? They should value that. Amen? I don't have I don't have time to do something special with them. Because life is so busy, but if you schedule it, you can find the time. You can make it happen. You need wisdom to build your plan. The Bible says, if any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God. As you begin developing your schedule with God as the priority, begin asking Him, Lord, what is of utmost importance? What should be my focus? Where should I invest my time? and be build your schedule accordingly. Build a list of your responsibilities and organize them by priority. Whatever responsibilities you have in your life. I I I I could get down into the nuts and bolts of it all. We all have different responsibilities, different things that demand our time. Your spiritual responsibilities, your family. your physical well-being, your social interactions, your vocational or job, your financial responsibilities. Where what responsibilities do you need to give time to and how much to each You know, some of you systematically plan your work life. You think about your work life, you think about what you gotta do, and uh you organize all that. You know, a Amanda's a teacher, and I know as a teacher you have to be ready for the next day's class. In your mind you've got your lesson plans. Lesson plans for maybe the next month or beyond is already established. Then you've got uh that broken down into a week and what we need to accomplish in our class this week. And then you've got that broken down into in order to accomplish that this week, I've got to get this done this today. We've got to get through this level, this class, this session. And that takes a lot of time to develop and put all that together. The problem is as many families, and let me say a lot of time husbands They schedule their work life. They spend a lot of their waking hours in their heart and their mind thinking about the job. And they've got it all scheduled out. But they don't do anything for their family. They don't schedule their family time. They don't think about that for their family life. And a lot of times what happens is husbands who are supposed to be the leaders in their homes, they feel like I've already invested so much time and energy and effort in scheduling my work life. I don't want to schedule my homework. life. I just want to come home and relax. And so they leave that schedule to mom. And that's one of the ways that it ends up flip-flopping God's design that the husband is supposed to be the leader in the home, but he doesn't want to assume the responsibility to lead in the home because that takes energy and effort and time. And he just does he wants to relax when he gets home. He doesn't want to put any more thought into life. He's already given all of his brain power to work. Listen, I'm right there with you. I understand that. But it doesn't change the fact that we as husbands, as we as fathers, are supposed to be thinking about our family. We're not supposed to let our family life just drift and come what may and the winds of time just blow us where they be. We are supposed to be thinking about our life. Even if it's just you, Jake, thinking about Amanda. What are you guys doing together? What are you doing as a couple? What is your plan? You know, uh me picking on Jacob and Amanda only here. What about Anthony? You know, you guys don't have kids in the home yet? It's just you, but you still have to think about your relationship and what are we doing for our relationship? What are we doing to build that? How are we growing closer? How are we developing? What time are we spending together? When are we going to go on a date? How are you putting that in as part of your overall life plan and building it into your days? Scheduling it out. You need to be be organized, get organized. Organize your desk. I met with our staff, I see some of you laughing. I met with our staff and said, listen, this is unacceptable. Before you go home on Friday, this has to be clean. Not this week, every week. Every week. This has to be taken care of. Because it you cannot function and live effectively unless you're organized. You've got to have a place for things. You've got to decide to put it away. Take one thing at a time. Don't try and tackle it. I know we love multitasking. But tackle one thing at a time. Set a time limit, get it done. Discard the junk. Discard the junk. Throw it away. You're a pack rat, you're a hoarder, whatever you want to call it. Listen. You sh if it's a piece of mail and it's not something that you are gonna need, then don't set it on the counter. Then you've got to look at it, pick it up, and go through it again. If you see that it's something you're not gonna need, it's another sweepstakes or or it's uh it's uh You've got your free key. Come to such and such Toyota and try your key and see if you win a car. You know you're not going to go there. Just throw it in the trash. We we've got too many things in our life that are eating up our time and we're touching the paper over and over and over Again, build a system whereby you're organized and you discard the junk in your life. You get things out of the way, you keep things picked up. Have a system. system by which you take notes, where you you're you're jotting down ideas, where you're looking at what's important, whether that's a three by five card or a note app on your phone or some way by which you are keeping track of things that are important. that you have on a list, this is what I need to get done. Don't live by emergency, live by a plan. Most people run to and fro putting out fires and they're not really accomplishing a whole lot. If you live by a flange, sometimes emergencies come and I've got to hurry. Sometimes emergencies come and you gotta do them. But if you have a list of priorities, as soon as the emergency is done, you go back to the priorities The highest thing on the list, it's not done yet, you start tackling that. And you get back into what you need to do. Most of the time when we get done with an emergency, we're like, oh, finally, I I got through that. Now I get to waste the rest of the day. Then you need to discharge your plan. Discharge your plan. Once the plan's developed, stick to it. Don't sacrifice important things on the altar of the urgent. Don't let emergencies destroy your plan. This really enters the realm of who you are, not just what you're doing. What this boils down to is the character that you have. Who you are, not what you're doing. You have limited control over what you do, but I want you to understand you have 100% control of who you are You only have limited control. Sometimes an emergency from outside might come up. You couldn't change that. But who you are as a person, the character that you have, and the discipline to get back to what's important is you. Tips for work tips for working your plan. I'm just going to throw these out, I don't have time to teach on them here. You want to review your life goals often. That keeps your priority in focus. Reveal your life goals. What you need to want to accomplish through your life. Count every minute as a gift from God. Every minute is a gift from God. You've been given prior uh the responsibility of managing it, stewardship over it. Build on success Success begets success. And uh you and I know that when you, you know, the b the old Dave Ramsey snowball principle, when that ball gets rolling, When you start seeing something accomplished, you get excited about it and you continue to invest more effort and energy in it. So do what you can, accomplish it, mark it off, check it, that's done, and go to the next thing. You know when you're having a day like that how good it feels Man, I am cranking today. We're cooking with gas now, buddy. You're getting her done, right? And that's fun. The days that you don't accomplish anything, you go to head go to bed feeling miserable. Yeah, man, today was a waste. Learn to say no. Even to yourself I know you all thought I meant others, right? Yeah, you might have to say no to somebody else sometimes. Many people are going to demand your time. Jesus Christ even said, hey, I can't right now. I've got to get along. Learn to say no, but you might have to learn to say no to yourself. I don't have time to watch that because that's not on my priority list Okay. Use time that otherwise would be wasted. Determine in your heart, I no longer, I'm never again gonna wait for anything. Now you say, well I don't have any control over that. What I'm saying is take the time that you would be sitting in the doctor's office and you would be waiting, that would be wasted. and have on your phone, have on your device something that needs to be done, have a book you're trying to read, have a phone call you need to make, uh whatever. Take that time that would otherwise be wasted and use it. Listen to good takes while you're traveling, riding in the by riding in a car, good preaching, something to help accomplish your life goals. Use time that would otherwise be wasted. And then don't regret don't waste time regretting failure. Don't waste time regretting failure. Sit there moping around about what you didn't do. Yesterday is gone. Uh you know, you've only got today, and tomorrow's the future, so let's max Maximize today. Set deadlines for yourself. And then you've got to cut the time wasters. Cut the time wasters, and you know what they are in your life. You gotta cut them out. Cut them out. All right, this is your personal schedule. Just some practical things about how to maximize and utilize your time that God has given you to its fullest. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you for the Sunday school hour. I pray, God, that you would help us to accomplish in our lives all that you would want us to. Help us to be worthy stewards of the minutes that you've given us. The valuable time given to us by you, Lord, we'll thank you. Lord, bless the time as we go into the morning service. Speak to our hearts in Jesus' name. Amen.