My family and myself are no strangers to this church. Uh been no known pastor Patrell for a while. Some of you might remember my sister Sarah. She, I believe We've interned out here at Hunt Valley. So our family's been through here. I grew up in the country of Zambia, Africa. Our family were missionaries out there. And I think my desire and burden to serve others started by seeing my parents selflessly serve on the mission field. I grew up in church. And I wanted to serve, I wanted my life to be a life of service to others. As I grew up in Africa, we came back here, I began to see how blessed we are as Americans. America's not perfect. But how blessed we are with the abilities that God has given us to worship freely, with the comfortabilities that we have here. Um police officers in Zambia were very different. I think I saw one police officer my entire ten-year time there with a handgun, and it was a revolver that he stuffed in the back of his pants. If not, they had carried AK 47s and if there was a group of five or six, maybe one had an AK. Very different policing. Um I think we are blessed here in the States to have a very good police force, uh I believe average response time is three to five minutes. Over there it might be three to five hours. So it's a lot different. Um but I knew I wanted to serve my country. I'm very appreciative for the country God's given us and has allowed me to to be a part of. So I went to Bible college uh praying about serving back in Africa as a missionary. God did not lead that way, and He led me towards Law enforcement. I didn't realize at the time how God had prepared me in my life for law enforcement. He had He's given me a good personality, I believe, a good temperament for it. It's not a job for everybody, but it definitely is a calling. I was talking to some of these gentlemen and They all agree. It's a calling. We all do this not for the money, because none of us would be doing it. Maybe a little bit for the stories. I don't know. The stories are pretty fun. But it's a drain uh mentally, physically. Um it's a hard job, but it's something that we willing to do and we love doing. Um I've only been doing I've been in law enforcement about six years uh served started out in corrections for uh just under a year and then I transitioned to a local police department uh city of about 40,000 people um So smaller city, not a not a huge area, a little bit smaller of a department. On the department I serve as a certified police academy instructor uh field training officers. I'm training a lot of younger guys. I'm a member of the crisis intervention team. I also serve as on our department SWAT team, part-time SWAT team. So I've been able to do a lot of seeing God blessed there. I love my job. I love what I get to do. I love serving people, helping people, and through serving others in my community, I get to serve the Lord, and that's a very special thing for me. Pastor mentioned something and it really ties my my message together and he mentioned integrity. And if I can challenge officers maybe that are here. Please keep your integrity. I am I'm burdened about officers. I see it's it's easy to take a little bit of a Maybe a shortcut here, a shortcut there. And we're all tempted to do that. We deal with the worst of the worst people and we get disappointed and frustrated sometimes with the justice system because it seems like they get let go and Sometimes there's the temptation to not hold back that punch or it's there. I get it. Um the adrenaline's up and we get in the moment and you know But keep your integrity, please. Your retirement's worth it. It's worth you owe it to your community. They trust you. They trust me. And that's something that when I got my badge, my assistant chief handed it to me and he said, Don't you dare tarnish this badge. He said, your actions will reflect on our department. Now I do want to, saying that, this uh lesson that I'm gonna give is from the Bible. Um it's not necessarily My department didn't send me with this. Um, so I'm not representing my department at this point. But our actions do reflect on our department. And if I am a poor example to the community and I live a poor lifestyle and There is conduct unbecoming, and that's a fireable offense. People lose pensions and I see officers and I've seen it go a whole career. So please keep your integrity. For me, I want to talk to you guys a little bit today, as an audience, what helps me keep my integrity? Because If we're supposed to have integrity, what keeps us to that? Well maybe it's your job, but sometimes the job does you wrong. People on the job do you wrong. Maybe it's loved ones. But sometimes the loved ones disappoint you and you maybe don't have that strong response feel of responsibility to them. Maybe it's community, but then again. People harm you, people wrong you, community can turn against you. And we've seen that, especially as as law enforcement, and not as a whole, um, but there is has been in the past several years some negative um perceptions of police officers and therefore some negative um opinions and feelings. So personally, what keeps me Walking in integrity. The Bible says that there was a man named Job who walked in his integrity. God saw that. And God tremendously blessed Job. Job went through a lot of hard times, a lot of hard trials, but he walked in his integrity. He was a man of integrity. Officers, I challenge you, be a man of integrity. Finish your career off. Live a life of integrity. That's something I strive for every day. It doesn't matter if your body cam is You know, ran out of ran out of battery, right? I've been there. It's uh end of a long shift or a double, you didn't charge it and it's not there. You still have to be polite polite, respectful. Maybe somebody stops you and you don't turn your camera on because it's not that kind of encounter Be polite, be respectful. But what what keeps me in with living a life and especially serving my community with integrity? It's this topic I'm going to talk about today. If uh you have your Bibles, turn to Hebrews chapter nine. So I I'm not gonna talk myself. Um I did go to Bible college and study the Bible for Um going on ten years. Um I've been reading the Bible all my life, but I've been specifically studying it for a while now, but I don't know Everything there is to know about the Bible. And I don't feel like I'm necessarily maybe the best qualified officer to speak to you. I'm the beginning stages of my career, so who knows. I hope not, but in five years, ten years, maybe I'm gonna go and do something silly, you'll see me in the news. I honestly hope not. But it's possible, right? I don't want to be famous, but you know, sometimes it happens. But If I live my life according to what I'm going to talk about today, Lord willing, that won't happen. And I live a life of integrity because I know that somebody is always watching. That I am accountable to somebody bigger than myself. That somebody is God. If we're in the book of Hebrews, Hebrews chapter number 9, we're going to read verse 27. The Bible says here, and as it is appointed unto men once to die, but after this, the judgment. Let's go ahead and bow for a word of prayer. Lord, we come before you today, humbled to be in your presence. Thank you for holding off the rain for us Thank you for giving us your word. Thank you for the lessons that we can learn from it and how applicable it is to our daily lives. Lord, as we look into your word today, may our hearts and minds be calmed. May we listen. Lord, and convict hearts, speak through your word as only you can. Lord, I love you. Thank you for all you've done for us. In your name we pray. Amen. I'm going to try and use a lot of Bible today because I don't want you to just sit here and listen to me. If you came specifically to listen to me, I'm sorry. I hope nobody did. But I want to give you something from the Bible today. Because you can forget about me tomorrow, but if you remember some of this from the Bible, I would have that will carry you through a lifetime. Hebrews 9. 27 says, Wherefore does the point of men once to die, but after this the judgment We all know that death is inevitable. There's no way around it. There's modern science that maybe tries to extend that. But after death, what comes? Religion is all about that. Religion is all about, well, what happens after death? Some some places teach reincarnation or maybe There's nothing that happens. There's some people that believe that. But Scripture tells us that after this is the judgment. Now I'm sure all these officers here have been to court. Am I correct in assuming that? We've all been to court, right? If you have never been to court, it's good because that means you'd probably be on the other side. But when we go to court, we go to court and we sit on the prosecutor side. So we walk in, uh court's usually scheduled for us at 8. 30 So 8. 30 in the morning you walk into the well usually it's 815, 820 if you're running on time and your coffee's kicked in. But you have your report all printed off hopefully beforehand. Maybe you've writ uh watched through the body cam video, so you're prepared for court. You walk in, you have a little pretrial meeting with the prosecutor's office, and you're talking about did they show up, did they ask for a pretrial diversion? Are they gonna all this, all this stuff. A lot of legal stuff I'm not going to bore you with. Unless you're a lawyer, it's really boring. I can promise you that. So then you walk from how we do is we walk from the prosecutor's office and we walk down this hallway. And as you walk down this hallway, everybody that is there for court Which there's two courtrooms in the uh courthouse that we go to. But everybody that's there for court is sitting along the walls and they're all looking at you. And you are trying to nonchalantly look to see if the person that You're there for is there. So you're kind of doing this number, kind of looking out the corner of your eye, walking down. Maybe it's just me. Maybe you guys make eye contact with people. I don't know. I don't. I'm just like I kind of look and they're all staring at you You it's a kind of an awkward thing, but I enjoy it. You walk in, you sit down, and you sit there, you wait for everybody to come in, and then you're waiting on the judge. 830 rolls around, the judges you're on his time clock at that point. waiting. Nothing starts until the judge is there. You have to be there on time, right? If you're late, they don't let you in. But the judge can be 15, 20 minutes late And then the door opens and the bailiff says, All rise for the honorable judge, says his name, and here comes the judge with a little robe and his coffee cup. Walks in ever so slowly, nonchalantly, sits down, and court proceeds, right? And I'm sure everyone's familiar with how courts are run. There's evidence. There's all sorts of things, right? But there's a judgment. There's a judgment that we're all going to be at. Now I did bring Pastor mentioned tickets. I'm not a traffic enforcer really. But I did bring my ticket book, right? I like props. I'm a very visual learner. Um do you guys still use hard ticket books or do you have an e-ticket? E ticket. Much better, because you can write four tickets at once. On one piece of paper. If I wanted to write somebody four tickets before, I would have to take out four of these pieces of paper and write four of them out. And it's not fun, trust me. Um but now he take it. I mean tickets, warnings, it's a lot easier. Just clicking buttons and hit print, and it prints it off on a little scanner. I brought this because in here I have all sorts of things. I have a little cheat sheet for uh codes. Law codes, my warning book that I generally give out ro warnings for. Also, this is a side note. If you want a warning, don't ask for one. Cops like to be generous, we do. We like cutting people brakes. Um at least I do. Maybe not, I don't know. But I I do, right? I don't like ruining people's day. But if you ask me for a warning, I feel like I don't have the option to give you a warning anymore because now I'm just doing what you want And I'm like, oh now I have to write to a ticket. So just I'm just that's how I think. Um that might not be all cops, maybe it is, maybe it's not, I don't know. Um but that's a lot of guys in our department we joke around with that. Um I ended up writing one of our cops, his sister. Um oh pick it because she asked for a warning anyway. That was a whole story. Um We're still friends by the way. But something else that I carry in this ticket book are these summons forms. Now, in in in the state of Indiana, we can arrest people physically if we see them commit a misdemeanor or a felony There's also what's called a misdemeanor exception rule where we can arrest people for certain misdemeanors even if we don't see them doing that. Alright, it's pretty it's standard law stuff. But sometimes somebody commits a a petty theft um or something like a lower misdemeanor and we we're not going to take them into custody at that point it's not worth all that hassle we will issue them a piece of paper That says the state of Indiana versus the defendant. We put their name there. It's a summons to appear. We look up what the court date would be And we write a court date down here. It says we are issuing a summons to appear at this courthouse on this date for this crime. Issued, signed by Me as an officer, all my officer info. And then we hand it to him and we say, all right, I'd like you to sign this. Again, this is not an admission of guilt, but if you would just sign down here, it is your promise to appear before court on this day. You remind them 20 times to show up to court because people forget, and then if you don't show up to court, there's a warrant that comes out and there's more problems. But sometimes we give people a summons to appear. Sure, it's optional for them to show up, but there's consequences that come after that. This verse right here is a summons to appear for all of us. We will all stand before the judgment seat one day. And I want to talk a little bit about that. I'm not going to belabor this point too much. I won't keep you guys here. I know there's food waiting and we're all hungry and I know cops don't like food. Um I kid. Um maybe a little too much sometimes. But I want to talk to you about the courtroom that we're all going to find ourselves in one day. As we're in that courtroom after we pass away, after we die, we're going to be standing before the judge. I'm gonna, uh if you have your Bibles, I'm gonna be flipping a lot. If you can keep up, fantastic. If not, I'm sorry, but I'm trying to get a lot of scripture in here for us today. Revelation chapter number 20. Revelation chapter number twenty. Revelations is a book of the Bible that talks about things to come. It is a book of future events, and the Bible is truth. Uh we this God says that this is true. Um I believe God, I believe his word is true, and I take this as truth. So I'm gonna assume that what the Bible says is true today because it's been held up throughout centuries. Um it claims to be true. I'm I'm not going to convince you today that the Bible is true. Um and I hope if you're sitting here in a church that you also agree. If not, we can We can discuss it and um Pastor I know can probably school me on things, so he will know a lot more than I do about this, but we can We can discuss it to you while we know the Bible is in fact true. Revelation chapter 20, verse number 11. The Bible says, And I saw a great white throne and him that sat on it. From whose face the earth and heaven fled away, and there was found no place for them. This isn't a judgment that we're going to be able to leave, run out of the courthouse, miss. This is set in stone. And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God, and the books were opened, and another book was opened, which is the book of life. And the dead were judged out of those things which are written in the books according to their works. There's going to be evidence according to your works. Small and great, doesn't matter. Maybe nobody knows you. Maybe you can fly under the radar. Maybe you're the nicest person ever. Doesn't matter. Small and great. Stand before God. The Bible says in the sea gave up the dead which were in them, and death and hell delivered up the dead which were in them. And they were judged every man according to their works. The Bible says, and death and hell were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death. And whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. This is the great white throne judgment. There you are. You're sitting there in the courtroom, you look up. The Bible says that the judge is God Himself. Verse eleven says that I saw a great white throne in him that sat on it from whose face the earth and heaven fled away. Whether you believe in God or not, whether you choose to bow before the God of heaven or not, the book of Philippians 2 tells us that every knee will bow and every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. I have chosen to do that before eternity sets in. You might not choose to do that before eternity sets in, but once eternity starts, you will have to do that. Who is God? God is the creator of the universe. He made everything. He made you. The Bible says before But when when I was in the David Rice, when I was in the room, the womb, God knew him. God shaped you specifically. When I say a police officer is a calling, I believe God made me specifically to do this job. I I can't explain it, but as I go through my career, I can see how God has worked and how He's made a personality and a temperament for me. People can call me all sorts of stuff. Some officers, it of it offends. Me personally, I could care less. I don't know who you are. You can call me all sorts of names. Good for you. It does it have a mental toll on you eventually? Yes. But I'm a super laid-back person. Um But I think that was given to me by God. And I think it it is definitely a calling. He makes all but he makes all of us different. He doesn't make all us all the same. 'cause if they did and everybody was like me, this place would be really weird, trust me. But God is the creator of the universe which makes him sovereign over all. He can make the rules and he can enforce the rules. We don't make the rules, unfortunately. I tell people that all the time. Officer, you don't under I was speeding because, look, man, I don't make the rules, I'm sorry, but you have to follow the rules, and I'm here to enforce the rules. Alright? God made the rules, God enforces the rules. He knows everything. He has seen every action that you have taken. He has heard every word that you have uttered. And he has perceived every thought that has ever come across your mind. This is held out throughout Scripture. The Bible in Proverbs 15, verse 3 says, the eyes of the Lord are on every place, beholding the evil. and the good. God sees everything we need, the good things, the bad things, when nobody else is watching. I mentioned body cams earlier. Our department just went uh got body cams a couple years ago. So I worked with without them for a little bit and then now I work with them. Body cams are an interesting thing. When it first started out, we were all super careful what we said. Um we didn't want to say anything that because I'll give you another little secret. Cops joke around a lot. Sometimes we shouldn't joke about some things. But We joke around a lot, we joke around about our admin. Maybe you guys don't. I'm not that good, okay. I'll say I'll joke about about my supervisors on calls or admin, and we have little like good hearted jabs, but some people don't really think it's funny Especially once you get higher up. Alright? So at first we were super careful about it. We didn't say anything. If you wanted to make a joke or a reference or make fun of somebody, you would wait till after the cameras were shut off. Because there's that accountability there. Anymore, we've kind of gotten a little wax because we're used to it. Sometimes you mute your camera if you can and make sure theirs is muted before you say something that could be truly offensive to an administrator or somebody. But either way, it's something that At least I have done, I'll admit it. Um I'm not gonna ask these guys here because I don't know, I don't want to get them in trouble. But I have. If my department listens to this, I'm gonna get called in the chief's office when I get back and you know, we're gonna have some chats. But I've said things on body camera that I've had an administrator pull me aside before and said, Did you say this? Oh didn't have mute on, not bad. Um right Nothing nothing that shouldn't have been said, but maybe not the time or the place. But um it keeps us honest If we know somebody's watching, it affects how we do our job. And I think that's why they the community specifically likes us wearing body cameras because it affects how we do the job. Back in the day. You know, 30, 40 years ago, policing was a lot different. And there was not near as much accountability. Now we've switched to the other side where there's a lot of accountability and policing is different. A lot of that has to do with more accountability. But can I tell you something that when we get home, I don't leave my body camera on. I turn that off. When I get in my car, I turn that off. Anytime I don't have to have that camera on, I turn it off. Because we like privacy. As Americans, we we we enjoy our privacy. But I tell you, as a human race, we don't have privacy from God. God is always watching. So when I think of the idea of integrity, that's what challenges me. To live with integrity. Because as I live my life, I know God's always watching. And God's going to hold me accountable for what I do, the actions I take. Nothing flips by God. You can't mute your camera. And maybe say something that God doesn't hear. God sees and hears everything. And before you go thinking that God is just some mean ogre sitting in heaven trying to catch you up on everything. 2 Chronicles 16, 9 says, For the eyes of the Lord run to and fro throughout the whole earth to show himself strong on behalf of those whose heart is perfect. toward him. God's not sitting up there with a hammer waiting to crush you every time you do wrong. He is looking for people who are serving him who he can bless. But as he searches, he sees people who are disobeying. God is a just God. We see that held up in Scripture. Deuteronomy 34 32:4 says, He is a rock, his work is perfect, for all his ways are judgment. A God of truth and without iniquity, just and right is he. God is a just God. So he sees wrongs and he cannot let wrongs go unpunished. That is not justice. We have a justice system that Sometimes it's slow, and sometimes people get away with things because not judges don't see everything. Judges don't know the whole story. Sometimes a jury can be swayed one way or the other. It is the way it is. People make mistakes sometimes. People get wrongly convicted. It happens. God doesn't make mistakes. God has all the evidence. He is both the prosecutor and the judge. And he has all the evidence that he has ever needed. In 2 Timothy chapter 4. So God sees everything, He knows everything, He made the rules, and He can enforce them. Now, as I was thinking about this, I thought of the game of Uno. Now, Uno is a very basic game. I love playing Uno. I'm terrible at it. I don't know why, but I can never win Uno. Ever. But when I play Uno, the rules always change. Not because the actual rule book changes, because there's house rules. How many of you guys play by house rules? Alright, right? You have to play by house rules. Alright? How many of you guys stack draw twos? Right, right? Some people do, some people don't. I'll be honest with you, I'm gonna break some news to you. Mattel Incorporated came out and said you cannot stack draw twos. I'm j I'm relaying information. If you want to look it up and fact check me, go ahead. But that doesn't keep you from enforcing house rules. I mean it's your house, your rules, right? But why can Uno, why can Mattel Incorporated make that rule? Why can they give you a sheet of paper in the front of the game that says these are the rules of the game? Because they made the game. Now you're allowed to alter it if you want, and it's not that big of a deal because it's a game. God made the rules. The rules are right here. The rules are in the Bible. We all are familiar with the Ten Commandments. But there's more than ten rules that God has given us. He wants us to live our life by this book. And I can tell you, if we live our life by this book, we'll live a good life. A lot of people that I see that we deal with at work I'm burdened for them because I see them ruining their life with bad choices. And I know if they were to It's hard to make right choices and pull themselves out of some of the situations they're in, but if they simply go to the Word of God and live their life according to that, they'll be shown how to make good decisions. And I've seen it work, and I've seen people come from a terrible situation and be successful. It's possible, but it's impossible without the principles found in the Word of God. So God knows everything you can make the rules. That's the judge. Who's the defendant? Well, I think that's obvious by now, it's us. The Bible says that we're going to die and we're going to stand before judgment. Every single one of us. You're not going to get out of that. What's the evidence? What evidence does God have against us? Well, it's everything we've ever done. And now you might say, well, I'm gonna try and do good things. I'm gonna go to church. I'm gonna put money in the offering plate. Um I'm gonna be nice to people, I'm gonna be professional, I'm gonna be A fantastic father, I am going to maybe get baptized. I will and you have this list of things you're going to do. And you strive your hardest to do everything that you can that's right. God sees that. But what does God think about our righteousnesses, our good things? The book of Isaiah teaches that when God looks at our righteousnesses, he says sees them as filthy rags. We are a sinful people, and even the good things that we try and do are tainted by sin and they're unacceptable in God's sight. The Bible says in Romans 3. 23, for all have sinned. Doesn't matter how good you try and be. We've all sinned, myself included. Daily, weekly. I'm ashamed to say it, but we've all have thought something that a thought has come to our mind, and maybe we harbor a harsh thought or a harsh word to somebody. Maybe we say something that It cuts somebody else down. We're proud. We have a spirit of pride. We think we're more of ourselves than we ought to. We're lifted up in that way. All sin, all things that go against God's word. The evidence is stacked against us. So now comes time for the verdict. What is the verdict? Now, as you sit there as the defendant on trial, there's the judge who's the same as the prosecutor in this case He has all the evidence and you look for somebody to stand up for you. You look for an attorney. Now As police officers, defense attorneys, not really our friends, right? At least in the courtroom. I know some people, some nice um people. Um at least they're nice to me in person. I don't know, they probably talk bad about us too. Hopefully there's no defense attorneys here. I apologize in advance. Alright. It's a friendly banter we have. But it's their job to keep us honest, and I appreciate that. But the way they do it, I don't really appreciate the way they do it sometimes. They get you up there, they try and make you look silly, they ask you all these questions that has nothing to do with your case and your your head's spinning and your they can be a little bit of a of a blessing sometimes. But if you're that defendant, you want that person because they know the law. They've gone to law school. They're intelligent. They have something behind their name that says, ooh I I can I can represent you today in court because I have these qualifications. And if you're there as a defendant, you don't know the law. Maybe You haven't really studied the Bible. So you don't know what God's Word says. You can't wield it like some of these lawyers can wield the law. And so now you're stuck. The evidence is stacked up against you. There's nobody to represent you. The verdict Is guilty. Romans 3:19 says, Now we know that what things soever the law saith, it saith to them who are under the law. So what things the Bible says, it says to us, because we're under what this says, because God made us, God set the rules, God says that we should follow this. That every mouth should be stopped, and all the world may become guilty before God. When God looks down from his throne and he sees our entire life. He has no choice as a as the just God he is to say anything other than guilty We've all seen sentencing or the verdict where the defendant stands up And the judge looks down after everything's presented, the defense attorney's fighting form is this whole this whole battle. The judge sits there for a second, maybe he's writing, contemplating, and then he says that word. He says, I find the defendant Put your name in there. Guilty. You see people break onto tears, people sink to their to their seats. It's a heavy, heavy verdict. Now you say, well, look, I've done. I've been able to live my life mostly good. I've not killed anybody. You know, I've I've lived a good life. James 2. 10 says, For whosoever shall keep the law and yet offend in one point is guilty of all. Doesn't matter how good you live your life. If you have offended God and broken God's law in just one thing, he finds you guilty. Because you are guilty of sin. And God made the rules. What's the sentencing? After the verdict comes the sentencing. The judge will look, he'll review the evidence. But God's already told us what the sentencing is here in Scripture. Romans 6. 23 says, for the wages of sin is death. Now, we all know that we're going to die, and death is a result of sin. Unfortunately, Adam and Eve chose to sin, and we all choose to sin as well. The wages of sin is death. But it's not necessarily speaking just about our bodies dying and decaying in the ground. Revelation 20, 14, the passage we started with, says, And death and hell were cast into the lake of fire. This is The second death. And this is the death that it's talking about. It's an eternal separation from God. Now, no matter how bad this earth gets. We're never going to be that bad because God's presence can always be attained when we're here on this earth. If you want to access God, If you want to have a relationship with God, He is always there for you. It doesn't matter how low you are, it doesn't matter where you're at in life, it doesn't matter where the world's at. We can always reach God. We can always talk to God. We can always get that forgiveness of our sins. When we get here, it's an eternal separation from God. Forever. Very sobering thing And as we sit there, maybe you're sitting there today, and you are realizing that if you were to die right now, which is possible for any of us, life is a gift from God, and you were to stand before that judgment seat right now You were to look to your left and your right. There's nobody there to stand up for you. But it doesn't have to be that way. 1 John, if you're in Revelation still, flip over a few pages to 1 John chapter number 2. First John chapter number two. Such a powerful passage. I'm gonna start reading in verse number one. The Bible says Hold on. Give me one second. I wrote the reference down wrong in my notes. I apologize for that. 1 John chapter 2, and I'm not for sure of the verse. I can find it later. The Bible says, and if any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ. The righteous. And he is the propitiation, which is the atonement, for our sins. And not for ours only, but also for the sins of the whole world. As you're sitting there You have the option to have an advocate there with you, somebody to represent you. Now if you're in court and there's a defense attorney there, they're there because they work for a law firm, hopefully a reputable one, somebody that they have been to law school, they have all this These qualifications. What qualifies Jesus Christ, the righteous, to be our advocate? Well the Bible says that he was tempted in all points as like as we are, yet without sin. Jesus came, he left heaven where he was, he took on humanity. He left being perfect. And he became like us. I would never do that. The Creator took on himself the form of the creation. He lived, he struggled, he was hated, he endured pain, hunger, thirst. He lived like we did for 33 years. They hated him so much that they killed him. They didn't just kill him, but they killed him in the most cruel, painful way possible. Publicly, shamefully. God watched his only son, his only begotten son, John 3. 16 says, hang on a cross so that one day You can have Christ as your advocate. Now, if you're there at that judgment and you've never previously asked for that advocate, if you don't schedule it, He's not going to be there. After death, there's nothing else. You can't make decisions after that. You're going to be standing at the judgment seat Now, we've all uh been to court and somebody shows up pro se, which means they're gonna represent themselves, which means they are guilty. Um And maybe maybe not a hundred percent. They might believe in their innocence, but all the pro say trial bench trials I've ever been to, the judge looks at us, would you like to make any opening statements? Negative, Your Honor. Alright, goes he's like, would the defense like to make any opening statements? And he usually before will give them this long spiel about incriminating themselves and they say, Well, Your Honor, what happened was I know I don't have a license And I'm like, well we are here because we arrested you for not having a license and you were driving. So problem solved. So it takes ten seconds and they've already incriminated themselves and already called themselves guilty, right? Because uh first they don't know the law, they don't understand, and they're just trying to justify themselves to the judge. If we get to court, our eternal court date, pro se representing ourselves, there's no hope. There have been people that have shown up to court that my last court case was like this. I showed up and the guy sits down and he says, Your Honor, I'm asking for some more time. My attorney dropped me. Um I was trying to find another attorney and I don't have anybody right now. And the judge says, Well you had time before. But you had this date and you had this time. You could have asked for a continuance, but you chose not to. You show up today, so we're going to proceed with trial. If you get to that judgment and you say, oh, God, I'm sorry, um I should have asked your son to be my advocate. I didn't. Can you give me a second? And I can go. No. Because that's jud judgment time. So how do you how do you get that advocate? How do you request Jesus Christ the righteous be right next to you? At that judgment seat. Well it's as easy as this. Acts sixteen Verses 30 and 31. There was a man, he was a jailer, uh he had imprisoned the Apostle Paul. God had miraculously freed Paul and Silas from this prison. This man was scared for his life, almost committed suicide because of what the Roman government was going to do to him and his family if he had let all these prisoners out. He was at a low place, a very low place, gonna take his own life. Paul and Silas bound into the room and they say, Wait, don't kill yourself, we're all here. Please do yourself no harm. And he comes trembling and he says, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? Simple. Not complicated. Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved That was their answer. It's not come to church for ten weeks and then we're gonna give you a certificate that says you're gonna get into heaven. Nope. Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved. Romans 1013 says, For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Defense attorneys get busy. They can't always represent everybody. God doesn't get too busy for you. He loves you. And he wants you. He wants to represent you in court. He wants to forgive you over your sins. So when God, the judge, looks down at you, your advocate says, No. He's not guilty. And here's the evidence. I took his punishment. Amen. Thank you, Lord. If you've not experienced that, it's such a blessing. Such a blessing. And that should challenge us to live our lives better. But the second judgment. is for those that have that advocate there. And chronologically this might not be accurate, but if I as I think about this, I look and As Jesus sits there and he says, no, they're not guilty. They don't deserve eternal damnation because I paid the price for them. Then Christ looks at you as a Christian and he says, what have you done with your life? 2 Corinthians chapter number 5. Verse 10 says, For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. Now the book of Corinthians, the next couple passages I'm going to read, are directed towards Christians. For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ that every one may receive the things done in his body according to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad. As we saw earlier, God, the eyes of the Lord are in every place. He's looking for people doing what's right. He wants to bless people that are doing what's right, but he also sees the bad. And as we live our lives for Christ, Hopefully we're living every single day to the fullest of our capability to serve God, to please God, and to honor God. But as faulty human beings. I know personally I don't always do that. To my shame. But I'm going to give account of that to Jesus. He's gonna say was my what did you do with my sacrifice? The gift of forgiveness that I gave you, what did you do with that? Um 1 Corinthians 3 talks about how that there's different materials that are used to build. I used to do construction before being in law enforcement and there's all sorts of different materials that are Some are better, some are worse. We built pole barns. Pole barns are great. They're cheap to put up, but they don't last as long as a framed house with shingles. I'm not going to get into that. I'm not That's not my uh purview anymore, I guess. But 1 Corinthians 3, I'm not going to read through this whole passage, but 3, 9 through 15, talks about how that there's different levels of building material we can use. If we invest In the future, and we invest in the things of God, those things will remain. Um the the passage here says um In verse number thirteen, says, Every man's work shall be made manifest, for the day shall declare it, because it shall be revealed by fire, and the fire shall try every man's work of what sort it is. If any man's work abide, which he hath built thereupon, he shall receive a reward. If any man's work shall be burned, he shall suffer loss, but he himself shall be saved, yet so as by fire. This fire is not the eternal fires of the lake of fire that we read about earlier. These are trying fires that God says, I want to try your work of what sort it is. And if we invest in the future and invest in the things of God, when it's put to that test, when it's put to the fire of God's word. In God's judgment, it will remain. But the things we do for ourselves, the things that we do self-serving or self-pleasing, if we live our lives for ourselves, that's gonna burn up and pass away. We're gonna have nothing to show for our lives. We're going to be saved from the fires of hell, but we're going to go through eternity with nothing to show for our life here on this earth. Running out of time. I'm going to wrap this up. Luke 1237. Jesus is teaching a parable about A man who had a bunch of property and he di divvied up his wealth amongst his servants. And he said, Blessed are those servants who the Lord, when he cometh, shall find watching. God wants us watching. God wants us living each day like tomorrow he could come. Like today he could come. If we're living our day like today is our last. We're going to be more serious about the things of God. We're going to be more serious about living a life of integrity than a life that honors and pleases God. God has given a lot of us so much. He's given us his word. A lot of us, I look around, I see a lot of familiar faces, people that have grown up in church. People that have been taught the Bible from when they were a baby. That was me. I've been given so much by God, so much knowledge, so much instruction, so much teaching, so much preaching. Luke 12, 48 says, For whomsoever much is given, of him shall much be required. God expects more, from whom he's given more. Christians, myself included, it's hard. We look around and we say, well, Lord, that Christian over there, he's not doing everything I'm doing. So if I can if I don't have to do all this and I can still live a good life Life. First of all, the Bible said that comparing ourselves amongst ourselves is not wise. We shouldn't compare ourselves to our other brothers and sisters in Christ. They're different. God's going to hold us all to a different standard because He's given us all different abilities, different talents. Different teachings. Don't compare yourself to your other brother. Compare yourself by this book. Matthew 25, it's a long passage, and I'm not going to get into it. Matthew 25, 14 through 29 is the ter the parable of the talents. If you're not familiar with it, very similar. Rich man, has a bunch of talents, money, whatnot, hands it out differingly, one five, one two, and he gives one servant one. Leaves on a long journey, comes back, and requires something of those servants. He says, What did you do with what I gave you? The one servant took that five talents, and he made another five. What did the Lord of those servants say? He said, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Enter thou into the joy of thy Lord. The second servant likewise he was given two, and he made another two. Same thing. Well done, thou good and faithful servant. But that last servant, he said, Well, I knew you were a hard man. And I was afraid. And I went and hid that talent in the earth. And there it is, if you want to go get it. Now it's a little paraphrasing there, but he was very darn a lot with what God gave him. He kind of threw it aside and went and did what he wanted for the entirety of his Lord's absence. The Lord said, Thou wicked and slothful servant. We have choices to make. The first choice that every one of us should make is to get a hold of God And ask Jesus Christ to be your advocate at that judgment seat. If you've never done that, please talk to somebody today. We can show you from the Bible, it's not hard, how you can pray and ask Jesus Christ. To forgive you of your sins. He's already paid that price. Just ask him. But if you've done that, how are you living your life today Are you comparing yourself to others? Are you pointing your fingers and saying, well, they do this and I don't have to do that? Or are you living according to the standard? Will God one day look at you and say, I gave you a lot. You didn't do anything with it. You are a wicked and slothful servant. Or will Jesus, the one who died for you on the cross, look down and say, Well done, thou good and faithful servant, enter thou into the joy of thy Lord. The choice is yours. As you live your life, please choose to live, honor, and serve God. Thank you, Pastor.