It should have gone out uh on uh Facebook here in the last couple of days, uh just to let you know what we're dealing with. But This morning we're going to talk to be talking about your personal finances. Your personal finances. First Timothy chapter number six. Look down in verse number six. Follow along as I read through verse number eleven. But godliness with contentment is great gain. For we brought nothing into this world, and it's certain we can carry nothing out. And having food and raiment, let us therewith be content. But they that will be rich fall into temptation and a snare and into many foolish and hurtful lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition. For the love of money is the root of all evil, which while some coveted after, they have erred from the faith and pierced themselves through with many sorrows But thou, O man of God, flee these things and follow after righteousness, godliness, faith, love, patience, and meekness. So we're going to talk this morning about one of the two topics that people love to talk about anywhere but in church. Money. People enjoy the topic of money. It's one of the things that interests us. We like hearing about things that are going and we follow uh different you know, the the the life of the rich and famous and and see what all is going on and and people are just enraptured with those types of things. But uh talking about money in church seems to be a problem. Uh and it it shouldn't be. The way that we handle our money is, in fact, one of the truest indicators of our spiritual condition. It's the fact. Although this subject is not enjoyed by some, it was covered in great detail by God. Understanding that God covering four times as much is said about money in the Word of God than there is about prayer or faith. Four times more was given to us. One out of every three parables deals with money. Two hundred and eighty-eight verses in the gospels deal with money with money or possessions. So, although it's not something maybe we'd like to look at it in church, we're going to talk about it this morning. Uh the fact is that ma the money is a driving force in our society. It it drives everything. It it it it is what gets people out of bed in the morning because they they've got to go to work to get the money to do what they want to do. Uh it's the motivation for the companies we have, it's the motivation behind most of the research that's done. The matter of fact, motive money is the motivation for most of the cures that we have for physical illness. It wasn't because somebody was now there are a few who their motivation is to find the cure because they've got loved ones dying with this or they had somebody that passed away with this. But for most such SaaS like pharmaceutical companies and such, money's the driving force for spending the billions of dollars on research Because they want to make billions of dollars. That's just the fact But even though this is such a driving force and it has been since the beginning of time, if Christ comments on it, are any indic any indication It's not just something that we're dealing with just today. I mean all the way back in the Bible, if God took four times as much time to deal with finances or or income or possessions then than prayer or faith, I think there was a problem back then too. So it's something that is prevalent and has been all through history. Most people today have very little knowledge of how to handle their money properly. Many have, although they enjoy the the topic, many have never taken a class on financial management or or read a good book on it and how to handle their money. How to attain it, how to invest it, how to save it, how to capitalize on it. Most people have never really taken the time to do that. Without some training and some encouragement, most will needlessly waste what God has given them in covetous living, consuming upon them all that society has to offer. And in so doing, take upon them so much debt that it's almost unbearable. Now, money in itself is not bad, it's just a resource. It's a resource that can be used for good or evil. One man said it like this: Dug from the mountainside or washed in a glen. Servant am I, or master of men. Earn me, I bless you. Steal me, I curse you. Grasp me, and I hold you, a friend will possess you Lie for me, die for me. Covet me, take me. Angel or devil, I'm just what you make me. Money. So today we're going to be talking about this idea of your personal finances. And I really, there's so many directions that we could go with this. And obviously, I've taught uh back, I think it was in twenty sixteen four weeks on on on personal finance. But I I wanted to get into this and I'm thinking Lord what what do you want me to cover? What uh what what should we get into? What should we deal with on this day of personal finances. It's people who are looking at this year and and what are they going to accomplish and pressing forward in in different areas of their life. And uh you know, we could deal with some real practical things about investments. or we could deal with things about savings and how how to get out of debt and that kind of stuff. There's we we've offered the FPU class and we we'll do it again in the future if somebody has interest in that. That's not really the direction that I want to go this morning. If you need help practically in some areas of your life, please see me and we'll we'll help you. But this morning what we want to talk about is what's given to us here in the in the text. And it's the overall spirit that we have as Christians concerning this area of finance The nitty-gritty and the details about how to do it, if you need help, we can help in that another day. Today we want to look at the overall spirit, our mindset, our heart on the matter of your personal finance. So first of all, I want you to see that we have a command to consider. A command to consider. In verse number 11, he says, But godliness with contentment is great gain. There's a twofold command here, godliness and contentment. So how many of you know one plus one equals Two. Every time. Doesn't matter where you're at, doesn't matter what time of day it is, doesn't matter what the situations are, one plus one is two. God has given us a promise here in the Word of God. Godliness Plus contentment equals gain. Doesn't matter where you're at. Doesn't matter what the situation is. Doesn't matter what's going on in life. Godliness plus contentment equals gain. Every single time in every situation we've got this command of God and understanding this godliness and contentment go together. Jonah 13, 17 says, if you know these things, happy are ye if you do them. If you know these things, happy are ye if you do them. So you know right. Plus do right equals feel right. Every time. No right, do right, feels right Every time. Happy are ye if ye do them. This contentment given to us here describes an inward satisfaction that is not dependent upon outward circumstances. People who are truly rich. When they're content. Not when they've reached a certain status financially. They are truly rich when they're content. Benjamin Franklin said this, contentment makes poor people rich, and discontentment makes the rich man poor. Because it literally is not about how much you have in your bank. I know that as you're sitting there thinking about how you're going to pay your next bill, you're saying, well, sure would be a lot easier, and and and all of this, and I understand that. But it's a it's a spirit, it's an attitude, it's uh the heart of the matter. How do we think about and what do we ponder? And it's something that we in today's society have to fight against on a regular basis. One poor husband this last week, in preparation for Valentine's Day, was making his way through the department store with a very perplexed look on his face. And an employee of the store seeing the problem came up and graciously offered her assistance. She said, could I help you locate something, sir? And he says, well, yes, you could please. He says, what do you get, a woman who has everything and is not happy with any of it? Now that's a challenge. And that's what our society has produced today. It doesn't matter how many toys we have, it doesn't matter how big the house is, it doesn't matter what the investments are doing or how much money's in the bank. We've got it all and we're not happy with any of it. It's not about how much you how much you have, it's about how content you are with what God has given you. That brings us to a truthful comparison. Verse number seven, he says, For we brought nothing into this world, and it's certain we can carry nothing out. That's the truth of it. That's the truth. We brought nothing in and we're not going to take anything out. You know, this puts value into perspective for us. Because when we realize that none of it's going to go with us, we understand the nature of life. It puts value on the spiritual over the temporal every time. It gives us an awareness of the things that are eternal. Every person, no matter how wealthy he is in this world, brought nothing into the world, and when he dies, he's taken nothing out. It's not going to go with them. Understanding this truth is why Christ says A man's life consisteth not in the abundance of that which he possesses. Those things that we possess is not what our life is made up of That is not what it's all about. That's how many toys we've amassed is is not what our life is. Oh, from a worldly standpoint and from from the uh Out there in Forbes magazine and the promotion of all of these things, yeah, there is that mindset that, hey, how much have you attained? How much do you have? But for the Christian, we should understand that that is not what life is about. Job said it like this, Naked came I out of my mother's womb, and naked shall I return. We're not taking it with us, friend. The psalmist said it like this For when he dieth he shall carry nothing away, his glory shall not descend. after him. He's not following you to the grave. Whatever you've attained. You know the bumper sticker said it like this. Hearses don't pull you halls. It doesn't matter what you've amassed, one day it's gonna be somebody else's friend. Somebody's gonna be fighting over it. And be broken up and given away to others. And then to somebody else, and then to somebody else. All those possessions. So we see here the heart of total commitment in verse number 8. He says, having food and raiment, let us be therewith content. Having food and raiment, let us be therewith content. So having that, we should have a heart of contentment. Food, all that's necessary to take care of the physical body, maybe from an in internal standpoint, from inside, having some sustenance. And how many of you would be willing to admit our bodies are taking care of pretty good today? I've been trying to lose a little weight. And man is that his trouble. I mean, I won't tell you about my woes. But uh hey, our bodies are taken care of today. Remnant. Uh this word here means a covering. And uh it might be a little bit of a stretch, but I uh I think it could include beyond just a physical clothes, I think covering for our body a a some type of shelter or some type of protection, maybe a maybe a roof over our head Listen, we're spoiled in this country. As I was studying for this, I just went back and looked at some of the pictures that I took in India. The families, what what what they're living in and what they're enduring. And they're happy. They're not thinking anything about it. Doesn't bother them. They've got a shelter over their head, even though it's just a blue tarp. He says, hey, you got food and raiment, you should be content. What it boils down to is this, is being content with what God has given you. Wherever you're at, whatever level of life you've attained, whatever blessings God's given you in your life, it's understanding that and saying, hey. God's been good to me. It's not looking at at Fred and saying, man, I like his truck better than mine. God hasn't been good enough to me. I I I have to drive this and he gets to drive that. No, that's the way modern society looks and thinks. As a Christian, we should be content with whatever. I mean, man, God's blessed us. He's been good to us. If if a little is not enough, no amount will be. No change in circumstances will change the heart. You have to understand what Solomon came to realize. If you read through Ecclesiastes and he talks about his life and all that he had and and how he held back nothing from himself and That he could if he wanted it, he got it. If he desired it, it was there. He talks about hi every part of his life. He just goes over and over and over all of these things and how he had it all and then what does he sum it up with? He says it's all vanity of ex Of soul and spirit. All of that amassed things meant nothing to him, and ultimately the conclusion of Ecclesiastes is outside of God, life is meaningless There is nothing, and it doesn't matter how many possessions you have, it doesn't matter how much wealth you've amassed, if you don't have a relationship with God, it's for nothing. It's meaningless. It's empty. It's void. And my what a challenge. And you think about society today and how many are miserable and upset and they feel like life has been so unfair to them. And if you look at them, you think, wow, how could you even think that? Look at what you've got. Look at how you're taken care of. Look at how your needs are being met. Look at the possessions you've amassed. Look at your life But it doesn't matter how much of it is there, they're not happy. It could even be in Forbes top 500. And they're miserable because they don't have God. Now, the Bible never does condemn having money We need to have a correct perspective in that as well. There is no measure of spirituality given just because you're poor. No testament to You know, no commitment to poverty means you are more spiritual than anybody else That's a work just like those that would think they could they could uh achieve some level of spirituality by inflicting pain on themselves. By beating by beating their own back. God is the one that gives and God's the one that takes and God's the one that blesses and it's blessed be the name of the Lord. Whatever it is. So God blesses It's being content with whatever God gives. And if God blesses you with a great job, or God blesses you and you're able to see succeed in this life in a way that monetarily or uh from the world's standards is is a is would be considered a picture of success from the world's understand that's not what life's about, but hey, there's nothing wrong with having means. God may have given you that for a purpose, that you might use it to fulfill his purpose in your life. And so there's a reason for that, but there's no sin in just having. God gave Solomon all that he had. You think about Solomon and all the wealth that he attained. God gave it to him. There is no sin in that, and there's no spirituality in remaining poor. Sometimes in churches like ours, there's this mindset of, oh, we're just poor Christians. You know? I don't think that honors God at all. God's a debtor to no man. And I think uh God blessing your life is a testament to the world about the God we serve. And this woe is me, and I'm poor, and I'm just a poor Christian, is not serving the purpose of Christ. We we we should uh hold high the cross of Christ. And if you're struggling at some point, don't walk around with your with your your lower lip out and all poor and depressed because you feel like life hasn't been fair to you. You gotta be content wherever you are and realize that God's been good in every situation So we see this command to consider there's also a covetousness that needs to be controlled. In verse number 9, he says, But they that will be rich fall into temptation. and a snare, and into many foolish and hurtful lusts, which drowned men in destruction and perdition. You see here this desire, they that will be rich It's this internal passion, this goal, this this I've gotta have money, I've gotta be rich, I've gotta get that next promotion, I've gotta have that particular job, I've this is what's most important in my life, the they that will be rich. It's a controlling desire. You see this desire in their life to have that pushes them. Ecclesiastes chapter 5, verse number 10 says, He that loveth silver shall not be satisfied with silver, nor he that loveth abundance with increase. This also is vanity. This this overriding desire to attain, to have, to to push. And and you know this it's it's motivated and and promoted in today's society. Why is it that You know, many, many years ago, grandma and grandpa, they would have a little shop on the edge of town. And they would be earning a good living and and by the world standards they were successful. I mean they had a store and if they wanted to go on vacation, they could go on vacation and and They they they could help the grandkids and and they could help their son and daughter and and they were gonna have an inheritance to pass on. I mean they were successful. And they were just working the store together as a family and they were happy What happened to that? Nowadays people aren't content to have a store like that. No, I've got a franchise I've got to go out and get 20 stores. And if I got 20 stores, I've got to get 50 stores. And if I got 50 stores, I've got to have a hundred stores. Why? How much is enough? And this is where we've seen the destruction of all these mom and pop shops all over the country And listen, I'm not opposed uh I I believe in capitalism and I'm not opposed to a man i improving himself and better himself and and trying to do right and using the skills that God has given you, and if God blesses, there's not there's nothing wrong with that. But why aren't we content with what we've got? This desire to just have more and more it leads to detention There's a fall into temptation and a snare. That pursuit to have and to attain. If I work a little more overtime, One one lady, one article I read, this lady was talking to her husband and she said, if we miss the payment on the refrigerator and we miss the payment on the car, we can buy a new stove. That's our mentality today. We're we're we're in hock up to here and we're trying to find some way to finagle our finances to get something else. It leads to bondage. It leads to a snare that literally entraps you. It takes control of your life and ultimately leads to destruction, he says here, and into many foolish and hurtful lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition. Meaning foolish and hurtful lust. You know that word foolish? Means foolish. It means irrational, stupid. I mean not logical. That desire to be rich, I mean, it's amazing how the world is so enraptured with the lottery That desire to be rich. To get rich quick. Foolish and hurtful lust. It's a drive that takes you to just do foolish things Oh, it's only a little bit of money. Money that you don't have. Money that actually belongs to the credit card or belongs to your mortgage or belongs to your rent. And you'll take that money and buy a lottery ticket, which is foolish. We could teach a whole lesson on gambling. We're not going to go down that road But it's the motivation to get rich quick. It's hurtful. It's hurtful to us. It hurts our relationships, it hurts our lives. The desire to have more takes time away from our families. We spend extra time at work to have a little bit bigger paycheck. To attain what? I'm talking about our overall desire, overall heart. What is our overall heart on this matter of our personal finances? What are we thinking? Somebody said this. The paradox of our day is like this: we spend more, but we have less. We buy more, but we enjoy less. We've got bigger houses and smaller families. We've got more conveniences, but less time. We've got more medication, but less wellness. We read too little and watch too much and pray too seldom. We've multiplied our possessions and reduced our values. In today's world, there's tall men, but they've got short character. We've got steep profits, but shallow relationships. These are the days of two incomes, but more divorce. We've got a fancier house, but a broken home. We've learned how to make a living, but not how to live. We've added to our life, we've added years to our life, but not life to our years. We've cleaned up the air, but we've polluted our souls. That's the paradox of our day. It will destroy you. It pulls you this desire to have more. It pulls you away from God. It keeps you working on Sunday when you should be in church. It keeps you working on Friday when you should be home with your family, spending some time with them. It pulls you away from the opportunity to serve the Lord. This scripture talks about it like drowning. Like drowning. Many people today live their life in that kind of state. Where they're uh it feels like they're drowning all the time, like they just can't they can't catch up, like they can't get a breath, they just just like they're just drowning, they're just being sunk and most of it is is not because of what they make in a paycheck, most of it's because they haven't learned how to live inside their paycheck and they've got an ambition and a drive to attain and to have more. And they live in a place that's too expensive for them, and they have a car that they can't afford to drive, and they've got toys sitting around the house that they couldn't afford to purchase, and so now they feel like they're drowning all the time Isn't that the truth? But the greatest damage is this. It ends with perdition. And that is literally the ruin of your own soul. It could possibly send someone to hell. A loved one? Or maybe uh You, an individual who, because of the desire to have wealth, continues to reject and push away God. The Bible says, for what shall profit a man if he should gain the whole world and lose his own soul? That's what happens. The desire to gain pushes away. You have here the description of the love of money as the root of all evil. You understand that it's not money that's evil. Money is a is a tool, a resource. It can be used for good, it can be used for bad. But the love of it is the root of all evil, that root. It motivates or causes men to lie. It causes men to cheat or steal or steal or Even kill to murder for money. Demas and Judas are the great examples of men who like gold replace their gods. What's your heart on this? A command to consider, covetousness to control, but I want you to see there's a confidence to communicate, a confidence to communicate. Verse number 11 he says, but thou, O man of God, flee these things and follow after. He gives us a list of things there to follow after, but look down in verse number 18, if you would Verse number 18, he says, that they do good, that they be rich in good works, ready to distribute, willing to communicate There is a confidence that needs to be communicated, a confidence in our God, a confidence to the world and to those around us that there is a better way. Life doesn't have to be like that. He tells us there's a better way, and he gives us a list of things there in verse number 11 to follow after. Where where people of this world follow after the desire for money and to amass and to attain more and more and more. The Christians should follow after these things, righteousness. Godliness, faith, love, patience, meekness. Wow. That'll give you something to shoot for. Something with eternal value. Eternal value. There's a better God You communicate there's a better way, but there's also there's a better God. You see, this world's made money their God. A lot of Christians, sadly, have made money their God. But there's a better God. Look at verse number 17. He says, charge them that are rich in this world that they be not high-minded, nor trust in uncertain riches. What's the next five words? But in a living God. There's a lot better God than uncertain riches. Riches are uncertain. They come and they go, but God is here all the time. And God gives us all things to enjoy. He says, don't get high-minded. You know, most of the time that's the plight of the rich. They get high-minded, they get full of themselves. God says it's easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to go to heaven. Why? Because when people are rich, they're full of themselves. And they think, I don't need God. What has God done for me? I've got all this. I've amassed and attained this on my own. Don't get high-minded. Don't trust in uncertain riches. Don't make money your God. It's not going to help you. Psalms 49, verses 6 through 8 says this, they that trust in their wealth and boast themselves in the multitude of their riches. None of them can by any means redeem his brother, nor give to God a ransom for him. You hear that? Doesn't matter how much money you have I could be Jeff Bayos and I could not buy Aaron Glover's salvation. I could not help all that money and I could not help one of you with your eternity With just those dollars. It's not going to happen. It's what he says here. He says, none of them can by any means redeem his brother nor give to God a ransom for him. For the redemption of their soul is precious. The redemption of the soul is precious, and it comes from God, not from money. There's a better goal. There's there's a better God, but there's a better goal. He says in verse number eighteen, that they do good. That they be rich in good works, ready to distribute, willing to communicate. You can do good. With whatever you have. Whatever God has given you. If God has given you a little, or maybe God has given you a lot, you feel like uh You're living in abundance or you feel like you're live living just getting by, wherever you're at, whatever God has given you, you can do good with it. To him that knoweth to do good and doeth not, to him it is. Sin. God can bless you with finances, with means, with possessions, so that you can bless others You can do good with it. Let me give you quickly as we close a few things that you can do good with what God has given you. First of all, what God has given you obviously provides for the necessities of your life. Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. It provides for the necessities that you have for life. can be used to send out the gospel. 2 Corinthians 9, verse number 6 says, But this I say, he which soweth sparingly shall also reap sparingly, but he which soweth bountifully shall reap bountifully, using what God has given you to get out the gospel. It can be passed on to your family. Proverbs 13, 22 says, A good man leaveth an inheritance to his children's children, and the wealth of the sinner is laid up for the just. And it can be given to bring happiness or joy to others. Acts 20, verse number 35 says, remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he said, it's more blessed to give than to receive. It can be used to be a blessing to others. It can be used to prove God's faithfulness. To a scoffing world. Philippians 4. 19. But my God shall supply all your needs according to his riches in glory. So this morning, if you need help with your finances in a particular area, we'll be glad to help you. We'll offer the class again, FPU. If somebody's interested in taking it, we can do that. But this morning's lesson was more about the overall heart matter. How do you feel or think about your personal finances? finances. You say this, you might say, well Pastor, how do I know if I need help in my finances? Well let me let me give you a couple things and we'll be done. If you answer yes to more than two of the following, you probably need help. Do you spend much of your time worrying about finances? Do you have more debt than assets? Do you have large balances on credit cards Do you put off paying bills until next month? Do you buy things that you don't need and can't afford? Do you know how much you owe right now? Do you know your do you or your spouse argue over money? Do you worry about having enough to pay the bills? Do you have adequate insurance? Do your creditors call you? Do you periodically have bounce checks? If you answered yes to more than one or two of those, you probably need some help. Now if you answer no to more than one or two of these, you probably need some help. Do you faithfully tithe to your church? Do you have savings? Do you have an emergency fund? Are you saving for retirement? Do you have a budget? Do you have a list of financial goals? Do you plan ahead for special events or purchases? Do you save part of your paycheck? Do you have any investments? Do you have someone that gives you financial counsel? If you answered no to more than a couple of those, you probably need some help. So that's a quick test to see where you're at. And there's help available if you need it. Hopefully we have the right mindset and the right heart with regards to this matter of our personal finances. Let's close in prayer. Lord, we thank you for today and we pray that you would uh bless this morning as we gather in your house. We ask that you would be honored, that you would be lifted up. Lord, we pray that you would draw men unto yourself. May you speak to each and every heart that's present, Lord. Would you challenge us from the Word of God and draw us into your presence, Lord, this morning as we gather in your house and we'll thank you. Thank you for it. Thank you for this lesson on personal finance. Help us to have the right spirit and the right attitude concerning these matters. In Jesus' name. Amen.