Sadly, the Lord's house is being forsaken for pleasure and for entertainment purposes, and in many cases today the church has adopted an entertainment philosophy. To ministering. And that's not God's way. C. H. Spurgeon wrote this. The devil has seldom done a more clever thing than to hint to the church that part of their mission was to provide entertainment for people with a view of winning them. From speaking out against it, as the Puritans did, the church has gradually toned down her testimony. They then winked and excused the frivolties of the day Then she tolerated it at her borders, and now she has adopted it under the plea of reaching the masses. Providing amusement for the people is nowhere spoken of in the scriptures. As a function of the church. If it is a Christian work, why then did not Christ speak of it So that certainly is something that the church needs to be careful and wary of that we're not providing entertainment. That's not what the church is for. Uh the church is to Bring people into a closer relationship with Jesus Christ and uh by the preaching and teaching of the Word of God. So If you're in Mark chapter 12, look down at verse number 29. We want to read a couple of verses here this morning by way of introduction to our thought. He says in Mark chapter twelve, verse number twenty one through verse number thirty one, and Jesus answered him, the first of all commandments is, Hear, O ye Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind, and with all thy strength. This is the first commandment, and the second is like Namely this, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. There is none other commandments greater than these. There's a plethora of entertainment available today. Of course you have all of the old fashioned uh entertainment that's available and always always has been, the old games, you know, Foursquare and Jack's and and kickball and uh you know different uh monopoly and card games and these these types of things that have been available for many, many years and, you know, bobbing for apples Praise the Lord, we don't do that anymore. Uh but you know many things that it's fun fun entertainment, things that that we can enjoy, but modern technologies have made available many other forms of entertainment. Let me say, in in and of themselves, is they're not inherently evil. There is nothing necessarily uh sinful with the different types of things available to to us today for entertainment. It's like many other things, it's what you do with it that can turn it into sinful, that can make it so it's not appropriate or not what God would want us to do. There's many different gaming consoles like an Xbox, PlayStation, and Nintendo Switch. There's digital devices, the iPhone, iPad, you know, iPod and all of their counterparts with different brands. uh available for for people to entertain themselves. There's all kinds of streaming services. Amazon Prime, Showtime, Voodoo, Haloo, Netflix, Fango, uh, Google Play, YouTube, Sling, Disney Plus, Apple TV, Spoof, Spotify, Redbox, PlayStation. uh all types of streaming services available for entertainment today. There are particular types, and these types of entertainment are very accepted by society. And again, as I said, they they might not necessarily be wrong. It's what we do with them that can make them wrong. Sometimes there's forms of entertainment that are even accepted by the church. But the standard is not what somebody else thinks of something, the standard is what the Word of God says. That's what we want to look at. So this morning, uh the the lesson I'm giving you presupposes that there is inside of you a desire To please God most foremost in your life. That's why we started with the verse that we read on the greatest commandment, and thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, and with all thy thy might with all their strength. This presupposes that as a Christian you have that inside. You have that desire. Amen? We want to please God first and foremost. If you are looking for justification for your sin to consume upon your own lust the things that the world offers that stand in stark contrast to what God teaches or what God wants, Uh you're not gonna enjoy the Sunday school lesson. I can tell you right now. You guys are already like super sullen. I mean This this is we're not even heavy yet. This is just uh it's okay. You guys need to hear another joke maybe. Uh yeah. So I I started with the the the premise that our desire as Christians to love God first and foremost. And if we have that in our heart as a motivating factor, I mean I could give you a list of things and try and say, well this is probably okay. is probably not or this show is alright but that show's not or you know try and run down a list like that but uh then what about the one that didn't get mentioned? And so more I want to just kind of give you some guiding principles. this morning. Some some ideas about making the choices that you make for your personal entertainment. What is your personal entertainment choices? What are you going to do? So For too long, Christians have looked at matters like this from the point of view of not what can I do that pleases God first and foremost. I want to please God first. For too long, the view has been, I want to do all of this. How much of it can I do and still call myself a good Christian? How far can I go this direction and still feel a little bit spiritual? But our goal is to be going towards God, to love God, to how close can I get to God and how far can I get from the world That should be our heart's desire, and we know that the spirit is willing and the flesh is weak, and we know that the world, the flesh, and the devil have a strong pull and and they they they they pull us that direction, and it's something that we all have to fight against on a regular basis. Lest the devil pull us down into areas that we shouldn't be. Amen? So, first of all, I got three simple guiding principles for you this morning. First of all, salvation demands stewardship. Salvation demands stewardship. For the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared to all men, teaching us that denying ungodliness and worldly lust we should live soberly, righteously. godly in this present world. That salvation that has been given to all of us, washed Saved, given a home in heaven, should for us instill in us an idea, an understanding that God owns it all. Right? Everything we have, everything we are, every breath we breathe, every day we live is all a blessing and a gift from God. It all comes from Him. And if we really understand that, if we really believe it in our heart, that it's all a gift from God, that it really quite literally belongs to Him, and we have been given stewardship of that. Then everything that we have falls underneath the idea of we're stewarding that. We are stewardships of it. We are to use it appropriately, And in a balanced way, if we hold to that truth, then stewardship alone sets for us an unmoving guidepost. For our entertainment options. It's a sign. It's up there all the time. God has given each of us a limited number of resources, a limited amount of time. A limited amount of energy, limited amount of talent, a limited amount of funds? Amen. I know that. Is there's a limited amount of resources that we have in every area of our life Because of that, Ephesians 5. 15 says, see then that you walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise. We've got to we could take the entirety of this lesson and we could teach on stewardship for six weeks pretty easy, just talking about the different areas of our lives. I I'm not going to be that long this morning, but I want to adequately lay the foundation with the idea that word is steward everything that God has given us. In Ecclesiastes, he said, Rejoice, O young man, in thy youth. Let thy heart cheer thee in the days of thy youth, and walk in the ways of thine own heart, and in the sight of thine eyes. He's saying, Hey, young man, eat, drink, and be merry, right? Go have fun. But that verse concludes with this, but know thou that for all these things God will bring thee into judgment. He's saying, yep, go do whatever you want to do. But understand, God's in control. And ultimately we're going to give an account. For how we used, how we stewarded, that which God has given us. So we have our choices We can do whatever we want to. God is not going to make us do this or make us do that. You can choose whatever kind of entertainment you want to choose. That's up to you. But know this. God is the judge. Not Pastor Caleb. Not somebody else in the church. God. He's going to be the judge. He's the one that's going to evaluate and determine how well we stewarded what God has given us. How we use the resources God has given us reveals to us and the world what's important to us, where we are going to invest. The Bible says, of course, in Matthew 6, 21, for where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. Where is it that you're putting the limited resources that you have? Whether that's time, energy? Money, uh talent, where where are you investing these things? The amount of money that you spend on entertainment shows your love of pleasure. So I just wonder if you would be willing to be honest this morning. Really evaluate how much of your limited resource of finances See, we're not even talking about whether something is sin or not. We're just talking about is it wise or not? Is it a good use of the money that God has given you? Is it a good are you stewarding well what God has entrusted you with? So where are you taking and investing your money? Do you I don't know of anybody here that owns a boat. If you own a boat, I don't know about it. So I'm just gonna throw it out there. You know, they say the two best days of owning a boat is the day you buy it and the day you sell it. So I I hear that they're a lot of work, a lot of maintenance and all that. Um but You know, th there's nothing wrong with owning a boat. But if you own a boat and you didn't give any money to worldwide missions last year, I think Probably a little out of balance where you're where you're investing the limited resources God has for you. Um Would you be willing to l evaluate your entertainment options with regards to this idea of stewardship? Just add it up. I know there's several in here that own timeshares. Oops, ouch. Those those things that that You know, you get to use one week, two weeks out of the year. And listen, there's nothing wrong with having a timeshare. Mary and I are actually part owners, and I'm thinking it might have been more of a curse than a blessing. I don't I don't know. We're part owners of a timeshare because it's You know, they like to say, Oh, your family can inherit this. Yeah, so your family can pick up the dues, right? That's why everybody gets to have it. But we're we at this point we're not d paying anything for it. handed to us from grandma and grandpa. But uh you know there's nothing wrong with having a timeshare. But just consider how much of your limited resources of finances are you dumping into the timeshare and how much did you do for God last year? Uh your vacation home, TV, cable, internet, golf, shooting. Uh w what are you spending your limited amount of resources on as far as entertainment? There's nothing wrong with these things. But how does it fit into the overall stewarding of your life? I can tell you as a general rule, most people in the world Waste an exorbitant amount of money on entertainment. And as Christians, we're supposed to be wiser than that. See then that you walk circumspectly. Walk wisely. Consider where it is you're dumping your entertainment. What about the time that's invested in these things? Nothing wrong with having a boat, but if you're out on the boat on Sunday morning and you're supposed to be in church, it's not a good steward of the time that you have. Uh in twenty seventeen, this is the latest statistic I could find with regards to this, the average person watched four hours of television a day. That's the average person watch four hours of television a day. I I don't know where they came up with that, but do you understand if you watch television for twenty-four hours a day, that's sixty days out of the year. Four hours a day equals sixty days out of your year. If you take your sleeping hours out of that and just easily a quarter of your year invested in watching movies or television. Is that a good stewarding of your time? No. No, so it has nothing to at this point has nothing to do whether what you're watching is is is advantageous to you or not. There's just no way around the fact that it is a waste of time. That you are just just letting the valuable resource of time that God has given you and you've thrown it away. In twenty twenty, the average kid spends two point one three hours a day playing video games. Many parents confess they allow their kids to play up to five hours a day video games. I know Most of the adults in here probably aren't that vested into video games. But what about social media? Average adult spends 2. 23 hours a day. on social media. Is that a good use of your time? If you're not careful, you'll end up wasting an untold amount of time on your personal entertainment. Even though the activity itself might not be sinful, it turns into sin when we're not using our time correctly. What about your energy? You know, we have limited amounts of energy, amen. We don't have untold amounts of energy. We've only got so much. And yet we take our limited resource of energy and many times invest it in things that are of no value. And we don't leave anything in reserve to do what God wants us to do, to serve the Lord. Uh one of the reasons why people can't stay awake in church on Sunday is because they stayed up Saturday night watching movies. Soin all right? I have no idea if this is hitting home for anybody or not, but I'm just saying it it ought to be a desire of our heart to use wisely all that God has given us. And that includes not just our money, but our time and our energy and our talents. Listen, if you've got a talent or an ability and you're using it out in the world, but you can't use any of that skill for God, there's something wrong. You ought to be looking for opportunities to use the skills that you have for the Lord. If uh I I I'm just wondering If American Idol came to you and says, boy, we heard you sing and we want you to come and be on the show. I wonder how many would be like, really? Me? Oh awesome. I'm there. But then when Pastor says, man, I heard you singing, boy, you ought to join the choir. What? Choir? I don't think so, preacher. Give up some time on Sunday afternoon to practice and be here and and and sing in front of everybody? I could never do that All right, so our salvation demands that we steward what God has given us wisely. Surrender to the Lord denounces sensuality. Because we want to surrender to God, because we want to please Him first and foremost, and the majority of you said amen when we said that in the beginning, we want to please God first and foremost Well, because of that, we need to denounce or put away sensuality. And I think everybody here understands the majority of entertainment today is based on sensuality We know that. In Ephesians chapter 5, verses 1 through 4, he says, Be therefore followers of God as dear children, and walk in love as Christ also hath loved us, and hath given himself for us an offer. and a sacrifice to God for a sweet smelling savour. But fornication and uncleanliness and covetousness, let it not be once named among you. as become a saint, neither filthiness, nor foolish talking, nor jesting, which are not convenient, but rather giving of thanks. Much of this world's entertainment is based in sensuality. They glamorize lust in the fulfillment of it. That's what is promoted. In Ephesians, I'm sorry, First Thessalonians chapter 4, verses 4 and 5, he says that every one of you should know how you ought to possess his vessel in sanctification. and honor, not in the lust of concubance, even as the Gentiles which know not God. Concuban I miss said that word. We're not supposed to handle our bodies that way, but that's what a lot of the world's entertainment is. It praises immorality rather than wholesomeness. Now, how many of you understand that sex is supposed to be inside of marriage? Correct? That's where it's supposed to be. I don't I mean I hope there's not anybody here that would debate that. That's supposed to take place inside of the bounds of marriage. Well, I don't have time in this Sunday school hour to teach through this thought process, but I want you to understand that sex is a package. All parts of it are inclusive. They are all part of this that's supposed to be inside of marriage But society today has somehow removed different categories and said, oh, this is not sex. This is we're just kissing. This is just foreplay. This is just necking, making out. This this is not somehow in the mind of many people today I'm trying to find a diplomatic way to be if they didn't consummate the relationship, then they didn't have sex. But you understand biblically that's not true. That is the completion of it, yes, that is the ultimate end of it. But all of that together is what makes up sex. It's all part of the package. And all of it is supposed to be inside of marriage. Now some of you are uncomfortable. Here at church, like man, Pastor Caleb, I can't whoa my goodness But why is so much of the world okay watching it? Why is it that we can watch another couple partake? Of what is supposed to be the most intimate thing between a husband and wife, and somehow it's okay. That's alright. But it's not alright. It's not what God wants us to take into our minds. Jim Berg, the author of Quiet and a Noisy Soul that many of you are taking on Thursday Nights right now, he said this based on First Timothy chapter five. He develops what he calls the sister test. In 1 Timothy chapter 5, verse number 2, he says, the elder women as mothers and the younger as sisters with all purity. Talking about how you're supposed to be treating ladies. The elder ladies as a mother The younger as a sister. So the question is, is would you want your sister to be put on display like that? Would you want the purity and the wholesomeness and the sweetness of your sister to be robbed from her? The way That particular lady, whoever it is, girl, her purity, her wholesomeness, her sweetness is being robbed for the whole world to see. Well, I think most of us with much of what's out there we would say no. We wouldn't want that. But I wonder, are we partaking of it? Are we watching that? Are we supporting that? The problem is that Hollywood produces what cells? And you know sex sells. The sad thing is, is it not only sells to the world, but it sells to churches. It sells to Christians. Those that call themselves Christians, those that would stand up anywhere and say, yeah, I'm a Christian. I love God. Well, what is the second greatest commandment Love thy neighbors thyself. Well, do you understand how we're breaking that second commandment? When we support and somehow make it okay for some sweet young girl to be abused like that publicly for the world to watch and call it entertainment Love thy neighbor as thyself. I wouldn't want that to happen to one of my girls. I wouldn't want my girl's body put on display like that. But somehow it's okay if it's somebody else's daughter. Somebody else's wife. As God's children, we're not to support those things. I think that if all of those in the world today that professed to be a Christian I mean they just, if you ask them, they would say, yeah, I'm a c I'm a Christian. I love God. If they all stopped supporting Hollywood? Hollywood would change. Because Hollywood they're going to produce what sells. And they've learned what sells. And you understand it's our old flesh that likes that stuff. It's our old flesh that enjoys watching that. And it's a battle, it's a fight. To say, no, this is not honoring to God. If I truly love God first and foremost, I'm gonna turn that off. I'm gonna stop watching that. Movies are rated for their content, but you understand that many many movies, regardless of the rating, they're not only not Christian, they're anti-Christian. They actually stand in direct opposition to what you say you believe. They they they they promote And take all of what you value and say that you love and would find ways to undermine it. And I don't have time this morning to get into all of the minute details and all the things that are out there, the systematic way in which Movies are put together. You know, more and more uh in the home, dad is made out to be a fumbling idiot. He can't hardly keep track of himself, let alone be a father and and love his family and lead his wife and lead his family like he should. Mom's the one in charge of everything and or the kids. The kids are are the ones that know what's going on And the kids understand because mom and dad are idiots. Right? That this type of stuff is even in the youngest of cartoons that kids are watching. That's how it's portrayed. It's undermining the the family and biblical principle, the things that we say we believe In six days, Disney is going to be releasing a movie in theaters called Onward. It is an uh animated film. In which an openly lesbian cyclops promotes her sexuality to your children. Uh it's it's a kids film. It's gonna be available on March sixth. And this cyclop op openly promotes her sexuality to the kids. And anybody that says anything different on the film or or somebody that is not supportive of them in any way, you know how they're made to look. This is in line with Satan's agenda to inoculate your youth. Satan stands on his pulpit and the American has fallen down before the altar. of entertainment and takes it in. Disney, that which is supposed to be the bedrock of family-friendly films, has long ago joined the bandwagon of promoting filth instead of promote promoting wholesome Entertainment. And that's Disney. PBS Kids, largest kids network in the world. In twenty nineteen, Clifford, the big red dog, had a childhood friend who had two mommies Arthur on Arthur, another animated film, uh two men were married. These are kids' networks. You tell me they don't have an agenda where they're pushing these things. Later this year on Sesame Street, they're gonna have a drag queen activist On Sesame Street. What I'm saying is the world has an agenda, and Christians need to stop buying into it. Why? Because if we are truly surrendered to God, to God's will for us to do and what God wants us to do, because we love the Lord our God with all our heart, with all our soul, with all our mind. uh then we've got to stop partaking of the sensual entertainment of the world. Colossians chapter 3 verse number 8 says, but now ye also put off all these anger, wrath, malice, blaspheme, filthy communications out of your mouth. You know the the modern television, TV programs as such, they promote violence violence rather than peace. In 2016, over 70% of all primetime shows contained violence. According to the CSUN. edu, the average child will watch over 8,000 murders before he leaves elementary school Uh according to PediatricPublications. org, by 18 years of age, the average youth uh will have viewed an estimated 200,000 acts of violence on television alone And we wonder what's going on in our country. It actually when anybody watches it, what it does is it instills inside of you a discontentment for what you have and a desire for what you shouldn't have. When teenagers today watch shows where teenagers are actively involved in sex, it puts a desire in the heart of that young man. I want to do It makes them feel like somehow they're left out or they're left behind. If all the other kids are are are doing this and I'm not, I'm the only one that's still a virgin. I don't want to be that. I don't want to be left out. And it puts that desire in them if they want to do that. Every young girl wants to be loved. Every young girl wants to be held. And with the shows that are available today, it's promoting that that this type of activity is normal and this is what love is. And if you've got a head on your shoulders, you know that that is not love. We've got to be so discerning as parents what we allow in the home to influence our kids. But not just that, we've got to be discerning. What we allow to influence us as well. You know the old saying, what's good for the goose is good for the gander, right? When we continually fill our minds with the filth of this world, we are doing a great disservice to ourselves. To ourselves. And listen, Christian, I know that the world has a strong pull. And it's a constant battle to put some boundaries up to control these things. But salvation demands of us that we steward our time well, our resources well, surrendering our heart to God, it it requires that we're going to put off sensuality, we're going to denounce sensuality, and submission to God will determine your priority. As we submit to God, to what God wants, it'll determine determine what our priorities are going to be. In our media-driven culture, the pursuit of the American dream has been changed. It used to be the pursuit of the American dream consisted of a loving family, a roof over your head, and a place to go to work. That was the American dream. But now the American dream is untold riches At least American fame, but maybe worldwide fame. Everybody knows your house you're you're a household name. That that's the American dream today. It's added that level Of easy romance and blank checks to exce receiving or achieving the American dream. The excess of love and pleasure and amusement has been the downfall of many nations, from Babylon, Persia, Greece, and Rome, and one day it'll be the downfall of America. We can stay that a little bit if we're careful as Christians. Ultimately, the problem lies in the heart of man. We are created for joy. We're created to enjoy things. We're created to be satisfied, to desire joy and achievement. But the problem is where we get that fulfillment from. You know the things of the world, although they do satisfy for a moment, it doesn't satisfy for eternity. The joy that comes is so fleeting. The heart of man was built by God to be met, that need of satisfaction to be met by God. We're to be filled, fulfilled with the joy and satisfaction, not with temporal things, but eternal things In Ecclesiastes 2, verse number 26, he said, For God giveth to man that is good in his sight, wisdom and knowledge and joy. But to the sinner he giveth travail to gather and to heap up, that he may give to him that is which is good before God. Thus also is vanity and vexation of spirit Hey, God will meet that need and give you that fulfillment, that satisfaction. But the world never will. Our priorities, our passion, our plans, our pursuits all should be grounded in the love of God. Our love for God and God's love for us. Not our love for the world. If we're to have a heavenly mindset, understanding that eternal realities are for us. It's got to come from the wisdom of God's Word. You know, most entertainment has its goal to allow us to escape from reality for a few minutes. But from the Word of God, we are given reality. We are brought back into reality. And that's what God wants for us. So I ask you, would you be willing to honestly before God, not before Pastor Caleb, not before somebody at church? I'll be quite frank with you, what I think doesn't matter. I'm just a sinner saved by grace, and I got my own issues. But would you be willing to be honest with God and say, Lord, is what I'm choosing for my personal entertainment pleasing to you? Is it good for me? Is is it a good steward of my time? Am I wasting too much time on this? Am I partaking of things that are sensual and worldly and I need to slow down or stop on that? Would you be be honest with God, just consider what you're using for personal entertainment and make sure that we're honoring and pleasing God. And you'll be the better for it. You'll be the better for it.