This morning want to take some time and talk about your personal goals. Your personal goals. In uh Second Chronicles, uh we're gonna be here in a few weeks. Uh we're, you know, I I think chapter 8 is what we read today. But uh 2 Chronicles, chapter number 34. Look down at verse number 31. The Bible says here in Second Chronicles thirty-four, thirty-one, it says, And the king stood in his place. Yeah, you need to be in Second Chronicles. 34. And the king stood in his place and made a covenant before the Lord to walk after the Lord and to keep his commandments. And his testimonies and his statutes with all his heart and with all his soul to perform the words of the covenant which were written in the book. This is here in Josiah's reign. If you see in your text, some of you might have a type of a study Bible that kind of has it divided up into different sections. And Josiah became the king as a young man and turned the hearts of the people back towards God. He brought about a revival and Uh there was a prophet, I can't remember the prophet's name, but the prophet came and he said, Hey, there's sin in the camp. There's a problem, and there's going to be judgment, and here's what God's going to do. Josiah said, no, we need to turn to God. We need to beg God's mercy. And he called all the people together, and the people responded, and they turned their hearts back towards God. And this here, verse number 31, we're getting right there to the end of the chapter. And it's a a covenant, a goal that Josiah set in his heart. He stood there and he made a covenant before the Lord. He said to walk after the Lord and to keep his commandments and his testimonies and his statutes. He said, I'm going to do this. This is what's in my heart, and I'm purposing to do that. I'm setting a goal. I'm making a covenant with God to do it. This is the sweeping revival of Josiah's reign, the most far-reaching revival. Of all the kings that ever were in the nation of Israel, you know that his personal commitment to God impacted a nation. I want you to think about that for just a minute. Do you understand that none of us live unto ourselves? What we do in our lives day by day does impact those around us. It impacts those closest to us most, but even further out, it impacts everyone. How how many well, let me use a personal illustration. You know, I have kids and uh at times, especially the younger ones They might do something to one of their older brothers or sisters. And then when the older brother or sister is ready to respond, The younger one runs to mom or dad, right? Like they went and threw a snowball at Andrew, and now Andrew picks up snow and he's ready to throw it back, but they think that if they get close to mom or dad that Andrew won't throw it because Andrew doesn't want to hit mom or dad, right? And so uh Andrew might wait Until the younger one happens to be out away from mom or dad. But what I'm saying is they ran into my presence to be protected from that. Uh occasionally one of the older ones might not really think about or realize where they're running, and they'll throw the ball, and then I'll get hit. Because because why? Because I was close to him. And so what I'm saying is that we don't live unto ourselves. The people that are around us are impacted by how we live. By our decisions, what we do. Those closest to us, obviously, are impacted the most. I mean, if I was going to throw some water on Brother Crane here, Margaret would get soaked. You know, I mean now Kevin might be all right, but it certainly that and that's how it is. And what I'm saying is that think about it like this, Josiah when he became king, he began to Turn his heart and made a covenant, a promise, a goal to seek after God. And it brought revival in the whole nation. So listen, you understand that you Could be the person at Hunt Valley Baptist Church through this year Because of what God does in your heart and because you purpose to follow after him, there could be a revival that sparks in your life that comes out and ultimately blesses the entire church. Because of a decision that you made personally, the goals that you set in your own life, the entire church could be blessed Now let's look at the other side of that. You understand that you, you personally, could be responsible for quenching the Holy Spirit at Hunt Valley Baptist Church, for stopping the forward movement this coming year, the progress or the victory that we could have as a church. You could be responsible for that Oh, we like it on the other side, don't we? Like the man, we could be responsible for the victory. Hallelujah. Well, if that's true, then the opposite's true as well. What I'm saying is we don't live unto ourselves. What we do day by day in the decisions we make in the direction we're headed, it affects everybody that's around us, especially those that are closest to us and that we care about the most. They are impacted by our decisions. Now I know many people do not like the idea of New Year's resolutions. They just don't like it. As a matter of fact, according to studies done, less than 45% of Americans make any type of New Year's resolutions. You know, uh let's call them life goals then. Uh you know that one of the main reasons that people don't like New Year's resolutions is because over the years they've become jaded because they Have not succeeded in bygone years. They they they've set goals and didn't meet them, and they set goals and didn't meet them, and they're like, well, I'm just not gonna set any more goals. Okay, well let me ask you, is that a mature and spiritual mindset? You know what? If anybody any if any of us here were working with young people, you have the opportunity to work with some kids and let's say the uh a young man gets up to bat. And he swings and misses, and he drops the bed. I can't do it. It's so dumb. I hate baseball. I'm not gonna do it. Any any one of us would say, hey, hey, hey, you know, they that's not the right spirit to have. So you miss. That's all right. Get back up there. Pick up the bat. You're gonna try it. Try it again. Try it. Keep your eye on the ball. You can't give up. You can't quit We recognize that as a spirit of immaturity in a child. But I can't tell you how many adults have come to me and says, I just don't set any goals. Because in their life they have continued to fail to reach them. Can I ask you whose fault is that? Whose fault is it that the goals weren't reached? So the the the what I'm saying is it's not maturity and it's not spirituality that's causing you to say, I just don't set goals. It's the opposite. And if we want to be successful as a Christian, as we look at this year, and hey, we're only a couple weeks into it. We've got the entirety of the year in front of us and right now is as good a time as any to set some life goals. Now Maybe you don't like the change of the year. I I like it just because it kind of it i it's a marker point. It's a it's a it's a mile marker, it's a s it's a memorable time that you can say, hey, I've done this for this whole year, I've set this goal, I've I've achieved this. It's It doesn't have to be at the beginning of the year. It can be anywhere. But as people, we ought to have some life goals. We ought to have some direction that we're headed. I want you to understand that this principle is found all throughout the Bible that even if you don't succeed, we use that old, if at first you don't succeed, try, try again. That's a biblical principle. He says in Proverbs 24, 16, a just man falleth seven times and riseth up again. You just get up again and keep on going. So whether you have a habit of setting goals in your life, maybe you didn't set any New Year's resolutions and you don't want to call them that, I don't care what you call it. But I hope this morning to stir your heart, to try and evaluate your life and set some direction for the coming months and for the balance of this year. For what God would want you to do. What it boils down to is coming to the place in our life that we know change needs to be made, and then making a covenant with God to do that. One of the reasons so many people in America today live such discouraged lives, they live in almost a spirit of of um depression. is because they're not experiencing any victory. They're not experiencing any success in their life. They are drifting through life without setting any goals and we are we as a people are designed to push towards something and experience the joy of success And that joy of success motivates and brings about more success. There are those who dream about change and they wish things were different, but they lack the character to do anything about it. Change is good. It's good for us. What kind of direction or areas of your life are you considering or have you thought about areas of improvement personally, in your family? Maybe financially. What are you doing personally? The reason people let me do it let me say it like this. Do you understand that every sport has an objective Every sport has a goal, something they're trying to achieve. That is what motivates the sportsman to strive for excellence to achieve that. Whether it's something as simple as putting uh a round ball through a hoop or getting a touchdown uh at the in at the end of the field or or running across the finish line uh in the cross country meet or uh throwing the ball farther than anybody else in the shot put. I mean whatever whatever area it is there's there's uh a goal, there's an achievement and And there's that goal is what motivates and people, certain people that have in their heart to be good at that sport. It motivates them to get out of bed in the morning, to go work out, to go push, to excel. But what has happened in America today is uh there's a few people who have determined in their heart to excel at this. And everybody else is happy to let them. And they're literally living vicariously through somebody else's victory. Those that couldn't possibly make a basket are thrilled and excited for and find joy in watching somebody else make a basket. And what is sad to me is many times in our Christian life it's the same way There are people, Christians, God's children, who look at other Christians and they say, Man, praise God. You go, brother. You go, sister. Boy, you've got such a great testimony, or you you got such good faith, and you're such an encouragement. And I could never do that. But boy, I'm happy for you. And that's wonderful. But do you understand God's power is available to all of us? Every one of us can achieve victory in our life and be strong, faithful, faith-filled believers. It's available to all of us. It's just we've got the you know lawn chair or couch mentality where we're going to sit back and watch other people do it and we'll be happy for them. But we need to push forward and set a goal. What are you shooting for in your life? What I'm saying is over the next 12 months, let's make a difference. Better is the end of a thing than the beginning thereof. of. Let's not get to the end of 2020 and say there was another year. There was another wasted year. I can guarantee you that God does not want you to be the same person you are right now, 12 months from now. The Bible says to grow in grace in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Do you understand that that is not just an admonition given to the newly saved? I don't know who in here has been saved the longest, but if we took time to find it out, I want you to know that that admonition is given to you too. To grow in grace and the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Throughout the next 12 months, we shouldn't, at the end of this year, be the same person we are right now. Amen? We should be different. And if that's gonna happen, then we need to set some goals to see it happen. Something needs to be different. According to the Social and Behavioral Research Institute, individuals that set goals are ten times more likely to achieve their desires than those that don't. I'm surprised it's not a lot higher number. But ten times more likely to achieve your goal than those that don't. So if you want to set some goals, if you want to. achieve something this year. Let me just give you some practical things. The month of January here I'm just going to be dealing with real practical stuff. First of all, you need to define it. You need to define your goal. You've got to establish what it is that you want to do. You can't drift aimlessly on the sea of life. At some point You've got to determine this is where I want to go. You've got to set your sails and grab the helm of the ship and point it that direction. There may be some contrary winds, and you might have to at times tack against the wind to continue to go that direction. But what I'm saying is you've got to define your objective, define your goal, what you want to do. It's got to be a quantifiable objective. You've got to have a way to say when it's been met Your goals need to be specific. They need to be quantifiable. You need to have a way to know what it is. Don't just say I want to do better in school. Or your children helping them in school. I want to do better in school. No, I want to bring up my GPA by a half a point. Or I want to bring it up by one. I mean, set something that is quantifiable, that's measurable. Don't just say, I want to have a happier marriage. Everybody wants to have a happier marriage Set a goal. The goal is not I want to have a happier marriage. The goal is I'm going to write a letter to a card to my wife once a week That's the goal. That will result in a happier marriage. You see, set a goal that's quantifiable, that somehow you can measure it. Um, there was one man that husband and wife went into for counseling, and the therapist looked at the husband and said, So your your wife tells me that you don't ever buy her flowers. And he looked at the therapist and said, To be honest with you, I didn't know she sold flowers. So you've got to have an objective, a goal that's quantifiable. Uh don't say I want to save some money. I want to save some money. That's good. But how do you know when you've met that? You need to say, I want to, this year I want to put $1,000 in my emergency fund. I want to have that established So how am I going to do that? You've got to have smaller incremental measurements by which you know that you're heading in the right direction. And so you might say, well, that means I've got to save $20 out of every check. If I get paid every week, I've got to save $20 out of every check. You can't wait till December and not having done anything about it and say, boy, I want to save $1,000 this year. Well, if you're like most people, you can't just do that in one check. But you probably could if you save $20 out of each check. To get there by the end of the year. But that takes a little a little bit of discipline, which we're going to get to in a few minutes Your goal should be attainable. Um you know, use sound judgment. All of us would like to have a million dollars. Right? My wife says, what can I do for you? And ever since we've been married, she says, What can I do for you? And I said, or she says, What can I get you? And I say a million dollars She says, I'm working on it. So sorry, she's been tracking all the money she saves on on coupons, and so she's working towards her million by saving uh saving money on coupons. But uh I said you know it it's just a joke we would like to have a million dollars in the bank, sure. But that's probably not a good goal for me this year You know, I mean that's not not necessarily what I oughta set as my ambition. Uh it needs to be attainable. Use sound judgment, you know. Um Probably if you're not a weightlifter and you you don't you know do bodybuilding, you probably shouldn't say I want to bench press 300 pounds by the end of the year. It's probably not attainable You need to be practical and realize what is inside your ability. Yes, as a church, we want to see as many people saved as possible. But to set as a goal this year, to win Baltimore to Christ? It's probably not attainable. It's probably not something that that that would be something that would be beyond our means to do. in a significant amount. So if we're going to set some goals as a church, they need to be attainable goals. They need to be goals that we can achieve. I know I imagine all of you have heard you set SMART goals and I've alluded to these things. A SMART goal is a goal that's specific. It's measurable. It's attainable, it's relevant, and it's timed. There's got to meet this goal by this time. Specific, measurable. attainable, relevant, and timed. That's smart, setting a smart goal. So many times your ambition might exceed your ability, and I want you to understand that that's probably good. But you've got to be wise. I think you ought to set three levels of goals. The first level, you ought to have a goal to continue to do something maybe that you're already doing. Maybe you've successfully this year read your Bible every day. God has said as a goal of this year, this coming year, I'm going to continue that It's probably not going to be too hard to do. You've been doing it. You've been able to keep doing it. So it's just a matter of just repurposing and say, I'm going to continue to do what I've been doing. Maybe you've been saving well or maybe you've been dieting well. Maybe Maybe you've been reading well, maybe you've had some areas of victory in your life. I'll just encourage you, keep doing that. Those are pretty easy to do. They bring a sense of victory when you continue to do it, realizing I'm doing this But then you ought to set a goal that takes some effort to reach. A little bit of effort, like a little bit beyond your comfort zone. And then I think everybody ought to set one or two goals a year. That are going to take God to reach. That you need to pray about and say, God, with your strength, with your help, I would love to be able to do this this year. Lord, this is beyond me. But it'll grow your faith. It'll bring you to your knees. It'll strengthen you as a Christian. To have some type of a goal. Maybe you've never won somebody to Jesus Christ in your life. And you look at it and you say, I know God wants me to be a soul winner. I know God wants me to reach people. This is way outside my comfort zone. This is something I've never done before. But God, if you would allow me to, I would love to see somebody saved in the next 12 months. And make it a matter of prayer. Begin looking at it, looking at how how am I going to achieve that? How would God lead me to do that? Set one or two goals that go beyond your ability that dive into the area of faith. So then if you want to set those goals, you need to discipline yourself to reach the goals. Paul said, I keep my body under subjection. And bring, I'm sorry, keep my body, keep under my body. That's what he said. But I keep under my body and bring it into subjection lest any by any means when I have preached to others I myself should be cast away. He says, hey, I realize that I need to control my body. You understand that setting the goal is just the beginning. It's just the first step. You're not going to reach the goals if you don't have them. You're not going to go that direction if you're not aiming that way. But then it takes some discipline. It takes some character. Day by day, week after week, disciplining yourself to continue to reach those goals. There's times when you're not gonna want to do it, when you don't feel like it, when you're tired, when you're hungry and you know you're not supposed to eat, when you want to go waste money and you know you've been trying to save save it. When you're tired and you don't want to read the Bible, but you know you've got to finish those chapters today. When you've committed to pray for the church family and haven't done it yet, and you and there's so many, there's going to come times when it's hard. But discipline is how you continue to reach forth towards that goal. Discipline yourself to reach the goal goals. This is a day-by-day endeavor. Next year seems so far away. And sometimes we feel like, boy, I've got lots of time to reach that goal. But you know as well as I do, just like everyone in this room is shocked that we are already a 2020. You know next year is going to come like that. So we've got to discipline ourselves. Day by day. Now I've asked Anthony Reese, him and his wife set for themselves some goals a couple years ago. Could I get you guys to turn on this other mic for me? Um And I've asked him to come and just give a brief testimony about that. Um, in his life and and what God allowed them to do. So other answers. Thank you, Bess Caleb. So when Chick and I got married in back in 2015, realized we had uh eighty thousand dollars in debt, which now seems like quite a lot, especially for two people. But we may um had some sense back then that, you know, this isn't the way God wanted us to live. And so we just looked to see how much um how long it would take for us to, you know, become debt-free. And we just sort of, you know, kept paying what we were paying and if we kept doing that we would have been debt free next year. But it wasn't until um I think two years ago when church offered the Financial Peace University class Now we decided to take that. We learned a better way to get out of debt. And Tiffany had already heard about Dave Ramsey. And over the years she's told me some things about him, showed me some videos, but it never clicked for me. But once we took the class together, you know, that's when everything started to collect together. And we realized that, you know, we had a goal of getting out of debt, but we didn't have a plan. And if you have a goal with no plan, then what good is that? You know, if you don't ch make a change then nothing if you don't make a change, then nothing is going to change. And so we set a budget, we uh started having monthly budget meetings to make sure that we knew where our money was going next month. Um they weren't every month, but most months we set 'em. And then we start, you know, making sacrifices. We um start eating out less, you know. We um brought our lunches more. We sold some things around the house. Timmy sold some dresses and shoes. Me I sold some video games and consoles. And you know, by the end of all that, you know, we were able to get out of debt last year and so opposed to next year. You understand it takes some sacrifice. It takes some willingness to commit to the plan. And you just say, okay, I'm willing to do it. And here's the plan of how we're going to get there. So I want to strive to get there. And you've got to discipline yourself. It's not going to be easy. You've got to say, okay, I can I can do without that. I'm going to stop going out to eat. I'm going to I'm going to sacrifice right here. But this is our goal and we want to achieve it. And uh you can achieve it And you know as well as I do if you were looking at eighty thousand dollars worth of debt, you'd think this is impossible. And for a lot of people they just think, well it's impossible so why try? And they continue just to live with it And that 80,000 becomes ninety thousand. I met this week with a young man, probably I don't know if if maybe ten years some my my junior some somewhere around there and he had $169,000 in debt. At some point you gotta stop and say, I gotta do something about it. And it's going to take discipline. But you can do it. So I don't know what in your life you need to set, you need to define as a goal, as a direction, but I want to encourage you to do it. And then discipline yourself to And let me give you a couple other thoughts here. Determine not to lose sight of it. Harry, let me get you after Sunday school, okay, so we can keep going. So you want to determine not to lose sight of the goal. Uh you know that if you're going to get to a finish line, you can't lose sight of that. How many how many of you have ever seen a football player in the heat of a moment, jump up, grab the ball, and run to the wrong end zone. I mean uh Especially maybe some of the younger games, you know, the the the peewees and uh those they they they get turned around. They lose sight of the goal that they and they that wasn't their plan, but they ran to the wrong, wrong end zone and everybody's yelling at 'em like, Stop, stop, don't go, you know. But they're so like excited about getting to the goal that they just don't pay attention to get to the goal and they turn around and everybody's oh man he scored for the wrong team. But losing sight of the goal, you've got a purpose to keep it in front of you. If you have a goal, you you need to put it on the refrigerator, put it on your mirror in your bedroom, stick it in your car, put it as your home screen. on your phone, uh, you know, whatever you have to do to get it in front of you to remember what it is. Like they said, they had monthly budget meetings. They had once a month. We're going to stop and sit down and see where we're at. It gives you an opportunity to rejoice about the victory you've achieved thus far. And it it gets you to refocus for the next coming few days, to to r to refocus on what it is that you want to do and accomplish, keeping sight of that goal. Uh in our text verse for our theme this year, he says, I press towards the mark The mark. There's got to be a mark, a goal that you're shooting for and a place that you want to keep that in front of you. Keep it so you don't lose sight of it. Write it down, put it in on your mirror or in a visible place. And then you want to depend on God for the victory. Depend on God for the victory. Philippians tells us, I can do all things through Christ, which strengthens me. God will strengthen you. Will you depend on him for the victory? Pray to him, seek his help, and continue to follow through with that goal. You know, sometimes God can just do it for you. But most of the time, God wants to help you do it. He wants to walk with you as you You know that God could have took the children of Israel when they got out of Egypt and he could have said, Okay, I'm gonna take the promised land where I've got you guys going to I'm gonna just wipe everybody out. He could have had a a hurricane or a storm come through, or he could have uh hail storms. He could have done anything and everybody in the prom he they could have come to an empty promised land. They could have walked in And just been there, and God could have done it that way. But God says, No. I'm going to be with you. I'm going to fight alongside you. I'm going to lead you. And I'm going to give you the victory. But you've got to pick up a sword. You've got to go into battle. You've got to discipline yourself. And uh sometimes God gives the victory just outright, but most of the time God wants us to pray, to seek him, and to do our part, to push forward. So we need to depend on him for the victory. You you've heard the saying, you know, you work like it all depends on you and pray like it all depends on God. God. You wanna you wanna do that? There's an old poem titled of The Wasted Years. I look upon a farm one day that once I used to own. The barn had fallen to the ground, the fields were overgrown. The house in which my children grew, where we had lived for years, I turned to see it broken down, and brushed aside the tears. I looked upon my soul one day to find it too had grown. With thorns and nettles everywhere, the seeds of neglect had been sown. The years had passed while I had cared for the things of lesser worth. The things of heaven I let go while minding these things here on earth. To Christ I turned with bitter tears, and I cried, O Lord, forgive. I haven't much time left for thee, not many years left to live. The wasted years are forever gone, the days I cannot recall. If I could live those days again, I would make him Lord of all What I'm telling you this morning is I don't want you to get to December and look back on this year and say, I could have done so much this year. I could have made so much progress. I could have made such a big difference if I would have just set out to do so So I want to encourage you this morning, whatever you want to call it, get some ambition in your heart, some direction for your life, and seek God to help you get there. So that this year Year is not another one where you might regret it, but a year of victory as a believer. Let me close in prayer. Lord, we thank you for this Sunday school hour. I pray God that you would help us as individuals. to seek you, to ask you what our goals should be, what ambitions we should have, what desires you would have us achieve this year. year and Lord may we purpose to achieve them. May we make a covenant with you. May we set some goals and some discipline in our lives to achieve those goals. May we have a great year of victory as individuals. And Lord, as we started out, understand That if just one or two of the people in this room purposed in their heart, made a covenant with you to follow after you with all their soul, And you sparked a revival in them that, Lord, it would impact this church. And if a whole group of us got that way, Lord, there's no telling what you might do. Lord, we look to you to do great and mighty things in our We ask you to give us a vision and allow us to push for it. Amen