If you would please take your Bibles, open it up to Proverbs chapter 3. Proverbs chapter 3. And if you have a bookmark, put that there. And then open your Bibles also to Psalm chapter number 37. So Proverbs 3, Psalm chapter number 37. We have two text verses. They're common verses. We could probably all quote them. But I hope that tonight I can give you a thought out of these two verses that will encourage you. And uh it'll exhort you and um I just pray that it'll be used. But uh just a little bit by way of personal testimony from camp. Um as Pastor Derek said, I was a junior counselor, and Boy, that was a ride. It was a it was honestly a ton of fun. But being a junior counselor means that uh I had twelve boys from the ages of eight to twelve. And um God truly is God of miracles. I lived, and so did all they As far as I know, all of them returned home to mommy uh relatively unscathed, but um being a junior counselor it was it was a lot of fun because uh Uh a lot all the other junior counselors except for two of them were pretty much our age. Um Jackson, uh uh Katie, uh John Batrell, you all know him, and a couple others, but it was it was a lot of fun getting to serve with other people who were my age. That was that was just a blessing. And then uh and also two of the campers from my cabin, two of those twelve, got saved this week. And if I was let out to Hunt Valley for nothing else than that, that would be worth it. And so it was it was a blessing in my heart. But uh I I really enjoyed camp. I'm trying to figure out Maybe uh when the dates are for next year after all, it's only about nine hundred miles away, and then I can come through and visit here, but we'll see how it goes. But Tonight I'd just like to preach this very simple message to you. It's not going to be a profound thought. It's not going to be this deep theological but Pastor Derek approached us on Friday after we got back from camp about preaching tonight for this recap service. And uh I really liked the idea. He said to kind of stay along the theme of camp, don't go and preach a dissertation on the Lord's Supper or anything crazy. But uh he he told us to keep it along the lines of camp. And uh I got to thinking about it, and the thing that kind of popped into my head was the little camp booklet that that you'll see, I'm sure some Some people up here might still have, but uh every year at camp they give out this little booklet. It's just a place to take notes, to put the rules in. And at the back of that booklet, there's always some empty pages to collect signatures. And they have these things that at every youth rally I've ever gone to. I didn't get a chance to collect any signatures this year because again I was babysitting twelve twelve year olds. But I did get to sign a few other people's books. And whenever I signed those people's books Almost without fail, I'll always put down Proverbs 3, 5, and 6. Just that reference. And we can probably all say it, but let's go ahead and look at it in our Bibles right here. Proverbs 3, 5, and 6. The Bible says, trust in the Lord with all thine heart. And lean not unto thine own understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths. And then put that reference in there because hopefully it will be an encouragement to the person that that reads it. See that script for reference and chances are they probably already know it. But it does bring it to memory and just remind them to trust in the Lord. To acknowledge him in all their ways and all their path and he'll direct them But also it it kind of does this thing of keeping me accountable because they see my name associated with that verse right under and they they kind of look at me and they say, Oh, is he? Is he doing that? But that's the thoughts that I'd like to share with you tonight. I mean camp, it is a wonderful thing, and I can tell it's a special thing to this church because even two years prior, when I first met Alicia and John Betrell, I heard about Mount Zion Baptist Camp. I I I knew about it from them long before I ever came here and got to go. And it is such a special time, but it's a special time not just because of the fun, but because it's a time when God gets to really work in our hearts and in our lives. And if you've made a decision this week, praise God, I'm glad that you made a decision this week. And that decision is probably going to be to maybe get rid of some things. Maybe to start picking up some things, whether it's Bible reading, whether it's telling others about Jesus, whatever. Maybe it's music, like Joshua said, whatever it is. There's going to be a way to go about that. And you can do it your way, or you can do it God's way. Your way or God's way. That's the title of our message this evening. Let's go ahead and have a word of prayer before we get in. Heavenly Father, Lord, I thank you for this night. I thank you, God, for everybody that was able to be here. I thank you once again for this week of camp. And Lord for the decisions that were made. I thank you, Lord, for my two campers that have a home in heaven because they've realized their need of you. I pray, Jesus, that all the uh decisions that were made this week for that you would help them to stick, because I pray that you would help everyone that made a decision to do it your way. And not their way. I pray, Lord, that you would just help us to be filled with the Spirit, even now that camp is over. And uh Lord, I pray that anytime that your Bible is open, if there's a decision, decision made, Lord, that we would treat it with the respect that it needs and Lord that we would do things your way instead of our own way. Because Lord that's what you will bless. I pray, Lord, that you would give us a good evening and please help me as I preach. Give me only the words to say that would be needful here, Lord. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Now as I said, this isn't going to be a a deep thought. I mean you can tell from the title Your Way or God's Way. It's pretty simple. It's almost kind of vague. But I'd like to give you three short points When we're talking about doing things God's way, that hopefully we'll be able to point you in the right direction, unless you give you some scripture that goes along with them, because I believe that this is a point that needs to be preached on because as we go out, whether it's two camp or whether it's just a church on a Sunday night, a Thursday night, Sunday morning, God's word is going to go out. And if you're willing and accepting to God's word, it's going to come into your heart, and God has promised that His Word won't return void. And if you're willing to let it change you, it will. Because God's word is powerful. But the thing is, if you're going to have a change in your life that lasts, you need to go about it God's way. There are a lot of things that we can do our own way. Have you made a decision to maybe get something out of your life You can try to fight and you can try to battle in your flesh, but you're going to fail every time. And so the first point I'd like to see tonight as we look at this idea of your way or God's way is that number one, you need to get help. Yeah. You need to get help. Now if you're a note taker, that's point number one, point letter A underneath that is because you're vulnerable right now. You need to get help because you're vulnerable. I I love camp. I always have loved camp and power to use anything where we get to go and we get to have preaching after preaching. And I had even told my junior boys this. that it's a special time because you come to church and you hear a sermon and that's wonderful, but maybe the Spirit of God is trying to prick your heart with something. But we go out through the week and we just build up this callus on our heart, especially if your walk with the Lord daily isn't isn't right. If you're just getting your preaching in your Bible on Sunday, Thursday. Then you're gonna build up this hard, callous heart. And when you come into church and you hear a message preached, the sword of the spirit's only gonna get a glancing blow off your heart. And you can kind of just shrug it off. You can resist what the Lord wants you to do with because it's just that one time. You can go about your week, you can rebuild up that callus, ready to take on the Word of God next week. But when you go to camp, this is what I told my junior boys, you're getting preached at cabin devotions, and then there's a chapel service, and then there's another chapel service, and then you have a cabin short talk four times a day. Boom, boom, boom. Boom, boom, all week. And the word and the sword of the spirit, the word of God, is able to get in and it's able to break up the hard heart and it's able to uncover some good ground that maybe is laying dormant for who knows how long. In some of our cases years Because you're getting preached at and preached at and the Holy Spirit of God. You can't run from them forever. But I'd like to say that you're vulnerable right now because Campbell's you just experienced that. And I won't lie, I mean you go to camp and emotions do tend to run high at camp. We're tired and you're getting preached at and I've seen tears and I've I've shed tears myself and Maybe sometimes there's decisions that are made based on emotion, but that's God's Holy Spirit coming in and convicting you. And if you go it through that whole time and you make a decision and you're on this spiritual high and you come back home all too often, then that's the time when you start to settle into old habits. And you start to forget the decisions that you made. And you've all heard this before. I know you've all heard this before, because this is something that's so very important But when you come back home and you start to settle in those old habits and and that's one thing I really like this service for is because it brings camp here. It brings you before your church members so that you can give some help. Even if it is just they hear you give a testimony and maybe in a few weeks they'll ask you, hey, how are you doing? But you get that help that you need because you're vulnerable right now. The devil's going to try to attack you. If you do stumble and you do fall and you do go against maybe one of those decisions that you made, the devil will bring up discouragement He's gonna bring out despair. He's gonna he's gonna show you he's gonna say that you're a failure. You're vulnerable right now. The second thing I'd like you see under this point of you need help, you need to get help, is because we were never meant to handle things on our own. We never were. I praise God that I uh Jesus is my Savior. And with Jesus I have enough. He is my peace, he is my comfort. With him I have all that I need. But in his grace, in his mercy, he has put people in my life that, as Hebrews chapter 13, says, watch for my soul As they that must give account. And I can tell you that each one of you here, I know a lot of your parents, but at the very least I know your pastor and his wife, and I can say that there are people who watch for your souls. And they want to see you succeed. They don't want to see you struggle. But our problem is that maybe we did make a decision at camp. Maybe we went to an invitation, maybe we signed a decision card. But the thing is we come back and our pride won't let us go and actually seek help from those that seek to help us. I can't tell you the amount of times I've gone up at an invitation and I've made some sort of promise or commitment to God, and because of my haughtiness and my pride I haven't gone to anybody and told them about it. And in a matter of just a few weeks I go back on that commitment and that same cycle I just told you about of of making the decision and getting things right and then failing and then falling in and having to carry the burden of not only my sin But of the failure to keep my commitment to God, I couldn't tell you about it. Your flesh will always tell you that you're strong enough. And and this doesn't apply just to bad things. This doesn't apply just to sin. This applies also to good things. Maybe it is going out and being a witness more. Maybe it is going out and handing out more tracks. If you don't get the help that you need, I mean we're all young There are some things that we just don't know how to do, myself included. And so you can go to somebody who's older, you can ask them, get some advice from them, and then say, I want to try to hand out five tracks this week. Can you ask me on Sunday how I did We were never meant to handle things on our own. If you would please turn with me over to James, chapter number five James chapter five, verse number sixteen, it says this in the way of we were never meant to handle things on our own. Confess your faults one to another and pray one for another that you may be healed. The effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. Here we see that we ought to confess our faults one to another. If you turn back just a couple books over to Galatians, I'd like to see one more thing before we move on. Because in Galatians chapter six The Bible says in verses 1 through 3, Brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fault, ye which are spiritual, restore such an one in the spirit of meekness, considering thyself, lest thou also be tempted Bear ye one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ. And here's the verse I really want you to pay attention to. For if a man think himself to be something when he is nothing, he deceiveth himself. If a man think himself to be something when he is nothing, he deceiveth himself. You can't handle it on your own, Christian. But God never intended for you to. And if you see yourself as more than what you are, just a sinner in need of grace, you need to go to somebody, even if it's just a friend. And friends, I would encourage you, go together and read Proverbs chapter 27. And that'll show you what you can do for your friends. The third thing I'd like you to see in the way of pri uh in the way of uh you need to get help is that pride will always get in the way of victory. There are some decisions that the Lord will place on our hearts, and we'll go up to the altar. And sometimes what decision we make, it's hard to admit, and that's why we don't go forward. Because there are some things that we have to get right that, let's just admit it are embarrassing. Whether it's a sin, whether it whether it's a a lack of being able to do something, whether you can't get up and read your Bible in the morning, sometimes it's embarrassing But I would say this: not going forward and not talking to someone because of pride will always get in the way of you having victory. Because when you say, I can overcome it in my flesh, your flesh is only as strong as you are on your weakest day. But when you go forward and you pray for God's help to go to somebody and ask them for help, then they can keep you accountable and they can help you along. But sometimes our pride will get in the way of victory. The second thing I'd like you to see tonight, our second main point. First of all, you need to get help. Second of all, don't compromise. Don't compromise. Turn back to James just one more time this evening. James chapter one. I'd like you to see that you got to the place that you were in by compromising You know, I I I was it it blessed my heart because I went up to a lot of the teenagers after camp was over. I just asked them, you know, was there a message that spoke to your heart, you know, something that something that God laid on your heart? And almost every one of them told me about the same message. So forgive me, I wasn't in their teens if I if I just kind of reiterate his point. But the preacher talks about tying some knots in your life, some things that you will not do. But the thing is, as time goes on and you maybe succumb to a temptation or or or whatever it may be, those knots start to loosen up. And and what I gathered was that the preacher was talking about just re-tightening those knots, getting some things taken care of. And I want you to see that if you compromise with the decisions you've made this year at camp You're gonna end up right back where you were, the place before you made the decision. Don't compromise. James chapter one, verse seventeen says this. Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, and cometh down from the Father of lights, with whom is no variabless, neither shadow of turning. And you might ask why I took you to this verse. Well, it's because in talking about compromise, we're supposed to emulate Christ. We're supposed to be godlike. And this here is an attribute of God, with whom is no variableness, neither shadow of turning. We're not supposed to compromise because our God doesn't. With him there is black and white. There is no gray, and if you see gray, it's because you're inserting your own opinion. There is no variableness nor shadow of turning. And to think that you can go ahead and get away with a little bit of something, whether or you can get away with one one week where maybe you you skip reading your Bible. Or or one day where you listen to the music that you truly enjoy. Or or or maybe you you go and you you say, I don't need to hand it track to that person, I'm busy. Whatever your decision is that you made, you know it in your heart But don't compromise on it because our God doesn't. Proverbs twenty seven, verse number twenty says that the eyes of man are never satisfied. So if the decision you made has to do with sin And you think, well, as long as I'm better than I was before camp, you're lying to yourself. The eyes of man are never satisfied. The lusts of our flesh are never satisfied. And when you give in a little bit It starts to want a lot. Don't compromise. Moving along quickly tonight. I would just like to say, thirdly and lastly, you need to rest on the promise of God. Rest on the promise of God. Going back to our uh our text verse over in Proverbs chapter number three. The end of verse number six, or verse number six, is really why I titled this Your Way or God's Way. Because verse number six says, In all thy ways, acknowledge him, and what? He shall direct thy paths. If you go about taking care of the decisions you made at camp your way, where you don't go to somebody or you say, No, I can handle this. Your flesh will never ever succeed in getting victory over the flesh. You can't trust the enemy to fight the enemy. But I'd like you to see one thing. I don't have any specific instant or Bible passage that we would turn to right now. But if you think back with me to uh when God was bringing the Israelites out of the land of Egypt, there were many occasions where he caused their enemies to defeat themselves. I think uh of with with Gideon, with the Syrians, uh many many occasions where their enemies defeated themselves, but that doesn't come with our flesh defeating itself. That comes with God's help, defeating our flesh. We need to go about things God's ways, in our ways, acknowledging Him. In Psalm 37, 5. The Bible says, commit thy way unto the Lord. Trust also in him, and he shall bring it to pass. When we talk about doing things God's way or your way, Now that you're home, now that you're here, back at the place where these decisions need to where the rubber needs to meet the road, you have a choice to make. God's way or your way. And if your desire is to please the Lord, then your desire should be to do things his way.