We're going to deal this morning with uh the title of my message is your daily workout. Oh, Pastor. We don't want to go there. Uh you know, this is the beginning of the year and uh I know some of you have ambitious goals about what you would like to accomplish the year. At least I hope you have some goals about what you would like to accomplish over the next twelve months and This morning's message is going to talk about the Christian and our daily workout. Philippians chapter number two, verses twelve through eighteen. Follow along with me if you would, and as I read this passage of Scripture. Philippians two verse twelve to eighteen. Wherefore, my beloved, as ye have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence. Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. For it is God which worketh in you both to will and to do his good pleasure Do all things without murmurings and disputings, that ye may be blameless and harmless, the sons of God, without rebuke. in the midst of a crooked and perverse nation, among whom ye shine as lights in the world, holding forth the word of life that I may rejoice in the day of Christ That I have not run in vain, neither labored in vain. Yea, and if I be offered upon the sacrifice and service of your faith, I joy and rejoice with you all. For this, for the same cause also do ye joy and rejoice with me. A young college student was asked If he was looking for work. And after a few moments of thought he turned and he said, No, but I could use a job. And uh sadly that is the mindset of many of the young today. Yeah, I don't think it's maybe necessarily a problem that is exclusively uh to the youth of today, and maybe it's been that way for a long time, but people who are certainly looking for a job Yeah, I would like to have a place that would give me a paycheck, that would give me vacation time and let me take sick days and personal days and and and off for all sorts of things, but a place to work No, I don't sure by that that's what I want. People aren't really looking for a place to work today, they're just looking for a place to get a check Can I get a witness? Is there anybody here? Can you hear me? I mean that just seems like that's the way it is. I mean, they want to go to work and tell their boss what they'll do and what they won't do. You know, more than once in my life when I was a kid my dad told me, hey, if you want a job, go down there and tell them you work for free. If you work hard enough, after a week they'll say, uh, hey, we want to keep you around. But see people don't wanna don't wanna work. They just want a place to get a check. And I I was talking to one of the youth this week and I says I was talking to them about working their job and I says, you do what's necessary. You realize your uh your Job at your job is to please the boss, is to make the boss happy, to do what the boss wants you to do That means if today you happen to be in the air conditioning and you were filling out papers and tomorrow you show up for work and they say, we need you to shovel gravel out back. You don't say what? That's not what I signed up for. It doesn't matter what you signed up for. It doesn't matter what your job title is when the boss says this is what I want you to do You say, okay, it doesn't matter what you're doing, you're paid to do a job the boss asks you to do. I don't know where all this came from because this is supposed to be a quick illustration talking about the Christian life But that's a mindset of too many people today. They just want to get paid for nothing. Instead of just work and do what's required. We have the same problem in Christianity. People want the title of Christian. They don't want to be a Christian. Come on. We have politicians that stand up on the news and say, I'm a Christian. And then we find out they're an adulterer. We find out they got arrested for a DUI. We find out they've been embezzling money from the government. They want the title, they want the name of a Christian, but they don't want to live like one. Come on now, we we this is a problem today. This by the scripture says, work out your own salvation Listen, let me just throw this out here. This is not talking about working for your salvation. Jesus Christ paid that debt in full, and all we have to do is accept it. For by grace are you saved through faith. And that not of yourselves, it's a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. Jesus Christ paid my debt in full, and I possess salvation because I've trusted him as my Lord and Savior. He's forgiven me, and I'm on my way to heaven. But just he tells us here to work out your salvation, what the Apostle Paul is saying is, hey, you're a Christian, act like it. That's what he's saying. In this text, we have hope for all. We have help for all. And we have work for all to do. There's hope for all because God's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believed in him should not perish but have everlasting life. He came to seek and to save that which was lost. God wants to save you today. There's hope for all. There's help for all too. And here he says that it's God that worketh in you both to will and to do his good pleasure. There's help for you as a believer. But there's work for you as a believer too. You've got to work out your salvation. Work out your salvation. Paul realized that being a Christian was going to take some work It was going to take a little effort. It wasn't just going to happen. It's not just a name. It's not just a title. I hope that you understand this text a little bit better at the conclusion of this message, and I hope you're challenged as a believer. To live it. First of all, let me give you here, we see the exhortation to work. The exhortation to work. He says, wherefore, my beloved. As ye have always obeyed, not as much in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, work out your own salvation. You know what the Apostle Paul was saying? He says, hey, I can't be there right now to tell you exactly what God would want you to do in every situation that you're going to face. But you're a Christian. You have the Spirit of God, and He worketh in you both to will and to do His good pleasure. Don't claim ignorance and live like the devil. You're a Christian. I can't be there right now. You need to work it out for yourself. Does that make sense? Makes sense what the Apostle Paul was telling them, you need to be a Christian, you need to act like a Christian, live like a Christian, be what God wants you to be, whether Dad is standing over your shoulder or not. Amen. Whether the pastor is there or not. Listen, you don't have to please me. It it it cracks me up when I go visit somebody and they take the beer cannon. God's there. Yeah. God saw it. God saw what you've been doing, you know? There's a cigarette. Oh, pastors here. And they put it behind her. Listen. If the Holy Spirit can use me to help you take a step in your life, praise the Lord. But listen, I'm not judging you. I want to encourage you and exhort you to do what God wants you to do. You've got to please God, not me. We're Christians. Doesn't matter whether the pastor is there or or or another brother or sister in Christ is there. You're supposed to work out your own salvation. Work out. This salvation carries with it the idea of continually, continually working. I saw this week a story of a man who was over 400 pounds He saw another man who was over a large number that ran a half marathon. And he was motivated. This man's name was Vance. And he said, I'm going to do this. So he got up the next day, not I'm going to run a half marathon. He purposed in his heart to lose weight. He says, I'm going to lose weight. I've let myself go. I I'm 475 pounds. So what he weighed. So he told all of his family and friends that he was going to lose weight, that he was going to exercise. And he made a little video and posted it online. I'm telling the whole world I'm gonna I'm gonna lose weight. And he began to work out what he could at 475 pounds. He began to work out every day. At the end of a week, he weighed himself again And he had gained three pounds. You talk about discouragement. Listen, this is what's going to happen when you purpose in your heart to do right for God. You're going to take a step forward for God and say, Man, praise the Lord. I'm going to do this. I'm going to go. I'm going to be this for God. I'm going to take this step for God. And I guarantee you, right up front, right out of the gate, the devil's going to come and throw something in your path. He second week he stood on the scale and weighed himself. He gained three pounds. He's like, that's not the direction I was supposed to be going, but he didn't get dis he didn't get discouraged or at least he didn't quit. He continued to work out every day. He got off his couch and purposed to exercise week after week after week. After the first week he had dropped ten pounds. Not giving up, he worked out six to seven days a week, every week. He would go to a local park and walk. The first time he went to the park, there was a little trail there at the park that was just a couple miles long. And he couldn't even make it through the trail without stopping and resting the first time. He was doing this trail for a period of time before he could even make it. It was a victorious day the first day he made it that couple mile walk without having to rest. Well, he's kind of posting his progress online and people started showing up at the park to encourage him. First just one or two, then ten, then fifteen, then twenty, and thirty people would show up every day to walk with him and encourage him on his journey of losing weight. You know what, believers, that's what we're supposed to do to one another spiritually There's supposed to be some people coming alongside those that might be struggling and helping them along, encouraging them. There's times advance felt like quitting There's times that Vance didn't want to keep losing weight, that the workout was too hard. He talked about how his knees ached. They just hurt so bad from carrying that weight around. From trying to exercise every day, but he was encouraged by those people that came and stood beside him. And let me challenge you, brethren, that you need to stand up for somebody, stand with somebody, encourage somebody to keep going for God. That's what we need to be doing. Vance kept going. At the end of one year. 365 days later, he got on the scale, having been 475 pounds at the first of the year. He had dropped 198 pounds. One hundred and ninety-eight pounds. Because he decided that he was going to daily work out. That's in the physical realm. What I'm talking is what could you do spiritually if you decided this year you were gonna daily work out? If you were gonna daily get in the Word of God, if you were gonna daily search the scriptures Daily workout. You see, Vance got on a scale and he began to work and he didn't see much progress. It actually looked like he was going backwards. You know what that's what it's going to be like with you spiritually? When you start studying, you start reading the Bible, you're going to say, This isn't doing me any good. You're going to spend a little time and day after day you're spending a little time and you're going to feel like there there's no progress. Nothing's being done. But you don't understand what will happen if you to purpose in your heart to daily work out as a believer at the end of one year, the difference that will be in your life spiritually. I don't think that you can even comprehend what God could do in your heart if you purpose to work out daily. Paul was saying, I'm not there to hold you your hand. I'm absent. But that doesn't mean you have to not be obedient to God. You still have to work out as a Christian. I think of it like this, something like You know when I got married? We stood at the altar and we exchanged rings and we exchanged vows and I was married. We left that night a married husband and wife. But do you know what? Marriage takes work. I possess a ring. I possess a marriage certificate and I know that I'm married. But do you know if I want to stay married? That it takes work. If I want to be happily married, it takes work. I've got to invest some time and some effort and there's some things I used to do that I don't do anymore. There's some places I used to go. You know, I used to sit in the lunchroom at college with all the girls. I enjoyed their company. I would sit at the table with all them. You know, after I got married, I went back to college and my wife was at home. You know when I went back to college the first day, I got my lunch pill or my lunch tray. And I went into the dining room and I sat down at the table with all the girls. And immediately my mind went, You're married. You cannot be sitting at this table. And I got up and I said, I gotta go. Sorry. Uh and I went to another table. In the last two years of college, I didn't when I ate lunch at school, I didn't I didn't sit with the girls Some of you married people, you need to stop interacting on Facebook with old people from your life. You say, oh, uh they're just a friend. You want to stay married? You know how many divorces in the last year Facebook was listed as one of the causes I'm just trying to help you. You want to stay married? You need to decide that she's worth more than keeping in touch with somebody you haven't seen in 20 years. Or five years or however long it's been. And it it we're gonna move on. You gotta work at it. If you want to be happily married, it takes work. You know, if you want to be a happy Christian, it takes work. You are a Christian, you possess salvation because Jesus Christ has forgiven you of your sins You're on your way to heaven, but if you want to be a happy Christian, it takes work. Now, praise God, you cannot lose your salvation Once you're saved, you're always saved. You're born into the family of God, you can't be unborn. You become a child of God by trusting Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior. You can't lose that. But you can lose your joy. You can lose the thrill of being a Christian. And you lose your testimony. There's no question that I'm married. But there's many people that there's no question they're married and they do not enjoy it. They don't enjoy their marriage. You know why? It's because they stopped putting work into it. When you were dating, you spent time and effort and energy working at that relationship. You thought about what you could do to make her happy? How long has it been since that happened? Now you just wonder what she can do to make you happy. That's the problem. You both need to start looking at it's getting awful quiet in here, except Brother Greg who's who's helping me out This is not even in my message. This was a little illustration, but this is something that we need because the devil's attacking our homes today. We're looking at what the other person can do for us. If we got back to what it was like when we were dating to think about her and think about him and say what would he like, what would she like? That that downhill thing that you're on right now that your relationship's getting worse and worse, you can turn that around and your relationship would be getting better and better You say, man, this is fun. Boy, it's great being married. Hallelujah. Boy, look, God gave me the best woman in the world. This is awesome. Boy, I wouldn't trade this for nothing instead of being miserable. Just put a little work into it. And the same thing as believers, as a Christian, there's so many people they possess salvation, but how long has it been since they've had any joy in Jesus? Because they've stopped working at it. One could think of it like this. I just want to drive home the point that you're not working for salvation. What you're doing is working for the joy, for the testimony, for what God wants you to be. Once you're saved, you're always saved You could think about it like this. Brother Garland had a knee replaced. How many of you have had a knee replaced? Anybody else in here had a knee replaced? There's several of you. You know when you have a knee replaced? What they tell you to do is to go home and just sit down. Don't get on that knee. Don't use it, right? Don't don't we don't want you walking anymore. Did they tell you that? No, they send a physical therapist over there to kill you. Brother Garland said, man, that guy comes in here and likes to kill me I mean he's pushing my leg and he's working my leg. Hey, he has the knee already. What are they doing that for? I already got my knee replaced. Why are you doing that? Why are you pushing me like that? Why are you working me so hard? It's that physical therapy. that gives you the use of that leg, that gives you your strength back, that gets you to the place where you can enjoy having that knee replaced. Right. And as Christians, you already possess salvation, but it's that physical therapy, it's that spiritual workout that makes it so you can enjoy it. So you can enjoy it, so that you can get used out of it. Literally, Paul is saying, don't take lightly the responsibility you have to live your life as a Christian. We are stricken today with the attitude by so many that their Christianity is not serious, it's not part of their life, they could take it or leave it. For many, the miracle of salvation doesn't even register in their mind the fact that Jesus Christ came to save them, forgave them of their sin. Is going to take them to heaven, send a comforter to dwell in them and to be with them day by day. That doesn't even register the miraculous things that God does for us hour by hour. We need to be serious as Christians. To live obedient to God, to work out your salvation. Now the exciting thing is, is not only is there an exhortation to work out, but there's also an enabling to work, unenabling to work. Look in verse number 13. He says, For it is God which worketh in you, both to will and to do his good pleasure. God worketh in you both to will and to do his good pleasure. He works his will in you and he gives you the ability to do it Inwardly, God gives you the right kind of a will. He works his will inside your heart and in your life, gives you a desire to do what God would want you to do. to do. He works his will. And then outwardly he enables you, strengthens you to be able to do what God wants you to do. God is working in you. Don't say, oh, I would do that except I'm weak, except I'm feeble as a Christian because God is your helper. God is your helper. In fact, in our text here, we have we see in the Greek the word works is translated from the word. We also get the word energy. From energy. I know some of you older, uh more mature uh members of the congregation today, you we've all looked at the younger kids and we thought, man, it'd be nice to have some of their energy. They just they just run, they just go, they just don't stop. It's like, boy, it'd be nice to have some of that energy. God energizes us. To do what he wants us to do. Yes, God's called us to work out as believers, to work as Christians, but then he energizes us to be able to do it. I have had the privilege of seeing this in my own life. Times where I was so weary, so incapable of doing what I thought God wanted me to do, yet God miraculously energized me to be able to accomplish it. Over and over again, if you are yielded to God, you'll see this in your own life. Times where you say, I just don't feel like doing it, and you go and do it, and God enables you. To do what he wants you to do. I believe this informs us that all we do, good and for God is from him. The will to do it is from him, and the enabling to do it is from him. It is God who takes good pleasure in believers, following and completing his will. Doing what God wants you to do. I want you to see the effect of working. In verse 14, 15, and 16, he says, Do all things without murmuring and disputing. That ye may be blameless and harmless, the sons of God, without rebuke, in the midst of a crooked and perverse nation, among whom ye shine as lights in the world Do all things without murmuring and disputing. Unity in the local church contributes to the progress of God by grumbling and complaining and quarreling contributes to the progress. To the halting of God's work. Murmuring is literally just complaining. Usually involves complaining against others. But it might involve complaining about what God has done, your lot in life, where you are, what you feel you deserve or didn't receive. Shall we receive good at the hand of God, and shall we not also receive evil? We ought to be content with such things as we have. Godliness with contentment is great gain. Grumblings and complainings. When we work out our salvation, when you work as God wants you to work for to be a Christian, to live like He wants you to uh you'll do it without murmurings. The murmurings will go by the wayside. Recognizing what God has done Such an attitude of murmuring is an attitude of the mind that implies too little trust in the divine goodness of your heavenly. Heavenly Father. Disputings. Disputings is a is arguments. Working together in harmony requires maturity. I know you've all listened to kids argue about the dumbest little thing, right? Kids. Put that there. No, I putting it there. Yeah, you gotta put that there. I'm not gonna put it there. Who are you? I mean it doesn't matter what it is. Kids can argue about anything. Some kids would argue with a rock. I mean, they just argue. A sign of maturity is when you get past that. As they start to get older, they stop arguing about all that dumb little stuff, right? A sign of a mature Christian is somebody that's gotten past that little stuff. We're not arguing. We're not complaining. We're not disputing over this and that. We've had pure motives. He says here without rebuke. Literally that means unblemished in the sight of God. You know, there's times that my kids deserve a rebuke. You know, they've done that which they shouldn't do. It's very rare. But on occasion they deserve a rebuke. But I'm trying to get you to see here what the scripture is talking about. Without rebuke means your heavenly father looks down at you and at this moment he's pleased. There's nothing between you You and God. There's nothing that if you went to God and said, Show me, Lord, if there be any wicked way in me, he would say, You're without rebuke. That's the sign of a mature believer, amen. Wouldn't it be nice to live before God like that? Or your heavenly father would say If Satan came and accused you like he did Job, God would say, no, he's an upright man and he eschews evil. Would God say that about you? Are you living without rebuke? Not before pastor, but before God. That's the sign of a mature believer. And that's what happens when we're working out our salvation. We're gaining strength. We're becoming stronger as a Christian. We're living like God wants us to live. And we become mature believers. And the exciting thing here is it says that ye shall shine as light in the world. You'll shine as a light. That's what Christians are supposed to do. But you know, in order to shine as a light, I have to live like a Christian. I have to act like a Christian, not just on Sunday morning when I come into God's house, but on Monday when I go to work, and on Tuesday, and on Wednesday, and on Thursday. It has to be a way of life for me that I'm Striving to honor and please God. Just like we say in our welcome video, God is not as concerned with where you're at as He is with the direction that you're headed Every one of us have ended up in a place where we weren't pleased with where we were, where we weren't happy with what we were doing, but we don't have to stay there. We can head towards God And you can day by day say, Listen, I've messed up or I haven't pleased God today, or I didn't do what I should, but I'm going to go towards God I'm going to try and please God today. I'm going to please God today. Each day, and this is the start of a new year, where you can daily work out and purpose in your heart to pursue God and to live daily pleasing to your Heavenly Father that ye may shine You know most of the light that is visible to you right now? Is not given directly from the sun or from the lights that are overhead. You know the majority of the light that your eyes is taking in is a reflection and a refraction off of the light-colored surfaces. A lot of if if this stage was all flat matte black, a lot of the light that you see would be absorbed. It'd be gone. It'd be a lot darker in here. Am I making sense? Anybody else? What you're seeing is the reflection of the light. That's why you paint your rooms a light color. That way it brings out the light, makes it a brighter room, makes it feel bigger, more open. That's what we're supposed to be as Christians A reflection of the light. We are not that light. But we're a reflection of the light. Do you know how bright the world would be right now? Do you know Christianity? If you take everything that this world calls Christianity and you said the Christianity is the largest religion in the world, there is, according to the Census Bureau, 2. 3 billion Christians in the world. 237 million Christians in the United States. Do you know that if every one of those Christians was actually reflecting the light, it would be something that this world couldn't get away from? The light of Jesus Christ would be shining so bright in the world today, it'd be something that people couldn't escape. The problem is if we've got too many people claiming I'm a Christian But their light doesn't shine. They don't live like it. They're not working out daily their salvation. They're saved and they're on their way to heaven and they know Jesus as their Lord and Savior, I hope. But that's just the beginning We are supposed to be daily working out, getting stronger, becoming more of what God wants us to be. Amen? And that ye may shine as a light. That's what happens. When we're working out our salvation, the light starts to shine. Amen. The Apostle Paul is the example of somebody working. Now, ultimately, we know Jesus Christ is the ultimate example. But the Apostle Paul sets an example for us that we can follow. In verse number 17 and 18, he says, Yea, and if I be offered upon the sacrifice, And service of your faith. He says, if I'm offered up, he's in jail right now. Writing this, he said, if I'm offered up as a sacrifice, In service of your faith. He says, I joy. I rejoice. I joy and rejoice with you all. And he says, For the same cause also do ye joy and rejoice with me. Holding forth the word of life, that I may rejoice in the day of Christ, that I have not run in vain, neither labored in vain. He says, listen, if I'm offered up on the altar of sacrifice and my life is given in service of your faith, and you work out your own salvation, When I'm in heaven, I'll have known I haven't run in vain and I haven't labored in vain. Because you are continuing on. For God. And if you want to have the same joy also, you need to do the same. That example is set for us. He was willing to stay in prison, to be offered as a sacrifice. He was willing to give his life for the good of others. Paul's prophet was the prophet. Product Souls of men, the surrender of the saints, those willing to work out their own salvation Salvation. The exhortation to work. As we're starting a new year, I'm just challenging you. Work out every day. Listen, physically, it might do us some good to do a little working working out now and then. That's not what I'm dealing with this morning. I'm talking about spiritually. It is vital as a Christian That you work out every day. And you'll be shocked at the end of the year what progress you've been able to make.