Turn your Bibles to Deuteronomy chapter number 17 this morning. Deuteronomy chapter 17. I've had several people comment on the plethora of Bibles that are in front of me here this morning. We're going to teach this morning's Sunday school is going to be on your personal Bible. Your personal Bible. And uh I've brought these here for illustration purposes and to To show you a few things in a practical sense. As I've said, the first few lessons of this year are just going to be very practical, down-to-earth things to try and help you, give you some guidance. in your life as a Christian. And uh so here we're going to look at Deuteronomy chapter 17. You can look down at verse number 18 and follow along as I read through to verse number 20 as we look at this topic of your personal Bible, Deuteronomy 17, 18. And it shall be when he sitteth upon the throne of his kingdom that he shall write him a copy of this law. in a book, out of that which is before the priests and the Levites. And it shall be with him, and he shall read therein all the days of his life. That he may learn to fear the Lord his God to keep all the words of this law and these statutes to do them that his heart be not lifted up above his brethren, and that he turn not aside from the commandment, to the right hand or to the left, to the end, that he may prolong his days in his kingdom Well, on January 16th, just a few days ago, Pastor Derek wrote the devotional. that we were all reading on that day from Chronicles chapter number 15. And in that beginning part of that chapter there, it describes and talks about how there was a famine in the land. And of course, this was not talking about a famine. A famine is a is a shortage, a dearth, a want for supply of something. Well, there wasn't a famine of what we typically think about as far as food and water, but there was a famine of the Word of God And Pastor Derek wrote a devotional along with that where he was talking about that idea, this famine of the Word of God. And the nation of Israel was in a terrible state. They spiritually had gone down to nothing. They were uh it was just a mess, and that's what happens when you have a famine of the Word of God. When a nation or a people or a church, any group that you want to take, it goes without the presence of God for a long period of time. Ultimately, there's a downfall. You can see that down through history. You can look even at nations around the world today that many, many years ago, generations ago, they took a stand against God, against the Bible, and you can see where their nation and country is at today. A famine of the word of God. I believe it's verse number four that says, Now for a long season Israel had been without the true God, without teaching priest. and without the law. We need the Bible, the Word of God, as part of our lives. The verses that we read this morning as a text verse is is just to show an interesting how important this was to God that you understand in Bible times that the Word of God did not come in a compact form like this. That it was very likely very large handwritten scrolls that took up a lot of space. It was quite a job for the Levites and the priests to carry that from place to place as was noted by Pastor Gus in one of his recent devotionals. Seems like recently There's been several that dealt with the Word of God. And uh anyways, it was so important that God said, listen, when the king gets into his throne, He is supposed to get his own copy of the Word of God. You gotta have your own copy. And you know, you would think, well, what's wrong? I mean, there's one right over there. The priests have it, the Levites have it. No, he said, you gotta go. And write down a copy of the Word of God from that which is in front of the priests and the Levites. He wanted the king to have its own copy. And why? Because spending time in the Word of God accomplishes something in the heart. And there's a list of things, and we're not going to teach on those today, but we read in verse number 20, 19 and 20 what it does in the heart of the king, how it keeps him from being lifted up. Being thinks he's higher than everybody else, how it keeps him from turning from the left hand to the right, but to obeying the commandments that About your personal copy of the Word of God. And just give you some practical things with regards to that. So first of all, I want you to think about the cost of your Bible. And I'm not talking about the dollar value of the copy that you have in your lap, although we will get into that here in a little bit. I'm talking about the what it cost to get to the place where we are today where we all have a copy of the Word of God. the cost, the value of these pages and and and how valuable is it? Really If we looked down through the pages of time and considered and thought about days, bygone days, the Word of God is the most valuable thing that we own. It really is the most valuable thing that we own. Psalms one nineteen, that psalm that's so much about the Word of God says In verse number 97, he says, and on. He says, Oh, how I love thy law. It is my meditation all the day. Thou, through thy commandments, hast made me wiser than mine enemies, for they are ever with me. I have more understanding than all of my teachers, for thy testimonies are my meditation I understand more than the ancients, because I keep thy precepts. I have refrained my feet from every evil way, that I might keep thy word. I have not departed from thy judgments, for thou hast taught me. How sweet are thy words to my taste, yea, sweeter than honey to my mouth. Thy precepts Through thy precepts I get understanding, therefore I hate every false way. Thy word is a lamp unto my feet. So I want you to consider and think about the value of what it is we have right here, the cost of this and I could give you illustrations as I've done in the past about those who literally gave their lives that the Word of God could be copied, that it could be printed, that it could be distributed. They sacrificed the ultimate sacrifice. gave their life just so that a copy of the Word of God could be preserved when others were just trying to destroy and burn and get rid of every copy of the Word of God. Many, many stories down through history, but I want you to think about a couple of thoughts with regards to this. First of all, the permanency of the Word of God The word of God is permanent. It's mind-boggling when you think about this. But the Word of God, the Bible says in John 1:1, in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. The Word of God was at creation. It has been here since the beginning. In the beginning was the Word. God's Word has been here since the beginning of time. And you know what, beloved? God's Word will be here. At the end of time. The Bible tells us heaven and earth shall pass away, but my word shall not pass away. In Matthew 24, 35. Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my word shall not. The permanency of this book. Do you know everything that we have in our life? is going to deteriorate and be gone one day. Those of you that ol are older and have had the joy of owning You know, your first car or that that thing you were really looking for for a long time, that vehicle, you finally got to buy it, and where is it now? Some many years ago it it just deteriorated to the point where it just was going to be too much work to keep it up or cost too much money, you had to let it go, it just deteriorated, it fell away. But the word of God is not going to deteriorate It's amazing all through history there's been entire nations that have determined to stomp out and get rid of the Word of God. This is their mission. And yet the Word of God stands. Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my word shall not pass away. Long after those that promote and stand on science are gone. The Word of God will stand. Long after governments who've stood against the Word of God have fallen, the Word of God is still here Long after gold, silver, and diamonds and the dollar has reached its pinnacle and then following all the way down to where it's not value for anything, the Word of God will still be here Can any of you name some of the seven wonders of the world? I don't know if you can name I don't know them all, but one of the seven wonders of the world, Jacob. Gardens of Babylon, the gates, the walls of Babylon, um, the Parthenon, which is you know gone. I mean Several. There's there's only one that remains of the seven wonders of the world. Does anybody know what those are? It's in Egypt. The pyramids. The pyramids. What I'm saying is these magnificent structures that have been built in bygone days, they were a wonder of the world over. And man has the ability to build some truly amazing things, an ability given to us by God, but they pass away. Even even if you've seen recent pictures of the pyramids, they're looking pretty rough. I mean they're they're deteriorating. The the edges are falling off and bricks are are falling out and uh it It's fallen away, but God's Word is gonna stand. The primacy of the Word. Think about the power of this book, the power of the Word of God. Psalms 19. Verses 7 through 7 says, The law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul. The testimonies of the Lord are sure, making wise The statutes of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. The commandments of the Lord are pure, enlightening the eyes. The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever. Much fine gold, sweeter also than honey and a honeycomb. Thinking about the power of the Word of God, this book that has within its pages as you read this text is a living, powerful book sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing to the dividing of sunder of soul and spirit, that the word of God goes down into a man and is able to change him from the inside out. What else on earth has the kind of power to bring a person to make an infidel a saint? To cause a man to give up his anger and become sweet and loving. It has power to repair and restore the broken It is power to liberate a person from the bondage of sin and to bring him to a place of salvation. The power of this book. There's nothing else like it. It is the Word of God. It provides blessing and guidance to us. Blessed is the man that walketh not in the council of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, but sitteth in the seat of the scornful. But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and in his law doth he meditate day and night. For he should be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. This book, dwelling in the Word of God. It provides guidance for us. Obviously, it gives us the way of salvation How we can know Jesus Christ as our Lord and Savior. Amazing powers in the book. So this first point, all in all, is really just to try and get you to the place where you say I realize what it took for me to have this. I know down through the years that people have sacrificed and given their lives and at one point the the reason we don't value this as much as we should is because it's so readily available to us. Uh most, if not all, of you have more than one copy. Uh about half of these on the thing here are mine, the others are out of the bookstore. Um but the the there's I mean how many copies of the Word of God do you need? Uh you know, i what I'm saying is when something's readily available and we have it everywhere and we have it on our uh available to us on our phone, our radio and audio format and in so many different ways, it it kind of it's not as precious. We forget how valuable it really is. See if the Word of God truly is this valuable, then we ought to value it in our heart. It ought to mean something to us. And so I want to just encourage you with some practical things here about the Word of God. And one is caring for the Word of God. God, caring for the Word, for your personal Bible, caring for it. How should you take care of your Bible if it truly is precious to you? Now, some of this shouldn't even need to be said, and I'll tell you what, if you if you really value the Word of God, uh it doesn't need to be said. But I know there's some that don't. And they don't consider or think about these things. And at the very least, you can help the next generation. You can have these things in your mind so that When you see a child take his Bible and come in the house and throw it all away to the to the counter and the pages all and then it lands on the counter, you say, Whoa, you don't treat the Word of God like that It's not just a stack of paper. It's the Word of God. You teach them to to to reverence that and to value it and to treat it with respect and take care of it. So one thing is keep it with you. Keep it with you. Don't don't leave it at church. Now I'm not saying that you're never going to forget it. I think probably went through the room here. At one point or another, we've all forgotten our Bible. I mean, we're used to carrying something out of church and we're talking and We w we somebody hands us something, we set our Bible down and we have that in our hand and we're talking in in our mind. We've got something in our hand. Everything feels right. We walk out and go home and we forgot our Bible at church. But it ought to register at some point before next Sunday that, oh, I left my Bible at church. I'm gonna I need to stop back by there sometime and and get it. You know, I I would venture to say that if I went back here to this closet, which is where our lost and found is, that there's probably somewhere between five and ten Bibles in there right now. That are in lost and found. And about once a year we go through that stack of Bibles and we either return them or give them away. Because you'll be shocked how many people don't have their name in their Bible. Let me encourage you, put your name in your Bible. If you forget it uh somebody will be able to get it back to you. But if there's no name in there we're like, well we're not sure whose that is unless somebody happens to be, you know, familiar with C you carry that and they're like, oh, you know, that belongs to Kevin or oh that belongs to you know, Dr. Keller or whatever, because they've seen you with it, but put your name in your Bible. Um keep it with you. Now I had a uh pastor that I knew, he's since gone on to be with the Lord, but he had a conviction in his heart. Probably for the last 40 years of his life that he took his Bible everywhere he went. He kept his Bible His Bible that he carried to church, he took to the grocery store with him. Now he was a pastor, so he wasn't going to the mill and happening to to work in the mill all day or something. I mean he was able to do that, but he always had his Bible with him. If he was taking the kids to a ball game, he had his Bible with him. Didn't matter what it was, you never saw him without the Word of God. He had his Bible with him. I'm not saying you need to do that, but I'm saying you ought to know where your Bible is. You oughta keep it close. You oughta not leave it at church. Um Don't let the pages get turned up, folded down, especially the these corners right here. If you aren't careful, like when you stick it in places, these these pages get turned. Anytime that I'm reading, just my daily devotions, if I'm reading and I see a page turned, even just flipped a little bit. You see what happens after time, that's not cared for, is these get all real fanned out like that So the middle you're holding that, but on both sides the edges are all fanned out because those there's probably 200 pages in there that are folded over a little bit. And so just paying attention to that, making sure the pages aren't creased or folded over, front and back aren't aren't starting to get all bunched up. Here's a killer for the Word of God, and this happens a lot. People leave it in their car. I'm not going to need it again until next Sunday. I can't tell you how many I've seen sitting on the dash of a car. And and I'll tell you through the week the sun just grabs that leather and just pulls it just pulls it up, it tears it up. It just it We ought to value it. Don't leave it in the car. Think about where it's setting. Think about it is it in a safe place. I don't set mine on the kitchen counter 'cause I'm afraid I got five kids. And that you know, it's just what I need is a is a thing of Kool-Aid. Right down into the pages of my Bible. You know, no, I don't want that. A prudent man foreseeth the evil, the Bible says. So you think about it. This is something I value and I want to take care of. And so because of that, it makes me think about where am I setting it? What what what are the chances of you know You you probably don't set a cup of coffee on your keyboard. You think about where you're putting your drink in relation to the electronics that you have. Because you know that that water, that liquid, coffee, or whatever it is spilt in there would destroy it. And you value that. You don't want to have to buy a new one. And so you're careful. Well, do the same thing with the Word of God. Be picky about what pin you use to write in your Bible. uh bleed through real bad. And they make the text on the opposite page almost unreadable because it bleeds through so bad. Uh you know, using a Sharpie marker. And then all of a sudden you've got two verses you can't read anymore. Uh you know, so just be careful about what pin you use. There are some great pins in the uh that I've used used for a number of years now. We sell them in the bookstore that they they don't bleed and they they also don't fade. Some pins fade. So you make some notes and then five years from now you're looking and you're like Well I'm not sure what that says. You know, uh because it fades away. So that's nice to have that that doesn't fade. And I learned that the hard way. I've had notes that I've lost because I wrote it in pin that faded away. So clean your Bible, you know, at least once a year with a good if you have a leather Bible with a good leather cleaner, just keeping that leather soft and pliable and clean. Um and then if you value your Bible, you're going to get to know it over time. The longer you have your Bible, the same kind of Bible, not the exact same page, but decide what Bible you like And this one will wear out. But do you know that I've already bought another one exactly like this? That I've owned for about three years already? Because I know that when this one wears out, I want one that's laid out exactly the same, that every page is the same. That I know where things are in the Word of God. I know if I get to Matthew in the first three or four chapters, that message that I preach is somewhere in the beginning of Matthew, and I have those notes on the right-hand side. I know that, I don't know what chapter it is, but I know it's underlined in my Bible, and I know it's on this side in this column. You know, and so that you start to get familiar with your Bible when you're reading your Bible. Listen, I'm not opposed to digital electronics. I I use an iPad now to preach from and it's just over a year that I've been preaching from the iPad. But do you know what? In this last year I've noticed something, and that is that I miss seeing the pages of Scripture. I've noticed a difference. In just that year, in that what I'm talking about right now, the familiarity, the the friendship, the the the knowledge of the of the pages of the Word of God. Just having an understanding and and saying, you know, oh now you can use digital means and and you have it with you all the time and it's convenient and I use my iPhone with the scripture on it and listen to the to the Bible reading or listen to those things. But just being familiar with your Bible when you when you value it and keep it over time, it will it will help you. So let me give you some practical things of choosing your Bible now. Choosing what kind of Bible. You say, well we want to get one that I want to keep forever. Um I have down here my Bible that I used in college and for a number of years. And uh th this was my Bible that I had for a long, long time. Haven't used this in a lot of years. And I made a change when I went to this one that I have, and I'll describe that Bible in in a few minutes. This is a Thomson Chain reference Bible. And uh this was given to me as a gift as I was going to college. And so I used this for a num for a number of years. I personally don't like it because it's too big. And so I wanted something a little smaller. But what what should you choose when you're when you're picking your Bible? I'll give you uh some thoughts here, which is why I brought all of these examples out here. Actually all of these Bibles are different except for one thing One thing is the same in all of them. It's a King James Version. So I think that you need to start with that. You need to be sure it's a King James Version of the Word of God. I want to encourage you to that. I believe that the King James Version of God is the inspired word of God. God's word for the English speaking people of the world. I believe that other versions contain errors. And Uh there is some scripture in other versions, and I believe people can get saved reading another version of the Bible. And I think that there are many people that are blessed by reading another version of the Bible. They get something out of it. But listen, if you want the pure, unadulterated, unabridged, the whole complete thing. You have to get the King James. You know the driving force for producing all these other versions is not to make them more readable. I know that's the marketing slogan, but that's what the driving force is, is marketing. You see, the King James Bible is not copyrighted. Anybody can produce it and they don't have to pay anybody else. All you pay for is the binding and putting it together or whatever. But legally they have to change over 10% of the Word of God. in order to copyright it to make it their copy. So the mo they have to change at least 10%. So it becomes a motivating factor like we well. We got to change at least 10% to make our own copy. And then this guy over here has to change at least 10% to make his own copy. And then this guy over here has to change his 10% to make his own copy. And the motivation is not to make it more clear and more understanding. The motivation is to make a copy that I get all the money for. That's the motivation. So when you understand that, it should make sense to you. It's amazing to me that even after all these years, all of the other versions, which there's Sixty, seventy, I mean I don't know. There's a lot of 'em. You know all of the other versions are compared to the King James version? This is the standard. They're all compared to this. They're not compared to each other. When everybody anybody goes to look at it, they're compared to this. So I would rather have the standard instead of the one trying to measure up. Now there's lots of things and uh I'm not going to get into all the doctrinal stuff. We're not going to teach on that, but A year and a half ago we did a class on Thursday night. Pastor Derek put together this uh book on the King James Version of the Bible. It gets into all the doctrinal issues, lots of things. And many of you have a copy of this, but this is free. If you want a copy of this, you can have this today to uh if you want to get into that into more detail. We're not going to get into more detail than that. You know that still today, even with all of the other versions that are out there, 55% of all Bibles sold are King James Version. The next closest version is only 19% of the market. That's the difference between the King James and the next closest version because there's so many other versions There's a lot of them that are sold. The next closest one is nineteen percent of the market and King James is still the most popular version in the world today. Yeah, they've had that new King James Version. Just slightly different. I still would encourage you s t to have the King James version, not the new King James. James, and I'm sure that this book deals with some of the differences there. So if you've got that settled, then you go to the store. You can get all of these Bibles in different versions as well, as far as the different stuff we're going to talk about now. But Next, what size font do you need? You know, is the bigger is better. That's right. The bigger the bigger font. You see you got like this pocket bible right here. This is the word of God. I mean, oh my goodness. Trying to read that, that is That's right. Uh I could squeeze and and read that for a couple of minutes and I'd have a headache. But uh you know real small Prince, so so what size font do you want? So you're thinking about that. Um you know you've got very small from the pocket Bibles all the way up to your your large print um bibles, this is a large print Bible larger, not large. is larger yet. So what size font do you want? And then you want to look at what kind of layout do you want you like? What kind of layout do you like? And this is what is to me very particular and why I brought these different ones. If you're not sure you could come up and see them and kind of compare. Uh hands on. only Bible myself, because what I want is I want as big a text as I can have to read. But as small a book as I can have to carry around. So it's kind of a balance between the two. Where if you have all of the other stuff, like this here is a study Bible. And uh so this Bible actually, although it's much bigger than mine in mass, the font is quite a bit smaller because this is a a study Bible. This has a lot of notes in it. A lot of extra helps in it. And and hey, this lot of great material. And if you're going to use it for studying and sitting down, then that's very valuable. And if you like that, then then great. Personally, I wanted just the Word of God, and I used other sources for the material. You know, you have lots of commentaries and such that that has included any in there. So I like a text-only Bible. I don't have up here a text-only Bible. Even mine that I ended up going with is what you'd call a reference Bible. Mine has a very small amount of notes here in the center. It actually, I would like that to be gone. and to give me a little bit more room right here. But I couldn't find a text-only Bible when I was searching for this uh that had the right font and had a wide margin. I wanted a place to make notes. And so that's was important to me. So that's what I ended up with, what is called a reference Bible. Now they have a note taker's Bible. I don't have a sample of a note taker's Bible. A note taker's Bible is about twice this it could be about this size, but it's twice as fat. Because it only has this column, only one column per page, and all the rest of this is for notes So it's a note taker. If you take a lot of notes, you might like that. You know, you got one column and you can make notes on each verse accordingly. Like here, notes on that side are hard for me to to make take notes on because it's all the way over here, you know And so I use color coordinated pins to make that a little make a little more sense. But stuff study Bibles. I showed you the Thompson Chain Reference Bible. That's a basically a study Bible. Uh a tremendous amount of helps in it. basically you think about a chain and all the links that are connected and he's taken a lifetime of study and connected passages of the word of God and you can just follow the chain. You can just follow the numbers down through and it connects all of the scriptures and the stories and all those kind of things. Very good study Bible with regards to that. You want to decide whether you want a red letter or not. My Bible is not a red letter. I can live without that. Although I would prefer a red letter and I would encourage any young Christian to get a red letter so they know when Jesus is talking. I I pretty much understand and know when Jesus is talking, but I still would like it I was disappointed that I got this and it wasn't red letter. But now I've been using it for years and I'm not going to change. But I would encourage you to get a red letter. But some of them you you look at it and you need to look at the description to decide if it's red letter or not Then whether you want wide margin or just narrow margin. Okay. So I like you'll see this one here is just wide margin around these two two sides. Gives me a little place to write. But the Bible is still about what I would call a normal size. Any of these Bibles can be given to you in wide margin. This is an actual wide margin Bible. So it has it all the way around. But you see the size of this? You know, you you can actually get a Thompson chain that's wide margin. So if you got this and added that around it, I mean you're almost got a family Bible you're carrying around, you know. Um so it just depends on what you like and w how you want but I would say I would encourage you whatever you choose use that for the rest of your life. That that it's the same. You also get familiar with, how many of you, you know, like if you say turn to the New Testament, you know about where in the Word of God you've got to get to instead of going like this. You know, because you've used it so long. You're like, ah, you know, turn to the book of Daniel. You're getting pretty close. So, because you've used it a lot, I'd encourage you to find what you like and keep it for the rest of your life. Then what kind of cover should you get? You can get something As cheap as uh glue-bound paper covered for five bucks. Um those are gift Bibles, gifts that you give away to children, starting to teach them about how to care for the Word of God and so on. Then you jump into the the the first level which would be a bonded leather Bible. You know bonded leather is just scraps of leather that are put together. It's a full piece. And it's actually bonded leather can contain as little as seven percent of actual leather. So it's not going to hold up for the long term. It it it starts to look like leather, starts to feel like leather, but it's not quite leather, but you can get it a lot cheaper. So that's the benefit of it. Then you start to get into your higher quality leathers like top grain uh cowhide uh goat skin, Moroccan leather. You can actually get if you if you really wanted it, there's places that will give you one with alligator uh skin, you can get that. You also can get water buffalo. Uh so real heavy, high d high quality leathers that will last a lifetime. To get the best Bible, the highest quality one that you can find that meets your other requirements. Get the highest quality one you can find because you want it to last. You want it to stay together. and and hold up. That also means you need to pay attention to the binding. You want one that's sewn, that's sewn together, not just glue They have glue bound, which is just glued and stuck on, but sewn actually takes threads and sends it through the back of all the pages. and that will really help hold it together. When a Bible's new, it's really hard to see. When you have one that's a little bit older, you can pull it apart just a little bit like this and you'll see the thread down through the center of it. And uh so you want one that's sewn bound, not just glue bound. That will last a lot longer. It'll help stay together. Um Then where to buy it? You can buy it at our bookstore, but you also can get it online if you know what you're looking for. And uh give you a website here, uh, church Biblepublishers. com. It's a great website. They're they're very affordable Bibles, and uh they're They do a great job putting them together. And uh so some of ours I think come from there, some that are in the bookstore may come from there. Um but you can look at that and I'm familiar with them and the people there uh for a lot of years. So determining what Bible you Is this something you're gonna carry to church all the time? Is it gonna be a study Bible that you want to leave at home? You know, maybe you want to get the study Bible like that, and that's your d your plan just to use that for devotions every day and have that at home and and really want to dig into the word with that. You know, but how are you going to use it will determine which one you end up getting and choosing. Again, I would encourage you to get the best one to best quality that you can afford. A good quality Bible is going to cost you about $100. A top quality Bible could cost you two to three hundred with high quality sewn binding, leather bound, uh Moroccan leather on the outside. You know, I mean it could be two to three hundred So you say, man, that's a lot of money. Valuable. I want it to last as long as I as long as I can. And You have to spend that much time. And I would rather you have a word of God than nothing. Right. So get what get what you can afford, but once you get to the place that you can, I mean how much did you spend on your phone? Whoa Pastor, don't go there. All right. You say, oh but I have the Bible in my phone. Yeah. Okay. Yeah, I know. Here's here's the most important thing and we're gonna let you go. An auctioneer shouted. He says, and what could I get for a bid for this beautiful bus of Robert Burns? A man from the back of the crowd said, That's not Robert Burns, it's Shakespeare. And the auctioneer responded, Well folks, the joke's on me. That shows what I know about the Bible. Okay, the the idea is he obviously didn't know anything about the Bible because neither one of those men have anything to do with the Bible. Uh the most important thing is that you read it. Whatever Bible you have, that you get in it. That you read it. That you get time reading the Word of God because it's quick and powerful. It can change your life from the inside out. Spend time in whatever copy of the Word of God you have. See any of these Bibles? You're welcome to come up and look at those of the different kinds here. Let's close in prayer.