This evening to Job chapter number twenty, Job chapter number twenty things. It's something that uh interests me any time I begin a study or start looking at a passage of scripture. The first resource the first thing I do is I I I go look in my Bible. Uh and the reason is that I've been in church a long time and uh I've sat under a lot of preaching and when I am impacted by a message or something stirs me I'll make a note in my Bible And so when I go to study a passage of scripture, I look in my Bible and see what notes that I might have there from something that I heard many years ago or who knows what, what little seed thoughts might might be there. I have a lot of the passages of Job, different things throughout Job that I have a lot of notes in or different things that have been, but in chapter 20 and 21 there was absolutely nothing. So I'm like, okay, so I gotta I gotta dig and uh and look down in here and I don't want to just reiterate or repeat a a uh ongoing debate which we know the the the heartbeat of the debate that they've been having. We we understand that uh you know Job's three friends and their accusations against him. Uh but I would like to try uh I I we're just going through the Bible verse by verse, chapter by chapter, really, not really verse by verse at this point because the the uh similarity from one chapter to the next. So we're not necessarily digging down into every single verse, but just chapter by chapter. And so this is what's next, this is the next chapter. And uh evaluating it and reading through it and saying, okay, well what nuggets could we glean from this? What truths could we kind of narrow in on and Yes, in the general sense we know overall what the topic is going to be because we're understand the passage and we've already been through several of these debates. uh but what nuggets might there be for us. And so that's my goal tonight to try and dig down into the passage a little bit. And uh we'll walk through it still, but we're going to try and glean uh some specific nuggets out of this. We see in chapter twenty is Zophar's resentful attack, uh, and then in chapter one is Job's righteous answer So Zophar is resentful. You know, he's under the conviction of the Holy Spirit of God. We see that in chapter 20 and verses 1 through 3. He says, Then answered Zophar And the Nebitite, and he said, Therefore do my thoughts cause me to answer, and for this I make haste I have heard the check of my reproach, and the spirit of my understanding causeth me to answer. The idea of that word check there, the check of my reproach, the that word check literally means to rebuke. it it means to chasten. And so far from Job's comments, from Job's statements to Eldephaz and Bildad, he feels a little bit under conviction. And instead of repenting, instead of acknowledging their error and saying, Boy, I I guess we had viewed this incorrectly, Zophar goes on the attack. And he comes back at Job with a resentful uh thought. So we see verses one through there three there, uh Zophar's present position. His present position, where he's at? Well pr Presently he's under conviction. He's under the conviction of the Spirit of God and that he is going to attack uh Job because of it. Then we see His thoughts presented where he gives us the passing prosperity of the wicked, describing the idea that the wicked and what's going to happen to them and how their prosperity is going to pass. in verses 4 through 11. We read about this. In verses 4 and 5, there is a summary kind of of his overall argument. It's summarized in these two verses. So he says, Knowest thou not this of old, since man was placed upon the earth, that the triumphing of the wicked is short. and the joy of the hypocrite, but for a moment. Now if you remember Zophar's accusation in his first round of debates was that uh Job was a hicc was a hypocrite. And so he's kind of repeating that here. But the the crux of his arguments here are the idea of the passing prosperity of the wicked, the idea that it's going to be short-lived. that somebody that might know a little bit of success, but when they're wicked, they're going to be judged for it, and it's going to happen quickly. It's going to happen swiftly. He says that the wicked are known for their success in verse number six. He says, through his excellency, those mount excellency mount up to heavens. and his head reach down or reach unto the clouds. He says, though he be excellent, though his head reaches to the clouds, though he's achieved some level of success, It's not going to remain. It's going to pass. He says they're not going to be known for very long in verses 7, 8, and 9. He says Yet how shall uh yet ye sorry yet he shall perish forever, like his own dumb. They which have seen him shall say, Where is he? He describes here how fleeting, how passing this individual's life is going to be in a very descriptive way. In verse number 8, he says, he shall fly away as a dream and shall not be found. Yea, he shall be chased away as a vision of the night. The eye also which saw him shall see him no more, neither shall his place any more behold him. You see, he says, it's going to pass quick Those people that saw him, they're going to wonder where he is. Boy, he used to be this big success, and now he's gone. He's describing the fate of the wicked that their their status is going to be very short-lived and it's going to pass quickly. We see the brutality of his ta attack in verse number 10. It's amazing when you consider his statements to Job here in verse number 10. He says, His children shall seek to please the poor, and his hands shall restore their goods. Now you know Job has lost all of his children. And his description here is kind of like a jab, a jab at Job saying, you know Listen, the wicked man, his children are going to do this after he's gone to try and make up for the mess that he made, but your children can't do it for you. They're gone. You don't have them, this very insensitive and brutal attack against Job, kind of jabbing him with the fact that he had lost his own own kids. So he's describing here this passing prosperity that it's going to be fleeting, it's going to pass quick. These are some true statements, but we of course know not applicable to Job. Then we see he describes the changing pleasantness of the wicked. In verses 12 through 19, he describes here how things are going to change. Things that were sweet are now going to be bitter. Things that were fun are now going to be hard. Things that were great are now going to be bad. Look at verse number 12. He says, through wickedness be sweet in his mouth. Though he hide it under his tongue, though he spare it and forsake it not, but keep it still within his mouth. Yet his meat and his vowels is turned it in the gull of asp that's a snake venom within him. He says that which is sweet, that which was enjoyed, that which the wicked man has thought, boy, this is fun, it's going to be turned into bitterness. Now that is a true statement. Isn't that as true as ever when you think about somebody who looks at their life and they think, boy, this is fun, but the bitterness that results from going down that fun path. The hard life that they will end up enduring because they've chosen to do that. We know the Bible says there is pleasure in sin for a season. And that's what Job is describing here, that I mean Ella Zophar is describing to Job and saying, Hey, there's pleasure in sin for a season, but it's going to be quick. It's going to pass fast, and what we've seen is that your pleasure is all gone. He describes that which is gained is going to be lost in verses 16 through 19, talking about what he had. that he's not going to be able to enjoy it. The things that you labored for, verse number 18, that which he labored for shall he restore, and he shall not swallow it down. According to his substance shall the restitution be made, and he shall not rejoice therein. He says, You're not going to be able to even eat it. Have you ever made a really good meal? And didn't get to eat any of it. Um that doesn't happen to me very often, but I'm sure it's happened to some of you, some of you ladies, you know, especially with the dessert, right? You make this amazing dessert and you put it on the table And then when you come back all the dessert's gone, like they ate the whole thing. Uh Timothy bought some ice cream. And then when he came in, he asked, what happened to my ice cream? I said I appreciate it. Thank you. That was d that that was delicious. You know you've got something, that's what that's what Job is or Zo Hakip mixing him up. Zophar saying here. He's saying, Listen You're not going to be able to even enjoy all that stuff that you've acquired, all that you've labored for, all that you've gained for. And of course, he's describing and talking about the wicked men. He describes the final problems that the wicked man will face in verses 20 to 29. He's not going to have contentment in verse number 20. He says, surely ye shall not feel quietness in his belly, the idea of contentment, the idea of peace in his belly He shall not save of that which he desired. There's not going to be any contentment. He's not going to be able to rest or have any peace. uh in that. He's going to only know contention. Look at verse number 22. In the fullness of his sufficiency he shall be in straits Every hand of the wicked shall come upon him. Every hand of the wicked. He's going to know contention. He's not going to know any contentment, and he's going to know lots of contention. This is the state of the wicked. Not only that, he's going to be consumed. By God in verse number 26. He says, All darkness shall be hid in his secret places. A fire not blown shall consume him. It shall go ill with him that is left in his tabernacle. This is all, he says, coming from God, we see in the very last verse, in verse number twenty-wine, he says, This is the portion of the wicked man from God. And the heritage appointed unto him. So this is Zopar's basic argument, the idea that the wickedness, the wicked man is going to Experience some pleasure for a short season, but then it's going to be quickly taken away. Well, Job's righteous answer Although Job does not have all of the answers for why the wicked prosper and why the righteous suffer, he does give a response to Zophar here and correct some of his thinking. He he kind of challenges some of what Zofar was saying. Even though in some aspects Zov's presentation is true, there are lots of holes in it. And there's a lot of fallacies in what he's saying as well. So Job opens up in chapter number 21 with a request to speak. But Job answered and he said, Hear diligently my speech. He says, Would you listen? Would you hear me? He says, and let this be your consolation. It's amazing to me that Job was at all concerned about the comforts of his miserable comforters. These three men. He says, wait, let this be your consolation. Maybe this will bring some understanding and some comfort to you in this situation. Joe was not worried about himself at all. Matter of fact, he says, as soon as I'm done talking, you guys can go on mocking me. In verse number three, he says, Suffer me that I may speak. And after that I have spoken, mock on. He said, You can go on mocking me, but let me at least tell you What I believe to be the truth here, Job's request to speak. Job describes And remains an example for us to follow in verses 4 through 6. He tells us in verse number 4 that he's calling upon God and not man. He says, As for me, is my complaint to man? And if it were so, why should not my spirit be troubled? He said, Boy, if I was dealing with men, if I was complaining to men, and if that's all the hope that I had, if my hope was in man, boy, my spirit would be troubled. My complaint is not with man, my complaint is to God. And you know, there are other people in the Word of God that have been at that point, a point of complaining. A point of just not knowing what else to do. In Psalms 55, 22, the psalmist said, Attend unto me and hear me. I mourn in my complaint. I mourn in my complaint. Being at a point where just not sure what else to do, David in Psalms 102, those familiar verses Where he cries out and he says, Hear my prayer, O Lord, and let my cry come unto thee. Hide not thy face from me. In the day When I am in trouble. Incline that ear unto me in the day when I call, answer me speedily. For my days are consumed like smoke, and my bones are burned as in health. My heart is smitten and withereth like grass, so that I forget to eat my bread By reason of the voice of my groanings, my bones cleave to my skin. I'm like a pelican in the wilderness. I'm like an owl of the desert. I watch. And I'm as a sparrow all alone upon the housetop. He goes on and describes the condition where he's in. Sometimes you and I might be like that where We just need to come to God and call on Him as Job was doing, that He is the one that we voice our complaint to. He is the one that our He had that our hope should be in. There's man is not going to be able to do anything. But God can do something. He is the one that we can turn to. He tells them to just just to mark me in verse number five. He says, mark me and be astonished. And lay your hand upon your mouth. That word mark me means literally to take acknowledgement of or to set a point to, say, hey Look at Job's story. Look at what happened here. You can use this as an example. And how many men and women through the years have you known that their story has been a source of encouragement or of challenge to somebody else. Their story has been retold and shared with others and has encouraged and challenged others to continue even though they're going through it like Job was going through it. And Job was saying, listen, this story will astonish you. This story will pull you back and make you even want to, oh my goodness. Make you want to cover your mouth, he's saying, but let the story be something that will be an encouragement to you. But Job goes and challenges his thoughts here just a little bit as he reminds him that sometimes Wicked men do prosper. You see, in chapter 20, Zophar is saying, hey A wicked man, he's going to know a moment of joy, but he's going to be cut down. He is going to be judged. He is going to, everybody's going to know that this is what he's what is going on in his life. Job challenges that a little bit. He says, that's not entirely true. The fact of the matter is that sometimes wicked men do continue to prosper. And we know from the Word of God that that's true. Job answers his accusation of verse number 10 in chapter 20 and in verse number 8 here, describing their children. He says their seed. is established in their sight with them and their offspring before their eyes. He says in verse number nine That their houses are safe from fear, neither is the rod of God upon them. uh you know they don't fear the punishment of God. The wicked, he says they don't even fear the punishment of God. They're a wicked man and and they're prospering in the midst of that pros prosperity they're they're not he says boy they don't fear the rod their houses are safe they're they're okay You know, beloved, sometimes it doesn't make sense to the Christian or to you and I. We have a hard time wrapping our mind around why it is the wicked prosper and the righteous suffer. I mean, how can we reconcile in our minds when a wicked man goes unpunished and the Christian doesn't? How is it that a cheater at work can continue to excel and continue to move up the cheater Seems like he's moving up in the in the business, in the in the workforce, and and everybody knows he cheats, everybody knows he steals, everybody knows, and yet he is still moving up in the ranks at work, and the honest guy can barely make it. We look at that and say, why why is that? That doesn't make sense. How is it that a corrupt politician gets elected and continues to succeed? I mean outside of society, just looking at it and saying, well, if God's a just God, then why doesn't God do something about that? Why doesn't God just judge them for that? Why doesn't God take them out? And and and we see The godly man suffering, and we see the wicked man prospering. Why would a communist regime be allowed to continue to persecute Christians? In our heart and mind we look at it and say, wait, this does not make sense. Why would God allow this communist regime to continue to uh in prison and and persecute and to shut down churches that are reaching people with the gospel in this communist country I mean from our perspective we think why wouldn't God just knock out that that you know ruler or or whoever it is? I mean he it would be very easy. It's amazing. How how do we wrap our minds around that? If God is just and we know that He is How is it it seems like wicked men go on living without any punishment? This is a question that's posed several times in the scriptures. and looked at. And Job asks the same thing here in verse number 7. He says, wherefore do the wicked live? Become old. Yea, are mighty in power. He has three questions there. He says, how how is it that the wicked man is still living? How is it that they grow old in the midst of their wickedness? How is it they continue to excel and become mighty in power? You know, in our modern courts, it's almost as though if a man had enough money and can hire enough lawyers He could get away with murder. I mean he could get off scot-free if he's got the right lawyers and paying enough money for it. Just get away with murder And we think, well, of course they're they're fallible courts, but you look at it and say that doesn't that doesn't jive with my uh understanding of a just and thrice holy God. Why doesn't God just kill him? Well, this is not an entire study on that, but I can think of a couple of verses. First of all, we know that they're not sons. And God is not going to chasten them like he chastens his sons. In Hebrews chapter 12 Verses 6 and 7, he says, For whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth and scourgeth every son, whom he receiveth. He endureth chastening. God dealeth with you as with sons, for what son is he whom the Father chasteneth not? He says, listen, there's some out there that are sinning and doing wrong, but they're they're not my son. And I think pretty much everybody in here has been in the grocery store and you saw somebody and you thought, well if that was my child, boy, I would be beating the jar out of that kid. Uh he would not be able to sit down. I mean you looked at it and said, this would not be happening if that was my son. Uh but you don't do anything. Why? Because they're not yours. And so in some respects, God understands uh or God chooses, say, okay, they're they're not a child of mine. They're a child of the devil. They're acting like their father. And uh he's gonna chasten the righteous, he's gonna chasten his son, who is getting into sin and doing wrong. Why? Because he's their son, his son. And uh his heart breaks for him and he wants him to come home. We're gonna look at that a little more in a moment, but we see that the Job challenges his thought with regards to happiness and joy, uh, that the wicked do have some happiness and joy in verses 12 and 13. He says, they take the tremble and harp and rejoice at the sound of the organ. They spend their days in wealth and in a moment go down to the grave He's saying they spend their days in wealth, they live their life, they all the way till the end, and they they rejoice until the end. They do know some joy and some happiness without any thought of the end. And you know, the wicked are that way. But Luke chapter 12, verses 18 through 20 says, and he saith, This will I do, I will pull down my barns and build greater. And there will I bestow all my fruits and my goods, and I will say to my soul, Soul, thou hast goods laid up for many years, take thy ease, eat, drink, and be merry. But God saith unto him, Thou fool, this night thy soul shall be acquired of thee. then whose shall these things be which thou hast provided? The wicked man's living his life with no thought of tomorrow, with no thought of judgment, with no thought of the future, and he's enjoying the day, but we know, because we have the word of God, that judgment day is coming. And although they do know some joy here on earth, they may know some uh measure of success and happiness, and from a worldly perspective you look at it and say, boy It seems like they're prospering on every hand, but their prosperity is only going to last for here. Any joy they know is is only the joy of today. And we know that the rich man in Luke lifted up his eyes being in torment. And so the day is coming when that is all gone. It's amazing when you think about what he describes for us in verse 14 and 15, where they reject God. He says in verse number 14, Therefore they say unto God, Depart from us, for we desire not the knowledge of thy ways. What is the Almighty that we should serve Him? And what profit should we have if we pray unto Him? I mean, doesn't that sound like the world today? Like, God? What do we need God for? We're in in the midst of our wealth, in the midst of our prosperity and success and all of their happiness, and they look at it and say, what do we need God for? They push them away. They don't want anything to do with them. You try and talk to them about God and they say, oh, I don't need that. What benefit is there in prayer? Boy, that's just a crutch for you Christians. You need that, but I don't need any of that. This is not anything new. It's been this way since the book of Job here. It's been the way of men to say they do not need God. Romans chapter 1 and verse number 28 says, even as they did not like to retain God in their knowledge, God gave them over to a reprobate mind, the worldly man who says, Boy, I don't need God. It's a sad thing, beloved, that the world would do that when they could know his power. When they could know the soul-changing gift of eternal life, and they would say, No, I don't want it. In the book of Mark, Jesus had just healed the maniac of Gadera. Jesus there just changed this young man's life. If you read the story in Mark chapter 5, verse 17 and 18, and they began to pray him to depart out of their coast. They they said, would you depart? Would you just leave? You see, they Jesus had infringed upon their ability to earn money. He had infringed upon their their their money-making schemes and they said, boy, we don't we don't need any of that here. We we want you to depart. But the sad thing is, is one day they're going to stand before a holy God and he is going to say, Depart from me, for I never knew you. They had him right there. They had the ability to know his saving power, and they requested that he depart from them. Well, it's a sad thing to think about that. They would reject the Savior who could change their life. But you know the greater tragedy? It's expected of the lost world that they would say, well, we don't want anything to do with God. They have not come to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ yet. But dear friend, what a greater tragedy it is when those who are righteous Do the same thing. In Titus chapter 1 and verse number 16, the Bible says, They profess that they know God, but in the works They deny him, being abominable, disobedient, and unto every good work reprobate. He's saying there there are Christians who Live pushing God away. They claim to know God, but in their works, in their activity, in the things that they're taking part of. I was reading just today a description about the deeper Christian life, and the author of the book was saying the problem today in today's world is that there is very little difference between the saved Bible-believing Christian And the lost man who denies God. Oh, not in maybe their basic conversation and what they would say about God, but I'm saying he was saying in the way that they live Both men are addicted to pornography. Both men aren't faithful to their wives. Both men have a problem with their conversation. Both men uh are are lewd and and and crude and rude. Both men don't know how to forgive. Both men, what he's saying is there's very little difference between somebody who's claiming to know Jesus Christ and is living like they don't. At least this man is living in line with what he says he believes. But the Christian who knows Jesus Christ and the power of his resurrection, we are supposed to be different. We are supposed to be changed into his image. And not that any one of us are perfect or we've arrived, but we should be in the process of being conformed into the image of God's Son and being made more like him each and every day. Oh, how we need to be like the psalmist who said, one thing in Psalms 27:4, one thing have I desired of the Lord that will I seek after. And that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life to behold the beauty of the Lord and to inquire in his temple, just to know God. To be close to God. Beloved, how much do you want it? How much do you want to know God? What is the difference between your life as a professing Christian and the life of the man at work who is not professing Christ? Is your conversation the same? Do you talk about the same movies? Do you talk about the same world worldly uh rock stars or movie stars? Do you discuss the The same types of things or or uh is there a marked difference in your life? Beloved, the Christians should be different I remember Daryl Champlain preaching many, many years ago, and I've shared this with you before, but he preached a life-changing message for me, and the title of it was Do You Love Me with Shoes On? And in that message, he read the poem by Wilbur Reese, the title of Three Dollars Worth of God. He says, I would like to buy $3 worth of God, please. Not enough to explode my soul or to disturb my sleep, but just enough to equal a warm cup of milk. Or to give me a snooze in the sunshine. I don't want enough of God to make me love a black man or to prick beats with the migrants. I want ecstasy, not transformation. I want warmth of the womb, not a new birth. I want a pound of the eternal in a paper sack. Could I have three dollars worth of God, please? And that is the problem. The Christian who wants three dollars worth of God, they want ecstasy and not transformation. They want to have the benefits of being called a Christian and the blessings of being able to come to God in prayer and call on him in their hour of need. They want to enjoy the camaraderie and the family atmosphere of the house of God and God's people. But they don't really want to be different. They don't really want to change. They don't really want to put off the old and put on the new and be a new creature in Christ Jesus. So they're living like the world Must I be carried to skies on flowery beds of ease, while others fought to win the prize, and sailed through bloody seas? We want to enjoy the Christian life and not go into battle for God Beloved, I can't give you the answers for why the wicked prosper and why the righteous suffer. Job didn't have all the answers. But what Job did say to us here in this passage of Scripture is he said, listen, it's not up to man, it's up to God He's addressing Zophar's accusations, but he says, listen, it's not up to man, it's up to God. Look at chapter 21 and verses 22 to 26. He says, Shall any teach God knowledge? Seeing he judges those that are high, one dieth in his full strength Being wholly at ease and quiet, his breast full of milk, and his bones are moistened with morrow. And another dieth in the bitterness of his soul, and never eateth with pleasure They shall lie down alike in the dust, and the worm shall cover them. He said you described two different men. One was enjoyed life, he was young, he was vibrant, his bones still flowing with with strength and he dies and somebody that died old and never knew any joy or was bitter or angry, whatever, it doesn't matter. They're both going to be laying in the grave. And ultimately, God is the one that's in control of that. And it's not something that man's going to dictate or man's going to control Beloved, what he narrows it down to is that God is the one that's going to judge. God is the one that knows the heart of men, and whether It's somebody who is prospering and it looks like they're prospering and they're wicked and we say, why would God let that happen? And or or you've got a Christian who looks like they're suffering and there is no reason for that. We can't understand it, but God knows in His infinite wisdom. When we see wicked men on earth and it appears as though they're living outside of the judgment of God, I want you to know that judgment's coming. There's a couple reasons why God delays his judgment. He gives those to us in the scripture. First of all, it's a demonstration of his long suffering. He says in 2 Peter 3 and verse number 9, the Lord is not slack concerning his promises, as some men count slackness, but is long-suffering to usward, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. Are you thankful today for the long-sufferingness of God? Not just in the aspect of that he was long-suffering long enough for you to come to Christ, but his long suffering with us. It is his nature and as we look at the world and we see them, we say, man, why wouldn't God just take him out? Why wouldn't God just You know, boy, if we were in control, but God is long-suffering, and He wants to give every single man, woman, boy, and girl an opportunity to repent. He's not willing that any should perish. He wants them to know the goodness of God and be drawn to repentance It's a demonstration of his long suffering. It's also a display of his power to change even the vilest of sinners. How many stories have you read or heard of the trophies of grace whom God saved in the eleventh hour? You have men and women who, in their life, the world would have written off. Anybody else would have said, boy, they're they're never going to get saved. Boy, they're they're just wicked. Boy, they're so bad, and there's no hope for them. And yet God, in his long-suffering patience and through life circumstances, was able to draw them to himself. And today they stand a testament of the life-changing power of the gospel of Jesus Christ To the whole world. That's why God is patient with the wicked. There is that old-time radio show unshackled. In which every night a story is told of the magnificent grace of God in the life of a wicked, hellbound sinner. Who, through God's power, was brought to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. One such story was William, a young man. Boy, his heart was fractured and his life was destroyed as he watched his father get arrested. This was the beginning of a downward path for him and his life. His life had been controlled and dictated by the violent temper of his father. One minute his dad, who was a fun, loving, exciting father, the next would be an angry, abusive, and brutal man. His dad was hungry for life and all that it had to offer. His dad bought a bar and a and a hotel that were connected together and He he kind of gained a little bit of success in that, but being in that kind of environment he started getting a little money and he gotten involved in drugs and then the the drugs promoted a hunger for not just partaking of drugs, but he got hungry for the money that they could provide and he started dealing drugs. His mom determining that she didn't want her children around that at all, his mom decided to divorce him and she left And they lived in a in a split and divided home, and some would say, well, that's a good thing to get the kids away from that environment. But the problem was is now mom had to continually work in the bar in the hotel And William and his little sister were left alone all day and all night At twelve years old, he began to volunteer to stock the shelves for his mom in the bar. And he did this because what he wanted to do was to steal a little bit of alcohol, and he began to drink at twelve years old. His dad, who was trying to be a buddy instead of being a father, gave him his first smoke of marijuana at 12 years old He would steal about half of the alcohol that came into the bar and he would take it to school and he would provide it to all of his friends at school and This made him really part of the in-crowd, but the crowd that he was in with was the worst of the worst. That year he failed every class in school. His life was on a downward spiral. He started himself to do drugs and was arrested for the first time at thirteen years old when he and a friend broke into a home to try and steal money to get some more drugs. His mom's new boyfriend lived fast and loose and taught him to disregard the laws of the land and he taught him how to hunt and Thirteen years old, he and another boy began a poaching business where they went out and shot animals and sold them on the black market. His dad was suspected of killing his own brother and ultimately we found uh found out that he did. He killed his dad, killed his own brother for his it for the insurance money. At fourteen years old, his dad gave William crystal meth. This is the life this young man was growing up in. His dad was in an apartment that caught on fire when the police came to try and arrest him for murder. in a standoff with the police rather than being burned up by the fire that got started or turn himself in, he shot himself. William watched his dad be carried out in a body bag from the apartment building At just 15 years old and full of anger at the police for having killed his father, he chose to lash out the only way he knew how, and he thought, well, dad dealt drugs, I'm gonna deal drugs and he bought his first large shipment and began to sell drugs. He began to take drugs at a fever pace. the pain that he was trying to mask, the pain from inside, and that eternal battle that would not go away. His life was out of control. It was headed in the same direction as his own father. One night, after a long day of drugs, he woke up in the middle of night and he said it was as though his body was on fire. He thought the drugs I have taken is is is too much. It's my body can't handle it. And his whole body was on fire and he felt like he was burning up. He he put the fans on him to try and cool off and the fans did nothing. He went and got ice and put ice all over his body trying to get himself to cool off and he He he he couldn't cool off it as though he was on fire all over and he said that night he said, God I I don't know who you are. I've Never been to church. I don't know Jesus from Joseph, but God, if you're out there, if you'll hear my cry, if you'll get me through tonight, I will never take hard drugs again Well God got him through that night, and he said in the morning, there's one thing I knew. I knew there was a God and I knew he had power. He said it was still a path of God bringing me around, but that night is when I learned about there was a God and that God had power. And so he began to look and to hear the voice of God. And he was playing basketball one day and there was somebody on the basketball court that looked at him and said, Hey William, I'm going to have a Bible study at my house tonight. Would you want to come and be a part of the Bible study? And the guy said, What? A Bible study? Oh, I I'm not y I am not Bible material. I I don't think you want me there. And he's like, Oh, oh no, we do want you there William went that night to the Bible study for the first time. And that night he heard about the gospel of Jesus Christ and Jesus who died for him. Would forgive him of all his sins, and it was too much for him to even fathom. He knew the direction that his life was headed. And he knew that's not what he wanted, and so that night he called on God as his Lord and Savior. That night he repented and he turned and he said it was still It was still a path of God having to work and bring about change and transformation in his life to change who he was, to who God wanted him to be, but God did it. And his life today stands as a testament to the saving grace and the power of God and his long suffering because William is a game warden today. And William has a wife and four children, and they are faithful to serve in their church and to reach people with the gospel. I'm saying is sometimes you look at a wicked man and you say, boy, there's no hope for them, but with God there's hope. God can change anybody. If we would let him. And so sometimes when things in this world don't make sense to us, we don't have to make sense out of it. We just have to trust. Because God is the one that will judge in the end. We just trust him today. Would you stand at your feet with your heads bowed and your eyes closed?