Good morning. Go ahead and turn in your Bibles to Hosea. Where we're going to be looking at the first three chapters. Patrick would already told you the staff's away. In the past we've always called this JV Sunday. So happy to be the JV here leading us in this meditation on this amazing book We'll start this week, we'll continue it next week, and finish it in the fall. One of the age-old challenges of sermon writing is coming up with a good illustration. And what a good illustration does, of course, is engage people at an emotional or an intellectual level with something familiar. in order to help them understand something unfamiliar. Let me enter into your experience emotionally or in little intellectually and let me take your understanding of that experience, harness it, and and bring it over and apply it to something else. And what's easy about preaching the book of Hosea Especially its first three chapters, is that you don't have to look very hard for an illustration. It gives it to us in verse 2. Look there When the Lord first spoke through Hosea, the Lord said to Hosea, go take to yourself a wife of whoredom and have children of whoredom. For the land commits great whoredom by forsaking the Lord. Hosea's own marriage is the illustration. Horedom is the illustration. And the lesson to be learned is about Israel's relationship and ultimately our relationship with the Lord. What's hard about preaching Hosea is coming to terms with the emotional weight and power and invasiveness and risk. of this particular illustration of adultery or whoredom. Is God actually asking us to step inside of his experience? And understand what it's like to have a spouse abandon you? Is that what I'm to imagine? In a room this size, I trust there are some who have experienced firsthand what it's like to be Hosea with an un Faithful spouse, and if that's you this morning, you'll find a number of lessons for you in the text. But one of them is this: God identifies with you. In your betrayal. He's been there. But He doesn't despair because he knows it's not the end of the story. And neither should you despair. And in a room this size, I trust that some of you have been unfaithful to your spouse. And you are either deeply sorry or you're not. And either way, I think this book has a number of things for you too. For all of us, I wonder if the metaphor of whoredom or harlotry in some translations is offensive sounds offensive it's certainly not a politically correct term these days it implies moral judgment over the sexual activities of another and well who are we to judge says the culture And the Bible would agree that our hearts are not to adopt a posture of moral superiority over another, over anyone else. Nonetheless, if you are someone who is skeptical of biblical morality, I feel confident in saying that there is not a person in this room Who would welcome the betrayal and unfaithfulness of a spouse or a parent or a friend? We all know that it would tear us apart. And none of us would welcome the idea of a mother or sister or daughter selling herself into prostitution. Well, why is that? Well, is it because we all know God has something better in store. But yes, in fact, I do think Hosea is asking us emotionally and intellectually to step inside of Hosea's shoes and to imagine or maybe recall. life with an unfaithful spouse in order to teach us about him and his sure and unshakable love. For us, his people. That said We'll also discover that we are in no position to condemn another because none of us is actually Hosea in this illustration. Or actually someone else Let's read the first three chapters, and I'm going to interrupt with a little bit of commentary along the way. We start with the author and setting there in verse One, the word of the Lord that came to Hosea the son of Biri in the days of Uzziah, Jonathan, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah, and in the days of Jeroboam, the son of Joash, king of Hosea is ministering between 760 and approximately and 720 BC. Remember at this point, Israel is divided between two nations, Israel in the north, Judah in the south. Hosea is ministering to the north. And Israel was prosperous, relatively prosperous when Hosea began his ministry. High employment and Hubbah price stability, growth in new home sales, you might say, plenty of business optimism and consumer confidence Verse 2 then provides the illustration and the point of the illustration, as we saw, when the Lord first spoke through Hosea, the Lord said to Hosea, Go take to yourself a wife of Horedom Now the children of whoredom, for the land commits great whoredom by forsaking the Lord. Now, Deuteronomy 22, verses 20 and 21 teach us that a woman who proves to be unchaste at the time of her marriage should be punished. So the assumption here is that God is not asking Hosea to marry a woman who is already engaged in adultery or whoredom, that would contradict his own law. Rather, it is a woman who God is telling Hosea promises to be Unfaithful. And then verse 3. So he took, he went and took Gomer, the daughter of Dibliam, and she conceived and bore him a son. And the Lord said to him, Call his name Jezreel. For in just a little while I will punish the house of Jehu for the blood of Jezreel, and I will put an end to the kingdom of the house of Israel. And on that day I will break the bow of Israel in the valley of Jezreel. King Jehu's dynasty began several generations earlier with a bloodbath. honestly Corleon family style, with Jehu slaughtering all of the descendants and friends of Ahab as well as the Judah, king of Judah, Ahaziah And as the dynasty began, God is saying, so it will end in blood. So Hosea's first son symbolizes this judgment. And then a daughter's name symbolizes the removing of God's mercy. Verse 6, she conceived again and bore a daughter. And the Lord said to him, Call her name no mercy, for I will no more have mercy on the house of Israel to forgive them at all But I will have mercy on the house of Judah, and I will save them by the Lord their God. I will not save them by bow or by sword or by war or by horses or by horsemen. And then we have a last child whose name symbolizes a divorce. Verse 8. When she had weaned no mercy, she conceived and bore a son. Again, time here. Notice she conceived and bore a son. Looking back at verse 6, same thing. She conceived and bore A daughter. But then did you notice it's different than verse 3? She conceived and bore him a son. Could it be that the first child is Hosea's and the second and third child children are not? Commentators wonder about this. Fast forward with me just for a second to chapter 2, verse 4. And it seems likely that's what's going on. Look there. Upon her children also I will have no mercy, because they are children of whoredom, for their mother has played the whore. She who conceived them has acted shamefully. And the fact that the author keeps drawing our eyes to this moment of conceptions and then calls them children of whoredom suggests children two and three are not Hosea's. And how appropriate is then the name that God gives to the third child, chapter 1, verse 9. And the Lord said to me, call his name not my people. For you are not my people. I'm not your God. And you can see Hosea looking down at his wife, just having delivered this child, saying, Is not my son. Verse ten marks a sudden Dramatic, frankly inexplicable change of direction. Yet the number of children shall be like the sand of the sea, which cannot be measured or numbered. And in the place where it was said of them, you are not my people, it shall be said of them, children of the living God. And the children of Judah and the children of Israel shall be gathered together, and they shall appoint for themselves one head. Ignore for a moment the fact that your ESVP Bibles put the subheading where they did it. Continues in the chapter two and notice the symbolism of all three children's names reverses there. And and they shall go up from the land, for great shall be the day of Israel. Say to your brothers, you are my people, and to your sisters, you have received mercy. Well, starting in verse 2 of chapter 2 then, Hosea continues to use the illustration of adultery, but now he's talking directly about the relationship of Israel with himself in this kind of poetic meditation on Israel's unfaithfulness. God's Basic charge comes in in verses two through five. Plead with your mother, plead, for she is not my wife, and I am not her husband, that she put away her whoring from her face, and her adultery from between her breasts Lest I strip her naked, and make her as in the day she was born, and make her like a wilderness, and make her like a parched land, and kill her with thirst. Upon her children, I will have no mercy, because they are children of whoredom. For their mother has played the whore. She who conceived them has acted shamefully, for she said, I will go after my lovers, who give me my bread and my water, my wool and my flax, my oil and my drink. And then in the rest of the chapter, we have three stanzas which provide us with God's response. Each stanza you'll notice beginning with, Therefore I will. Therefore I will. Stanza 1, verse 6. He's going to stop her in her tracks. Therefore, I will hedge up her way with thorns, and I will build a wall against her, so that she cannot find her paths. She shall pursue her lovers, but not overtake them, and she shall seek them but not find them. Then she shall say, I will go and return to my first husband, for it was better for me than now, then than now. And she did not know that it was I who gave her the grain, the wine, and the oil, and who lavished on her silver and gold, which they used for the bale. Stanza 2, verse 9, after stopping her in her tracks, he'll expose and punish her. Therefore, I will take back my grain in its time and my wine in its season, and I will take away my wool and my flax, which were to cover her nakedness. Now I will uncover her lewdness in the sight of her lovers, and no one shall rescue her out of my hand. And I will put an end to all her mirth, her feasts, her new moons, her sabbath, and all her appointed feasts. And I will lay waste her vines and her fig trees, of which she said, These are my wages, which my lovers have given me. I will make them a forest, and the beasts of the field shall devour them. And I will punish her for the feast days of the Baals when she burned offerings to them and adorned herself with ring and jewelry. And went after her lovers and forgot me, declares the Lord. Stanza 3 then again marks this sudden, dramatic, inexplicable change of directions and notice all the I wills as we read. Therefore, behold, I will allure her. And bring her into the wilderness and speak tenderly to her. And there I will give her her vineyards. And make the valley of Acor, a valley of trouble, a door of hope. And there she shall answer as in the days of her youth, and as at the time when she came out of the land of Egypt. And in that day, declares the Lord, you will call me my husband. And no longer will you call me my baa. For I will remove the names of the Baals from her mouth, and they shall be remembered by name no more. And I will Make for them a covenant on that day with the beasts of the field, the birds of the heavens, and the creeping things of the ground. And I will Abolish the bow, the sword, and war from the land. And I will make you lie down in safety. And I will betrothe you to me forever. I will betrothe you to me in righteousness and in justice, in steadfast love and in mercy. I will betrothe you to me in faithfulness. And you shall know the Lord. And in that day I will answer, declares the Lord, I will answer the heavens, and they shall answer the earth, and the earth shall answer the grain, the wine, the oil, and they shall answer Jezreel, and I will sow her for myself. in the land, and I will have mercy on no mercy. And I will say to not my people, you are my people. And he shall say, you are my God. And after this glorious look at the future, as in a dream, we're jerked awake back into the present with the conclusion of Hosea's own story in chapter 3. And the Lord said to me, Go again. Love a woman who was loved by another man and is an adulteress, even as the Lord loves the children of Israel, though they turn to other gods. And love cakes of raisins. Maybe a harlot's hire. So I bought her for fifteen shekels of silver and a Homer and Leith of barley. Uh has she sold herself into some sort of brothel or uh something like a pimp or Temple prostitution, it's not clear. We just know he has had to pay to get his wife back. Pay for her sin. And then in verse 3. And I said to her, You must dwell as mine for many days. You shall not play the whore or belong to another man, so will I also be to you And that last phrase, so I will be to you, suggests that they will not immediately resume full marital relations, just as Israel will not know the consummation and the fullness of fellowship with God right away. Look at verse four. For the children of Israel shall dwell many days without king or prince, without sacrifice or pillar, without ephod or household gods But full restoration will come. Verse 5. Afterward, the children of Israel shall return and seek the Lord their God and David their king. And they shall come in fear to the Lord and to his goodness in the latter days. Quite an illustration, isn't it? Provocative, heart wrenching, category, exploding. And we are actually invited to step inside. I want to do so with you under four headings. Creation, fall, redemption, glorification. Creation, fall, redemption, glorification. And under each heading I will provide a one-sentence summary creation. Here's the one-sentence summary. God created for us, I'm sorry, God created us for perfect fellowship with himself. which the marital intimacy of a man and a woman illustrates. God created us for perfect fellowship with himself, which the marital intimacy of a man and woman illustrates. So if we were to turn back to Genesis 2 in creation, we would see that God gives man and woman to one another to know and to be known even as God himself intends to know and be known by us. When God makes Eve out of Adam's brib, and then brings Eve to Adam. Adam says, This at last is bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh she shall be called woman, because she was taken out of man. Therefore a man shall leave his father and his mother and hold fast to his wife, and they shall become one flesh. And the man and the wife were both naked, and they were not ashamed. Bone of my bone, flesh of my flesh, it's a Hebrew idiom for saying this is my family. This is a person to whom I am, as it were, biologically related. It's like born-again biology. Biology, you might say, by marital covenant, which is then illustrated. Symbolized in the husband and wife's one flesh union. They become one flesh as they unite. physically and and this act of marital intimacy seals a marriage and demonstrates that we are deeply relational beings. Man is man in relation to woman, and woman is woman in relation to man. Even the words complement one another, Ish and Isha in the Hebrew. We are not ourselves without the other. And in the uniting of man and woman and marital intimacy, we become closer in God's perspective than we are with our own parents who begot us and with whom we share blood. And so we have left mom and dad and become one flesh, one biology as it were with someone else. So think for a second, why did the woman at Stanford who was sexually assaulted and whose court testimony Many of us read last week say to her, Assaulter, you took away my worth Well, gratefully, as Christians, we know that our worth isn't finally bound up in these things, but we can empathize with what she is saying. Because these verses in Genesis tell us how deeply sexual activity impacts us. It shapes our identity. It creates family or at least an essential role in creating family. And I'm not talking about the children it begets. I'm talking about the act itself. In the creation picture, a man and a woman become bare, removing all attempts to hide themselves, utterly exposing themselves. They make their vulnerabilities and even their identities and hand them to one another, making themselves dependent on one another, asking the other to prove trustworthy. They become one flesh, no longer cleaving to mom and dad, but one another, mutually defining one another. Her bone, my bone, her flesh, my flesh. Again, you can understand why the woman in California or any victim of sexual abuse or assault would struggle at a very deep level, the level of worth and identity even. The boundaries which the Bible places on sexuality are not arbitrary. It's that sex is that powerful. It creates bonds. It creates family. It relies upon exposure, vulnerability. Trust. It seeks a protected space so that it can fully flower. The biological act of sex transcends biology. But here's what's interesting. Though the Bible reserves sexual intimacy for marriage, it serves as a symbol for both the married and the single because it's not ultimate. It's not finally the point. It is a road sign or a shadow which points toward the real substance. The shadow of this pulpit, the substance of this pulpit. Sex is that shadow. It points towards God's love and intention to be united with a people and the intimacy that we can know with this God. I'm not going to show you all the verses in Scripture that demonstrate what I just claimed. They will emerge through points two, three, and four. For now, I simply want you to ask yourself. If sex is as powerful as we know it to be in our culture, being critical to the plot of so many movies And a key selling point for many, so many of the products that we buy and a crucial force behind so much of our politics and our culture wars, if sex is only that shadow. What must be the power and wonder and jaw-dropping glory of the thing to which it points Let's go to point two in the fall. We started with creation. Now we go to the fall. Here's the key idea. We have forsaken God and loved the world, which illustrates itself in our adultery and idolatry. We have forsaken God and loved the world, which illustrates itself in our adultery and idolatry. The connection God intends for us to make The marriage relationship between a husband and wife and his relationship with his people becomes evident as the storyline, biblical storyline. continues first in the negative terms of his people's unfaithfulness. And so after the incident with the golden calf, God in Exodus 34 tells the people that his name is jealous. And that when they go into the land of the Canaanites, they must not, quote, whore after their gods and sacrifice to their gods. And in Leviticus 17, he warns them against playing the harlot with goat demons. And in chapter 20, playing the harmit harlot. with the Ammonite god Molech. And Deuteronomy 31, 16 predicts, in fact, that the people would harlot after foreign gods in their midst. And then only two books later in Judges 2 we learn that the people, quote, abandoned the Lord and served the Baals. They were the harlot. Now the Jews had been shepherds in Egypt, and so when they came into the land of Canaan, they discovered farming. And to help with the farming in the Canaanite religion, Baal worship, which employed temple prostitutes. for the purpose of inducing Baal to give fruitfulness to the land. But of course, Israel's harlotry involved more than engaging in false Religion. Numbers 20, God tells Israel to, quote, remember all the commandments of the Lord, to do them. Not to follow after your own heart and your own eyes, after which you are playing the harlot. Spiritual adultery begins with the desires. And jumping to the New Testament, we might think of 1 John 2, which warns against the desires of the flesh, the desires of the eyes, the pride of life. Or James 4, 4, which picks up this very metaphor, you adulterous people, he says. Do you not know that friendship with the world is enmity with God? The whoring Heart and eyes, it would seem, are not those just those that pursue goat demons or Molech or Baal. The whoring, adulterous heart is the one which loves the world more than God. It seeks the pleasures and comforts and approvals of the world more than the pleasures, comforts, approvals, approval of God. And so look at Hosea chapter 2 verse 5. For their mother has played the whore. She who conceived them has acted shamefully, for she said, I will go after my lovers, who give me my bread and my water, my wool and my flax, my oil and my drink. So wool, flax, oil, drink. These are good gifts from God, but the adulterous heart fixates on such temporal things and desires them above God. Look at chapter 3 at the very end of verse 1. They turn to other gods and love cakes of raisins. Cakes of raisins, really. You're gonna throw away the Almighty for raisin cakes. Of course we Throw them away too for the smallest gains. Sure, what's one more glass, one more look, a few more seconds of coveting, gossip. Why would God describe his name as jealous? Oh, because he's not an impersonal God. but a deeply, deeply personal God, who abides eternally in relationship between Father, Son, and Spirit and who calls us to abide with him in relationship. He is in that sense like a man who would not share his wife with another. And just as unfaithfulness generates intense emotional upheaval in us in the face of unfaithfulness, so it does in God. It it generates intense emotional upheaval. He is a personal God. Remember what I said about marriage and sexual intimacy and what they involve. They involve nakedness and exposure and vulnerability, union. mutually dependent identities, the creating of family. What did we read a moment ago 2 Timothy 2, for he cannot deny himself. Talking about his people. Somehow we, his people become himself. We, his people, somehow are incorporated into the very identity of God. We're part of the Him Self. I don't understand that. It's a mar it's remarkable. So think for a moment what is involved when a spouse is unfaithful, which is exactly what Hosea's experience invites us to do. It asks each one of us, married or single, to imagine that we have made ourselves utterly vulnerable and dependent on another person. tying up our identity and sense of worth in some sense in that marital union. And I'm not talking about an unhealthy emotional codec codependence. That's another conversation. No, I'm I'm I'm thinking in Adam's language, bone of my bone flesh of my flesh or the Lord's language, he cannot deny himself But now the other person says you're not enough. My heart My affections, my love go to someone else. And then what does that say about my worth? Well, it's an assault on my worth. It's a kind of undermining of my identity. I have put what I feel are my most precious things out there in trust. And the person who I loved and trusted and who at one time affirmed me now says Yeah. Whatever. You were good for a little while, you know, like a bottle of water. I drank the water, it was good, but But now you're kind of just like that empty plastic bottle. Crunch it up. Throw it in the trash. That's my soul, that that's me that you're crunching up, just discarding. And when someone is unfaithful to you, a number of emotions follow: shock, despair, fear. Anger And the shock and the anger are in some sense the most appropriate shock. What? It shouldn't be this way And anger, you have assaulted me and my worth. And you get angry to protect your sense of worth Look at verses 2 and 3. Plead with your mother, plead, for she is not my wife, and I'm not her husband. That she put away her whoring from her face and her adultery from between her breasts. Lest I strip her naked and make her as the day she was born, and make her like a wilderness, and make her like a parched land, and kill her with thirst. In verse 11. And I will put an end to all of her mirth. In verse 12. And I will lay waste her vines and her fig trees. Vine and fig tree being an old testament image for prosperity. The natural and generally just posture for unfaithfulness is anger and judgment. Why? In part because the judgment vindicates the worth and significance, and in God's case, glory. Of the one who has been abandoned. The wrath which follows speaks, even sings, of the value of the one who has been transgressed against, the one who has been despised. But you realize I trust That even as these chapters ask us to sympathize with Hosea, they also ask us to recognize we are. Gomer. You s you suspected that, right? Gomer isn't an illustration of Israel. And Israel is an illustration of humanity. Remember what I said in illustration does? It takes what we know and harnesses What we know and applies it to something else. By asking us to sympathize with Hosea, But recognize we're Gomer, it's like these chapters hit us from two angles at once Friends, we were created by God and for God, but we have been unfaithful and we deserve God's Judgment, we have been Gomer. Our eyes and our hearts have been drawn to other things Which is to say we've not sought our delight and our prel of pleasure, our approval, our sense of worth in Him We have sought it in professional success and fantasies of professional success, fame or fantasies of fame, sex or fantasies of sex, a nice home or a fantasy of a nice home. We've sought it in the approval, acclaim, affirmation of others. These are our sacred raisin cakes. And since we are Gomer, God's good and fair response, as with Hosea's three children, is I will call you Jezreel, judgment. I will call you no mercy. I will call you not my people. What would it mean for us to own the fact that we are as adulterers and idolaters before The Lord, that we have treated God, and God's husbandlike love is pathetic and discardable, like a crunched plastic water bottle. Well, we'll think more about that in chapters four to six. That's the emphasis of those chapters. Gratefully The primary emphasis of Hosea 1-3 is found in our third heading, redemption. Creation, fall, redemption. And here's the one-sentence summary of what we are to learn about redemption. God shows his sure and unshakable love for his people through his son, drawing us to himself. In spite of our adultery and idolatry. That's long, I know. Say it again. God shows his sure and unshakable love for his people through his son, drawing us to himself in spite of our adultery and idolatry. Look at chapter 2, verse 1. Say to your brothers, you are my people. And to your sisters, you have received mercy And verse 19. And I will betroth you to me forever. I will betrothe you to me in righteousness and in justice, in steadfast love and in mercy. I will betrothe you to me in faithfulness. And all of this is illustrated shockingly in Hosea's own life, chapter 3. And the Lord said to me, Go again, love a woman who is loved by another man, and is an adulteress. even as the Lord loves the children of Israel, though they turn to other gods and love the cakes of raisins, so I bought her for fifteen shekels of silver and a homer and a lethic of barley. As a friend said to me this week, I don't know what it's like to hold my spouse's hand as she is delivering a child that is not mine. I don't know what it's like to go down to a brothel and pay for my spouse. When she sold herself deliberately into it. But isn't this the very picture? of God's love for us highlighted in these chapters. Friend, just this last week you have been unfaithful Do you know that God is standing there saying, I love you. Take my hand. We're going. Or think of that thing in your life that you most deeply regret. Or one of the things Even there, the Lord, I love you, I'm here, take my hand, we're going. Embrace you You can understand why the gospel of Christianity is so jarring to people. Again, it comes at us from two angles. It says we're adulterous. And that God is Hosea. Even though we naturally identify ourselves with Hosea In most stories, you naturally identify with the good guy, but no, we're not the good guy here. We gave up the lover of our souls for the love of raisin cakes. And it's God who pursues and loves us in our unfaithfulness. Now think about one reaction we might have to all of this. Think about, you might say, the nerdy high school guy who somehow manages to get a date or two with the cheerleader. She then ditches him and goes back to the football squad, but he keeps chasing her. I need you. There's something kind of pathetic, right, about that picture. Come on, buddy. Get some self-respect. Stop. Give her up. And I think our non-Christian frame of mind, we can have this impression of Jesus. Why are you so desperate for my worship? Well, how is the picture of God and his pursuit of us different than that? Well, it has everything to do with the the the two people, the the two the two characters. God is the creator Who gives us everything we have and deserves our love? Verse five. She said I will go after my lovers who give me my bread and my water, my wool and my flax, my oil and my drink. But then, verse 8. And she did not know that it was I who gave her the grain. the wine and the oil, and who lavished on her silver and gold, which they use for Baal. God is not the pathetic high school guy who needs his cheerleader girlfriend to feel good about himself God doesn't need anything because he gives everything. God's love is pure generosity. It is not need. You have to switch up the illustration. He is the crown prince. She is the peasant. He owns everything, including her parents' farm, you might say. She owns nothing. He is handsome. She is homely. He is pure and good and generous and faithful. She is selfish and hoards. And is constantly on the run from her creditors. And slanders his name. It's this prince who says I love you. Come with me. Is that a pathetic picture? Gomer, God loves you. God loves you Let's peek down a side street here for a second called the doctrine of conversion. Do we forsake sin in order to come to Christ? Think about that carefully. Do we forsake sin to come to Christ? To put it another way, does repentance come before faith? Well, does Gomer forsake lovers to come to Hosea Or does Hosea go after and get Domer? Look at chapter 2, verse 6. Therefore I will hedge up her way with thorns. And verse 9, therefore I will take back my grain in its time, and my wine in its season. And verse fourteen, I will allure her, and bring her into the wilderness, and speak tenderly to her. And there I will give her her vineyards. And make the valley of Acor a door of hope. And there she shall answer, as in the days of her youth. God initiates. God saves. God rescues. God purchases. And how does he purchase Well, we discover in the New Testament he purchases us with the death of his own son on the cross, paying the penalty of the sin that we sold ourselves into. The apostle Paul says in one place, while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. While we were sinners. Christ died for us. A second lesson for our doctrine of conversion. God saves and rescues and purchases a people. Now this isn't illustrated in the Hosea Gomer illustration, but it does come out in chapter 2, verse 23. I will have mercy on no mercy, and I will say to not my people You are my people. And verse 19, I will betroth you to me in righteousness and injustice and steadfast love and in mercy. You need a people for there to be righteousness and justice and steadfast love. and mercy. You don't do those things by yourself. And these people are characterized that he's describing, they're characterized by this righteousness and justice and steadfast love and Mercy. Is that what the fellowship of this church feels like? Is that your contribution? Is that how you encounter this church? And the Apostle Paul says in another place, husbands love your wives as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her, that he might sanctify her. having cleansed her by the washing of the water with the word, so that he might present the church to himself in splendor without spot or wrinkle or any such thing. That she might be holy and without blemish. Multiple times the Gospels refers to Christ as the bridegroom. And he came to earth to allure and to speak tenderly and to win himself a bride. And he won her not with fifteen shekels of silver and a homer and lethak of barley, which might have been the amount needed to redeem an indentured servant. No, he won her by paying with his own life. He won you if you are a Christian by paying with his own life. Marriage is not ultimate. I said earlier, it exists for the sake of those who are married and for the sake of those who are single to point everyone to this ultimate reality, Christ's love for his church. In other words, it's not as if God created marriage and then when Jesus came to save, thought to himself How can I illustrate what Jesus and the church are doing? Hey, look at marriage. It's like that Rather, from before the creation of the world, God had a plan to save a people for his son. And then he thought to himself, how can I illustrate that? I know. I will embed in creation itself. In the very fabric and structure of how life works and propagates itself so that no one can get away from this sign and symbol. And so that everyone, whether they participate it or not, participate in it or not, will see this most glorious thing Remember how I said marriages involve our identity, bone of my bone, flesh of my flesh. And God says he would identify his very self with us, which he does through Christ. Yet Hosea adds to this story by explaining that the hero isn't risking himself for a beautiful damsel in distress, but for a whore. Christianity's hero and happy ending. It overlaps in some ways with your traditional Prince Charming fairy tale, but it diverges critically And who the heroine is. And what the prince must do to finally save her Now again, I admit it's difficult to stomach this word whore in our culture today, much less the idea that we are all one, so much have we absolved our sexuality of all moral evaluation, but if you are here this morning as a somebody who would not call themselves call yourself a Christian, let me say again, the biblical posture is not for any one person. To claim moral superiority over another person like political conservatives would do with progressives and progressives would do with conservatives. Rather, the Bible begins with Equal condemnation and then offers equal hope The Bible employs all of our unfaithfulnesses to one another To teach us about our fundamental unfaithfulness to Him. And the message For you this morning, my non-Christian friend, is that you can continue in this unfaithfulness and earn God's spurned husband-like judgment. But why would you when he shows his love so amazingly and his faithfulness so amazingly in the coming of Jesus Christ? Listen to this. The very strength And significance of our relational longings and our sexuality point to the fact that we were created for God That brings us to our fourth and final point, which comes under the heading of glorification. Creation, fall, redemption, glorification. Here's the one sentence summary, again a little bit long. When the bridegroom comes. We will no longer see dimly as in a mirror, but we shall know and see him fully, face to face. As the shadow of marriage gives way to the substance. When the bridegroom comes, we will no longer see dimly as in a mirror, but we shall know and see him fully face to face. as the shadow of marriage gives way to the substance. In this present age, even if we are Christians, we do not yet experience the fullness Look at chapter 3, verses 3 and 4. And I said to her, You must dwell as mine for many days. You shall not play the whore or belong to another man. So will I also be to you For the children of Israel shall dwell many days without king or prince, without sacrifice or pillar, without ephod or household gods. Hosea, as I said earlier, does not immediately resume marital intimacy, and Israel will abide without king or prince for a time. There's not yet a complete restoration. The present is a time of waiting and cleansing. But verse five then anticipates the final restoration. Afterward the children of Israel shall return and seek the Lord their God and David their king. And they shall come in fear to the Lord and to his goodness in the latter days. Now, David had been dead for several hundred years when Hosea wrote these words, but of course It would be the son of David who fulfilled this prophecy who is Jesus Christ And upon his first coming, he has restored a people to himself. We who are Christians now abide with him, but we are now in a period of waiting. As it were, we are now in verses 3 and 4. We await verse 5. And in that day, Jesus says, when eternity comes, There will no longer be marriage or the giving and receiving in marriage, he says in the book of Luke. Well, why not? Well, because you don't need the shadow when you have the substance As I've been saying, marriage and marital intimacy or sex are not ultimate. It merely anticipates the pleasure of heaven and the intimate knowledge of God. It provides a language. For understanding our union with Christ. New Testament Don scholar Don Carson writes It is this the only pleasure and intimacy in this life that comes close to anticipating the pleasure of the church and her Lord being perfectly united on the last day Is the sexual union of a good marriage. Pastor theologian John Piper similarly observes: God created us with sexual passion So that there would be a language to describe what it means to cleave to him in love. And what it means to turn away from him and to others. And again, God made us powerfully sexual so that he would be more deeply knowable. We were given the power to know each other sexually so that we might have some hint of what it will be like to know Christ supremely. Or, to quote that famous theologian Russell Brand and his critique of pornography The problem with pornography is not that it shows too much, but that it shows too little. Do you see what he means? We fall down and worship the idol of love and sex, thinking we will bend whichever rules we can to get it, thinking it will satisfy us, but in fact that's about as effective as trying to grab A shadow. And the purpose of the shadow and the place that God assigns it is to enjoy it. Yes. But ultimately, it's to point towards the substance. Or consider the words of the Bible's so-called love chapter, 1 Corinthians 13, love never ends. Prophecies, they'll pass away. Tongues they'll cease, knowledge, it'll pass. For we know in part, we prophesy in part, but when the perfect comes, the partial Will pass away. When I was a child, I spoke like a child, I thought like a child, I reasoned like a child. When I became a man, I gave up childish waste. For now we see in a mirror Dimly. But then face to face. Now I know in part. Then I shall know fully. Even as I have been fully known. And of course, we have the same promise in chapter 2 of Hosea, verse 20 of our passage. I will betrothe you to me in faithfulness, and you shall know the Lord. So much of our So much of the time our hearts remain fixed on things of this world as if they could satisfy us. Which of course they never have and they never will, but in my clearer moments, I wonder if you think this, in my clearer moments, I think to myself, Christianity is almost too good to be true. It's unbelievable. You have a God who has created a world With remarkably good things like marriage and marital intimacy. Yet we have spurned him by pursuing other loves and lovers. So, he sent his son, the bridegroom, to win for himself a bride. And this bridegroom paid not with silver or barley, but with his own life to purchase her out of slavery. A slavery that ironically she barely recognized, even though it was killing her. And he didn't kill the dragon to save her. Rather, he let the dragon kill him. And then rose from the dead, indicating that no enslavement and no dragon anywhere ever would finally have a grip on him and on her. And then he promised an eternity to his bride to which the pleasures of marital intimacy on earth only dimly point like a two-dimensional substance less shadow Friends, tell me what story is better than that? And it's true. Let's pray. Father, we've spurned you. We've sought other gods, other pleasures, other things besides you to fill us, to affirm us, to satisfy us, forgive us. And yet you come in your person of your Son Jesus Christ, and you come through your word, spoken this morning, even from the book of Hosea. To warn us of death. And then you call us to yourself. And we give you praise. Thank you for your love. It is sure and unshakable. There is nothing like it. And you deserve all praise. In Christ's name, amen.