I see you're back for more Hosea. I'm glad. We're going to be looking at Chapters 4, 5 in the first half of 6. Last week was 1, 2, and 3. We're going to be looking at 4, 5 in the first half of 6. Hosea, as you recall, was a a prophet of God to the northern tribe of Israel separate after the kingdom divided between Israel and the north, Judah. In the south, he was prophesying to the north. In our text, sometimes it will be referred to as Ephraim Referring to one of the major tribes standing in for the name Israel, Ephraim Israel. But before we begin reading, I want to look at Or I want to set the stage rather by thinking about what religion is. What is religion? Well, we could use the sociologist's definition, the Miel Durkheim defined religion as a system of beliefs and practices relative to the sacred. Or William James defined it as the belief there is an unseen order and that our supreme good lies in conforming ourselves to it. to that unseen order. Religion has to do with God and church or synagogue and mosque and all that stuff. Right? What if we thought, however, about religion functionally? That is, what function does it occupy in our lives? What does it do? How would we understand it then? Well, we might say that it has to do with what defines right and wrong and then run renders judgment on that right and wrong. We would say our religion pertains to wherever we look for salvation and justification according to that sense of right and wrong. Our religion refers to what we most love. That is to say, worship. Morality and judgment, salvation and justification, love. As well as identity. Our religion is whatever most at the foundational level defines our sense of identity Or let me make it even simpler. Your religion is whatever you most love and trust. Your religion is whatever you most love and trust. And we can see the stock market as one's religion or one's job. or the government, or a political party, or an ethnicity, or comfort, or any number of such things. I think Martin Luther's definition of a God is helpful here. A God, he says, is the term That to which we are to look for all good, and in which we are to find refuge in all need. Therefore to have a God is nothing less than to trust and believe in that one thing with your whole heart. Anything on which your heart relies and depends, I say, that really is your God. And by this definition, everyone has a God, something that they most love and worship, something that justifies them and gives them a sense of identity. something that claims the first fruits of our income and commands all of our obedience Aristotle famously said that humans are by nature political animals. Well, I would add to that humans are by nature religious animals. The very motion of our minds and hearts work through these religious categories of morality and judgment and love and worship and identity. It's just the way we think. But there's one more thing to say about religion. All religion necessarily involves an affirming or denying of the God of the Bible. You are making a supernatural claim, whether you affirm God's existence or deny it. The atheist and the born-again Christian both Make a claim about whether or not the God of the Bible upholds the universe by the word of his power. You're saying something about beyond the universe to deny God. And you're saying something beyond the universe to affirm God. You can't help but make a supernatural claim. Even if it's an anti-supernatural claim. The atheist is just as religious As the Muslim, the Jew, the Christian, because he or she has a God, and he or she makes faith claims about the ultimate existence and nature of God in this universe. The difference between the atheist and the born-again Christian is that one of them is not, that one of them is religious and one of them is not. The difference is that one of their religions is true. And one of them is not. Which brings us to Hosea and what it identifies as false religion. Go ahead and turn there if you haven't already. Last week, we looked at God's sure And unshakable love in chapters one to three. These chapters one to three introduce the whole book, almost like the prelude of a musical that quickly bounces through all the the songs, all the melodies that will come up in the course of the whole musical. Well, Hosea 1 to 3 we saw gave us creation, fall, redemption, glorification. Hosea's chapters four to six and a half basically just give us the fall. We go deep That's the melody that it plays. Or rather, our sin and God's promise of judgment against it. Against our light and promiscuous love. Which is set out as a contrast to his sure and unshakable love. God has called Israel to worship him alone, but like an unfaithful wife who gives herself over to prostitution, we saw Hosea and Gomer illustrate. Israel has gone after other gods. Sometimes God indicts them for syncretism, that is taking true religion and intermixing it with elements of false religion. And sometimes he indicts them for just false religion Both are in motion in the land, both are in motion in our text. Both syncretism and straight-up false religion are at play. It occurred to me that after last week's sermon, I should have warned some of you with children that our passage has some intense material. So let me do that right now. up front. Today's passage talks frequently about financially induced brand of unfaithfulness. Quite a bit, so be aware. We will divide our passage into three parts, and I'll start with one umbrella lesson for each part. Lesson one comes from chapter four. Here it is. Lesson one. God contends against Our false religions and our promiscuous love. God contends against our false religions And our promiscuous loves. Chapter 4, that's the big number in verse 1. We start with the summons and a basic indictment. Hear the word of the Lord, O children of Israel. For the Lord has a controversy with the inhabitants of the land. There is no faithfulness or steadfast love, and no knowledge of God in the land. There is swearing, lying, murder, stealing, committing adultery. They break all bones, and bloodshed follows bloodshed. Therefore the land mourns, and all who dwell in it languish, and also the beasts of the field and the birds of the heaven and even the fish of the sea are taken away. And then in verses 4 to 6, the indictment focuses on a particular character, on a priest. Verse 4, let no one contend and let none accuse, for with you is my contention, O priest. You shall stumble by day. The prophet also shall stumble with you by night, and I will destroy your mother My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge because you have rejected knowledge. I rejected you from being a priest to me. And since you have forgotten the law of your God, I also will forget your children. The priesthood in Israel was passed on through one's children. They'd marry and have children, and those children would become priests. So to cut off the children is to cut off the priesthood. And that that's where he then goes in verses seven to eleven to the whole priesthood. Verse seven, the more they, these priests, increased, the more they sinned against me. I will change their glory into shame. They feed on the sin of my people. They are greedy for their iniquity. And it shall be like people, like priest. I will punish them for their ways and repay them for their deeds. They shall eat, but not be satisfied. They shall play the whore but not multiply, because they have forsaken the Lord To cherish whoredom, wine, new wine, which take away the understanding That phrase like people, like priest, was a ancient nearing eastern equivalent of like father, like son. Only the order is reversed here. And so now as the priest goes, so go the people, and we see the verses move to an indictment of the whole people in the remainder of the chapter, verse 12. My people inquire of a piece of wood. And their walking staff gives them oracles. Imagine asking your cane or a crutch for a word from the Lord. For a spirit of whoredom has led them astray, and they have left their God to play the whore. They sacrifice on the tops of the mountains and burn offerings on the hills, under oak, poplar, and terebinth, because their shade is good. Therefore your daughters play the whore and your wives commit adultery. I will not punish your daughters when they play the whore, or as as one commentator puts it, I will not punish only your daughters when they play the whore, that seems to be the sense of the passage, nor your only your brides when they commit adultery, for the men themselves go aside with prostitutes and sacrifice with cult prostitutes. And a people without understanding shall come to ruin. And Israel's guilt, of course, should play as a warning to serve as a warning to Judah. Verse 15, though you play the whore, O Israel, let not Judah become guilty. Enter not into Gilgal, nor go up to Bethaven, and swear not, as the Lord lives. Gilgal and Bethaven are places of false worship. Like a stubborn heifer, Israel is stubborn. Can the Lord now feed them like a lamb in a broad pasture? Ephraim is joined to idols. Leave him alone. When their drink is gone, they give themselves to whoring. Their rules dearly love shame. Wind has wrapped them in its wing, and they shall be ashamed because of their sacrifices. Reading through the Lord's indictment against Israel slash Ephraim, we see the characteristics of false religion generally. Let me point out eight Characteristics of false religion. Number one, characteristic one, false religion, like true religion, can be found in what we most love. In verse 1, God charges them with lacking steadfast love. Because of course they love other things, not just him. And then throughout this chapter we, God brings this charge of of uh this politically incorrect as we thought about this politically incorrect phrase of whoredom and a spirit of whoredom And we saw that vividly illustrated through Hosea's marriage to the adulteress Gomer, who spread her love well beyond her husband. Characteristic number two, false religion grows out of both ignorance and the rejection of knowledge. Verse 1 again. There is no faithfulness or steadfast love and no knowledge of God in the land. Then look at verse 6. My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge. But then you have rejected. It's striking, isn't it, how quickly people will reject Christianity with so little knowledge of it. With having barely, if at all, read the Bible. And yet feel so certain that's wrong. Or if you are a Christian, have you labored to know the scriptures? Or have you let culture define your sense of right and wrong Characteristic number three, false religion forsakes God and his law. You see that in verse 2. They're swearing, lying, stealing, committing adultery. They break all bounds, bloodshed follows. Bloodshed. He's almost running through a list of the Ten Commandments here. Into verse 6, they have forsaken the law of God. Verse 10, they have forsaken the Lord. False religion always displaces God not with nothing. Something must, of necessity, take his place. Something must occupy the role of Law establishing, judgment rendering, salvation giving, worship receiving. It's impossible to have no God Something is there functioning in that way. Everyone has someone or something doing that all week. Characteristic number four, false religion is also self-serving. I I said a good minute ago it focuses on our loves Ironically, it's also centered entirely on the self. Let's go back to that illustration or metaphor of whoredom and unpack it. It's mentioned eight times. Just in this chapter, I haven't even got to the next one. What is whoredom? Well it's it's a uh uh offering of a particular kind of service for payment. Not only that, if you recall from last week's sermon, the particular services rendered involve the exposing and giving over of one's very identity and the symbols of family, her bones, my bones, her flesh my flesh is the phrase that we looked at from Genesis two. Paul puts all of this together in First Corinthians six. Do you not know that he who is joined to a prostitute becomes one body with her? For as it is written, the two will become one flesh. So the prostitute gives over these most precious things, even her identity in some sense. for payment. It goes both ways though, of course. Both are purchasing something and both are receiving something. It is an inevitably personal and spiritual transaction, yes, but it is also a business transaction. And false religion, whether of the supernatural or anti-supernatural variety, is always self-serving. Because you give your worship in order to get something. You see that reference to sacrificing with cult prostitutes in verse 14. We thought about Baal worship. last week and the sleeping with temple prostitutes in order to induce Baal to give prosperity and flourishing to the rand uh to the land. through rain and larger herds. The the payment of rain and healthy crops is what they were looking for. Characteristic five, false religion often comes mixed with true religion. It's often mixed. Christians in a church, we better not just point the finger at those false religion. It abides in our hearts too. Verse 8. These priests feed on the sin of my people. They are greedy for their iniquity. Israel's sacrificial system allowed the priests to eat the sacrifices that were brought as as their food and almost like you would pay a tithe and pastors would live on that. And yet the priests here are exploiting that system in order to gain. And these sacrifices we we see in verse 13 must have been given to Yahweh as well as other gods. A completely false religion never gets off the ground if it doesn't have any truth. Mixed in with it. And then verse 15 we see, as the Lord lives, using his name in vain. Characteristic number six: false religion does not deliver on its promises. Verse 10, they shall eat but not be satisfied, they shall play the whore but not multiply. Characteristic number seven: false religion is stubborn and ineradicable. It can't be eradicated. Apart from God's grace. Verse 16, like a stubborn heifer, Israel is stubborn. And characteristic number eight, false religion often expresses itself through sexuality. The second half of verse 10. They shall play the whore, and they have forsaken the Lord to cherish whoredom. Verse 12, second half. For a spirit of whoredom has led them astray, and they have left their God to play the whore. Verse 13, therefore your daughters play the whore, and your brides commit adultery. In verse 18, when their drink is God, they give themselves to whoring. Their rulers dearly love shame. Last week we saw that God created marriage and physical intimacy in part To anticipate the pleasures of heaven and the intimate knowledge of God. Maryland intimacy in all of its parts, including the physical, provide a language for understanding union with Christ, the point I'm making now is the reverse of that. Either false religion will employ sexuality for its purposes Or sexuality actually becomes the religion. In either case, we rewrite the laws of morality and judgment for purposes of our sexuality. Sexuality becomes salvation or a means to salvation. It defines our identity. And to be clear, I'm talking both about what we would formally identify as false religions like Baal worship or the cult of Aphrodite in ancient Greece, or the temple prostitution that was so common in the ancient world, or the promise of fifty virgins upon martyrdom in Islam But I'm also talking about the less formally identified worldview seen so through through so many MTV videos which I would watch in high school or the various streams of the sexual revolution of the 18-year-old boy or girl who feels they must be sexually active, rewriting God's rule in order to achieve some type of physical or social salvation. Or consider. What is your pornography or you're fantasizing about someone else's spouse? Well, it's your false religion You keep going back because you're convinced at some level that it's a paradise you must have You can't be without it. It'll save you. Last week in the Washington Post, a gay African-American man wrote an article comparing gay nightclubs. and black churches. He says. On the surface, gay nightclubs and black churches seem like antithetical institutions. They but They both give their attendees something no other institution can. A place where people can be themselves, even when the outside world often feels hostile. For centuries, black people have carved out spaces to affirm their blackness and humanity, and sexual minorities have established communities and gatherings meant to be refugees From queer antagonism and homophobia. Shootings are obviously unsafe, but so are sermons that promote love the sinner and hating the sin. A theological euphemism for church-sanctioned homophobia. To feel safe in these sanctuaries, religious or otherwise, we have to show up in them as fully ourselves. Unbothered by detractors' efforts to discredit our humanity. Inserting our body into these spaces creates visibility in systems that have either erased Or ignored us. Notice we encounter here all the elements, all the components of religion. The passage is suffused with moral judgment, the desire for salvation. The giving over of oneself to a particular kind of love, all enshrined in a very concrete sense of identity. The comparison to a church is exactly right. The comparison to a black church Well, I understand what he means by referring to oppressed minorities, and I affirm that. And I think it's hard to imagine a more concrete instance of homophobia than last week's shooting. But I also think the comparison trades on what the philosophers would call a category mistake. You're using the wrong category here. The LGBT movement in America today is not another ethnicity. Theologically speaking, it is another religion. Just like Judaism or Islam or Christianity. But really it's not just the LGBT movement, it's the entire Enterprise for sexual freedom. And I think I'd say especially among heterosexuals. Nobody is singled out here. What kind of sexual sin is far more common, after all? It's not homosexual sin. Two days after this piece in the Washington Post, essayist Mary Eberstadt wrote a piece called The First Church of Secularism and Its Sexual Sacraments. She writes In place of the Judeo-Christianity of yesterday and mimicking its outlines to an uncanny degree, a new body of belief. coming out of the Sexual Revolution, has by now a well developed secular catechism. Its fundamental faith is this is that the Sexual Revolution, that is the gradual destigmatization of all forms of consenting nonmarital sex, The sexual revolution has been a boon to all humanity. In the new dispensation, traditional restrictions and attitudes are viewed as judgmental, moralistic forms of socially sanctioned aggression. Especially against women in sexual minorities. And these victims of sexuality have become the new secular saints The first commandment of this new secularist writ is that no sexual acts between consenting adults is wrong. Two corollary imperatives are that whatever contributes to consenting sexual acts acts is a absolute good And that anything in interfering or threatening to interfere with consenting sexual acts is by definition wrong. And neighbor Stat makes the point that every area of these cultural wars finally goes back to sex. And then she goes on to describe the manner in which this new religion has enforced itself with the zeal of the Inquisition, referring to uh the firing of fire chiefs, or uh the removing of military chaplains, for quoting from the Book of Ruth and so forth. And then she concludes this. Exactly like the followers of other faiths, they, the secular progressivist, Believe both that they are right and that people who disagree are wrong, and that those other people ought to think differently The so-called cultural war, in other words, has not been conducted by people of religious faith on one side and people of no faith on the other side. It is instead a context of competing faiths. One in a good book, and the other in a more newly written figurative book of secularist orthodoxy about the sexual revolution. In some, secularist progressivism today is less a political movement Than a church. And Hosea, I propose, would say she's right. So how do we respond to last week's shooting? Well, in precisely the same way we would respond if someone broke into a synagogue or a Unitarian church or a mosque or a Mormon temple and shot 50 people with the mourning and sadness and grief that we saw demonstrated in Ryan's prayer a moment ago. And a call for justice and a search for solutions. And Christians should have no more interest in opposing those who identify as LGBT than we have in oppressing Jews. Or Muslims, or Mormons, or Rastafarians. That said It's coercive and manipulative to say that I cannot both mourn and say I disagree with your religion. But doesn't saying that homosexuality is wrong contribute to the violence? No more than saying Judaism Or Unitarianism is wrong, provokes violence against those groups. Or that saying you believe Christianity is mistaken contributes to violence against Christianity. Yes, those who do violence against religion typically say that religion is wrong. But there's also a whole lot more going on there. Let's not play guilt by association Only totalitarian states silent all religious and ideological disagreement in order to remove the possibility of social unrest. Now I've taken the time to name secular progressivism just as the prophets named the Baals, both because whoredom is the clear emphasis of our text this morning. and because secular progressivism is the most powerful form, I would propose, or one of the most powerful forms of Baal worship today. It is the established religion of the state. Some religions are more aggressive than others, and secular progressivism's very refusal to name itself as a religion gives it license to wield the mechanisms of the state. Yet keep in mind also what I said last week The starting point of the Christian religion is the assumption that Christianity is right, yes, just as everyone thinks they're right, including the secular progressives, but unlike every other religion Christians don't actually assume we are morally better, or at least we don't, insofar as we are being consistent with our Christianity. Christianity, I said last week, starts with equal condemnation. of the innate false religion in all of our hearts, in order to point to an equal hope. It is, you might say, an equal opportunity offender beginning with ourselves. And the offense against ourselves. What then are some of the false religions and gods we battle inside the church? Well You might examine your own sexualities. And what place do you find your hope and your identity there? Maybe in your physical appearance. Maybe in your past or future experience, maybe in how pristine and untouched you are Maybe in your beliefs about certain addictive inevitabilities. You will find your false religion in your labor, in your vocation, in what causes you stress and anxiety. And what you think will relieve your stress and anxiety and what makes you feel good about yourself. Andy Johnson and I had a disagreement in the recent elders meeting. Andy made the better argument. It bothered me the rest of the evening. Now if only said that, then I would have shown that I know better. Why? Because I find identity in making good arguments. You will find your religion and your politics. Do I really need to explain that one? Watch the talk shows, read Facebook, listen in at the water cooler cooler, the moralizing, the condemning, the certainties, the prophecies of what will be. Well look at chapter 5, verse 13. When Ephraim saw his sickness and Judah his wound, then Ephraim went to Assyria and sent to the great king. But he is not able to cure you, cure you, or heal your wound. You will find your false religions and your superstitions. I remember seeing holding a single wadded up paper looking at the trash can across the room thinking to myself okay if I make this basket Shannon will marry me okay best of three Our substance abuse can point to our false religion, wine and new wine, as verse 11 says, whether it's too much medication, too much alcohol, too much food. I confess I know what this is like in gluttony. To look forward all day to a certain meal and to kind of stuff myself. With that meal and then get to the other side and I'm still somehow not satisfied. I'm wanting more, but my stomach hurts, but I'm disappointed because I was You can see it in your hotter emotions like anger and disdain. You can see your false religion in your cooler emotions, like the emotions of rest and joy. We can even employ false religion in our churchly activities. As the Lord lives, God willing. See how I use that phrase? Look at me teaching a class, look at me making sacrifices to do hospitality, look at me showing up for nursery on time. And all of this sin is our substitute religion, to use a phrase Ken Barbeck used with me earlier this week. Perhaps the profoundest false religion, of course, is the pride in all of our hearts. As you see mentioned in chapter 5, verse 5, we are so proud. We would be God. That's our false religion. One last thing to note about false religion, call it a ninth characteristic. It's a group activity. And as we see in this passage, it belongs to a people, and every people has its priests. The groups that you occupy, friends influence you, the stories you tell one another in those groups, the language that you use, the moral judgments that you make. No, I'm not saying every group is a false religion. I'm just saying that often that's where idolatry will manifest itself at a at a group level, as with the people of Israel. Think of the sexual abuses that occur in so many fraternity houses. The justifications that go on around it. It's college Think of the group think in the strong sense of, are you one of us? Among political parties and interest groups. Think of how video gamers will give up sleep all night and wrap their entire lives around the game. Now it's fine to join groups, but never let the narrative of the groups you occupy subvert true religion. Something I pray for my daughters almost daily is that God would give them the wisdom to know how to respond to an encroaching culture, that they would be discerning And lead instead of just be consumers and followers Pray that for ourselves. And then what is a church? Well, a church is a group where we should see the evidences of true The New Testament counterpart to the priests of Israel is not the pastors or elders. The counterpart to the priests is All of us. The church members. And in our relationships, in our conversations outside of this room, and and are teaching and singing inside of this room, these will never be neutral. They will either All affirm a false religion or affirm a true religion. Let's pray for one another. And speak of God to one another I confess that in my personal relationships with some of you, I don't do this enough. I w I I I wish I did it more. I hope to do it more. I had Lunch recently with Garrett Kell. Many of you know him. He's a bit more spiritual and breathy than I am. Jonathan, what has God been teaching you? Well, an hour later, I left that lunch lamenting the horror of hell. and glorying in the delights of heaven. That is Garrett's after effect on time with me. That's the effect he has. Yeah. What's your effect? What's your after-effect? What's my after-effect when we spend time with others? Let's turn to chapter five in a second point. And these last two points will be shorter. Point two. God promises to judge our false religions and loves. God promises to judge our false religions and If chapter 4 emphasizes the charge or the indictment, chapter 5 lays out the judgment and the sentence. He starts by calling them to hear his judgment. Verse 1. Hear this, O priests. Pay attention, O house of Israel. Give ear, O house of the king, for the judgment is for you. For you have been a snare at Mizbah and a nut spread upon Tabor. And the revolters have gone deep into slaughter, but I will discipline all of them. He returns and reads from their rap sheet again in verses 3 to 6. I know Ephraim, and Israel is not hidden from me. For now, O Ephraim, you have played the whore, Israel is defiled. Their deeds do not permit them to return to their God, for the spirit of Horedom is within them, and they know not the Lord. The pride of Israel testifies to his face. Israel and Ephraim shall stumble in his guilt Judah also will stumble with them. With their flocks and herds they shall go to seek the Lord, but they will not find him. He is withdrawn from them. They have dealt faithlessly with the Lord, for they have borne alien children. Now the new moon shall devour them with their fields. And then he moves to the sentence in verses 8-12. Blow the horn in Gibeah, the trumpet in Ramah, sound the alarm at Beth Aven. We follow you, O Benjamin. Ephraim shall become a desolation in the day of judgment. Among the tribes of Israel I make known what is sure. The princes of Judah have become like those who move the landmark. Upon them I will pour out my wrath like water. Ephraim is oppressed, crushed in judgment, because he was determined to go after filth. But I am like a moth to Ephraim, and like dry rot to the house of Judah. Finally, in verses 13 and 14, he tells them they can't appeal to another king, another judgment. When Ephraim saw his sickness and Judah his wound, then Ephraim went to Assyria and sent to the great king. But he is not able to cure or heal your wound. For I will be like a lion to Ephraim, and like a young lion to the house of Judah. I, even I, will tear and go away I will carry off, and no one shall rescue. I gave you eight characteristics of false religion. Let me quickly give you five characteristics of God's judgment. Characteristics one God's judgment will come to those areas where you've where we have been assigned responsibility and authority. So wherever you have authority and responsibility That's where God's judgment will come first and foremost. Notice the double meaning of the phrase in verse 1 of chapter 5. He he addresses the kings and the priests, and then he says, This judgment is for you. Judgment is for them, of course, because being a creep peace a priest, being a king, means being charged with exercising judgment. Your judgment. But that's not what he means. He means he's bringing judgment against them. Because they have been a snare And to those of you who have experienced sinful discrimination and unjust barriers From those in authority or those in the majority, know that God will judge those authorities and those majorities for their sin. For all of us, what authority has God given you? What place of authority do you occupy in the office or the home or the nation, or the church. It is in those areas where the microscope of God's investigation will move most slowly and carefully. And where the heat of his judgment will be felt most intensely And with the measure you use, it will be measured to you. Harshness for harshness. Mercy for mercy Israel, like Adam and Eve, were given authority over the beasts of the field, the birds of the heaven, the fish of the sea. But now look at chapter 4, verse 3. All three of those domains are languishing, mourning. Their authority, Israel's authority, didn't bring life and flourishing, but languishing. And death. What does your, what does my authority bring? Think about the different domains of your life Are those around you strengthened, built up, stronger, holier, godlier, charged, encouraged? Undermined, pushed down, hurting Characteristic number two. God's judgment will be experienced in the futility of false worship and love. Chapter 4, verse 10. They shall eat but not be satisfied. They shall play the whore but not multiply. Or chapter 5, verse 5. Israel and Ephem shall stumble in his guilt. Judah also shall stumble with them. And then verse 13. Ephraim went to Assyria and sent to the great king, but he is not able to heal your wound. So, friend, have you ever longed for sexual sin? attained it and then immediately felt its emptiness. Have you ever yearned for the promotion or the job or the school admission or the byline? Got it and realized it, yeah, not much here. I trust some of you have heard the Tom Brady illustration that I think is one of the Old Testament course seminars after winning his third Super Bowl. This New England Patriot quarterback said in a 60 minutes interview, why do I have three Super Bowl rings and still think there's something greater out there for me? I mean, maybe a lot of people would say, hey man, this is what it is, but I reached my goal, my dream, my life. And I think it's got to be more than this. I mean this isn't, this can't be what it's all cracked up to be. Characteristic number three. God's judgment consists of God's rejection, absence, and the closing down of the way of repentance. It consists of his rejection, absence, and closing down of the way of repentance. Chapter 4, verse 6, I reject you from being a priest to me. I also will forget your children. Then chapter 5, verse 4. Their deeds do not permit them to return to the Lord. to to their God. For the spirit of whoredom is within them, and they know not the Lord. And then verse six, with their flocks and herds they shall go to seek the Lord, but they will not find him. He has withdrawn from them You remember how God's Spirit dwelt in the temple, and with their flocks and herds they brought their sacrifices, but now he says, I'm as it were out of the temple, and there instead of my spirit is the spirit of Hordon. And so you will not find me there. I've departed. Years ago I was with a good friend named Martin, and we often talked about Christianity. He was an agnostic. Remember saying to him once, you know, Martin, all these conversations that we're having about Jesus and Christianity, each one is sort of like God's knocking on the door in your life, which which you've even admitted is as you said, some of these things are compelling to you. But as we have conversation after conversation, let me just say as a good friend, in fact I wouldn't be a good friend if I didn't say, one day the knocking will stop. And he said, whoa, that's kind of heavy, Jonathan. By which I think he meant impolite, in politic. It might have been. Maybe there would have been a better way to say it, but the point stands. The way of salvation will one day close for all of us. If you are here this morning and you are not a follower of Jesus, be careful about how many times you say, no, not yet. To God's call in your life. I suspect that everyone in this room has felt that call to repentance, that call to God. And I know that everyone in this room has now heard that call to repentance, that call to God. We can perpetually shut our ears and close off our hearts. That call to salvation will stop at some point. And if seeing God walk away, seeing his back walk away from you doesn't scare you, that's because you do not know how dependent even now your life is upon the goodness and the pleasure and the breath of God. If you are a member of this church and that you are continually abiding in known sin in your life, that call will also stop for you. Characteristic number four, God's judgment results in destruction and ruin. God's judgment results in destruction and ruin. Chapter 4, verse 6, my people are destroyed for lack of knowledge. Verse 14, a people without understanding shall come to ruin. In chapter 5, verse 9, Ephraim shall come become a desolation in the day of punishment. Or look at verse 10. I will pour out my wrath like water. Ephraim is oppressed, crushed. in judgment. Or verse 12, I am like a moth eats it up. Like dry rot. Verse 14, I will be like a lion, like a young lion. I, even I, will tear and go away, I will carry off and no one's rescue. God's loving presence becomes Absenced in judgment because God's wrathful presence becomes present in judgment. He's not utterly absent in hell. He is present in wrath in hell. Teaches the scriptures like a lion. One characteristic of maturity is an elongated perspective. When we've been there 10,000 years, God's loving presence or God's present in wrath will be the central, non-negotiable fact. Of all of our lives in every single passing moment of a forever now. Our whole beings on that day, 10,000 years from now, will be Unalterably gripped, our gaze unalterably fixed. upon endless glory and delight, or the ceaseless horror of eternal damnation We will either be enjoying the substance of what the shadow of marriage and marital intimacy, as we talked about last week, so dimly points to will either be enjoying that or the despair of endless loneliness, darkness, suffering. God says he is like a lion who tears. And Scripture does not use strong images to point to weak realities. It uses strong images to point to stronger realities. Characteristic number five. God's first act of judgments are the signs of his love and mercy. Chapter 5, verse 2, I will discipline all of them. And he disciplines to bring repentance. He warns of judgment to bring to repentance. So why does he speak the words of warning in this book? Why would he have me preach from this ancient book? Because he loves everyone in this room and in everyone who you will see when you walk about upon the streets. And as and as we read this morning, he yearns for all to come to repentance. These words of warning are not about being mean or harsh or about saying, come to repentance. We love. God loves. That's why he bothered to speak, Hosea 4-6, to the people of Israel and to us. And that brings us to our third and last point and the last bit of today's text, lesson three. God calls us by his word to love him and him alone. God calls us by his word to love him and him alone. Look at chapter 5, verse 15. I will return again to my place until they acknowledge their guilt and seek my face, and in their distress earnestly seek me. Come, let us return to the Lord. For he has torn us that he may heal us, he has struck us down and he will bind us up. After two days, he will revive us. On the third day, he will raise us up that we may live before him. Let us know, let us press on to know the Lord. His going out is as sure as the dawn. He will come to us as the showers, as the spring rains that water the earth. What shall I do with you, O Ephraim? What shall I do with you, O Judah? Your love? It's like a morning cloud. Like the dew that goes early away. Therefore I have hewn, chop, cut. I have hewn them by the prophets. The knowledge of God rather than burnt So we see here God waits for them to repent in verse 15. And then in verses 1 to 3 of chapter 6, we have we have something that sounds like repentance. Up is is this a sincere turning or or is this just more instrument instances of gesturing towards repentance? But but really he's not Their first love. Well, verse 4 makes you wonder, what shall I do with you? Your love's like a morning cloud, like the dew. It's there at 6:30 in the morning, but by 9:30, it's burned off. So verse 5, he sends his prophets to speak cutting and slaying words. He promises that his judgment will come like the Light of the morning sun gradually crawling across fields and forests and mountains from one time zone to the next. God calls us to repent. So often we mean to repent I wonder if you're like me, you sit here sometimes on Sunday morning and you think to yourself, yes, okay, yes, this is good. This week I'm going out and I'm doing this and I'm doing that and I'm getting up at six, I'm gonna read my Bible, I'm gonna And the week comes. Then Sunday afternoon comes. And the same old spiritual laziness, malaise, just kind of creeps back in. Sunday's best intentions burned off. In the flesh, friends, apart from God's redeeming grace, our hearts are fickle. Our love is promiscuous. That is the indictment of Hosea 4 to 6. And as I meditated and prayed over this text this week. I think you and I are to feel that weight. That is the weight of this text. We are to feel the weight of God's anticipated judgment for all of our false religions, false moralities, false plans of salvations, false loves, false worships. And if you cannot see the fickleness of your heart and all of its false religions, you don't know your heart As a Christian, on some days I can feel a strong love for God. On many days, my heart can still be gripped with the love for the things of this world. I can preach a 60-minute sermon on an obscure Old Testament book. I'm one of the elders or pastors in this church, but if you are here as a young Christian or as a non-Christian, make no mistake, Jonathan Lehman in the flesh, in himself, knows quite well He is no more holy than anyone else in this room. In the flesh, he, we are wayward. In the flesh, our hearts want the world Our text began this morning in chapter 4, verse 1, with God saying, there's no steadfast love. And it concludes with him restating his desire for steadfast love. Where do we find that steadfast love? How do we get it? What do we do in here to love steadfastly? I was in a cab this week. The driver said he was an agnostic. I asked him if he ever tried praying. He said he hadn't. I told him to try. Ask God to draw near to you. I was in a restaurant last week. The hostess said she was an atheist. She said she had once been hurt in a non-denominational church, by which I understood probably an evangelical. And no longer now she no longer believes. I told her I was sorry she had been hurt. And I asked her if she would be willing to give Jesus one more chance. And Jesus said, Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come in to eat with him, and he with me. Friends, we must turn to God. We must pray, but finally our hope is not in our turning. It is not finally in our prayers. It is in Him. Because he is the one who loves steadfastly and comes to us in our sin and takes us, as we talked about last week. I can't finally look in here and say, love steadfastly enough. It just doesn't. But he does. And so he came and steadfastly lived the perfect life. Steadfastly, lovingly, went to the cross Paid the penalty for all of my unsteadfast love, all my fickleness, all my all our promiscuousness. And then he conquered the power of our false gods and our false religions. In rising again from the dead. And he's grabbed us. He said, turn away from that false religion. Follow me. Friend, I can't offer you hope that in this life your love will your heart will love God steadfastly. I can promise you, like Hosea to Gomer, he will love you steadfastly. So look to him. Do not turn away. Let's pray. Father God, to whatever extent it abides in our hearts, we confess to a spirit of whoredom. And we pray and we ask for a spirit of repentance. Please, Lord. For those of us who know you and are members of this church, and those of us who do not yet know you are not following you. In both cases, we pray for a spirit of repentance. Because you are the one who is worthy. You are the one who loves steadfastly. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.