Just like many of you keep track of developments in your professional field or industry, my job with Nine marks requires me to keep one eye, as it were, on churches out there and how churches are doing. So you might wonder, how's the church industry going in America today? Well, I barely need to tell you that there are more and more cultural forces arrayed against churches from the outside. Christianity has moved from a long-held position of societal respectability and even some political influence to a Position of political and social marginalization. And this puts churches at something of a crossroads Will we go with the Bible or with God's word? With societal disfavor or favor And I'd like to tell you that churches around the country have been working hard, studying the Word of God, training for this moment, and that they're ready for it. But At the risk of continuing to sound like Debbie Downer, inside of churches, the prosperity gospel, which Mark just preached about, grows in its appeal. Whether in the harder health and wealth forms or the softer Jesus just came to give you a good marriage versions. After all, prosperity gospel works well in an environment of growing societal disfavor since it sands down Christianity's sharper edges. Among doctrinally solid churches, the 20-minute lighter topical sermon continues to grow in prosperity, uh prop popularity from what I hear from friends and see. And recall also that Sunday school being out of fashion and small groups being more of fellowship, which is certainly good Makes you wonder, well, when exactly are the Christians being taught to really study God's Word? And what about membership and discipline? Who who who the people of God actually are? Well, one very prominent trend setting evangelical church is about to dispense with church membership because that allows them to not have to deal with the whole awkward you have to repent of your sexual sin thing before being a part of us. Let's just get rid of membership and we don't have to even ask the question so much. Much. Just tell us you love Jesus. Meanwhile, the dramatic growth of multi-site churches stretches the distance between members and their elders, their pastors, even further, and it also makes church increasingly less about a family that gathers and lives together and more about an event for which I show up and spectate once a week In other words, friends, the several decades old, half-century-old really growth of consumeristic and entertainment-driven forms of Christianity inside the church have not prepared us for what's going on outside the church. Or to flip it, you might say Consumeristic Christianity has perfectly prepared us to adapt ourselves to this cultural moment. to sideline Bible to go with the culture. People often say that social disfavor, societal disfavor, and persecution weeds out nominal Christianity. And some of that happens, but disfavor and persecution also encourage a kind of nominalism, one in which we keep the easier bits and discard the hard bits. And that works for a generation, maybe two. Now, what I'm talking about at a macro level, corporately, is also true at a micro level individually. The longer we live as Christians, the more opportunities we have to adapt ourselves to the world around us and the s uh the more easy it becomes to slowly morph into something like nominal Christians. And what is a nominal Christian. Well, it's it's a Christian in name only. It's someone who at one time made a sincere, perhaps even zealous profession of faith, but is Time has gone on, it's become easier to continue using the language of Christianity, maybe even attend church, yet at the same time the allegiances, the alliances of the heart are creasingly revealed to be something other than what we profess with our mouths. And the book of Hosea, which we're considering for a fourth and Final time this morning deals throughout with this theme of nominalism or unfaithfulness among God's people. Hosea, as we've seen, is prophesying to the northern kingdom of Israel after Israel divided between north and south, Israel and Judah. Israel we'll see is often referred to as Ephraim. So when I say Ephraim or the text uh just think Israel. And Osea here is towards the end of his ministry, either shortly before, maybe just after, probably shortly before. the final Babylon or Assyrian conquest of the northern kingdom in 722 in which they destroy it utterly. In chapters 1 to 3 we encounter the theme of unfaithfulness in the story of Gomer. In chapters 4 to 6, we consider the characteristics of false religion. Went through different characteristics of false religion demonstrated by Israel. In chapters 7 to 11, we we enumerated several aspects of nominal Christianity and considered how easy it is for us, like Israel, to adopt the forms of the faith and yet be opposed to God. And finally this week we we pick up the same thing again, this time starting with the idea of deceit. Go ahead and turn to chapter 12. In a sentence, the point of these last three chapters, 12, 13, 14, is this. In a sentence is this, you are not what you once were. So return to the Lord, who alone can save and heal. That's the big idea of this text. You are not what you once were. So return to the Lord who alone can save and heal. Let me unpack that in three points this morning. Point one. You say all the right things, but you're not what you once were You say all the right things, but you're not what you once were. And we've been seeing them say the right things throughout this book. Chapter 4, verse 15, as the Lord lives. Or chapter 8, verse 2, my God, we, Israel, know you. And look at the first two verses of this week's passage, starting actually with the last verse of chapter 11, verse 12. Ephraim has surrounded me with lies, the house of Israel with deceit. But Judah still walks with God and is faithful to the Holy One. Ephraim feeds on the wind and pursues the east wind all day long. They multiply falsehood and violence. They make a covenant with Assyria. Oil is carried to Egypt. Ephraim, Israel, we're here, surrounds God with lies. Think about that phrase. It's like they're walking around him. saying lies to him, right? O Father who art in heaven, hallowed be your name. We are children of the promise. They surround him with the right words, but their hearts are dishonest. There's no heart reality behind the words. They are filling their mouths with wind. How nourishing is that? They are not trusting the Lord. Who are they trusting? Well, they're looking to Assyria in the north. Hey, we'll make a deal with you, Assyria. And they're looking to Egypt in the south. You ever tasted oil this good? I'll make you a bargain How easy it is to think we're being reasonable when really we're being faithless. God then asks Israel and Judah both to look back to their forefather Jacob, verse 2 of chapter. 12. The Lord has an indictment against Judah and will punish Jacob according to his ways. He will repay him according to his deeds. In the womb, he took his brother by the heel. In his manhood, he strove with God. It's like God is bringing out the family photo album. Remember this? And he's looking at pictures of Israel's childhood. Verse 4, he strove with the angel and prevailed. He wept and sought favor. He met God at Bethel. And there God spoke with us, the Lord, the God of hosts, the Lord is his memorial name. So you, by the help of your God, return. Hold fast to love and justice, and wait continually for your God. Now why flip back in the family photo album to Jacob? Why not Abraham or Moses? I'm not sure really. Maybe it's because Jacob too was a deceiver. He he deceived his father Isaac to get the inheritance from Esau. He deceived Laban in order to get away with the larger share of the herd. Still, this deceiver, Jacob, repented. He wept. He sought God. God drew him. God spoke with him, it says to us. Do you remember these days? Israel, God is saying. Verse 6's word, return, also makes the point that Israel is not what it once was. It's like Jesus' words to the church in Ephesus. You've abandoned the love you had at first. Remember then how far you've fallen. Repent and do the works you did at first. And friends, you too and I too might look back on the earlier days of our Christianity, maybe the earlier days of our church. Was there more weeping for sin? Was there more struggling like Jacob? I want the blessing of God. God grant me your blessing Apart from it, I have nothing. How easy to fall asleep. How easy to grow complacent. I'm 43, which to some of you sounds old, to others not that old, depending on where you're standing. And speaking just here, kind of the midpoint, I can testify how easy it is to get lulled into sleep. Enjoying the world, wanting the world. Still saying the right things. Hosea continues by pointing to Israel's empty boasts. Look at verse 7. A merchant in whose hands are false balances. He loves to oppress. A false balance, of course, says one thing, but it's actually doing something else. Verse 8. Ephraim has said, Ah, but I am rich. I have found wealth for myself in all my labors. They cannot find me in iniquity or sin. They claim to be innocent, but they're like false merchants and So God pulls out the family photo album again, verse 9. I'm the Lord your God from the land of Egypt. Remember me? I'm the one who saved you before. I'm the only one who can save you again. Verse 9 b I will make you again dwell in tents as in the days of the appointed feast. If you repent, I will bring you back and make you feast. And the flipping through the photo album continues. Hey look, there's the prophets. Verse 10. I spoke to the prophets. It was I who multiplied visions and through the prophets gave parables. The people don't listen. They continue in their false religiosity. Verse 11. If there is iniquity in Gilead, they shall surely come to nothing. In Gilgal they sacrifice bulls. Their altars are also are like stone heaps on the furrows of the field. If you're trying to plow a field and there's stone heaps in the furrows, that makes it hard to plow, right? And such are their sacrifices. Even in a falsely venerated town like Gilgal Verse 12. Jacob fled to the land of Aram. There Israel served for a wife. And for a wife he guarded the sheep. Remember these old photos? By a prophet the Lord brought Israel up from Egypt, and by a prophet he was guarded. Ephraim has given bitter provocation. So his Lord will leave his blood guilt on him. And will repay him for his disgraceful deeds. Why has Ephraim or Israel given bitter provocation? Well, Israel hears the prophets And ignore them. Or rather, they they hear the prophets, they agree with them with their lips, but they don't do truth. Think of John chapter 3, verse 21. Whoever does what is true comes to the light So, friends, I want you to meditate for a moment on the corrupting nature of nominal Christianity, how it slowly hardens the heart. When a person professes faith, After all, Satan doesn't leave. He's still there. He just comes in and camouflage, right? He he switches up his tactics. He He teaches you to speak in Christianese, to use Bible words, to believe, say Sing the right things, you give the right answers in Sunday school, yet your heart remains fastened to the world. And For a while it seems like you have both, Christ and the world. Cake and eat it. And after a while of doing that, you actually begin to think having Christ means having the world And the true content is taken out and thrown away, and a false content is placed inside And the whole time it's got the same veneer, the same smile, but it's not truly Christ. It's not truly Christianity that you're singing and praising, giving praise to. Christ is redefined. Christianity is redefined. Even as you sit there in church believing what you hear you're not actually potentially believing the true Christ because you've trained yourself over time to do something other than what you hear and agree with. Almost like training yourself to think no means yes and yes means no. Your brain is deceived, your heart is hardening, your soul evaporating Like mist, like chaff. Keep reading. Chapter 13, verse 1. When Ephraim spoke, there was trembling. He was exalted in Israel. We like to be exalted. But he incurred guilt through Baal, this false God, and died. Died like Adam under judgment. Yet he lives on. So verse 2. And now they sin more and more, and make for themselves metal images, idols skilfully made of their silver, all of them the work of craftsmen. It is said of them Those who offer human sacrifice kiss calves. Therefore, they shall be like the morning mist, or like the dew that goes early away, like the chaff that swirls from the threshing floor, or like smoke from a window. There is a logic or a rationality to nominal Christianity, which is why it is so heart hardening. The longer we believe the truth but not do it, the harder it is to see what's happening The harder it is to extricate ourselves from it. So, verse 2, we sin more and more We call ourselves God's people, but we begin to worship the things that we make with our hands, our jobs, our houses, our respectability, even some cases our churches. And we do whatever it takes not to depart from those things. We'll even kiss a cow to use this Old Testament language for worshiping the created thing and not the creator. You know the incident of the Israelites worshiping cows. How foolish is that? Tom Rayner, president of Right LifeWay, wrote a book called Autopsy of a Deceased Church. He examined 16 different churches that had died. asked the question, what do they all have in common? What did he find? Well he writes this. The most pervasive and common thread of our autopsies was that the deceased churches lived for a long time with the past. As hero. They often clung to things of the past with desperation and fear, and when any internal or external force tried to change the past, they responded with anger and resolution. We'll die before we change. And they did. Hear me clearly. These churches were not hanging on to biblical truths. They were not clinging to clear Christian morality. They were not fighting for primary doctrines or second doctrines or even tertiary doctrines As a matter of fact, they were not fighting for doctrines at all. They were fighting for the past, the good old days, the way it used to be, the way we want it today. And so as Israel calls, as God calls Israel to remember, there is a wrong kind of remembrance. It's called nostalgia. Which is a warm, fuzzy repainting of the past, which focuses on ourselves. And nostalgia itself becomes a kind of idol, even a nostalgia about a church. And Christianity as nostalgia is, of course, one more form of nominal Christianity. a form of unbelief, a slow, gentle road to death, as with these churches. Now here's the thing about unbelief, whether the unbelief of nominal Christianity or the unbelief of those who decidedly reject Christianity. Unbelief does not ultimately root in being unable to believe It's not about what the philosophers call epistemology. It's not about whether Descartes' argument from reason's work or Locke's from evidence or Nietzsche's rejection of both. Unbelief begins with idolatry. It begins with wanting to be God Because worshiping an idol made of silver or a cow isn't actually about the silver or the cow. It's about having some system that you can control with just the right inputs. If I do this, then I'll get that. So it's an idol, but it's actually me as God. Because I'm controlling the whole thing. Now Unbelief in God results from assuming the role of God. That makes sense, doesn't it? You know how this works. Someone says, yeah, I just have a hard time believing in God or that he's good. Well, you want to be God, right? Well, sure, but that that's not why I have a hard time believing in God. Okay, right. And in response to all of this, God brings an indictment, as we saw in verse 2. And that brings us to the second main point from the text. Point two: God will devour those who name Him while forsaking Him. God will devour those who name Him while forsaking Him. Look at chapter 13, verse 4. But I am the Lord your God from the land of Egypt. You know no God but me, and besides me there is no Savior. Verse four makes me want to think of one of those scenes, you know, from a T television show or a movie where the bad guys are kind of trying to get away and they rush through the hotel, restaurant, and then they rush through the kitchen, then they rush out the back door and oh. There's Robocop waiting. Or Superman or some other force that they can't defeat. That's verse four But I am the Lord your God. You know no God but me. Besides me, there is no Savior. Verse 5. It was I who knew you in the wilderness, in the land of drought. But when they had grazed, they became full. They were filled, and their heart was lifted up. Therefore, they forgot me. Let's look at those words again in verse 6. Grazed, became full, were filled, lifted up, forgot, grazed, became full, lifted up. Forgot. How many times have we asked the Lord for something and He's given it and we forgot him? How many times have we gotten up in the morning and maybe read the word and prayed and then five minutes later we're snapping at our kids or snapping at another driver or complaining about our colleagues? What do you have that you did not receive, Paul says? If you then you received it, why do you boast if as if you hadn't? Hearts become lifted up. We forget. We continue in verse 7. So I am to them like a lion. Like a leopard, I will lurk beside the way, I will fall upon them like a bear robbed of her cubs, I will tear open their breast, and there I will devour them like a lion. As a wild beast would rip them open. Notice the verbs in these two verses. Will lurk, fall upon, tear open, devour, rip open. Notice the similes. Like a lion, like a leopard, like a bear robbed of her cubs, like a lion, as a wild beast. I think God means it. Why do you think Peter says judgment will begin with the household of God? Why do you think Jesus says to the lukewarm church in Laodicea, I will spit you out of my mouth? The only thing I can conclude from verbs like these and similes like these and New Testament warnings like these Is that the most unsafe place we can stand spiritually is in the state of nominal Christianity In the state of calling yourself a Christian, naming Christ as your Savior, and yet trusting and hoping finally in this world. After all, the nominal Christian, perhaps more than anyone, should have known better. They have the knowledge. They heard the teaching. They sat through service after service, and yet they effectively despise God. He he's rescued them, we're told, from the land of drought, verse 5. We wear his name, yet They're more interested in what their hands can make, it says. He would be their helper Yet now he must destroy them. Verse 9. He destroys you, O Israel, for you are against me, against your helper. Where now is your king to save you in all your cities? Where are your rulers? Those of whom you said, give me a king and princes. I gave you a king in my anger. And I took them away in my wrath. The iniquity of Ephraim is bound up, the sin is kept in store, the pangs of childbirth come for him. But he is an unwise son. For at the right time he does not present himself at the opening of the womb. The judgment of God means that iniquity is stored up. Like in a box of treasure. And eventually it will deliver. God will not save. A king will not save In these verses, we have the family photo album out again. And God reminds them of the time when they asked for a king. And of course, they had some good reasons for wanting a king. The sons of Samuel were awful. But they also wanted grandeur. We want to be like the nations. And they wanted to put their faith in the seen instead of the unseen. We want a king who will fight our battles for us. Perhaps as much as anywhere else, our true allegiances, our true alliances will often show themselves in our politics, where we look to for security and prosperity, salvation. Verse 14 offers a brief reprieve for any who do look to God. I shall ransom them from the power of Sheol, I shall redeem them from death, O death, where your plagues Oh Sheol, where's your sting? Death and Sheol, the underworld of death, are the final stage. of God's judgment, but God can redeem, ransom us from even there, the verse tells us, death has no power over God or God's people. And so, what a witness Christians can offer when they stand before bad governments and bad laws and say, do your worst. Kill me. What sting is there in that? I am with the one who has power over death. Think of Daniel. How much power did the nation of Babylon have over him? None. What a witness we give when we don't let any governments of this world or elections in this world threaten us and undo our faith Even possible invaders like Assyria or whatever the equivalent is today. Yet for those who remain nominal in their faith, God will look at the end of verse 14. Compassion is hidden from my eyes. Though he may flourish among his brothers, the east wind, the wind of the Lord shall come, rising from the wilderness, and his fountain shall dry up, his His spring shall be parched, it shall strip his treasury of every precious thing. Read this ver this verse against the backdrop of the Garden of Eden with all of its flourishing Now it's all drying up. It's a reverse Eden, a judgment, becoming parched, flourishing stops. And read verse 16, too, against God's Genesis 1 command. to be fruitful and multiply. 16. Samaria shall bear her guilt, because she has rebelled against her God. They shall fall by the sword. Their little ones shall be dashed in pieces. They're pregnant women ripped open. On the one hand, this language here is highly symbolic, the fruit or descendants of Nominal religion must be cut off because nominal religion deceives and is violent, we learned back at the beginning of chapter 12. On the other hand, this language is highly literal. The Assyrians who were infamous for precisely these kinds of atrocities would invade and sack Israel just after, towards the end of Hosea's ministry. Amazingly, fallen humanity has displayed a remarkable penchant for destroying its own young ones. Whether through an invading army or through what we do to ourselves and our wounds. And God's judgment is the beginning of that. It is shown in that. Perhaps especially against those who would name his name And yet put their hands to that. Chapter 14 concludes the book of Hosea, calling us to repent of that, and calling us to repent of all our sin, which brings us to our third point. this morning. Point three, for those who repent, God will heal, love, and cause to flourish Chapter 14, verse 1. Return, O Israel, to the Lord your God, for you have stumbled because of your iniquity. Take with you Words and return to the Lord. Of course, we need more than just words. We need to actually return to God, but we don't need less than words. And what words do we need? Verse 2: Say to him, take away all iniquity. Notice the word iniquity is repeated from verse 1. We need to echo God's own indictment against us. Yes, I am iniquitous. And then the rest of verse 2. Accept what is good, and we will repay with bulls the vows of our lips. We need a good sacrifice to bring before the Lord. Then verse 3: Assyria shall not save us. We will not ride on horses and we will no more say, our God, to the work of our hands. In you, the orphan finds mercy Those are the words. That is the confession each of us needs. Forgive my sin. Accept my sacrifice. The sacrifice I'm pointing to I look to no one else for salvation. I invest no hope in anyone or anything else. Only in you does the destitute and fatherless like me find salvation. And of course, friends. Most of you know the rest of the Bible's story. Jesus came as this perfect sacrifice He laid his own body on the altar. He ascended the cross to pay as a sacrifice the penalty. For our sins, for the sin of all those who trust and believe. And then he ascended from the grave, demonstrating this very power over death and sin. We've been talking about. No longer am I trying to manage my own systems, shape my idols. To do that is to put trust in Christ. It's to say I am unjustifiable. My nominal Christianity keeps coming back. I keep going week after week, come to church, I listen, ah, I'm good, I'm heartened, and then I go away, and then I forget again, and I Forget God and I can do my own thing. Nominal Christianity shows up. I am unjustifiable. God, I need verse 2 for you to take away my iniquity. That's my only hope. This week, you and I both chose the path of nominal Christianity. You and I both were complacent to the things We confessed in the prayer that our hearts were allied to the Savior of this world. Though friends, our only hope is that God would take away our sin. We demonstrate over and over that we are not done with sin in the flesh. So whether you name yourself this morning as a Christian or you don't name yourself as a Christian, turn to him today. Christian, turn to him again fresh this morning, because you have stumbled in your sin. He'll take away your iniquity. Non-Christian, who have never turned to him, turn to him today. Because you too have stumbled in your sin. And he will take it away. And why would we return to God in Christ today? Well, we saw it in chapter 3, verse 14. I shall ransom them from the power of Sheol. I shall redeem them from death. Oh death! Where are your plagues? O Sheol, where is your sting? If you've if you've ever been to a Christian funeral, you've probably heard the Apostle Paul citation of this text in 1 Corinthians 15, as he's reflecting on the power of the resurrection and our joining us. joining him in the resurrection and anticipating this new flourishing life that we will be a part of because we're joined to the resurrection There is no sting of death for us who follow and believe him. We read about that, those first fruits of the resurrection in verses 4 and following of our chapter. Look at verse 4. I will heal their apostasy I will love them freely. For my anger has turned from them. I will be like the dew to Israel, a dew that's nourishing. And look at the results. He shall blossom like the lily. He shall take root like the trees of Lebanon, his shoots shall spread out, his beauty shall be like the olive, and his fragrance like Lebanon. I certainly prefer these simile similes to the ones we saw. before, don't you? Like the lily, like the trees, like the olive. It's this it's this picture of flourishing and beauty. But it's not just individual flourishing. Look at verse 7. They shall return and dwell beneath my shadow. They shall flourish like the grain. They shall blossom like the vine. Their fame shall be like the wine of Lebanon. Again, the similes. Like grain, like the vine, like the wine of Lebanon. Not had the wine of Lebanon. I guess it's pretty good. And they'll flourish like this. It's a true prosperity gospel. What does a flourishing community feel like? This might be a silly example, but it's just it's fresh on my mind from last week. During the elders or during the members meeting, I was sitting back there. I was surrounded by other elders. I had Bill to my left, I'd clon to my Bill to my right, Clon to my left, Ken was there, Ryan was over there, Steve and uh Danny were behind me. And at one point I thought to myself, shouldn't we be spread out? Shouldn't we kind of, you know, be out there And probably the godlier elders who I didn't name probably were. Here's the thing. Your elders love spending time together. They love one another's company. We enjoy being together. Why is that? Well, one thing we have in common is we know we are there not because we deserve to be there, not because we are righteous. or honorable. But because Christ is righteous and honorable. I can't tell you how many times Ryan Townsend has said to me, can you believe we're elders? And isn't that what the faith is like? Can you believe we're sons and daughters of the king? And you see, when we're gathered together in the gospel together like that, knowing that we're there because we're justified in Christ. Knowing that we have an alien righteousness covering us, and it's not our own merit that gives us this fellowship, the social threat is vanquished. We enjoy one another's company. I watch you enjoy one another's company because you know That there's nothing left to prove. We're together as sinners, but forgiven sinners. I don't have to prove myself to you. You don't have to prove yourself to me. We can laugh. We can joke. We know ourselves. We're not threatened by that. I'm just pointing to the elders there as an illustration. I see that in you. I share that with many of you. A parallel illustration. Um, an unnamed women's Bible study Uh on the other side of my study wall, let's just say my family room, I sit there and I listen. I can't hear the words that are actually being said, but I hear lots of intense conversation. I hear lots of intense Laughing. And I hear just enough about what happened afterwards from my wife to know that something wonderful, burden-sharing, ministry accomplishing, joy-giving, fellowship is going on there like flourishing vineyards and wheat fields. Friends, you cannot live the Christian life outside of fellowship. Nominal Christians do. Real Christians don't. Can't. You will only flourish in the light with other believers. I promise. And how your elders want that for all of you. The book of Hosea concludes in verses 8 and 9. O Ephraim, what have I to do with idols? It is I who answer and look after you. I am like an evergreen cypress. I love that word, evergreen, evergreen. Life-giving, always life-giving, always green. From me comes your fruit. Whoever is wise, let him understand these things. Whoever is discerning, let him know them, for the ways of the Lord are right, and the upright walk in them. But transgressors stumble in them I said at the beginning of the sermon that churches today are at a crossroads. Will we go with the Bible or will we go with the world? Every day you and I are at the same crossroads We have a choice between God and our idols. You cannot have both. It's one or the other. And only one is an evergreen cypress promising eternal flourishing and fruit. One of the reasons I asked Mark for a sermon series on Hosea is I wanted. You know, you have that famous illustration of Hosea and Gomer at the beginning, and Gomer leaves, and God says, go after her. And I thought, I just, I want to spend a lot of time meditating on the love of God. But the thing is, as I got in over these last months into the book of Hosea, I discovered, wow, a lot of judgment. A lot of judgment in Hosea. It's like a dark sky. But it's like a dark sky with these beautiful, glorious points of light. And maybe that's how we best can understand and best know the love of God is seeing these few amazing, sparkling, glorious stars of light. Against the black backdrop of culture, our own lives, God's love for us while we were yet sinners. God loving a people like us, like you and me. Notice the book ends with with this verse that sounds like it's cut and pasted out of Proverbs, this this wisdom literature-sounding verse. It gives us the way of wisdom before us and a way of stumbling, and it says the wise will Listen, well, what's Hosea doing? Well, I think he's leaving his book open-ended with the choice before his readers. He's he's warned them of that black backdrop, he's warned them of the way of judgment, he's warned them of their sin. But then he's also pointed them very clearly to God's saving and healing and faithful love that keeps coming back and keeps coming back and keeps coming back. And then he says, Israel, you're at a crossroads. And church, you're at a crossroads. You have a choice. Will you continue in the way of deceitful nominal religion? Or will you return to the Lord? Friends, I do believe Capitol Hill Baptist Church is, by God's grace, a healthy church. But I also fear how easy nominalism and complacency creeps into my own heart, and how easy it creeps into churches. So make no mistake, every week you and I come back here for a crossroads again. Will we understand the judgments threatened in this book? And will we hear and believe in the promises of God saving and healing love? That God alone is the giver of all joy, all life, all flourishing, all love. That's our choice. Let's pray. Father, we confess once again that we are sinners. You alone take away iniquity. which you've done through Christ. Thank you for your love. Help us to follow you today. In Christ's name, Amen.