Does God exist? Is there a God in heaven? If there is a God in heaven, what is he up there doing? How can it be that all this evil and all this sin in the world occurs and nothing seems to happen? Nothing seems to stop it. No one seems to intervene. Does God exist? And if so, what will he do about sin? Does it even matter? Is that a question that's even valid today? Sure, if you went out on the street and you asked people those questions, does God exist? Just start right there You'd probably get a lot of different answers. Well, there's not too many answers to choose from, right? You have yes, no, maybe. But there's gonna be a wide spectrum of how people respond to that question. Some people just disregard it out of hand. It's completely unimportant. Of course he does not exist This universe and we are all that there is. Other people might say, yes, he does exist. Then you might ask those people, okay, well if he does exist, what is he going to do about sin? Is he going to judge it? That's where I think you'd really get a lot of different answers, even from Christians today. How is God going to respond to sin? What kind of judgment is he going to bring Some people think, yeah, God is holy. We believe that. There is a God, and he is going to punish sin, but he's not going to punish me When I stand before him and he asks me what I've done with my life, I'll say, Lord, I made some mistakes, but I tried my best and I did some good things, and surely. Surely he'll let me off the hook. He'll let me into heaven because God is good. I'm sure that's the answer you should expect to hear But does it matter? Do we need to be informed from God's word about what God's judgment is really like? Or can we go through our lives thinking that we can just do what we want, try our best, and when we come before God's judgment seat, everything's gonna work out fine. Is that a legitimate approach to the Christian life? I asked because in our chapter 5 this morning of Isaiah, chapter 5, in our study this morning, we find a people who understood themselves to be God's people. Yet these very people seemed to not understand God's judgment. And it caused them to live in such a way that they just totally neglected the fact that one day all of the sins that they had been committing and all of the evil that had been done around them would actually be confronted by God and would be judged by him And so in chapter 5 of Isaiah today, the Lord is very clear with his people. He wants them to know that a judgment is coming. And so he tells them exactly what this judgment is going to be like. And so as God's people, we want to come around God's word this morning and be instructed from God's Word. Because I think in our culture, we can approach the judgment of God in much the same way as the Israelites. Yep, maybe there is a God. Maybe he is holy, but surely we'll be fine. So let me go ahead and invite you to open up this morning to Isaiah chapter 5. If you're using one of the Red Pew Bibles, you'll find Isaiah chapter 5 on pages 569 and 570. As you're turning there, let me go ahead and provide some background to our text this morning. Isaiah was a man specially called by God to be a prophet. God gave Isaiah his message to bring to the people of Judah. Judah was the southern nation of the kingdom of the once kingdom of Israel. There was one at one time a single nation of Israel And after the death of their King Solomon, when disputes arose about how taxes were going to be administered, the nation split in two. And it split into the northern kingdom of Israel and the southern kingdom of Judah. Both countries, both nations were full of the Israelite people. And Isaiah was called by God to go to this southern kingdom. And God sent him with basically three messages. Repent of your sins. There is a judgment coming, but God is also gracious and merciful, and if you turn from your sin, he will forgive you And what we see in our chapter this morning is that those people had not heeded Isaiah's messages the messages that he brought from God. So what would God say to a people who continued to neglect the message of a coming judgment? I'm going to go ahead and read chapter 5 for us in its entirety this morning. I'd invite you to follow along in your Bible. Let me sing for my beloved my love song concerning his vineyard. My beloved had a vineyard on a very fertile hill He dug it and cleared it of stones and planted it with choice vines. He built a watchtower in the midst of it. And hewed out a wine vat in it. And he looked for it to yield grapes. But it yielded wild grapes. And now, O inhabitants of Jerusalem and men of Judah, judge between me and my vineyard. What more was there to do for my vineyard that I have not done in it? When I look for it to yield grapes, why did it yield wild grapes? And now I will tell you what I will do to my vineyard. I will remove its hedge and it shall be devoured. I will break down its wall, and it shall be trampled down. I will make it a waste, it shall not be pruned or hoed, and briars and thorns shall grow up. I will also command the clouds that they rain, no rain upon it. For the vineyard of the Lord of hosts is the house of Israel, and the men of Judah are his pleasant planting. And he looked for justice, but behold, bloodshed, for righteousness, but behold, an outcry. Woe to those who join house to house, who add field to field until there is no more room, and you are made to dwell alone in the midst of the land. The Lord of hosts has sworn in my hearing, surely many houses shall be desolate, large and beautiful houses without inhabitant. For ten acres of vineyard shall yield but one bath, and a homer of seed shall yield but an ephah. Woe to those who rise early in the morning that they may run after strong drink Who tarry late into the evening as wine inflames them. They have lyre and harp, tambourine and flute and wine at their feasts, but they do not regard the deeds of the Lord or see the work of his hands Therefore, my people go into exile for lack of knowledge. Their honored men go hungry, and their multitude is parched with thirst. Therefore, Sheol has enlarged its appetite and opened its mouth beyond measure. And the nobility of Jerusalem and her multitude will go down, her revelers and he who exalts in her. Man is humbled, and each one is brought low, and the eyes of the haughty are brought low. But the Lord of hosts is exalted in justice And the holy God shows himself holy in righteousness. Then shall the lambs graze as in their pasture, and nomad shall eat among the ruins of the rich. Woe to those who draw iniquity with cords of falsehood, who draw sin as with cart ropes, who say, Let him be quick, let him speed his work that we may see it. Let the counsel of the Holy One of Israel draw near, and let it come that we may know it. Woe to those who call evil good and good evil, who put darkness for light and light for darkness, who put bitter for sweet and sweet for bitter. Woe to those who are wise in their own eyes and shrewd in their own sight. Woe to those who are heroes at drinking wine and valiant men and mixing strong drink, who acquit the guilty for a bribe and deprive the innocent. of his right. Therefore, as the tongue of fire devours the stubble and as dry grass sinks down in the flame, so their root will be as rottenness, and their blossom go up like dust For they have rejected the law of the Lord of hosts and have despised the word of the Holy One of Israel Therefore, the anger of the Lord was kindled against his people, and he stretched out his hand against them and struck them. And the mountains quaked, and their corpses were his refuse in the midst of the streets. For all this his anger has not turned away, and his hand is stretched out still He will raise a signal for nations far away and whistle for them from the ends of the earth, and behold, quickly, speedily they come. None is weary. None stumbles. None slumbers or sleeps. Not a waistband is loose, not a sandal strap broken. Their arrows are sharp. All their bows bent, their horses' hoofs seem like flint, and their wheels like with a whirlwind. Their roaring is like a roaring of a lion. Like young lions they roar, they growl and seize their prey. They carry it off, and none can rescue. They will growl over it on that day like the growling of the sea. And if one looks to the land, behold, darkness and distress, and the light is darkened by its clouds. There are two things I think this passage teaches us about God's judgment. And there are two things that I want us to walk away understanding this morning. The first thing is you can't argue with God's judgment You can't argue with God's judgment. And the second thing that I want us to understand is you can't escape from God's judgment You can't escape from God's judgment. So first, you can't argue with God's judgment That's the first thing that we need to understand about what this chapter teaches. Go ahead and look at me at verses 1 and 2 of chapter 5. The chapter begins with Isaiah singing a love song. And he's singing a love song about his beloved. His beloved is the Lord, and the song about the beloved is about the beloved's vineyard. And what we learn about the vineyard is that it had every possible advantage given to it. That's what the song teaches us. Notice in verse 1, the vineyard was planted on a very fertile hill. This is the type of location that is sure to produce an abundance of plump and succulent grapes But not only did it have the perfect location, it also had the perfect gardener. Look at the text. Look in verse 2. God himself personally tends to the land. He labors over it, digging the vineyard, clearing the rocky Palestinian landscape of stones. Then on top of all of that, on top of his personally tending to the land, what type of vines does he choose to plant The choicest. Look there. He planted the best of the vines in the vineyard. He took no shortcuts. He spared no expense. He was going to give this vineyard the best possible chance. If he was going to build the vineyard, there would be nothing like it. No other vineyard would compare to this one. Now, all God has to do is sit back and wait. Like a farmer anticipating his crop, watching for this divinely blessed vineyard to produce its grapes. And what type of grapes would you expect it to produce? Surely it's going to produce great and tasty grapes, the best, right? Well, let's look back at our text and see. Look at verse 2. He built a watchtower in the midst of it, in the midst of the vineyard, and he hewed out a wine vat in it, and he looked for it to yield grapes. But it yielded wild grapes. When you read these verses, your response to this should be one of bewilderment How could this vineyard possibly produce rotten grapes? It had every conceivable advantage. And that's the response that God expects. Look at verses 3 and 4. He turns to the people of Judah and asks them. He says, hey, I have an illustration for you. Here's the perfect vineyard. It has everything done for it. What type of grapes do you think this should produce? And the expected response would be what we would think. Wonderful grapes. God says to them in verses 3 and 4, please tell me. What else could I have done for this vineyard? What else was there for me to do? I personally gardened it. I personally planted the best grapes, the best vines. I put it on a fertile hill. And you would expect the people of Judah to say, well, there's nothing else you could have done. It absolutely should have produced good fruit. That's the expected response. But the response that the Lord gets from the people of Judah is what? Look down with me. Silence. He gets no response. He gets silence because by the time God asks the question to the people of Judah, the argument is already. Over. Why? Look at verse 7. Because Judah is the vineyard. When God invites him into the illustration, he's doing what Nathan did with David, right? Nathan goes to David because David had done a wicked thing. He tells him this illustration about a wicked shepherd who had done some things to his sheep and then he asked David, hey, what should be what should happen to this shepherd? And David's like, get that shepherd. And Nathan's like, you're right. That man is you. Right, and that's what did that's what's going on here with God with Judah. He's welcoming them. What more could I have done for this vineyard? Why did it yield rotten grapes? And they should expectedly say, there is nothing you could do. But they say nothing because when they realize that they are the vineyard, there's nothing left for them to say. They recognize that they are already condemned The song about God building and blessing his vineyard is an illustration of the ways God had cared for Judah. Right, so as a monsoon approaches the land, pours down its rain across the land, God, like a heavenly monsoon, had poured down his blessings on these people. He personally rescued them from slavery. He personally protected them from their enemies. He personally provided for them in the wilderness. Manna from heaven. Water from a rock. He personally revealed himself to them by giving him his word. Then he sent prophets to them when they were straying away from his word to warn them. He did everything for them. What else could he have done? Nothing. Nothing. That is the answer. And just in case any Israelite raise their voice in objection. God uses pretty much the rest of the chapter to just go ahead and lay out his case against them. And that's what he does in verses 8 to 25. He doesn't just tell them they produce rotten fruit, he shows it to them. So if you look at verses 9 to 12, he shows them their sins of self-indulgence. The people are greedy land grabbers who get drunk and party all night. Then in verses 18 to 23, they are just flat-out wicked people. They mock God and pretend like his judgment isn't gonna come. Then they change evil for good and good for evil. So they take evil actions that they know to be sinful and they say, these are actually good actions. They're completely despising the law of God. They're proud in verse 21. And look at verse 23. He connects their drunkenness with their corruption. So what he's saying is that these leaders of the country who should be the heroes and valiant men who defend the country are actually heroes and valiant men at getting drunk. And then they take their drunkenness into their seats of justice. And they take bribes to serve themselves and let the people who are innocent be punished There is no denying that he is in the right about this case against the Israelites. And they stand silence before God. What else could he have done for them? What else could he have done for them? Now to my brothers and sisters in Christ, are you baffled? Are you baffled like God is at this situation? Are you wondering how a people showered with blessings could respond the way that the Israelites did? I ask because the picture of the way that God blessed the people of Judah pales in comparison to the ways that He's blessed you and I. It pales in comparison. He didn't rescue us from physical slavery. He rescued us from a greater spiritual. slavery. We were dead in trespasses and sins and he made us alive together with Christ. Right? He didn't give us his law written on tablets of stone, did he? No, what did he do with his law? He wrote it upon our hearts He gave us new hearts. He didn't choose to dwell in us, dwell among us in a temple, but he chose to dwell in each of us individually through the power of his Holy Spirit He has given us every possible advantage. No, more than that. He's given to each one of us every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places He has showered his blessings upon those of us who are in Jesus Christ. Given what God has done for us, What sense do our sins make? Right, you look at this illustration and you say about the people of Judah, how could they do that? He did so much for them. If you say that, you condemn yourself because he's done far greater things for you. And yet we still sin against him. Our sins make no sense. They are contrary to reason and to purpose. They are contrary to reason. Why are they contrary to reason? Because if you are in Christ, then you know that God is a consuming fire. We know that he is utterly holy and has called us to holiness. We know that God utterly hates sin and has displayed his anger towards sin at the cross, and yet we still sin knowing these things Our sins make no sense. And they're not only contrary to reason, but they're contrary to purpose. Do you notice this about the vineyard? The vineyard was made for a purpose. And the purpose was for the vineyard to bear fruit. Fruit that God could enjoy. Look back at verses 1 and 2. It's all right there in the illustration. Look at the end of verse 2. And he looked for it to yield grapes. He looked with the intent. It's expressing a purpose. Why did he look? He looked because he was expecting it to yield fruit. He expected it to yield grapes because yielding grapes would have been consistent with the nature of the blessings that had been given to the vineyard. Right? It would have been consistent with the nature of the blessings given to the vineyard. And then God purposed to enjoy that fruit. Look again in verse 2, right in the middle of the verse. He hewed out a wine vat in it. Why would he hind Hugh out a wine vat in it? Well, because you would assume he's going to take the good grapes, put them in the wine vat, crush them up, make wine, and enjoy it. It was to be offered to him so that he could enjoy the grapes. In the same way, the blessings God has bestowed on us, saving us Uniting us to his son by faith, placing his spirit inside of us is intended to bear fruit in our lives. So that we might offer up acceptable worship to God and that he might enjoy it. So I have a question for you. Are you regularly inspecting your life to see if you are bearing fruit? Are you regularly inspecting your life to see if you are bearing fruit? That might sound like a horrendously judgmental statement in our day, but I don't really care what our day says. I care what the Bible says, and the Apostle Paul agrees with this. Remember what he says to the Corinthians? Examine yourselves to see whether you are in the faith. Test yourselves, or do you not realize this about yourselves? That Jesus Christ is in you Unless indeed you fail to meet the test. Examine yourselves. Test yourselves. Why? Because the fruit you produce will tell you what is in you Right? You will produce fruit in consistency or with what is consistent with your nature. Does your fruit show that a new nature has been planted in you, that you have been connected to a new vine? Examine yourselves, brothers and sisters. See what is in your life. I want to speak for a moment to the kids in the congregation, especially to those who are actively pursuing following Jesus Christ. Let me encourage you to take time this afternoon and to talk with your parents about this. They can help you think about what your life looks like and whether or not you bear the fruit that's in keeping with being a Christian. Now I don't want to say that Christians bear fruit bear good fruit all the time. Please don't let me don't let me say that. That's not what I'm saying here. They don't only ever bear good fruit Christians will not continue to bear bad fruit as a pattern of their life though. And so if you're intending to follow Jesus Christ as a younger person in this congregation, I just want to encourage you to talk to your parents about what's going on in your life. Help them to think with you about what type of fruit your life is producing. One of the things that the Apostle John says in his letter of 1 John is that we can know that our faith is genuine. When we profess genuine faith in the saving work of Christ, and if our lives bear fruit in keeping with that profession. Right? So what is a consistent pattern of your life? Are you consistently as a pattern producing bad fruit? Do you love your sin more than you love God? Right, as Mark would say, I think he's quoting somebody else. Are you partnering with your sin against God, or are you partnering with God against your sin? Right? So it's not that we produce perfect fruit all the time. We all stumble in many ways, but praise God, He's made a provision for us who still stumble and fall. Through the Lord Jesus Christ, we can confess our sins and know that God is faithful and just to forgive us. But our lives as Christians will be characterized by producing good fruit. That's why this passage should be an instruction to all of us to wage war against sin in our lives. God is utterly opposed to sin. And so we who are his children should be utterly opposed to it as well. So are you letting the thorns and thistles of sin grow up in your life? Are you not actively hacking them down, cleaning out that garden? Should be that we should uh take instruction from what John Owen said about sin. He gave this warning, very straightforward. Be killing sin, or sin will be killing you. Brothers and sisters, we should wage war against our sin in this way. Be killing sin, or sin will be killing you. And then he went on to say this. This is how you kill sin in your life. Do not seek to empty your cup as a way to avoid sin, but rather to fill it up with the spirit of life so there is no longer room for sin We should be feeding so often on the life of the Spirit in our own life through prayer and through timing God's Word. And through fellowship with Christians, that our bellies, our spiritual bellies, are so full that there is no room to feed on anything else. That's one way that we go about killing sin in our lives. The fruit of our faith should be evident in our lives. So if you call yourself a Christian, And you look at your life and the characteristic pattern of it is that you are actually opposed to God and producing fruit. You need to turn from your sin and trust in Jesus Christ. Repent of sin. Jesus Christ gave a warning to those who thought they were members of the vine, but were actually producing good fruit. He said this in the Gospel of John, if anyone does not abide in me, He is thrown away like a branch and withers. And the branches are gathered, thrown into the fire, and burned Friends, if you call yourself a Christian, but your life is ruled by sin, what will you say to God when he asks you? Why did you yield wild grapes? What will you say to him? Friends, on that day, you won't be able to argue against God's judgment And then, secondly, we also learn from this passage that you can't escape from God's judgment. The picture that's painted in the illustration of God's vineyard is one of inescapable and total judgment. Look at how God responds to the vineyard for bearing rotten fruit. Look back with me at the first seven verses. He completely undoes the work that he had done. Look in verse 5. Because they produced wild grapes, he now turns and he tears down the vineyard's protection by bringing down the hedge and the wall. And as a result, the vineyard is devoured and trampled down. Then in verse 6, he stops personally tending to the vineyard so that it becomes a waste. And then he even withholds vital sustenance from it by commanding the clouds to not rain any rain upon it. What's gonna happen to a vineyard when it doesn't have any rain? It's gonna wither up and die. This is a total and inescapable judgment And so that there wouldn't be any confusion about what this judgment would actually look like, God very clearly describes how it will all take place. Look with me at verse 13. He says to them, Therefore, my people go into exile. For lack of knowledge. When he says, my people go into exile for lack of knowledge, this is actually a future verb tense. They are doomed to go into exile. God's speaking here about the coming exile. The destruction illustrated in the vineyard will happen through the exile of the Israelite people out of the promised land and away from the presence of God. And we see that this judgment is gonna be inescapable. I mean, the images that God employs here are frankly frightening. Look at verse 14. After calling down judgment on the self-indulgent, he describes the future that awaits him with this image. Sheol. Sheol in the Old Testament is a place of death. It's the pit of death where all went to rest. And death is pictured as a great monster opening its mouth beyond measure to capture its prey. Right, so you think about a great serpent that when it gets to a piece of food that is too big for it, what does it do? It unhinges its jaw so that it can fit its mouth around it. The Sheol is going to get a meal that is too great for it, but it will open up its mouth wide to take them all in. And in verse 24, look there, the coming judgment is pictured as a consuming fire. And the people are like dry and rotting grass. Is there any stopping dry and rotting grass from a consuming fire? No. There is no hope for the consuming for the rotting grass. There will be no stopping this fire from totally consuming them. They will have as much hope of surviving this judgment as a brush pile has hope of surviving a forest fire This will be an inescapable judgment. There will be nowhere for them to turn and nowhere to run And it's going to come at the hands of a marauding army. Look at verses 26 to 30. God brings us destruction through a terrifying army that is ever ready for war and bent on destruction. They don't sleep or slumber in their approach. Their weapons are sharpened and ready for war. They're like a growling lion. There's going to be no stopping them from completely destroying Judah, no escaping the oncoming attack. And then finally you see how inescapable and total this judgment is in verse 30. Their coming will bring total darkness to the land. Utter darkness will descend upon the land. Del Moody was an evangelist and preacher in the late 19th century. And he experienced and lived through the devastating Great Chicago fire of 1871. And after the fire. He was speaking about the experience of it and what he saw, and he said, it was my sad lot to be in the Chicago fire. As the flames rolled down our streets, destroying every tiling in their onward march, I saw the great and the honorable. The learned and the wise flee before the fire with the beggar and the thief and the harlot. All were alike. As the flames swept through the city, it was like judgment day. Neither the mayor, nor the mighty men, nor the wise men could stop these flames. They were all on a level playing field then. And many who were worth hundreds of thousands were left paupers that night. When the day of judgment comes, there will be no difference. All sinners will suffer. When the day of judgment comes, there will be no difference All sinners will suffer. If you're here and you're not a Christian, I hope you grasp the seriousness of God's promise to bring judgment on those who sinned against him. I hope you take this seriously. It can be very easy to think God's judgment is one big joke and that will never actually happen. That's exactly, exactly what they were doing in this passage in verse 19. When they say, let him be quick, let him speed his work that we may see it, they're saying, yeah, come on, bring that judgment. But let him bring it that we may actually see it. And the reason they're tempting God that way is because they don't believe it's actually gonna come. Oh, don't be that way. Let me gently warn you: do not fall prey to that way of thinking. That was a mistake that God's very own people made. They made this judgment. They made this mistake. They mocked him. They didn't believe that judgment was ever going to come. And they weren't even warned by their experiences of the tremors of God's judgment. They didn't learn a lesson from it. If you look in verse 25, look in verse 25. Verse 25 is about all the past judgments God had leveled on the land in order to get their attention And then you see his final conclusion. For all this, for all these judgments, his anger has not turned away. Why? Because the people haven't turned and repented. And so his hand is stretched out still. His hand being stretched out against anyone is a terrifying picture. That is the picture of what happened to the Egyptians in the Exodus. His hand. was stretched out over them, and when his hand was stretched out over them, there was no stopping his judgment. And even against the Israelites, he made good on this promise. He brought the armies of the nation of Babylon against Israel. and the people were dragged off into exile. This happened. God's patience toward them was to get them to respond to his warnings. But they did not respond. And for those who do not respond to his warnings, there will be no escaping. So friend, if you're here and you don't follow Jesus Christ, I wonder When you look around this world, do you see God's warnings? Do you understand that the death and destruction that afflict this world are the tremors that are sent out by God that are meant to warn us of that great and final earthquake, that great judgment to come. Like with the nation of Israel, his patience ran out, and like with this world, his patience will run out. Judgment will come, and there will be no escaping it W. C. Fields was an actor in the early 20th century, and he was, by all accounts, an irreligious man. Just before his death, a friend visited Field's hospital room and was surprised to find him thumbing through a Bible. And when his friend came into the room and saw him thumbing through the Bible, he asked him, What are you doing with a Bible? And Fields replied, I'm looking for loopholes in it. Ah, friend, I hope you don't treat the Bible that way. I hope you don't approach the end of your life hoping that there will be loopholes. There are no loopholes in God's law His law and his judgments and his cases against all humanity are airtight. There are no loopholes. There is a day coming when you will stand before the judgment seat of God, and your life will be laid bare before Him. And every deceitful word, every hateful thought, Every arrogant act, every bribe taken, every drunken knight, all self-serving materialism, all of it will be brought before his holy eyes, and it will be laid bare before him. And he will see it, just like he saw the rotten fruit of Israel. And when he turns to ask you on that day, What more could I have done for you? You will have no answer You won't be able to plead ignorance. You won't be able to say that you never knew there was a God because according to the Bible, creation itself powerfully testifies to his existence. And friend, if you don't care to pay attention to the manifest mountain of evidence pointing to the fact that there is a God in heaven, then you are only storing up more pieces of evidence in the case against you. He will point to those evidences when he examines your life. Before his appointment as a Supreme Court justice, Horace Gray once presided over a case where a man had been justly charged of a crime. But through some technicality, Gray was obligated to release him. But as he did so, he addressed him and said, This, I believe you are guilty. And would wish to condemn you severely, but through a petty technicality, I'm obliged to discharge you. I know you are guilty. And so do you. And I wish you to remember that one day you will pass before a better and wiser judge. And you will be dealt with according to his justice and not our laws. My friend, there are no loopholes. There will be no petty technicalities. There will be no protection when you stand before God and He inspects your life. There will be no escape. That is, unless God makes a way for you to escape And the certain and inexplicable hope that the Bible holds out to all of us is that God has made a way for us to escape his sure and certain judgment. As certain as the fire of God's inescapable judgment is, so is the certainty of the path of escape that He has provided through His Son, Jesus Christ. Though we've done nothing to deserve God's mercy, though all of us in this room has produced rotten fruit and has sinned against God, God, in his inexplicable mercy. Has made a way for his people to be saved. God in his inexplicable mercy and love sent his beloved Son into the world to save sinners. And to provide a path of escape from the coming judgment of God. And Jesus came as the true vine. In his life, when he was planted by God, he produced only good fruit. He never sinned against God. When God looked at his life, he only ever saw perfect, flawless fruit. He was the fruitful vineyard Never doing anything to warrant the judgment of God. Yet when we look at his life, we see that he was opposed. He was mocked. He was afflicted. He was persecuted and finally murdered and nailed to a cross. But how could this be? He only ever produced good fruit. How could the fruitful vine be nailed to a cross? How could the perfect Son of God suffer such terrible punishment? Because he was and is God's plan of escape for sinful people like you and me For God so loved the world that he gave his only son to bear the judgment that we deserve, to take our place, so that we could escape God's judgment The punishment that God predicts here in the chapter in chapter 5 of Israel that would come upon the people of Israel was only a dim shadow of the judgment God would pour out on his Son, Jesus Christ, on the cross at Calvary. He suffered the true exile of God when he hung, breathing and gasping on the cross, asking, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? And God turns his back on the Lord Jesus Christ on the cross. And when he turns his back on the cross, what descends upon the land but utter and complete darkness? He was growled over by Satan like a roaring lion. Satan sank his teeth into the Lord Jesus Christ. He was swallowed up. By Sheol, he descended into the pit, into death itself. But friends, what is amazing about the Lord Jesus Christ? Is that he didn't stay in the pit because the pit could not hold him, because he had met the righteous requirements that God had demanded and his law had demanded, and he looked back on his life, and his life was perfect fruit. And because God was pleased with his sacrifice, he was pleased also to lift Jesus Christ. out of the grave and to say his sacrifice is accepted. The path of rescue for mankind to return to me is opened so that sinners like you and me Who are not locked in a cage and we can't get out. We sit in a prison by our own choice. We don't escape because we don't want to We don't flee to the Lord Jesus Christ because we love our sin. And that's why God has to give you a new heart. And if you repent of your sins, And turn to the Lord Jesus, he will give you a new heart so that you will actually stand up and walk out of that open jail cell. You don't have to stay in prison Turn from your sins and trust in Jesus Christ. You are in prison by your own choice. Turn today. Be rescued by the Lord Jesus Christ. He forgives the worst of sinners. This room is full of people who produced rotten fruit in their life But God was pleased to pluck us up and not toss us into the fire. And rather than tossing us into the fire, he connected us to the true vine. And he gave us life in him. And now he's bear he's causing fruit to be born through the spirit in our lives to his good pleasure He is a good God. His judgment is serious, but so is his mercy. It is real, and he gives it out freely. He is a perfect refuge from the coming judgment. Turn to Jesus Christ. Donald Barnhouse was a former pastor of 10th Presbyterian Church in Philadelphia. And when his children were still young, Barnhouse's wife passed away. And on their way to her funeral, Barnhouse stopped at a traffic crossing. And ahead of them was a huge truck. The sun was at such an angle that when it hit the truck, it casts the truck shadow across the snow-covered fields beside it. Barnhouse quickly thought and then pointed to the shadow and he spoke to his children. So children, look at the shadow of that truck on the field. If you had to be run over, would you rather be run over by the truck or by its shadow The youngest child responded first, with shadow. It couldn't hurt anybody. That's right, said Bornhouse. Remember, Jesus let the truck of death strike him so they can never destroy us. Your mother lives with Jesus now. Only the shadow of death passed over her My friend The dark clouds of God's judgment approach. There will be no arguing against his judgment, and there will be no escaping his judgment. Unless you take the path of escape that God has provided in the Lord Jesus Christ. If you do, when the dark storms of God's judgment come, you can be sure that only their shadow will pass over you. Because Christ has suffered God's wrath for sin once and for all. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come before you sobered by the reality of your judgment, and we ask, Father, that in your great mercy you would not let one person leave this building today without impressing upon them. the sober reality and impending approach of your coming judgment. And we pray also that you would burst through any doom and gloom that accompanies those and show all of us The brightness of the sun that lies behind those approaching clouds. That if we turn to the Lord Jesus Christ today, we can know that we will not experience your judgment in the same way as if we were apart from Christ. That hidden in him we will have a perfect refuge and shield. That he will be our righteousness before you. Please impress these truths upon our hearts today, we pray. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.