I'd encourage you away from that, but it it just may be true. If you're using one of the Pew Bibles, you can find Isaiah chapter 4 on page 569. And this morning, we're going to take some time and look at a promise of that glorious future to see what God has in store for his people. So when we look at chapter 4 today, we're going to be looking especially at verses 2 to 6. I want us to spend some more time on point one because there is so much for us to unpack in verse 2 alone that will affect how we understand the rest of chapter 4. Right? We say, we'll boast in God in that day. Who remained faithful to the Lord through the exile, this stump of Jesse, a branch, will come forth. And that's a riddle in the Old Testament because two portraits are put forward at the same time of this Messiah of God. He's the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. If you repent of your sin and put your faith in him, he will take the punishment for your sins. And I knew those dentists. Then God has taken up residence in you through the power of the Spirit, and He is working out His sanctification in you. And after his people are made completely holy, God will bring his people to dwell with him. And over her assemblies, a cloud by day, and smoke, and the shining of a flaming fire by night, for over all the glory there will be a canopy And he will do away with our mortal bodies, and he will clothe us with immortality, glorious, holy immortality. But the fog clouded her vision. And they split into the northern kingdom of Israel with its capital city, Samaria, and the southern kingdom of Judah with its capital city of Jerusalem. So I invite you to go ahead and look at the text with me together. And over her assemblies a cloud by day, and smoke, and the shining of a flaming fire by night, for over all the glory there will be a canopy and especially chapters 2 to 4 are a single unit of teaching that deals with the day of judgment Because all that we've heard about that's going to happen in that day is that it's going to be a day of terrible judgment. And so in typical Old Testament fashion, each time the branch is mentioned in subsequent instances, we learn more about him and about what he's going to do. When the Lord promised that through Eve would come a seed or an offspring who would crush the head of the serpent. Though his heel would be bruised, he would have victory over the serpent. Then in chapter 11, verse 1, there shall come forth a shoot from the stump of Jesse, and a branch from his roots shall bear fruit. They are the stump that remains in the tree, the righteous remnant who continues to trust in the Lord. And he will sit upon the throne. From the line of David, from this stump of Jesse, from those who remain faithful to the exile, when we trace his lineage in chapter 1 of the Gospel of Matthew, we find that this one is the Messiah. the one who would be born, the Lord Jesus Christ. Who comes in meekness and humility to offer himself up as a sacrifice for the sins of his people to reconcile them to God? for his saints so that we all marvel at him at his coming, as Paul would say in 2 Thessalonians. Are you looking forward to that day when you will boast in God? and to judge the wicked is presently the righteous king. They disobeyed his commandments and they were exiled from his presence. But he paid that penalty on the cross for all who would turn from their sin and trust in him. The truth is that those of us who've trusted in him still struggle with sin. And the reason I did not go was this. So the kids in the congregation, as you go on from here, whether you move on from high school when it's to college or even after college, I just want to encourage you to think about how important it is to join a local church. and to his promise that he has written your name in the book of life before the heavens were founded. in the New Jerusalem and over it there will be a canopy. Who is our creator? I want to keep this theme of Revelation going and show you how this prophecy of Isaiah is fulfilled in Revelation. For the fine linen is the righteous deeds of the saints. And he said to me, It is done. And so this morning we continue with week four of our five-week study through the first five chapters of Isaiah. by a spirit of judgment and by a spirit of burning. I said that we're studying chapter 4, but last week we grouped verse 1 of chapter 4 with the rest of chapter 3 because it's so clearly part of that argument and the the what Isaiah is putting forth in chapter 3. And I want to make sure that I lay that foundation in this point so that we can apply the text rightly in points two and three. Be prepared with your Bibles open because we are going to be turning to a bunch of different texts. This day of judgment has not yet come. He's going to preach to a people who will have hard hearts. You're going to preach to them until they go into exile. And that tree is cut down and sent into exile. He shall kill the wicked. This branch is a conquering king who will bring justice upon the earth. And he's his ministry is 40 years after Isaiah. comes to Judah as a prophet and he holds out the very same truth. Look at what he says. And he shall reign as king and deal wisely, and shall execute justice and righteousness in the land. From the remnant of the Israelites who remain faithful to the Lord through the exile, and this branch shall reign as a just and righteous king. Then we see the same promise about this righteous branch king reiterated in Jeremiah 33. And as the storyline of Scripture unfolds, we follow along in amazement as God makes good on his word. But though the nation is sent into exile, a remnant of faithful Israelites remain to the Lord. I want you to turn with me real quick to Isaiah 53. are ultimately fulfilled in those who survive the final judgment. The fruit of the land is associated with the branch of the Lord. He will be the pride and honor of his people at his second coming. Right? And so are you boasting in him today? When religious talk comes up and you know that they're gonna come to you and you start thinking, oh no, I'm gonna have to tell them about Jesus. No, you want to tell everybody, I have LeBron James, I'm a basketball team, I'm gonna crush everyone, right? So let's boast in him, friends. I want us to look forward to that final day when we will boast in God. He will refine his people once and for all so that they would be called holy Isaiah's picking up themes from chapter 1 and chapter 3. And God says on this final day, those things are going to be wiped away. When the beautiful and glorious branch appears, he will come in fiery judgment. They break his word, they break his law, sin against him over and over again. Is that there is a day coming when your struggle against sin will end. His saints will not always struggle against sin. And like an expert refiner, he will burn away all of your dross and all of your filth and all of the struggle with sin and when he pulls you out of that fire, And so in this life, we will continue to feel the painful mercy of God's sanctifying scalpel that sanctifies us and makes us more and more holy. And I knew that if I went to my mother, she would give me something which would deaden the pain for that night and let me get to sleep. It's the place that we come. God points to his work in the past. If you have any doubt today that God will not bring about the completion of his work to make you a holy vessel fit for his presence, look to this verse. The word that Isaiah uses here, the Hebrew word that he uses, refers to a creative act so great that it requires divine power to bring it about. Well, he's creating a new Jerusalem where his presence will be made known among his people. Right? They will experience the joy of dwelling in his presence for all of eternity and the bliss that comes with it. There will be a booth for shade by day from the heat and for a refuge and a shelter from the storm and rain. And we will experience the joy and the bliss of an eternal loving union with God. And I saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride, adorned for her husband And he who was seated on the throne said, Behold, I am making all things new. The one who conquers will have this heritage, and I will be his God, and he will be my son. then this is your hope, and no matter the darkness of the clouds or the downcastness of your soul today, you have this sure and certain hope that no matter what trials may come, no matter what fog may set in over your life, And we have him and perfect access to him and eternal bliss with him. And she would see that she was less than a mile from the coast. to keep our eyes fixed on that day. Remembering that we will one day dwell with you. His coming will be glorious and you will be purified and he will bring you into his everlasting kingdom to enjoy him and dwell with him forever. You see how the the the looking forward to that vacation affects how you're living today. You see how what you're looking forward to in the future affects how you live today But maybe you're one of those people who's here and you say, yeah, I I don't have anything that I'm looking forward to. I wonder, is that true? How is what you're looking forward to affecting how you live today? Maybe it's affecting your life because you are now putting in more hours at work to get projects done so that you can actually relax on your vacation. Maybe it's affecting how you live today by you being a bit more cautious about what you put in your mouth because you want to have honeymoon, you know, body or whatever that is, right? Isaiah, as we've heard in past weeks, is a man specially called by God to deliver a message to God's people in the nation of Judah. And he was sent to warn the people of God's coming judgment for their sin. Be cleansed by God and dwell with God. two and three. for God's infinite wisdom in how we put together his word. And as we look through the Old Testament and see how it expands and blossoms like a fruit tree, it's going to hold out to us the majesty of God's word and I think just give us a greater appreciation. And the haughtiness of man shall be humbled, and the lofty pride of men shall be brought low, and the Lord alone will be exalted in that day. Six times in chapters two to four, Isaiah speaks about the terrible judgment that will come in that day. How long will I preach to a people who have hard hearts, who will not listen to your message? And the stump, according to Isaiah 6, is the holy seed, the holy offspring. Isaiah picks up the language of the stump again from Isaiah chapter 6 and the branch from Isaiah 4. David the great king over Israel, and a branch will come from this stump and where will bear fruit. And this new king would be much greater than David. So Jeremiah now makes clear what Isaiah was alluding to in chapter 11. And then we heard earlier that not only will he be a righteous king, but as Tess read to us from the book of Zechariah, as we read through Zechariah, we see that this branch is also going to be a priest. This righteous branch king will build the temple of God, will conquer the wicked, and will reign in righteousness and justice. First, the nation that continue to persist in sin against him of Israel are justly judged by God and sent into exile. And from Isaiah's vantage point, you would look at this and you would say, How is it possible, Lord, that the suffering servant and the righteous king are both the Messiah? You have the righteous branch of the Lord who reigns in perfect justice and righteousness, who judges the wicked, brings God's people safely into his kingdom, and then there is the suffering servant. From our vantage point after the cross, we see that the answer is that the Messiah would appear twice He will appear as the righteous king, the branch of the Lord. He had no form or majesty that we should look at him, and no beauty that we should desire him. He will appear in a very different way from the suffering servant. The branch of the Lord is revealed from heaven to bring a terrible judgment on all who have pridefully boasted in themselves, as we saw in chapter two and chapter three, and also to bring a beautiful and glorious salvation to his people. seated on his throne as the righteous king ruling over all creation. His saints know that he is glorious in power even now, and that when he's revealed at the end of time, it will only reveal what he already is today. You can proclaim with great power the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, the King who reigns in heaven now and who will welcome into his kingdom at any time any sinner who turns from their sins and turns to him for trust and for repentance. I mean, to even be slightly embarrassed about boasting in Jesus is like being embarrassed that LeBron James is on your basketball team or Yo-Yo Ma is in your quartet or whatever it might be. On that day, the Lord will wash away the filth of the daughters of Zion and the bloodstains of Jerusalem When he comes in judgment, he will do away with the wicked. They were oppressing the people of their country. If you recognize your need today to be forgiven, if you're here and you're not a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ, I encourage you, turn to this great king today. He is a righteous and faithful king. Matthew and Mary Beth, there is a day coming when you will be called holy. Through the fiery judgment to come, God will cup you and cup us in the protective grasp of his hands, and he will hold you out over the fires. Your struggle against sin will end. holy unto the Lord. But we also shouldn't be surprised that we still struggle with sin. God is faithful, right? We can think about him sanctifying us and bringing us to that great day in this way. That may be all you asked, but once you call him in, he will give you the full treatment. To prepare us for that day. The church is the means by which God is shaping his saints into vessels that will be fit for his presence to dwell in. The church is God's studio, and he is the great potter, is working us as vessels until we are fit to dwell with him, until we are holy unto the Lord. We encourage one another through song. God's work in you depends not on you, but on his electing love of you in eternity past. And God does not write with erasable ink. future holiness is an unbreakable promise. And finally, look forward to that day when you will dwell with God. Look with me at verses 5 and 6. There will be a booth for shade by day from the heat and for a refuge and a shelter from the storm and rain. What God's promising here is nothing short of a new creation. And after being cleansed of sin, it will be new and ready for God's presence to fill it once again. God's presence will be like a cloud by day and smoke and the shining of a flaming fire by night. They come from the Exodus. Isaiah is telling his audience, just like the Lord was with us at the Exodus, he will be with us once again. Isaiah is envisioning that in this new Jerusalem where God's presence is manifested among his people, God will enter into an eternal union with them. So that when it was extremely hot during the day or when a storm was coming, they could enter those booze as a refuge from the heat or from the storm. Friends, when Jesus returns as the righteous branch king for his people and we are finally made holy, he will bring us into his kingdom. Hallelujah! For the marriage of the Lamb has come, and his bride has made herself ready. And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man. And he comes to rescue those whose pride and honor is the righteous king. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more. You are being guarded for that day by God's great power through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. The eternal Son of God, the branch of the Lord, will break through and his coming will be glorified Keep your eyes fixed on that day. Even in death, we have this hope that God who raised Jesus Christ from the dead will also give life to our mortal bodies and cause us to be raised from the dead. In July 1950, Florence attempted to become the first woman to cross the Catalina Channel from the Catalina Islands to California. And after hours, hours of swimming without knowing where she was, Florence gave up only to have the fog break And as with her previous attempt, a thick fog settled in over her. with the same despair as in her first attempt, not knowing where she was in the journey. Until finally, finally the fog broke and land lay within her grasp. I knew that if I kept my mind fixed on the shoreline, I would get there Everyone who has been recorded for life in Jerusalem, when the Lord shall have washed away the filth of the daughters of Zion and cleansed the bloodstains of Jerusalem from its midst. So which is it? And those who remain faithful to the Lord and who trust in his promises look forward to this coming branch and from this remnant. Who would be embarrassed by the fact that LeBron James is on their team? by God, when you'll be cleansed by God. every one who has been recorded for life in Jerusalem, when the Lord shall have washed away the filth of the daughters of Zion, and cleansed the bloodstains of Jerusalem from its midst by a spirit of judgment, and by a spirit I knew she would take me to the dentist the next morning. If that's you, friend, let me encourage you to just look to God's word here in chapter four to see why you don't have to believe that. In the Lord. What are you looking forward to today? I ask because the passage we're studying this morning holds out a future that we can all look forward to, a future that should affect how we all live today. And the fruit of the land shall be the pride and honor of the survivors of Israel. Be cleansed by God and dwell with God. But as we get into point one, I just want to note a couple things for our time together this morning. Chapter 2, verse 12, just to show you what I'm talking about. Usually it takes a little bit for the for the pastors here to get going into the sermon and to ask you to engage and to have you follow along, but I'm going to ask you right now. Alright, so though we're studying one chapter a week, it's important for us to remember that this is all one unit. Isaiah's main concern in these chapters is to warn his audience of the coming judgment that God was going to carry out on that day. is also going to be a day of unspeakable glory. In fact, Isaiah 4 is the very first time the branch of the Lord is used as an image to refer to the Messiah in the entire New Testament. Now turn to the next book, Jeremiah, the prophet Jeremiah, chapter 23. Well, from Isaiah's vantage point, it doesn't make a whole lot of sense. The judgment that Isaiah has been predicting will come on the nation of Israel is a microcosm of the end times judgment to come. And look, I'm sure if you're here and you're a Christian, you're not going to say like, look, I'm ashamed of Jesus Christ. Holy. You can no more be lost from God's grip than this book can be lost. We see this described even in the pages of Scripture. When asked afterward what made the difference this time, Florence said, I kept my mind fixed on the site of the shoreline. To look through the darkness of the clouds to the breaking of them when the sun, the Lord Jesus Christ, appears. Judah was formerly part of the single nation of Israel, but after disputes began to arise over who would rule the country following the death of King Solomon, the nation of Israel split into two. He was also sent to them to hold out the hope of a glorious future for all who would turn from their sin and return to being faithful to the covenant that God had established this with them. There will be a booth for shade by day from the heat and for a refuge and a shelter from the storm and rain. Why am I telling you to put your hope in that final day? Has a day against all that is proud and lofty, against all that is lifted up, and it shall be brought low. Wait, wait, wait. We will boast in him. No, friends, that's not what it's like to boast in the Lord. And so the Lord sent his beloved Son, Jesus Christ, to become a man and to live a perfectly holy life. He was completely set apart unto the Lord, never breaking any of God's commands. Charles, there's a day coming when you will be called holy. You will not always stumble and fall in the same ways that you stumble and fall. We should be grieved over it. Dozens of people go to him to be cured of some particular sin. Like joining and regularly attending a local church. And more amazing than that, in this new dwelling place, God and his people will be united together as one, like in a marriage ceremony. It's the same word that he that Moses uses in Genesis 1 to describe God's act of creating the world and all that's in it. At this new creation, verses one to eight Spurred on by the fact that she made it so close, Florence got back in the waters of off the coast of California to try again We are afflicted from sin and struggles with sin within. The branch of the Lord. And Jesus Christ as the righteous branch king of the Lord has not yet appeared. Be both a suffering servant and a righteous king Yet, yet, from our vantage point, remember what Peter says in his letter, the prophets longed to know how these scriptures would be fulfilled. The Messiah would appear twice. For he grew up before him like a young plant, and like a root out of dry ground. Friend, are you looking forward to that day when you will boast in God And so the way that we look forward to that day is by boasting in him today. Do you get slightly embarrassed when the name of Jesus comes up when you're around people who don't know Christ? This is the fulfillment of God's purposes for his people throughout history. But for those of us who follow Jesus today, even though he has freed us from the power of sin and cleansed us of the guilt of sin, You will be called holy. Who will this work of purification happen to? Everything else in these verses is pointing forward to a future day when the branch of the Lord will appear, and he will be the pride and honor of his people, and he will create something greater, that some greater presence for us to dwell in. Over the cloud and the fire, for over all the glory, there will be a canopy. Isaiah is drawn on images that would have been common in that time. That wedding canopy in Isaiah is fulfilled in the marriage feast of the Lamb in Revelation 19. Do you have anything to look forward to today? Burst forth in the branch of the Lord Jesus Christ who appears. You have the greatest future to look forward to that any person alive could ever ask for. Keep your eyes fixed on that day. Friends, we can learn a lot from Florence today. Look forward to that day when you'll boast in God, when you'll be cleansed by God, and when you will dwell with God. Because we see the the Lord Jesus in the Gospels pick up this language about the terrible day of judgment, and he holds it out and he says, This is the day that is going to come when I return a second time. Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and the sea was no more. So in verse 8, Isaiah is commissioned by God to go to the people of Judah as a prophet. Yet I'm sure that some of you think that somehow your struggle with sin is unique. We also notice this holy seed is the stump. You see, one of the riddles of the Old Testament is this. The suffering servant, the Messiah, had no beauty. Then I heard what seemed to be the voice of a great multitude, like the roar of many waters and like the sound of mighty peals of thunder, crying out. Maybe you're looking forward to a big vacation that might be on the horizon or some other big event, say a wedding, something like that. Well, how is what you're looking forward to affecting how you live this very moment? Look in verse 3. So after the length of point one passes and we move on to point two, don't sit back in fear thinking, oh my gosh, they're all going to be this long. So we learn that the holy seed comes from the Lord and is rooted in his promise in Genesis 3. Look in Isaiah 53, in speaking about the suffering servant who would come to bear away the sins of the world, Isaiah says this in verse 2 And when he rescues us, he makes us holy. The message of Isaiah chapter 4 is this. He shall be beautiful and glorious For the Lord our God, the Almighty reigns. Friends, do you see the glory and beauty of Scripture as it all fits together? He will carry on to completion with the work that he began in you. And the Lord says in chapter 6 of Zechariah that he will be responsible for building the temple of God. Let's tell others about him. So we see on this future day when the branch of the Lord is revealed from heaven, those who have survived the judgment will be called holy. We grow in holiness through sitting under the Word, being sanctified by His Word as it's proclaimed. See here how Isaiah's vision matches John's vision. I knew they would start fiddling about with all sorts of other teeth which had not yet begun to ache. He has all authority, all power, all dominion. How will the branch of the Lord appear on that day? Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will raise up for David a righteous branch. Notice what the survivors of this judgment are called. And that will happen in a new heavens and a new earth in a new creation where we will dwell under the shelter of his protection forever. We'll look again at chapter 4, verse 2. Righteousness shall be the belt of his waist, and faithfulness the belt of his loins. You said that the branch of the Lord will appear on that final day. I'm going to go ahead and read it for us. We pray to God together as one body. When God rescued his people out of slavery in Egypt, he dwelled with them in a pillar of cloud by day and a pillar of fire by night. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. I understand that it's a case. Well, if you're thinking that to that, I would say Jesus Christ did appear 2,000 years ago Just look at how he's described in verses two to five of Isaiah 11. The blood was being shed, and the people were responsible for it. Is it true that you don't have anything to look forward to today, especially if you're a Christian? The branch of the Lord is an image used in the Old Testament to describe the Messiah as both a king and a priest. I think it all starts right here. And so when we see in that day, in our verses here, the expected response is to cringe, right? Absolutely. They will not see and they will not hear. Look back at that at verse 2. Look at me at verses three and four. I did not doubt she would give me the aspirin, but I knew she would also do something else. But Florence's story doesn't end there. If you're using the Red Pew Bible, it's on page 613. When we talk about looking forward to something, what we mean is let the reality of that future event affect how you live today. Oh Lord, we pray that you by the power of your Holy Spirit would cause us to lift our gaze. In that day, the branch of the Lord shall be beautiful and glorious. He would appear first as a suffering servant to bear away the sins of his people, and at his second coming. The branch of the Lord that bears fruit will be the pride and honor of his people when he appears. If you remember, the people of Israel would come to the Lord and worship him with their hands lifted on high. He's also just, but he will not carry out his judgment against you if you would turn in recognition of your need for a savior. Oh yeah. And we can look forward to that day by continuing to do today those things that God has given us to do and commanded us to do as a means of growing in holiness. You don't want to have to defend your defend while you believe in Jesus to these people, but you don't have to worry about doing that. And the angel said to me, Write this: Blessed are those who are invited to the marriage supper of the Lamb. I want you to notice this how even Isaiah points to this truth. So God creates the nation of Israel, gives them his commandments, calls them to be holy unto the Lord through being obedient to his word. I could not get what I wanted out of her without getting something more, which I did not want. We heard Revelation chapter 1 in our prayer of confession, the assurance of pardon. And what Isaiah is doing is he's bringing that image of Genesis 3 here into Isaiah 4 and Isaiah 6. So when shepherds were out in the field tending their sheep, they would build booths. So Isaiah was in Judah. I don't want to spend too much time on application. I am hungry myself. And then as we go through the rest of the Old Testament, we learn that this offspring, this seed, is promised to Abraham, and then to Judah, and then it appears here in Isaiah. Yeah, I don't really want to talk about him right now. Encourage one another with these truths, brothers and sisters. Keep your eyes fixed on that shoreline. He will completely consume them by his holiness. We should fight against it as much as we can. They were not holy unto him. There is a day when that struggle against sin will end. And since that day has not yet come, we shouldn't be surprised that we still struggle with sin. One author once described it this way. And when he makes us holy, he brings us into his kingdom. Isaiah is pointing us forward to that final day of judgment when Jesus Christ Well, he will cure it all right, but he will not stop there. Look forward to that day when you will be holy That word canopy only ever refers to a wedding tent or a wedding chamber in the Old Testament. We are afflicted by temptations outside of us and just the fact of living in a fallen world and all the death and destruction that happens around us, it is so difficult. But one brief note, if you're visiting with us today and you weren't here last week. Then the Lord will create over the whole site of Mount Zion He reigns on high. The assurance of your future holiness as a Christian was written before the heavens and the earth were founded. Let us rejoice and exalt and give Him the glory We can look forward to that day by boasting in his beauty and his glory by telling others about him. Look at verse 5. But what remains after you cut a tree down? Well it starts in chapter four, but we learn more about where he comes from right here. Isaiah or Jeremiah 23 verses 5 and 6 Now there is a day coming when God and his purifying winds blow over you, and when he is done with his work, he will look at you and you will be called. Please work this in us, we ask. That's what's going on there. So the picture that we have going on in Isaiah 11 is that from the righteous remnant of the Israelites So Jeremiah is a prophet to the same nation of Judah. And though his reign is on incognito to the world today, He comes in righteous judgment about all who are pridefully boasting against the Lord. I don't know how that's gonna how God's gonna pull that off. And that when he carries it on to completion, that completion we're looking at today, when you will be finally and fully purified. And through that, God by his spirit sanctifies his people. And the reason that we're going to do that is because I think what is happening here in verse 2 is frankly amazing. In that day, the branch of the Lord shall be beautiful and glorious. Because of him. His eternal decree cannot be broken. You see that it's a new Jerusalem. And the Lord will marry us, marry us as a bride, and he will take us to be his people. And you'll notice that those who survive that final judgment, their pride and honor will be the fruit of the land. But you can look forward to that final day also when you'll be cleansed Courtney, Edwin, Kevin, Renee, wherever she went, there is a day coming when you will be called holy. This is a sweet truth. So you ready for that? He will be righteous and faithful in all that he does. We're not going to turn there. The fruit of the land shall be the pride and honor of the survivors of Israel. Of course you do. He dies 40 years later, Jeremiah God is promising to bring a branch out of the line of David. When the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven They will be called holy. Kevin, there's a day coming when you will be called holy. Or if you're looking forward to a wedding, maybe you are the fiancé, the bride and groom to be. We talk about it often, but it's the truth. Everyone who has been recorded for life in Jerusalem. It says, then the Lord will create. Do you ever have that kind of creeping embarrassment creep upon you? I said I wasn't gonna do that at the beginning. When he ascended on high, he sat down at the right hand of God. And he does it in verse 4. He is merciful and gracious. You will not always face the temptations you're facing. He writes our names in the book of life with the blood of his Son, Jesus Christ. Neither shall there be mourning, nor crying, nor pain any more, for the former things have passed away. And I'm going to go ahead and read those verses now. Well, because the very first words we see in our verse, look down with me. And where do we see God in this verse? And that book of life cannot be lost, and its names cannot be erased. Also he said, Write this down, for these words are trustworthy and true Then in verse 11, Isaiah asks God, look down there with me, how long, O Lord? And when he appears You can boast in him today because you will boast in him in the last day, and he is the same today as he is on that day. And then the filth of the daughters of Zion comes from last week, chapter 3. Look forward to that final day when you'll boast in God. It's almost the exact same promise. So for example, if you're looking forward to your lunch plans after service, it may mean that it's affecting your ability to pay attention to the sermon. First, put your hope in that final day when you'll boast in God Just three months after her first attempt. Is it your lunch plans after church? In the same way, we serve a righteous king who reigns, he owns everything And this judgment will serve two purposes. His presence will be made known among us. And as you're turning there, let me go ahead and provide some background to our chapter this morning. So turn with me to Revelation 19, which you'll find on page 1039 of your Pew Bible. And he went to the cross to bear the punishment and the wrath of God and the judgment for the sins that we deserve to bear in ourselves. Right? To the thirsty I will give from the spring of water of life without payment And you can know that at some point the clouds will part. We are going to spend more time on point one than we do on point six. Then in verse 13, God describes Judah, the nation, as a tree. And that stump refers to the people of Israel who will remain faithful to the Lord even in exile. We need to remember that Jesus, the righteous king, who will appear beautiful and glorious at the end of time to rescue his people And he who is left in Zion and remains in Jerusalem will be called holy. And God's answer in verses 11 and 12, if you look down, he basically says to him, But some of you may be thinking Then the Lord will create over the whole site of Mount Zion. He will dwell with them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God. A few weeks ago, I closed a sermon with a story about Florence Chadwick. And so they were cast out of his presence. Mount Zion there is the hill on which the temple in Jerusalem is built. And his presence very much will fill this new Jerusalem. Chapters 1 to 5 are a preface to the whole book of Isaiah. I trust that none of you would say that. She famously said that if she could only see how close the land was, she thinks she could have made it. But what we see in our passage is that day We had a lot of teaching to do in that point. And the hope and joy of this promise in Isaiah. That God can't possibly bring this about in your life, right? That's what's going on there. So let me invite you to turn in your Bibles to Isaiah chapter 4. He will be utterly glorious in his awesome power when he is revealed. Yes and amen. And that dwelling place will be glorious. And not only joy, but protection. Alright, let's do that together. If you're using the Pew Bible, you can find that on page 650 How will the Messiah Adam and Eve were to be holy unto the Lord by being obedient to his commandments and reflecting his glory to all the earth. If you turn to Christ, And he's part of this stump, this remnant of people that will remain after the exile, who remain faithful to the Lord. Or if you're looking forward to a big vacation. He will both suffer for the sins of his people, and he will be both a king who reigns in righteousness. But the second purpose is when he comes in judgment in his fiery presence The glory refers to the presence of the Lord together with all of his assemblies. Of course you do. In Jesus' name. But in time, and this time she persisted. For the Lord of hosts And it's the stump of Jesse in Isaiah chapter 11. A new David will come forth, a new king. And we are almost done turning around. He rescues those who boast. And Florence swam and swam and swam for hour upon hour, and she struggled. But you seem to be saying that Jesus Christ already appeared 2,000 years ago When I was a child, I often had a toothache. His electing choice is an a breakable bond. It was granted her to clothe herself with fine linen, bright and pure. Then look with me in Revelation 21. Notice in verse 4, he shall strike the earth with the rod of his mouth and with the breath of his lips. And when he brings us into his kingdom, his presence is with us forever. Lord, help us to walk in holiness today. A stump. And so the survivors of Israel. God will not give us over to the grave. They are set apart to the Lord. And God said to them, Why are you worshiping me like that? We look there by a spirit of judgment and by a spirit of burning. Even in the book of Isaiah, Isaiah tells us about this Now turn back to chapter 4 But you remember that promise? After the beautiful branch of the Lord appears to the joy and honor of his people, I'm gonna read verses six and following And then in verses 9 and 10, God tells him what his ministry is going to be. But I did not go to my mother, at least not till the pain became very bad. Our struggle with sin is used by God as part of the full treatment that he's working in us So what Isaiah is describing here will be like a new creation. Please do follow along in your Bible. And he who is left in Zion and remains in Jerusalem will be called holy. Look at me at verse 3. Look forward to that final day when you'll boast in God. So turn back one page. And what we saw in those chapters is that is that the day that Isaiah is speaking about still hasn't come. I wanted immediate relief from my pain, but I could not get it without having my teeth set permanently right. Yet in her first attempt, Florence was afflicted by a thick and immovable fog. But that's not the only reason he was sent. Taste the sweetness of this truth. The prophecy given to Isaiah. And Florence, this time, finished the race So I want you to be prepared. Righteous and faithful will this new king be, and he will strike down the wicked How can a king be both righteous and a suffering servant? Friend, if you are in Christ. Oh Heavenly Father, it is so difficult to keep our eyes fixed on that day You know, life just seems kind of blah today. Our Lord is like the dentists. But let me ask you this. And what Isaiah is doing here is he's taking language straight out of Genesis 3 But Where do these images come from Look at verse 6. Amen. How are both of these referring to the Messiah? So Then we heard from Revelation 21 about the new heavens and the new earth. Right? And it's to the nation or kingdom of Judah that Isaiah is sent. The stump of Jesse remains. You guys have done a great job hanging in there. The women of Jerusalem who were arrogant and haughty. In that day. Isaiah chapters 2 and chapters 3. Look with me at chapter 2, verse 12. So first we learn where the branch will come from. So look forward to that day It is the greatest future. Help us to boast in you even today and help us to look forward to that day. Now turn with me to Isaiah chapter 11. Is that what it's like to boast in the Lord? Someday And so the promise of your Look with me at the end of verse 6 Then let your eyes go down to chapter 2, verse 17. Jesse was David's father. Your hands are covered in blood. Your struggle with sin is too great for God to do. Let's pray. And Isaiah describes it with rich imagery. Are you doing that? Turn over one page to Isaiah chapter 6. They boasted against the Lord and in themselves. And what's he creating? But here Look back at those verses.