We have the privilege privilege tonight of hearing God's word brought to us by our brother John Joseph. Let me go ahead and pray for us one more time and we'll go ahead and get started. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are perfectly just You call us to be holy as you are holy. And so I pray that you would give what you command. Bless us with your spirit. Tonight we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, growing up, I was blessed to have two loving parents, a mom and a dad, who went out of their way. Every time they possibly could to instruct me and give me everything that I needed to succeed. Now you would assume, and I think probably rightly you would assume that I would have responded to them with Gratitude and thanks that I would have heeded their instruction, that I would have seen their love for me, and that would have caused me to listen to them and to follow what they told me to do. But unfortunately, this wasn't the case in my own life. I was more concerned with what I wanted. I was more concerned with what I needed, and I was less concerned with what my loving mom and dad had to tell me. And so I spent the better part of my teenage years and all through my 20s rebelling against my mom and my dad, rebelling against everybody that was in my life, doing everything for myself, because all I cared about was me. Well, through my twenties, my dad regularly would travel to my house and he would knock on my door. Wanting to reach out for me, wanting me to call me back home, to to listen, son, heed my instruction. Look at what you're doing in my life. And I would sit in the living room and I would hear him knocking. I would just go hide in a corner because I didn't want him to see who I was and what his son had become. Well, if you turn with me in your Bibles to Isaiah chapter 1. You'll find another story of a loving father reaching out to a wayward son, calling him back home. We're going to be looking tonight at Isaiah chapter 1, verses 16 and 17 If you're using the pew Bibles in front of you, it's going to be on page 566. 566. And while you're turning there, let me go by go ahead and provide you with a bit more context. The nation of Israel is the people who were in slavery, bondage and slavery in Egypt. God miraculously saves them, delivers them out of Egypt, gives them his word in the desert, tells them, You're going to be my special people, you're going to display my character to the world. But Israel, kind of like me, me kind of like them, turns away from God. They don't heed his instruction at all. They rebel against him. And not only do they rebel against God, but their corruption and injustice amongst themselves caused them to rebel against one another, so much so that they split apart. So the nation of Israel breaks into the Northern Kingdom of Israel, and then you have the southern kingdom of Judah. And tonight we have the prophet Isaiah coming to the people of Judah and the southern kingdom with a message of condemnation from God, because God Considers their worship to be worthless. Their worship is worthless because in his eyes they become unjust and corrupt. So let me go ahead and read to you our passage tonight. It's Isaiah chapter 1, verses 16 and 17. You can read along with me as I read it out loud. This is God's word. Wash yourselves. Make yourselves clean. Remove the evil of your deeds from before my eyes. Cease to do evil. Learn to do good. Seek justice. Correct oppression. Bring justice to the fatherless. Plead the widow's cause. This is God's word. Well you'll see there in chapter one, God is condemning the people of Judah because they have become corrupt. They're oppressing the weak. You'll see right there at the end of verse 15 this horrible indictment against them that their hands when they come to him in prayer, their hands are covered in blood. It's meant to symbolize their unjustice and their their oppression of the weak and the needy in Judah. So I want you to see three things here real quick. These are not my points tonight for y'all taking notes. I know you guys take really close notes. These are not the note the points tonight, but these are three things that I want you to note about the kind of worship that our God desires. First, you'll see the worship that he desires is repentant worship. You see that in verse 16, where he tells them to wash themselves, make themselves clean, remove the evil of your deeds from before my sight. God's commanding that the outward ceremonial cleansing that they're coming to Him for be joined with an inward purity. That's what gives the sacrifices themselves value. Second, he desires worship that pursues holiness. You'll see that in the commands to cease to do evil, learn to do good. He's calling them to immediately turn from evil and to learn his commands, to learn to do good. And finally, God desires worship that is concerned for the oppressed. That's evident in his general command there to seek justice, which he then clarifies with those specific commands there to uh to correct oppression, bring justice to the fatherless and then plead the widow's cause. Those are his specific ways that you do this. So, with the time we're remaining for us tonight, I want to camp out on this last point that God desires worship that is concerned for the oppressed. So if you're taking notes, I'm going to give you one point of reflection, and then our second point, we're going to deal with application. So first God desires worship that is concern for the oppressed because God cares for the oppressed. Because God cares for the oppressed. In his book, War of Words, Paul Tripp says this about how our communication reveals our heart. We must begin by admitting that people and situations do not cause us to speak as we do. Our hearts control our words. People and situations simply provide the occasion. For the heart to express itself. So when my dad was coming to me, reaching out to me, his words were only reflecting inside of him the love that he had for me as his son. Well, what did God's words here tonight tell us about his own character, his own heart? His words to the unjust and oppressive reveal his character as a God who is concerned for those who are weak. for those who are needy, for those who are oppressed. You know, I'm sure that most of us have people in our lives that we can We can think of when we turn to, we usually turn to them when we're facing difficult circumstances or even joys that occur in our life, but it's those people that we want to share those moments with because there's something in their character that makes you feel comfortable to go to them. You know you can trust them. They'll empathize with you. They'll listen to what you're saying. Well, if you're here tonight as someone who is suffering oppression, who is suffering somebody manipulating or working over you. I want you to hear this as an encouragement that you can draw near to God. Listen to how Isaiah describes this God in chapter 42. Here is my servant, whom I mubhold, my chosen one in whom I delight. I will put my spirit on him and he will bring justice to the nations. He will not shout out or cry out or raise his voice in the streets. A bruised reed he will not break, and a smoldering wick he will not snuff out. Do you feel bruised tonight? You feel like your soul is a smoldering wick You can draw near to God no matter the circumstances, and he will not drive you away. He is a God who cares for the weak and the lowly in spirit Draw near to God, and He will draw near to you. I've always been a fan of those videos where an athlete and I'm making a fall here. of those of an athlete or celebrity shows up to a school to surprise a a lowly admirer like a student who has written a letter to them and maybe the student is standing in an assembly and You know, he's giving some announcement and then this the celebrity or the athlete sneaks up from behind and the whole crowd just starts trembling because they can see it and the kid can't see it, and everybody's just trying to hold it together, and then the celebrity pops out and the kid His head explodes and he loses control of all bodily function because he's so excited, oh my gosh, my hero is here. Well how much more amazing is it That the God who sits on high has come down to dwell with us. Listen to what Isaiah says in chapter 51, verse 15 of this God. This is why these videos touch a cord in us. For thus says the one who is high and lifted up. Who inhabits eternity, whose name is holy. I dwell in the high and holy place. And also with him who is of a contrite and lowly spirit, to revive the spirit of the lowly. And to revive the heart of the contrite. Yeah, we see those videos and we love them. Most of the time I just start crying because I get so happy for the person who gets to meet that celebrity, but it's because Somebody who's so exalted in social stature shouldn't be visiting this lowly person, right? But how much more amazing is it that the God of the universe has drawn near to us? This one from the high and holy place has not stayed far off. He has come to be with us. You know, I loved Fabidi's comment this morning. I I think you said something along the lines of we're not called to flee from those hungry for power. But to live among them. I think you said something along the lines of we're to love them and point them to Christ. We're to live among the power hungry and to point them to Christ. And it struck me. That is exactly what Jesus Christ did. That is exactly what he did. He came. He came to live a perfectly just life among an oppressive and power-hungry people, a people so corrupt that they would put a perfectly just and innocent man to death because he threatened to undermine their authority structures. But their corruption, their thirst for power is really only a deeper symptom of a horrible spiritual reality that all of us share, that all humans share. All people, just like the Pharisees, have rejected God. We've oppressed the truth of his existence within our hearts. And that is why Jesus Christ came, because we've all rebelled against God and sinned against him. So Jesus came to bear the judgment of God for all who would turn from their sins. and put their faith in him, all who would follow him. So if you're here today and you don't follow Jesus, I just want you to know that his sacrifice was sufficient. Most of the people start to think about most people who aren't who don't follow Jesus think of kind of Christianity as this mythical kind of thing today. I don't really can't really put any truth claims in it. I want you to know Jesus Christ got up from the dead after he was killed. In time, in space. Historical evidence he got up from the dead. You can put your faith in him because this man actually rose from the dead. He proved that his claims were true. So I just beg you to turn from your sin tonight and put your faith. In Jesus Christ. You can trust him. He is perfectly good. And he will draw near to you if you come to him. As my son Jack has gotten to a point where he's walking a little bit more, he's making noises, he started to imitate me. It's kind of scary, but it's also kind of cute. So for instance, when I get home from work at night, I'll typically walk in, put my bag down, I'll go find Leah, and I'll give her a hug. And then Jack will stand there, put his little belly out, and then he'll just waddle over and hug us both. It's really cute, but this is part of this kind of innate, creative, image-bearing quality that humans share. I'm his father. and he's trying to be like me. That's a good thing, unless I become a horrible example. Well, as Christians, we should imitate our Heavenly Father who draws near to the oppressed by likewise Drawing near to those who are oppressed. So my second point, here are ways that you can draw near to the oppressed. Here are ways that we can draw near to the oppressed. I'm going to give you Five ways to think about. First, we show concern for the oppressed outside of the church. By preaching the gospel and then helping materially when we can. We preach the gospel because the gospel is primary. The greatest need of all humankind is to be rescued from their sins. But then we also draw near, so God, for example, did not stay far off and speak his word to us, but he came to us. So we likewise should proclaim the gospel and draw near to those who we're sharing the gospel with. And that's an encouragement for you too as you go to Cape Cod. Share the gospel and draw near to them. Second, inside of the church, we show concern for the oppressed by getting to know one another. There's been a lot of talk about this recently. I'm really thankful. I think God gives us these moments in history, these opportunities for the church to start talking about things that might be harder for us to hear about. There's been a lot of stuff in society going on, and I think these are just opportunities for us To get to know one another's struggles. This is another way we can overcome oppression. A good question that you could ask yourself is: do I know the people I'm close to well enough That I would actually know if they were oppressed, that I would know if their friends are manipulating them, or their families abandon them. Or their work, their boss is oppressing them. Do I know these things about the people that I'm close to? I think these are answers that you should reflect on. And if you don't know those answers, don't take it as, oh my gosh, I'm a horrible friend. Just start asking those questions. Push in. Be more transparent with one another. Third, we show concern for the oppressed. By seeking to care for the helpless among us. So this is not just an Old Testament principle that we're dealing with here. James says in the New Testament that religion that is pure and undefiled before God the Father exists. to visit orphans and widows in their affliction. So we want to do that today. Do you know who those people who are on the outskirts of the congregation are? What are ways that you can help to get to know them and then draw near to them? Fourth, we show concern for the oppressed among us by confronting sin. I want to be real careful with this one. I'm not saying that you should form a spiritual SWAT team to go out and seek and destroy all sin in the congregation. That's not what I'm talking about. I'm thinking more along the lines of our church covenant, which we'll rehearse tonight, where we just faithfully and admonish and entreat one another as occasion uh might provide. And so uh when we do that, we want to look at what Paul says in Galatians six, he gives good instructions there about how to approach another brother in sin. You can look at Matthew eighteen, Jesus lays out uh how to approach uh another brother who's in sin. If you have any questions about it, talk to somebody who's more mature about you. Say, hey, I'm seeing something like this going on in my friend's life. And ask for advice. How would you approach this? How would you deal with this? Or you can just talk to the elders. They would love to help you out with that And finally, fifth and finally, we should show concern for the oppressed by remembering who we are. In Exodus chapter 23, verse 9, after delivering a host of laws prohibiting the perversion of justice, and giving them to the people of Israel. God tells his people why they, above all people on earth, should be concerned for the oppressed. And he says this. You shall not oppress a sojourner. You know the heart of a sojourner. For you were sojourners in the land of Egypt So catch that there. He grounds the mercy that his people were to show in the mercy they had been shown. Right? We were all dead in our trespasses, but God being rich in what? Mercy. That's what we're to do for one another. That's how we we remind ourselves. We are brothers and sisters of mercy. The God of the universe has drawn near to us and released us from our spiritual oppression. So, one way we show concern for the oppressed is by remembering that we were oppressed. Let's remember that tonight as we draw to the table where we'll see this visual symbol. Of our release from oppression as Jesus' body was broken. Let us remember that all of us are children of mercy. And let us all show mercy to one another and to the world. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, it is unfathomable grace that we have received It has poured out from heaven like a flood. You have loved us so wonderfully and amazingly in Jesus Christ, and we often Harden our hearts towards one another. Help us to remember the mercy you've shown us and teach us how to show concern for the oppressed that we might be like you. It's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.