Good morning. I want to extend a special thanks to any of you who had to travel any great distance in the rain this morning. It strikes me when I see the rain on a Sunday that this is actually appropriate weather for a day like today, right? We've all come in here like parched soil. Needing the water of God's word to give us life. And he will give life. That's what he does. His word goes out, and it does not come back void. So let's pray to him now, and then we'll go ahead and get started. Heavenly Father, the truth of what you have for this morning is too great for our minds to Completely comprehend, but we pray that you would condescend to us now. Make your spirit to understand what it means for us that there is no condemnation for us who are in Christ. For those who are not in Christ, show them the hope that you hold out to them. And show it in abundance, I pray. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, freedom is a costly commodity. One need only look at human history to see that this is the case For as far back as historical record goes, people groups have warred against people groups. Nation has fought against nation. Civilization has clashed with civilization. All in the pursuit of freedom. And the cost of this pursuit of freedom isn't hidden from our eyes any longer. They're not hidden statistics on a battlefield. We live in the age of the image, and so These realities of the pursuit of freedom break into our lives through our computers and our phones and our televisions, revealing to us how costly this pursuit of freedom really is. But the pursuit of freedom also doesn't just happen on a grand scale, does it? No, the pursuit of freedom is something that we are personally uh intimate with. We know this in our own lives. So to pursue freedom. From a corrupt boss may cost you your job. To pursue freedom from an abusive spouse or parent may cost you house and home. To pursue freedom from an addiction will most certainly cost you the object of your addiction. True freedom entails real sacrifice. And this leads us to a deeper set of questions, doesn't it? What is true freedom? How do we attain this true freedom? What will it cost me to find true freedom? And what is the purpose? of true freedom. Surely if there is true freedom in this world, there must be a purpose to it. Well, in our passage this morning found in Romans chapter 8, verses 1 to 4 We find very real answers to these very pressing questions. And since we're parachuting into Romans 8 for one week, Mark has given me the the uh honor of preaching to you for one week, and so this text is what we're gonna look at. I thought it would be helpful for us to kind of walk through the text leading up to chapter eight. before we dive into into it. So if you have uh your pew bible with you, you're gonna find it on page 931 that's or 939, excuse me. Romans chapter 1 is on page 939 of the pew Bibles around you Please open the Bible and look at these passages. I'm going to be reasoning with you from the scriptures. If you have questions about what Christians believe, you need to understand what the scriptures say, and you're going to be able to tell, is what he's saying actually what this says. So please do read along with me as I go through this. The Apostle Paul wrote this letter to the Roman church around fifty-six or fifty-seven A. D. He's writing to a largely Gentile congregation. What I mean by that, it's a largely non-Jewish congregation, though there would have been Uh, some Jews who are part of the congregation. Paul's chief concern is that they understand the gospel. So look down with me at Romans chapter 1, verse 16. This is his theme statement, for I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes. To the Jew first and also to the Greek. Everything that Paul's going to say in the letter to the Romans will orbit Around this idea. Everything he talks about is related to this sun, the gospel. It all orbits around that. So Paul spends the first three chapters of the book. You can just flip through chapter one, chapter two Chapters 1, 2, and 3 are all about mankind's need for the gospel. The Gentile needs the gospel. He knows God exists, and he suppressed the truth and unrighteousness. And the Jew needs the gospel because even though he has God's law, he's violated that law. That's all what chapters one to three are about. Then Paul presents the gospel. And he shows how man can be saved from his sin there in chapter 3, verses 21 to 24. Look down with there with me real quick. But now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart from the law. Although the law and the prophets bear witness to it The righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe, for there is no distinction. For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. And are justified by his grace as a gift through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. Paul moves on from there to use Abraham as an illustration of what saving faith looks like in chapter 4. And then chapters 5 through 8, Paul turns, and now he's going to describe the results of believing. In the gospel, and it's here that he really starts to pick up steam. He's like a locomotive. In chapter 5, he starts talking about peace with God, justification, and faith. Then in chapter six, he turns to talk about the curse of being enslaved to sin and how we can be free from that sin through the gospel. And then in chapter seven, he turns to the utter futility of trying to obey God's law and he looks at himself. There's like a picture where he's looking at himself in chapter 7. And his recognition of his own inability to perfectly obey God's law that causes him to exclaim there at the end of chapter 7, verse 24. Look there with me. Paul, the Apostle Paul, is struggling with why he why can I not obey this law? And he says, wretched man that I am. Who will deliver me from this body of death? And as quickly as the clouds of despair roll upon Paul, so does the sun of righteousness break through that despair. And Paul is reminded of the fact that he is not justified by being able to obey the law. He is justified only by faith in Christ. And so Paul exclaims. Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord. This is that faith that gave Paul hope when he was unable to fulfill the law. And Paul's thanks there at the end of chapter 7 kind of steamroll like a snowball into our next chapter, which is where we're going to work this morning. When we finish here this morning, I want you to walk away knowing the answers to three questions. So if you're taking notes, these will be the three points. First, what is true freedom? Second, what is the cost of true freedom And third, what is the purpose of true freedom? So first for us this morning. What is true freedom? And for you, Avin Notakers, I'm going to break this into two sections. There are going to be two different parts. You can treat these as subpoints if you like. So what is true freedom? Let's look down at verses one and two. I'm gonna read them for us again. Excuse me, let me go ahead and read all four verses now. There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. For the law of the Spirit of Life has set you free in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and death. For God has done what the law, weakened by the flesh, could not do. By sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin, he condemns sin in the flesh. In order that the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not according to the flesh, but according to the spirit. What is true freedom? Verses one and two tell us first that true freedom is freedom from sin's penalty. The words of Paul that ring off this page, and the words that have rung down through the ages from the day of Pentecost until now, and the words that get to the very heart. Of the gospel of grace that comes through faith in Jesus Christ are those words you see there in verse 1: No condemnation. We have been freed from the penalty of our sins. So, what does Paul mean when he says that there is no condemnation? Well, he's going back to this idea in chapter 5, verse 16, where he says, and the free gift is not like the result of that one man's trespass. For the judgment following one trespass brought condemnation. The condemnation that Paul is referring to here is the reign of sin and death that Adam ushered into this world. through his own sin, and that rain spread to all men because all men sinned. And the two defining characteristics of living under this reign Are first that you're an enemy of God, and second, that you're destined to the penalty of eternal destruction. But for the one who's put their faith in Christ Jesus, this is no longer the case. It is for freedom that Christ has set us free If you've come in here this morning worn down from another difficult week, all I want you to do is to look up and stare at and rejoice in this truth. This is the fountain of all Christian joy. You are completely justified in God's sight. There is no condemnation for you who are in Christ Jesus. So have you come in here today struggling with the same sin year after year? There is no condemnation for you. Have you come in here today struggling with desires that the Bible calls sinful? There is no condemnation for you. Have you come in here this morning after having already been angry with your wife or mean to your kids? There is no condemnation for you. Have you barely been able to drag yourself out of bed because you're struggling with spiritual depression? There is no condemnation for you. Lift your head up. Look at this truth. You are not condemned. God Loves you. He is the prodigal God. He runs to outcast sons and daughters and he picks him up and hugs him and he rejoices over them. Listen to what Zephaniah says, speaking of the day that God would remove the condemnation from his people. Chapter three, verse fourteen to seventeen of Zephaniah. Sing aloud, O daughter of Zion. Shout, O Israel. Rejoice and exult with all your heart, O daughter of Jerusalem. For the Lord has taken away the judgments against you He has cleared away your enemies. The King of Israel, the Lord, is in your midst. You shall never again fear evil. On that day it shall be said to Jerusalem, Fear not, O Zion, let not your hands grow weak. The Lord your God is in your midst, a mighty one who will save. He will rejoice over you with gladness. He will quiet you by his love He will exalt over you with loud singing. And when is that day that Zephaniah was talking about? Paul says it right there at the beginning of the verse. There is now no condemnation. According to Paul, this day is now. If you are here today as a follower of Christ, Rejoice that God has removed the penalty and judgments against you, and He delights in you. And living in light of the fact that God has taken away our condemnation, so we should be quick to not condemn one another. So in your friendships, if your friends upset you, if they do something that you don't like, do you hold grudges against them? In your marriages, do you more regularly look for the sin of your spouse rather than pointing out the evidences of God's grace in their life? Remember, God has called us to be kind to one another, tender hearted. Forgiving one another the same way that He has forgiven us in Christ. So true freedom is freedom from sin's penalty The second thing I want us to notice about true freedom is that true freedom is also freedom from sin's power. Let me read to you verses 1 and 2 again. There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus For the law of the Spirit of Life has set you free in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and death. So in verse 2, Paul is going to turn from his proclamation about our freedom from sins penalty, and he's going to provide for us the answer, the reason why we're free. And that reason is because the law of the Spirit of Life has set us free from the law of sin and death So what's the basis that we've been uh freed from sin's penalty in verse one? The fact that we've been freed from sin's power in verse two. So you see those two phrases there. That word law, I don't think refers to a written code at all. That word can be translated as a binding authority or a power. So it's almost as if if you reread the verses that way, it would say, For the power of the Spirit of Life has set you free in Christ Jesus from the power of And I think that's what Paul is saying there. So, in other words, the proof of your justification is verified by the presence of your sanctification. This is what James meant also in chapter 2, verse 17 of his letter when he said, So also faith by itself, if it does not have works, is dead. The Apostle John says the same thing in first John chapter three, verse eighteen. Little children, let us not love with word or talk. So I think there's some application here for us this morning. If you're the type of person who maybe Maybe you grew up in a Christian family, maybe you didn't, maybe you did. Maybe you just you kind of grew up in America, you consider yourself a Christian, you think everything is good with God, he's going to forgive you because he's a forgiving God. That's what he does. You don't really know the big deal about church or why Jesus is, you know, don't know why people make a big deal about Jesus. If that describes you, I just want to gently encourage you to read the Bible. Read the Bible. That is not at all how Scripture describes a Christian or Christianity. According to Scripture, Christians are marked by a distinct creed and a distinct character. Their creed is one that there is no possible way to be reconciled to God apart from faith in Jesus Christ, and their character is one that is ever being conformed into the likeness of Christ. Imperfectly? Absolutely. But knowing in the knowledge that there is freedom from all condemnation when we do sin against God. He says in 1 John. He who confesses his sin finds forgiveness because God is faithful and just to forgive us our sins. And since God's Spirit is at work in us and is proof that we've been freed from condemnation, As a church family, we should be quick to encourage one another when we see the Spirit's work in someone else's life. That's your way to pat them on the back and say, hey, look, it's clear that you've been free from condemnation because I see this going on in your life. Paul says That the proof of freedom from condemnation is that the Spirit will be evidently at work in your life. And I see this, brother or sister. We can so easily become wrapped up in our own in our own deficiencies. I know I was wrapped up in my own deficiencies of coming up here and preaching this text to you. This wife, my my wife had just smacked me across the face a couple of times, say, hey, look up. Let the let the text preach itself. I mean it's the best text in the Bible. I was like, oh I'm just gonna ruin it. No, you're not gonna ruin it. It's God's word. He's gonna do his work through it. We can so easily just get wrapped up in our own deficiencies. And if you see a brother or sister who's struggling that way, point out to them where you see God's grace in their life. Your encouragement to them might be the one that gets them to kind of lift their eyes off themselves and look up and see where their true righteousness lies. It's in Christ. So be quick to encourage one another. That's what the author of Hebrews says in 313. He says, therefore, encourage one another. Excuse me, this is in uh 1 Thessalonians 5. 11. He's speaking here about the fact that they had been saved by God. Same thing as our text here. And he says, Because you've been saved Therefore, encourage one another and build one another up. And the author of Hebrews says the same thing in chapter 3, verse 13. Encourage one another daily, as long as it is called today. We should be a people who are just singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. blessing one another, singing and making melody to the Lord, encouraging one another in the faith. The fact that God has removed us removed us from the dominion of sin and death and put us in the into the dominion of life in His Son Christ. It doesn't mean that we are freed from the curses and bitterness of this world yet. So let's be a people who encourage one another and urge one another on in the faith. Point two What is the cost of true freedom? What is the cost of true freedom? Go ahead and look down with me at verse three. For God has done what the law, weakened by the flesh, could not do. By sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin. He condemns sin in the flesh. But what we find in this verse is that the cost of true freedom is the life of God's own Son. So Paul is basically saying, he's giving you an explanation of the Spirit setting you free in verse two. He's basically saying, this is how the Spirit set you free. And what we see here is that the Spirit's work Is intimately bound up in the work of the Father and the Son, all three working harmoniously together to effect salvation for those who would put their faith in Christ. And in the first part of the verse, God's power to save is set in contrast to the law's inability to bring righteousness. You see that right there where he says, For God has done what the law Weakened by the flesh, could not do. Paul wants to emphasize coming on the heels of chapter seven and the law's inability to bring about righteousness in the lives of those who submit themselves to the law in order to to find righteousness. Paul is pressing this picture in here in order to show you the greatness and freeness of grace and the salvation that's in Jesus Christ. That's what he wants you to see by setting that contrast. So it's kind of like he's doing a little illustration for us here. God could do what the law couldn't do. Have you ever watched a toddler? And then there's a There's like a a box that has the corresponding shapes cut into the top of the box and the toddler trying to teach the toddler this shape goes with this shape and this one goes with this one. Try to teach them, right? But what does the toddler do? Always without fail. They grab the square and they ram it into the circle. Just ram it. Just over and over and over again. Till they just get frustrated and give up and they crawl off and they play with another toy the wrong way. But is it this is what Paul is this is a picture of what we do when we try to find our righteousness through the law, isn't it? Like toddlers, make me righteous, make me righteous. Why won't you do it? The law is saying I I'm only a standard, bro. I can't I can't make you righteous I can only tell you what righteousness is. And what I can do, what I was meant to do, was point you to the one who could give you true righteousness. That was what the law was for, one of the purposes of the law. It was the prophet. It was pointing forward. You need a savior. You need a savior. But I want to be righteous. No, you can't you can't follow me and do that. You've got to follow him. He is God's righteousness. Let's stop being those toddlers. I am not pointing at you. I'm the first one who will do this. I didn't read my Bible enough, God. Well, son, that's not what makes you righteous. Sure it'll make you wise, but your righteousness is in my son. Let's not use the law in a way that it wasn't meant to be used. So does that mean we don't use the law at all? That's not what I'm saying. Paul says in Romans 3:31, he's answering that exact question. Okay, so so he's imagining a person responding to him and saying, Okay, does that mean, Paul, that we just overthrow the law? Do we then overthrow the law by this faith? By no means. On the contrary, we uphold the law. As Christians, we say no, the law is good. It is right, it's a reflection of God's perfect moral character. It points out to us where we fall short, but we uphold it and we do all that we can by the Spirit to be obedient to that law. That's how we bring God glory. The law is good, but it is not the means by which we achieve righteousness. To try to use it that way is like trying to run across a room on a treadmill. You just pump and pump and pump and pump. You're not going to get anywhere. So let's not use it that way. If you feel like you've been on the Christian treadmill, you know, the one trying to earn salvation. Yes, I believe. I believe in Jesus. He is my righteousness. But I tell you what, I'm gonna do it today. I'm gonna fulfill the law. Don't do that. Get off the treadmill of Christian righteousness. Trying to find your righteousness by the law and find your true righteousness where it lies in heaven, seated at God's right hand. His name is Jesus Christ, and he is your righteousness. So that's what Paul is saying here. After this little my little rant about the law, we're going to move on, talk about the rest of the verse. He is saying that it's not the law that affects your salvation. But it's God who affected your salvation through, this is how he did it, condemning sin and the sacrifice of his son. The idea that God condemns sin in the flesh is just pointing to this overthrow of the reign of sin and death that came into this world. So Adam's sinned ushered in death. He's not talking about just physical death there. He's talking about this complete, total dominion that has taken hold of mankind and has ruled us. And he's saying that in the punishment of his son, he took it and threw it. It's gone. There is no longer curses and bitterness for you as a Christian. If you're suffering today, I just want to point out to you: your suffering now is not a punishment from God. Please don't ever believe that. If you are a Christian, if you follow Jesus Christ, God is using your suffering for good. Trust in Him. It does not always look clear. Sometimes it's cloudier than the weather outside. You just get caught in the clouds and you don't know which way's up. That's why God's promises come in to let you know. If you feel like you're suffering under the rain of that sin and death that Adam ushered into the world, and you're a Christian here today, I want you to know it is not suffering that God is giving to you. He is not causing you to suffer. He's using it for discipline. He's using it to teach you to rely upon him. He's using it to teach you to come to his word. He's showing you your weakness. He's glorifying his strength. He just causes you to come to him more and more. And the more we do that, the more we become like him. That's his goal in the Christian life, is to make us holy, which is what we're going to get to soon. So he condemned sin in the flesh by sending the eternal Son of God. He came fully clothed in flesh. He came fully as a man, but you notice that unique phrase there, the way Paul describes it. He says he came in the likeness of sinful flesh. He's not talking about an illusion. It's not like Jesus kind of looked human but wasn't really. He's just kind of this guy, this Hologram of a human. That's not what Paul's saying. Really, what's going on here is Paul is just, he's constrained by the limits of human language. And he's walking a tightrope. He's trying to show you Jesus was fully man, didn't have any sin in him. That's what he means by likeness of sinful flesh. Fully man, sinless. Likeness of sinful flesh. And he came he came for sin, meaning as an offering or sacrifice. That phrase there is pointing to Jesus Christ's propitiation. It's the fact that he paid the penalty for us. So I've been amazed uh just staring at this text, the more and more I look at it The more and more I see. You have these words like no condemnation. Those are the famous words, right? No condemnation, set free. And it's good. We should look at those words. Those are the words that give us hope. But the more I look at this this passage, those words kind of fade into the background. And the words In Christ, and God has done, the Spirit has done. It's all about what God did. God did this for us And really at the cross we see two realities. And this is the joy of the cross and the devastation of the cross. At the cross for the Christian, you see the extent, the distance that God will go to show you his love for you And for the non-Christian, you see the distance that God will go to protect his name. This is a very sobering reality. This is not a joke for us to toy with. If you're here this morning and you're not a Christian, I wonder if you fear death. It's a tough question. I understand it. Death is not a fun topic. But it's a reality. It's one that we need to face. If you're here and you're not a Christian, I wonder if you fear death. And I don't say what I'm about to say as kind of a jab at you at all. But if you don't, you should. Hebrews Hebrews nine twenty-seven It says man is appointed to die once. And after that, face judgment. My friend, none of us can stand before a holy God apart from Jesus Christ. We don't have the righteousness required to do so. And because we've all sinned against God And if you have any question what God will do to sin, all you need to do is look at the cross. He would send his own son into the world and punish him by the rod of his own wrath. That is how much he despises sin. But I also want to hold out to you a completely different reality. If you fear death and you're not a Christian, you don't have to. You don't have to fear death any longer. God has made a way for you to be saved. Jesus Christ Himself says in John 6 37, the one who died for your sins is Says, all that the Father gives me will come to me. Whoever comes to me. Whoever comes to me, I will never cast out. You can know that your sins have been forgiven because Jesus has taken the punishment form. Proof positive. We have crosses hanging all over this country pointing to that fact. And you can know that your sins will be forgiven because he didn't just hang on a cross, he was buried in the ground and then got up three days later. Who does that? God does that. That's it. God is the only one who does that. As I think about the true freedom that Christians have, the confidence it should give us. I can't help but think about the loss that the Glover family suffered this week. The loss we suffered as a church family when Carol lost her life in that tragic accident. Her passing surely brings sorrow. Surely. It'd be crazy for us to ignore that But mixed with that sorrow is the deep and abiding confidence that for the one whose faith in Christ, death is a precursor to glory. It is not the end of the story. It's a dot, dot, dot. Story to be continued. Isaiah wrote about this future glory when he said, he will swallow up death forever. And the Lord God will wipe away tears from all faces. And the reproach of his people, he will take away from all the earth. If you do not believe in Jesus Christ, you don't have to fear death because God will take away your sin. And for the Christian, this is your hope too. God has taken away your sin. Now there is no condemnation. So, what is true freedom? It's freedom from the penalty and power of sin. What's the cost of true freedom? Well, the cost of true freedom is the life of God's own son. And that leads us to our third and final question that we want to answer this morning. What's the purpose of true freedom? What's the purpose of true freedom? Go ahead and look back with me at the text. We're going to find our answer of the purpose of true freedom in verse 4. But in verse 4, Paul is drawing a conclusion about something that he says in verse 3. So I want to read them together so we can capture this idea. Verses 3 and 4. You've been set free, for God has done what the law, weakened by the flesh, could not do. By sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin, he condemns sin in the flesh. In order that the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not according to the flesh, but according to the spirit The purpose of true freedom is your righteousness. The purpose of true freedom is your righteousness. Those very first words there in order that should just they should just stick out to you as you read the Bible. So when you see words like therefore or for or in order that Those words should pop out to you because he's either going to give you a ground for something he's already said, he's going to give you the reason he said it. In order that points to, this is why I'm saying it. This is why God did what he did. And that purpose is that the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us. The righteous requirement of the law that Paul is describing here is the standard of perfect obedience that the law requires. This is what the law requires. He who does these things shall live by them. You need to fulfill the law perfectly if you're going to attain perfect righteousness. And when he says that it might be fulfilled in us He is not saying that now that we've been saved, we're responsible to keep the whole law. That would completely overthrow the joy of this passage. That would completely nullify my entire message up to this point. It would mean I don't know what I'm talking about here. I don't think that's what Paul is saying. This righteous requirement of the law being fulfilled in us, when you see that might be fulfilled in us, that's actually pointing to an act that is done in you and for you. By someone else. And who else is that person? It is God who is making you righteous. So if you are one of those people, if you're here and you think Christians think they are righteous because they are good people or holy people, that is not what we believe. We are in a church full of sinners. We are a people instead Who believe that someone else has made us righteous. And that's why we make it such a big deal about Jesus Christ. He's the one who made us righteous. So, this righteous recommended law being fulfilled in us is that God is the one who is making us righteous. It's nothing less than all of the perfections of Jesus Christ and His righteousness. being imputed and given and put into you. So he condemns sin in the flesh on the cross? Whose sin? Our sin. In his body he bore our sins on the tree. Why did he do that? Why did he bore us bear our sins in his body on the tree? In order that the righteous requirement of the law will be fulfilled in you. Not because you keep the law perfectly. He struck his own son down, so that his own son would take our sin and he would give you his righteousness. This is the great exchange. This is the great news of Christianity of Jesus Christ. This is the gospel. Come open-handed, empty-handed. You have nothing in your hands to bring. Come to me, all you who are weary and burdened and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. You come to Jesus, He takes it. And He doesn't just take it, He gives you His perfection. I mean, this is ridiculous. Christ takes our sin and we receive His righteousness. We like I'm positive if you're if you're like me at all whenever you find a good deal like oh man living social I gotta tell people about this Uber, if I send this to people though, I get free rides. Like we are a people who are made to give other people good news. This is the good news of Christianity. We should go tell this to people. Use this as a reason to share the gospel. It is so sweet. There is no other hope on earth for mankind. But the hope that exists surpasses everything. It surpasses everything. And it doesn't just exist here in Romans, does it? You open your Bible. You don't just find this in Romans. Isaiah chapter 53, verses 10 and 11. You don't need to turn there. You can just write it down, but go read it. You read the whole chapter, but verses 10 and 11. Yet it was the will of the Lord to crush him. He has put him to grief. When his soul makes an offering for guilt, he shall see his offspring. He shall prolong his days. The will of the Lord shall prosper in his hand Out of the anguish of his soul, he shall see and be satisfied. By his knowledge shall the righteous one, my servant, make many to be accounted righteous. And he shall bear their iniquities. Isaiah 53, 10 and 11. 1 Corinthians 1, 30 and 31. And because of God, you are in Christ Jesus. Who became to us wisdom from God, righteousness, and sanctification and redemption, so that, as it is written, let the one who boasts boast in the Lord. Do you boast in God? Do you boast in the Lord? When you boast, do you boast in the Lord? He did this, not me. 2 Corinthians 5. 21. God made him who knew no sin. To be sin for us. Why? So that in him we might become the righteousness of God. What then shall we say to these things, brothers? If God is for us, who could be against us? He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him freely give us all things? Why do you think Paul proclaims that? Why do you think he just exclaims at the top of his lungs there? Because the gift he's been given is so sweet. If you are here today and you're struggling for faith, just sink your claws into this thing. Just hold on to it for dear life. Stare at it in the text until it gives up its riches. God will not hide from you his hope in his word. Hold on to this thing and don't let go of it. John Bunyan Once struggled desperately to be assured of his faith. This is my first time up here preaching. I had to go to Puritan. It's kind of kind of the law here. If you don't do it, you haven't fulfilled righteousness, right? Amen John Bunyan once struggled desperately to be assured in his faith, and when he finally got this truth, when he finally held on to it and it made sense to him, this is what he said. He was talking about realizing finally that Christ was his righteousness, that he didn't have to find it on his own. This is what he's talking about. I've modified it a little bit. I hope you're not upset with me. I'm talking to you. I had to modify it, otherwise it's you I don't know what I can't really tell what Bunny is saying, but here it is. One day, as I was passing into the field, this sentence fell upon my soul. Thy righteousness is in heaven. And I thought, I saw with the eyes of my soul Jesus Christ at God's right hand. And there I say was my righteousness. So that wherever I was, or whatever I was doing, God cannot say of me that I lacked his righteousness, for my righteousness was sitting in front of him. I also saw, moreover, that it was not my good frame of heart that made my righteousness better, nor even my bad frame that might made my righteousness worse. From my righteousness was Jesus Christ Himself, the same yesterday, today, and forever. Oh, now did my chains fall off my legs indeed. I was loosed from my afflictions and irons My temptations also fled away, and now I also went home rejoicing for the grace and love of God. Note how his recognizing that Christ was his righteousness, freedom. He went home rejoicing in God. This is testimony that the Spirit's work was in him. Is that that last clause in your sentence there in verse 4? That last clause? Those of us who walk according to the Spirit, not according to the flesh, not according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit. He's simply pointing to the evidence again of righteousness. Sanctification. When you behold that Christ is your righteousness, fruit starts popping up in your life. It just it just works. that way. For Bunyan, the Spirit, testified with his Spirit that he was a child of God. So those who have been justified by God Encountered righteous in Christ evidenced this in walking according to the Spirit. So I just want to make clear: Paul is not saying that you fulfill the righteous requirement of the law by your walking according to the Spirit. Your righteousness is in heaven. To the members of CHBC. I want you to hear this point about the Spirit's work as proof of our justification. the same way that Paul intended the Romans to hear it. Sometimes when you talk about sanctification as a a fruit of righteousness, Christians can start to get Weary and introspective again, looking for fruit. Paul did not say this these verses in Romans 8, 1-4. To cause that to happen. And we know that because of what he says to them in chapter 1. So go ahead and turn with me back to chapter 1. So how do we know that Paul wasn't telling the Romans they need to they need you need to look closer at your life to see if there's sanctification? How do we know that he's actually encouraging them? That's what he says right here. Verses 7 and 8. To all those in Rome who are loved by God and called to be saints. Grace to you. Peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. First, I thank my God through Jesus Christ for all of you Because your faith is proclaimed in all the world. Notice the love that he addresses him with. To all those in Rome, loved by God, called to be saints, grace to you. I thank my God for you. Your faith is proclaimed in all the world. It was clear to Paul. that the Spirit was at work in their lives when he wrote this letter. He had already heard about them. Had never been there, didn't found the church, but had heard about him. That's what faith does. It works. God takes it and carries it to the ends of the earth. And likewise, I want to encourage you. From the day I step foot in here I'm gonna hold it together. This is the end. Can't do this now. From the day I stepped foot in here five years ago, the Spirit's work among you has been plainly evident. Acts of service abound. Self sacrifice is the norm. God's word is cherished. His truth is celebrated. And his son is held up. As the righteousness of all the world. So much so that your faith is proclaimed in all the world Countless churches have been planted. Hundreds of people have gone forth Letters pour in from every country on earth. It is my job to sort through these letters. It's amazing to me. Every continent, every country, people write to thank CHBC for their work. Be encouraged. You being bring God great joy. And it's because, C H B C you have true freedom. So in conclusion, what is true freedom? It's freedom from sin's penalty, and it's freedom from sin's power What is the cost of true freedom? The life of God's own Son. What is the purpose of true freedom? Your righteousness. If you're here today and you're not a Christian, do you want this freedom? If you're here today and you are a Christian, what are you going to do with this freedom? We have the opportunity now to watch another young man come up, Jonathan. To be baptized, this baptism is a picture, a literal picture of sin's death in his life. And his rising to no condemnation and glory and righteousness in Christ. Let's rejoice in that freedom today. Let me pray for us. Heavenly Father, we thank you and love you. Thanks could never Pour forth from our mouth enough to give you all the praise and all the glory that you possibly deserve for all of what you've done. But we give you these feeble words and we give them to you. Through our righteousness, Christ. And we know that when these words come to you through Christ, they will be righteous. Do work through your word, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.