Oh good morning. How's everybody doing? It's good to be here with you this morning. Seeing those smiling faces on this sweltering summer day. Come to praise God for the refuge that He's given us in Christ. We want to praise Him for the wisdom that He gives to men to build air conditioners. So we can have a refuge from the heat outside for just a little while. Well, let me go ahead and uh pray for us one more time, and then we'll dive into God's word. Let's pray. Father, we pray to you now in the name of your son. And we pray, Father, for those who are being attacked or are underattacked, who question your love for them, who question whether you are even near to them, whether you are even awake. Father, we pray that during this time you would speak to them. Oh God, glorify Christ this morning. Show us how He is the great deliverer. How he has defeated our great enemy. We pray that you would teach us this morning. Cause us to delight in you. Teach us to be joyful in Christ, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, few things in life evoke a sense of anger. A sense of a desire for justice, as when the innocent are attacked. Movies have been made, novels written, they stir up these deep-seated emotions inside of us. So you think of characters like Andy Dufrain from the Shawshank Redemption, or Edmund Dantes from the Count of Monte Cristo. And whether we're watching or reading these stories, we almost always instinctively identify with the innocent. And so we travel with them in their stories through the broad range of emotions experienced during such attacks. So we can easily imagine the emptiness inside. The despair. The bitterness, the wrath, the anger, the want of revenge on these people. And even sometimes The hope. Hope for a better day. Hope for a new tomorrow. Hope for freedom. Some hope, something to fix your mind on to get you through this crisis. Their stories become our stories. Their suffering becomes our suffering. Their enemies become our enemies. Their hope becomes our hope, and their freedom becomes our celebration. So when Andy Dufrain pops out on the other side of that pipe at the end of the movie, I'm jumping up screaming because I love it. I've just I've identified with him all movie. I'm crying, I'm bawling, I'm joyful. This is what happens in these stories. They draw us in the innocent. Should not be attacked. There's something wrong with that. But these stories like the Count of Monte Cristo or Shawshank Redemption or any of the others. These are the things of movie screens and manuscripts. Where a happy ending is as easy as a few strokes on the keyboard. But what do you do in the crisis when it never ends? What do you do in the real world? Where do you fix your hope? Is there any real hope to fix your heart on? Well, if you have your Bibles with you, go ahead and turn with me to Psalm 59. If you're using one of the Pew Bibles, you'll find it on pages 477 and 478. As Dan said, if you don't have a Bible for yourself, please do take that. It's a gift from us to you. As you're turning there, let me provide a bit of background for our text this morning. Psalm 59 comes toward the end of the rescue psalms. This is a stretch of Psalms running from Psalm 52 to Psalm 60. Common in each of them is that David is under attack and he's calling out to God for help. And the purpose that these Psalms are grouped together the way that they are is not haphazard. It's to show that God's anointed one who is under attack will be delivered by God. The superscription of the psalm provides us with a useful bit of historical background. Let's go ahead and look at it together. I'll read it for us. It says there to the choir master, according to do not destroy a mikdem of David. When Saul sent men to watch his house in order to kill him. The reference here refers to a story that comes right out of 1 Samuel 19. You may have read that this week and uh as you were preparing for the sermon today. But the broader context of that story goes back even further. It stretches back to 1 Samuel 15. Saul is rejected as king of Israel by God for failing to obey all of God's commands. Then God promises to give the kingdom to another one who would be better than Saul. And in chapter 16 of 1 Samuel, we meet that unsuspecting shepherd boy king. David, the youngest of seven siblings. This guy should never be king, but lo and behold, God promises the kingdom to him. And in chapter 17, we watch in awe as this unsuspecting boy Steps up and defeats the great warrior Goliath and then delivers Israel from the hands of the Philistines. Yet rather than receiving praise, which you would expect Saul responds with jealous anger and revenge. Though David has done nothing wrong, Saul tries to kill him three different times in 1 Samuel 18 and 19. And the account of our psalm this morning takes place on the third attempt. So the third attempt when Saul tried to kill David is the occasion for this psalm. So let's imagine you're David. You've just been anointed king. You delivered Israel from its enemies, and now the people want to kill you. Well, what would you say to God? How would you pray? Well, let's look down at our text this morning and let's see what David said and how he prayed. I'll read it for us. Deliver me from my enemies, O my God. Protect me from those who rise up against me, deliver me from those who work evil, and save me from bloodthirsty men. For behold, they lie in wait for my life. Fierce men stir up strife against me. For no transgression or sin of mine, O Lord, for no fault of mine, they run and make ready. Awake, come to meet me and see you, Lord God of hosts, our God of Israel Rouse yourself to punish all the nations. Spare none of those who treacherously plot evil. Each evening they come back, howling like dogs, and prowling about the city. There they are, bellowing with their mouths with swords in their lips for who they think will hear us. But you, O Lord, laugh at them. You hold all the nations in derision O my strength, I will watch for you, for you, O God, are my fortress. My God in his steadfast love will meet me. God will let me look in triumph on my enemies. Kill them not, lest my people forget. Make them totter by your power and bring them down, O Lord, our shield. For the sin of their mouths, the words of their lips, let them be trapped in their pride. For the cursing and lies that they utter, consume them in wrath Consume them till they are no more, that they may know that God rules over Jacob to the ends of the earth Each evening they come back howling like dogs and prowling about the city. They wander about for food and growl if they do not get their fill, but I will sing of your strength. I will sing aloud of your steadfast love in the morning, for you have been to me a fortress and a refuge in the day of my distress. O my strength, I will sing praises to you. For you, O God, are my fortress, the God who shows me steadfast love. Amen. For those of you taking notes this morning, I have three points for us. In verses 1 to 5, we see David's distress in the midst of crisis. In verses 6 to 13, we see David's confidence in the midst of crisis. And finally, in verses 14 to 17, We see David's praise in the midst of crisis. And the main thing that I want you to walk away knowing today is that in the midst of crisis, knowing God, Has the power to take us from distress to confidence to praise. In the midst of crisis, without it ending, knowing God has the power to take us from distress to confidence to praise. So first, David's distress in crisis. And we see that right away in verses 1 to 5. In the first two verses, David manages to fire off four different requests. This is a wartime mentality. David has done away with formalities. He does have reverence for God. He cares deeply about who God is. We'll see that in the rest of the psalm, but he is in trouble. And so he is not wasting any time telling God what he needs. And he starts to fire off these requests into the night sky like a verbal flare gun. Deliver me, protect me, deliver me, save me. David needs help. He needs God to listen. I just want to I just want us to see real quick. Remember, these Psalms are here for our instruction, all of them, and they teach us how to interact with God in all of the different situations that we face in life. So these are here for our instruction to teach us how to plead with God. And we don't want to make the mistake of seeing prayer as something that we just do when we have a quiet time. In a quiet closet room where we can go and sit and reflect. Prayer is for battle. Soldiers don't take apart their weapons a thousand times in training and put them back together because they want to waste their day. They do it because they want to know their gun in and out so that when they're in battle, they know how to treat it. So when we have those times to sit and reflect and think about who God is when God gives us those quiet times, that in part is training for us so that when we are in crisis, We know who we're praying to and how to pray to them. And why does David want deliverance? We'll look back at verse 1. Because men attack him. He has enemies. These are the men that we read about in the superscription. They were sent by Saul to kill David. And notice there, David's description of them, he repeats it. They rise up against him in verse 1. They work evil and are bloodthirsty in verse 2. They plot to take his life and stir up opposition to him in verse 3. These men are shady and wicked. David has very good reason to be in distress. And since these men work for Saul, I understand them to be Israelites, which makes their actions towards David, God's anointed one, all the more heinous. How are you going to act this way when this is the one that God has anointed for you? And that's the reason why, if you look down to verse 5 briefly, when David calls for God to judge his enemies He refers to them as the nations. The nations is a general term used in the Old Testament, used to refer to those people who were not Israelites and who lived lives that were just opposed to God. So these men's actions Even though they were Israelites, align them with the nations because they were showing themselves by their actions to be in opposition to God. Now one of the things that may have made it difficult for some of you to relate to David in this psalm this past week as you were reading it, I had trouble with this at first. Not all of us experience this kind of attack. Not all of us have been surrounded by enemies who want to take our life. But as Christians, we should understand That a sense of urgency, this kind of urgency that David expressed in this psalm should mark in some part our prayer lives at all times, because if we don't have physical enemies, praise God, but there is always a spiritual enemy Who is prowling around like a roaring lion, hoping to take us down? Satan, the great enemy of God, is always attacking God's people. So be ready. Call out to God when you need him. Well then in verses 3 and 4, David gives us one last brushstroke to complete the portrait of their wickedness. Let me read it for us. It says, for behold. They lie in wait for my life. Fierce men stir up strife against me for no transgression or sin of mine, O Lord, for no fault of mine. They run and make ready. Can you imagine the pain? That sinking helpless sensation Being innocently attacked is unjust. Now David's not saying he's completely innocent or sinless. We only have to look at Psalm 51 to know that. He's just done nothing to deserve this attack. And what did he do? He saved Saul's throne for him. Saul wouldn't even step up and fight the guy that David went to fight for him. And now Saul is wanting to attack David. This is infuriating. You should feel this in the psalm along with David as you read it. It's no wonder that David prays as he does in verse 5. Awake, come to meet me. Where are you, God? Are you even listening? Are you awake? Why am I being unjustly attacked? I wonder how many of you can relate to David here. Surely this room is full of people who have been unjustly attacked. Maybe you've experienced unjust discrimination solely because of how you look. Maybe you've been the innocent victim of abuse at the hands of someone whose role it was to love and protect you But instead they hurt you. If that's you If you have been the victim of unjust attacks of any kind, I want you to know first that you are not alone Satan wants you to feel alone, but you are not alone. God has preserved this psalm and his inspired word for a reason. And one of those reasons is so that you may know that what you've experienced, David has experienced He felt the sense of betrayal. The anger. The feeling like God is sleeping. You said you love me. What is going on? Not only was this David's experience, but it was also Jesus' experience. Though he had never done anything wrong, he was despised and afflicted. He was rejected. He was innocent yet betrayed by his closest friends. Attacked unjustly by his enemies and seemingly left for dead by God on the cross. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? This was his experience too. You are not alone in your suffering. And know that God brings great good out of suffering. He brings great good out of suffering. God uses David's suffering to bring forth so many of these psalms so that countless thousands of people could be comforted by his word. God used Jesus being crucified on the cross to bring great good by bringing salvation to the nations, those who were opposed to him. Know that he is a God who brings good out of the most helpless and hopeless situations. So let me to let me encourage you to talk to God like David does. Look at this man. This is a man who knows God. He calls out to him by name in verse 5. And as I've read and reread this psalm this week. This verse, this line is the single line I am convinced that changes everything in the rest of the psalm. Though his circumstances don't change His understanding of the circumstances do. So what is it? Let's look at this verse five together. You Lord God of hosts, our God of Israel. David's using that as the ground. So he calls out to God to awake Why should God awake? Because God is the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel. And because he's the Lord of hosts, the God of Israel, therefore he should punish those and spare none who act treacherously against David. That's what he's saying there. So think back with me. David has just come out of 1 Samuel 19. This is where the Psalms being written in 1 Samuel 17. I think kind of in time and space. 1 Samuel 17 comes not long before it Which means his face-off with the giant Goliath would have happened right there. And listen to what David says when they face off together. This is 1 Samuel 17, 42 to 46. We read there. When the Philistine looked and saw David, he disdained him, for he was but a youth, ruddy and handsome in appearance And the Philistine said to David, Am I a dog that you come to me with sticks? And the Philistine cursed David by his gods. The Philistine said to David, Come to me, and I will give your flesh to the birds of the air and to the beasts of the field. Then David said to the Philistine, You come to me with a sword and with a spear and with a javelin, but I come to you in the name of the Lord of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom you have defied. This day the Lord will deliver you into my hand. It's as though as the moment that he begins to call on God by name, he's reminded of who God is. And what he's done for David. And so David's understanding of the situation begins to change. I wonder, when you find yourself in distress, who do you call out to? Who do you think about? This psalm is as good a reason as there is in Scripture to pray biblically saturated prayers. Biblically saturated prayers. Know who God is and know what he's like. Y'all ever wonder why on Sunday nights when Maxine gets a mic to pray and she starts praying, suddenly everybody starts mmm and on? Just, oh yes, Lord. Yes, look, put Whenever she prays, we all just naturally are brought into a better state of worship. Why? Is it anything special that she's doing? Well, she's using God's word whenever she prays and is praying it back to him. Her prayers are biblically saturated prayers. And we should all want to grow in that as well. Take time. Memorize the Psalms. Look at how the apostles prayed. Look at how Jesus prayed. Look at what he asked for. What are the things that he asked for? I do not ask that you take them out of the world, God. I ask that you deliver them from the evil one. Paul doesn't pray for changes in circumstances, he prays for a change in heart in the middle of his distress. We should do the same. Jesus says, if you abide in me, and my words abide in you. Ask whatever you will, and it shall be done for you. What he's saying there is that there's a direct correlation between how much God's Word dwells in us and molds our mind and our prayers are shaped by it, and how much our prayers are answered. There's a direct correlation between those two things. So meditate on God's word. Be shaped by his word. You see, knowing God in the midst of crisis is what brings David from a place of distress. to a place of confidence. And that brings us to our second point. David's confidence in the midst of crisis. David's confidence in the midst of crisis. You'll see first his confident proclamation in verses 6 to 10, and then his confident petition in verses 11 to 13. So, first, David's confident proclamation. So, coming out of the break in verse 5 and being reminded of the fact that his God is the Lord of hosts, the covenant-keeping God of Israel, who will bless those who bless David and curse those who curse David. David now moves from pleading for rescue from his enemies to a confident, collected, almost detached description of them. There in verses 6 and 7 it says, Each evening they come back, howling like dogs and prowling about the city. There they are, bellowing with their mouths, with swords in the lips, for who they think will hear us. These men are persistent in their wickedness. They return again and again. Each evening they come back And their spiritual state is matched by the time of day that they come out. They return at night. These men are spiritually dark. Evil loves darkness. They align themselves. with the night. David likens them to a pack of wild dogs and then highlights their speech. They bellow means they spew out prideful, hateful speech. Their words are weapons like swords. And the the the interesting thing about this is because they work for King Saul, the king of Israel, well that means they have the government backing them up. They have no need to worry about who hears them, for who they think will hear us. There is no one above our own government. There is no one above King Saul. Yet, in spite of being surrounded, David, in the midst of crisis, confidently proclaims his faith in God's sovereignty there in verse 8. Can anyone tell me what Psalm verse 8 appears in? What other psalm does verse 8 appear in? Just shout it out if you know it. Psalm 2. Psalm 2. What is Psalm 2? A Psalm about God's sovereignty over the kings of the earth. They broil and rage and set themselves against me. But God sits in the heavens. He laughs. Our God is in the heavens. He does whatever he pleases. David's thinking of that psalm as he thinks about Saul here. For those of us who follow Christ, look at the encouragement that's in this passage. We live in a country where the moral and cultural ties have shifted. Our views are largely not welcome in the public square. Our God is mocked in the newspapers, on TV, in the movies, for who they think will hear them But we should always remember God's sovereignty over governments and nations and people. God sits in the heavens Men have raged throughout all of history. Every nation has set itself up against God, and God continues to prevail. Let's remember that as we live in this world now. And for those of you who work in government, who work to affect change in policy, I want to encourage you, keep doing that work. That is good, useful work. We need people like that working in this world, fighting for justice, fighting against what's wrong, fighting for those things that are good, those things that God calls good But we should also remember, too, that if if we're not seeing the type of change that we want to see, we can rest in the fact that God is sovereign over the nations. He brings up kings and brings down kings. He causes nation to come up and nation to pass. God is in the heavens. He does whatever he pleases. Rest in that today. That is a source of strength for you as a Christian and the work that you're doing. And because of God's sovereignty, we should be able to respond like David there in verse 9. He says, Oh my strength. I will watch for you. Now David is not saying that he's going to drive down to Haynes Point and lay out a blanket. And wait for God to come down from the heavens like one of those planes landing at DCA. That's not what he means by watch. That word watch there can mean wait. It carries a connotation of enduring covenant faithfulness. So what David is saying is that in the midst of crisis, as he's being attacked, as men surround him and set themselves against him. David is going to faithfully persevere by being obedient to God, because that is the way that brings life. God is a refuge for those who follow him. Now, the fact that we can be confident that God, David can be confident here in verse 10 that God will help him. He says, My God in his steadfast love will meet me. God will let me look in triumph on my enemies. Now David is uh eventually in Psalm 59. If you go back to 1 Samuel 19, you see that these words here while he's in the midst of crisis, eventually come true. David is confident that God will save him, and then God does save him in 1 Samuel 19. And it's that confidence in God's steadfast love and God's sovereignty that he makes that confident proclamation in 6 to 10 that he turns to make a confident petition in verses 11 to 13. So first in verse 11 he asked God, kill them not, lest my people forget. Instead make them tatter. Tatatar can mean make them wanderers. Make them vagabonds on the earth. Make them like Cain who wandered away from the presence of God. And that's what David has in mind here. Then in verse 12, he asked God to let them be trapped in their pride. And then again in verse 13, he calls out for God to consume them. This consuming here, I think, is in line with what he asked for in verse 11 I think when you take the three petitions together, the sense that you get is David is asking God to give them over to their sins until they're eventually all destroyed. So I think they all work together to communicate one idea. And so what do we do as Christians when we come to prayers like this in the Psalms or anywhere in Scripture? Should we pray this way? So I'm gonna give you a no and then a but. So no. We should not pray this way because the New Testament authors viewed David as a prefigure to Jesus Christ. Which means that David spoke in these Psalms as God's inspired and anointed king. That means that he prefigured the coming Jesus Christ, who has the right to pronounce final judgment on his enemies, and will do so, as all of Scripture teaches. But we should pray, like Dan prayed before in the pastoral prayer this morning. We should pray for God to put a stop to the actions of evil men. We should pray for those things. And we should pray for their salvation. We should pray for their salvation Well, in verses 11 and 12, David again highlights, as he did in verse 7, their speech, the speech of his enemies, for the sin of their mouths, the words of their lips, for the cursing and lies that they utter. And David's call for judgment there in verses 11 to 13 is centered on their speech. And it serves two purposes. You'll see in first in verse 11, God says, kill them, or David says, kill them not. Lest my people forget, or so that my people don't forget. And then in verse 13, you see he calls out for them to be consumed, so that they may know that God rules over Jacob. Verse 11, David wants God to teach the Israelites by allowing their enemies to remain. This is a theme that's present throughout Scripture. And so to experience any sort of suffering in this life is to come face to face with the fact that God has allowed evil to remain for a time. God has allowed evil to remain for a time. And He still uses it to teach us today So just like he taught the Israelites and tested them through allowing their enemies to remain, he uses it to teach us And he uses it to teach us in a number of ways that we could go on and on about. But I think primarily, one way I want to highlight for us is that he allows it to remain so that we would remember that we're not home yet. We're not home yet. Living in this world, being confronted with evil, with actions of evil men, every single day, it's like you're receiving spiritual push notifications from God. Letting you know, hey reminder, not that somebody liked your photo, God says, hey reminder, you're not home yet. You get them multiple times each day. You open up the newspaper. There it is, spiritual notification. Mass massacres happen in another country There are natural disasters happening around the world. There are people being murdered, banks being robbed. God's just sending out spiritual push notifications over and over again. You're not home yet. You're not home yet. Because we, I think we tend to forget that We start to set up tents here. I think Zach talked about it maybe like we start making a hotel room our home. Who does that? You don't redecorate a hotel room because it's not your home. We shouldn't make this place our home You know, this gathering even is a sign that we're not home yet. We need to gather together as Christians to remind one another of that. So we've come to worship God. We've come to praise him for sending Jesus Christ, but we've come also to remind one another that we're not home. If you're anything like me, you probably think you're a spiritual Jedi. But what I don't realize is I'm more like R2 D2, walking into like sin, just thinking everything's good, walking myself right into the middle of disaster, not knowing any better. We need one another to remind each other. You might think you're Jedi, but I think I see a bit more of R2D2 in you, and we want to help one another grow so that we can get away from thinking that And we also want to look forward to the celestial city. Look forward to the celestial city. Say to one another that I'm headed to the celestial city. Who's coming with me? Who's coming with me? We want to remind one another of the joy and the hope that is set before us. Jesus has said himself, the grand architect, the creator of the entire universe. That guy is going to build a house for us. He's going to build a house for us. That's where we should set our hope. That's what Peter's talking about in chapter 1, that in the midst of suffering, in the midst of trials, in the midst of persecutions, you can set your hope on heaven. And know that it is as sure as what you see before you. Second, God's judgment is meant to be a lesson to the nations. We see that in verse 13. Verse 13, that they may know that God rules over Jacob to the ends of the earth. This gets us to a difficult topic. People today have difficulty comprehending how God can judge people. Seems wrong to us. I don't think it's wrong at all. I think if God were to allow evil to remain, that would make him evil. If he was not to act, that would make him wicked. If he was unable to punish evil, that would make him not God So we want to be able to wrap our minds around the fact that God talks about judgment in the Bible often because it's real and because he will act it out. God has the power to judge and it's good and right that he does. We should call out for evil to be punished and hope that God does punish evil. We know that he will in his word. So the judgments that David calls out for are the whole world to know that God will judge evil. But these judgments that David asked for, the make them wander by your power. Trap them in your pride, consume them. These are only foreshadows of the sign of the punishments that would be poured out upon Jesus Christ on the cross. So that Christ would be assigned to the nations that God will punish evil. So God's judgment of evil in this world, God's judgment of Christ upon the cross for the sins of those who would turn and repent. Was so that everyone would know here is a down payment that God is making on his justice and his judgment that he will pick up. He will pick up the tab in the end. So the point of Christ being crucified on the cross is so that we would know that God will judge evil. I wonder how many of you have come in here today like these men. Is your mouth full of curses, full of bitterness? Do you hurt people with your words? Do you mock God? Do you mock him? You think he's not listening Do not mistake God's inaction for non existence His patience, rather, with you, is to serve a different end. His patience is to show you that you have rebelled against him You have rejected him as the sole authority in this universe. He created it. He owns it. It's his. We live by his law, and his law is good. And we saw that which was good, and we chose in ourselves to do differently. We chose in ourselves to rebel against God. We do it in our hearts, we do it with our mouths, we do it with our hands, we do it with our eyes. But in his amazing mercy and steadfast love, God sent his son Jesus Christ into the world. He lived a perfect life. He fulfilled all of God's perfect commands. He fulfilled the righteous law that we could never keep, and then he was crucified. bearing the punishment for those who would turn from their sins and trust in him. He said that all who would repent And follow him would be forgiven of their sins. And he rose three days later, proving that he is who he says he was. He is the true Son of God. And he offers complete forgiveness freely to all who would follow him. What kind of scandalous love Is this? This is steadfast love and mercy, and it's in reflecting on God's universal sovereignty and his steadfast love that God has shown in Christ that moves David from a place of confidence. Now to a place of praise, which brings us to our third and final point. David's praise in the midst of crisis, which we see there in verses 14 to 17. Let's look again at the text Each evening they come back howling like dogs and prowling about the city. They wander about for food and growl if they do not get their fill. But I will sing of your strength. I will sing aloud of your steadfast love in the morning, for you have been to me a fortress and a refuge in the day of my distress O my strength, I will sing praises to you, for you, O God, are my fortress, the God who shows me steadfast love. So in verses 14 and 15 we see that the bloodthirsty men are back, howling and prowling. Now they're wandering about the city, growling for food. But what does David do? What does David do now in the midst of crisis? Well he sings, but I will sing of your strength, I will sing aloud of your steadfast love in the morning. Just like with his confidence, David's praise in the midst of crisis is fixed in and flows out of who God is and what God has done for him, his steadfast love. His strength, his power, his protection of his people. David fixes his mind on these inexhaustible qualities of God And that leads him to sing. And he's not just going to sing, he's going to sing aloud. He's going to shout. He's going to make a song so everybody can hear him. He's not going to play with his song. He's going to lift his voice up to God and sing aloud to him because of what God has done for him. And notice that David's present praise, what he sings to God in present, is based on uh on God's past protection of him. You see that in verse 16. For you have been to me a fortress and a refuge in the day of my distress. These ideas of fortress and refuge are common throughout the Psalms. They highlight God as both a place of protection and a place of rest. So it's as a fortress. He's like an impenetrable defense Though all the world might rage against you, it's as though God lifts you up to the highest of mountains or nestles you down in the center of the earth, far away from the reach of our enemies. None can approach you, none can hurt you. And as a refuge He's a place of rest from his enemies in the midst of his crisis. It's like a storm, or a place of rest in the midst of the storms of life. He's like the eye of a hurricane. You know, in the center of a hurricane, in the middle of these raging storms, the skies are clear. The winds are calm. Though everything broils and rages around you, God is a place of rest in the middle of it all. He is a refuge for his people And so with God, though trials may be raging and churning in your life, God is a place of rest in the middle of it all, a place that you can go to in times of trouble. Notice also how David refers to God throughout. This is throughout the Psalm, my strength, my fortress, my God. God isn't an idea to conceive, but a person to behold for David. Christian, the sovereign God of the universe, who sits in the heavens above, who dwells in unapproachable glory and light, who is full of all wisdom and power and might and glory. He is your God. He comes near to those who draw near to him. He is your God. He is your fortress. He is your strength. He is your protection and your rest. Do you call out to him this way? Do you call out to him this way? This is how you get to know him. Call out to him in your time of need and let him show you how powerful he is. And because God is a fortress for David, David bursts forth in praise for his steadfast love. He bursts forth in praise for God's steadfast love. This is an amazing response to life in the midst of crisis. This is an amazing response. Have you noticed this entire psalm that David never ever questions God's love for him? He never questions it. He knows that the sovereign God of the universe is watching over his life. Christian, do you hate your suffering? Do you hate the trials that God has brought you into? Do you hate God for bringing you into those trials? Spurgeon said that the music in the sanctuary is indebted to the suffering of the saints. The music in the sanctuary is indebted to the suffering of the saints. Out of the deepest sorrows and gloom. God will bring forth the sweetest songs for his saints. Like David, there would one day come another unsuspecting king. One anointed by God? Yet this king would defeat an even greater enemy than Goliath, even greater armies than the Philistines. He would know the distress of even greater hatred by his own people. He too would be surrounded by a pack of wild dogs. Wicked and evil men, men who wanted to murder him, men who hated him, men who wanted to take his life. Yet unlike David, this King Jesus was perfectly innocent. This King Jesus was perfectly sinless. Yet in his innocence, in his sinlessness, while surrounded by enemies and while surrounded by evil, wicked men Jesus didn't call out for deliverance. He did not call out for deliverance because Jesus Christ came to be delivered over two his enemies and four his enemies And who were his enemies? Who were these wicked and evil men? Well, they're you and me. They're all of us. You know that rage you feel when the innocent are attacked? That's what should be done to you. That's what should be done to me. We are the ones who sat in judgment on God. We have hated God with our whole lives. We have rebelled against him in every way. Yet he did not, the king of the universe, did not call out to be delivered from us. He came to be delivered to us, for us, for our sins, for our salvation. We were those who rose up against him. We are those who work evil. We were the bloodthirsty and evil men. And when he was nailed to the cross for our sins, he did not call out. For God to judge us. Rouse yourself to punish the nations. He didn't say that. My God, forgive them. Forgive them, for they know not what they do. What kind of king does that? What kind of love is this? This is love that is to be praised. Love to be praised. If you are in Christ, then you have tasted and seen the fullness of God's steadfast love. If you are in the midst of trial and you are wondering where God's steadfast love is, he poured it out for you on the cross and showed you I love you. The God of Israel, the covenant-keeping God of Israel, has paid the covenant down. He has sent his son down into this world. He didn't cross just land and sea or mountains and rivers. He crossed heaven itself to show you his love for you. That is the steadfast love and mercy of God. That is how far God will go to show you his protection and love for you. That is where he will show you that in the midst of crisis, he will be a fortress and a refuge to you. All those that the Father gives to me, I'll lose none of them. None of them. None of them. Whatever trials beset you, whatever people attack you, whatever suffering you're enduring, you will be saved by God if you are following Jesus Christ. So though you may be walking in what seems like pitch black darkness, do not forget. Do not forget that there is a morning coming. A morning when you will sing praises to God, and those praises won't end. There is a morning coming When the sun will rise and will never set again. There is a morning coming. Hold fast. Is there any hope that will sustain in the midst of crisis? Is there any hope that you can fix your heart on if you're unjustly attacked? There is one. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we cannot praise you enough, but we delight, we rejoice, we have so much joy in the fact that you have given us voices to sing and to sing praises to you because of Jesus Christ. The mystery that was hidden for ages past has now been revealed in Christ Jesus. Oh Lord, show us more. Give us greater spiritual insight and wisdom to behold the gospel that we might walk more and more. in a manner worthy and pleasing to you. Come, Lord Jesus, come, we pray. Amen.