Well, good morning, everyone. How you doing? Everyone doing well? It's a joy to be with you here today to share in the riches, the treasure that we have given to us in God's Word. Let's pray for a moment before we get started. Please pray with me Heavenly Father, we ask in faith that you would bless the preaching of your word now. May our lives be conformed to the image of Jesus Christ through it. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. It was a Saturday night. In April of 2009. April 11th, to be exact, when the English hit TV show Britain's Got Talent. premiered in its third season. The show would follow its normal format. Contestants would perform in the hopes of advancing throughout the season towards a grand prize at the end of the season in the season finale. There were a number of contestants that night, all of them dressed to the nines. Well, all but one. One in particular stood out that night. She stood out among the rest. She appeared out of place. She was too plain. Too common. Nothing special about her at all. Nothing to make you expect that she could do anything beautiful When she finally made her way on stage as if to emphasize how out of place she was, the camera cut to the audience. You see audience members looking at one another, kind of second hand-hand embarrassment. What is gonna happen? snickering at each other because the woman is clearly out of pro out of place. And the editors cut from the the audience. They cut to Simon Cowell. Simon, the judge, known for his cold heartedness, even he's mouth was wide open, horrified, embarrassed, thinking to himself, surely This woman is gonna be laughed offstage. The secondhand embarrassment for all who watch this poor woman continued to mount. Until Susan Boyle opened her mouth and sang. The snickering of the audience was immediately replaced with roaring ovation. The look of embarrassment on the judge's face was replaced with awe and tears. They were amazed. Susan's singing was beautiful. But what was it that made her singing beautiful? That's how unexpected it was. You don't expect beauty like that to come from a woman so common. Unexpected beauty. as a way of capturing our attention. Captivating us as we try to do the mental calculus to figure out how we could be hearing what we're hearing. seeing what we're seeing or feeling what we're feeling. And one of the challenges we face as Christians is becoming so familiar with the various accounts and characters, the people that we find in Scripture. That we lose our sense of awe and wonder that should accompany the unexpectedness of the Bible's beauty. Well if you have your Bible with you, I invite you to open with me to Psalm 61. If you're using one of the Pew Bibles, you'll find Psalm 61 on pages 478 and 479. As you're turning there, let me provide a bit of background for our text this morning. What we'll find when we look at Psalm 61 Is a psalm of unexpected beauty. Its simplicity belies its beauty Well the background for our text this morning is that Psalm 61 falls within a group of Psalms known as the Psalms of David. These stretch from Psalm 51 to Psalm 65. Psalm 51 is a prayer of repentance, and then there's a stretch of Psalms from 52 to Psalm 60 that are Psalms of deliverance. And now the focus is shifted in our next three Psalms. to a sense of communion, a longing for communion with God. Different from some of our previous Psalms, if you remember Psalm 60 and Psalm 59. Very little background information is provided on this song. You actually can see it right there in the print next to the large number 61. It's that small writing that you see there. I'll go ahead and read it for us. to the choir master with stringed instruments of David. That little comment there at the end means that the psalm was written by David. This is King David. He's the specially chosen King of Israel, chosen by God to lead the people of Israel, who were the specially chosen people of God, who would make himself known. That's who God was making himself known to the world through. You'll also note that the psalm was written to the choirmaster with stringed instruments. That means that this psalm was meant to be sung. Now it could have been sung by the nation as a whole. Or it could have been sung by any individual who so identified with David's weakness, his frailty, his faint-heartedness, that they could take up this song and make it their own. Do you feel faint-hearted this morning? God has given you a psalm to sing to him. Let's look down at the text. I'll go ahead and read it for us. Hear my cry, O God. Listen to my prayer. From the end of the earth I call to you when my heart is faint. Lead me to the rock that is higher than I. For you have been my refuge, a strong tower against the enemy. Let me dwell in your tent forever. Let me take refuge under the shelter of your wings, for you, O God, have heard my vows. You have given me the heritage of those who fear your name. Prolong the life of the king. May his years endure to all generations. May he be enthroned forever before God. Appoint steadfast love and faithfulness to watch over him. So will I ever sing praises to your name As I perform my vows day after day. This Psalm It's very much like watching a rose bloom and blossom in the desert. The parched ground of verse 1 and part of verse 2 gives way to a prayer that progresses. It progresses in the remainder of verse 2 through verse 7 before blooming to its full beauty in verse 8. What is it that could bring about such unexpected beauty? From such difficult circumstances. That's the question I want us to answer this morning as we look at the text. For those of you taking notes, I have three points. First, we'll look at David's plight in verses 1 and the first part of verse 2. Then we'll look at David's prayer in the remainder of verse 2, all the way through verse 7. And then we'll take a look at David's promise in verse 8. So that'll be our outline. David's plight. David's prayer, David's promise. First, in verses 1 and 2, we see David's plight. Go ahead and look down at the text again with me. David begins the psalm by pleading for God to listen. You see that there in verse 1. Hear my cry, O God, listen to my prayer. Notice the lack of presumption in David. He doesn't presume on an audience with God, though he is the king of Israel. He knows that there is a king that is greater than he. He understands that his authority doesn't extend into the throne room of God. Let that be a lesson for us in D. C. I'm sure there are some of us who struggle with the desire to want to walk into a room and command the attention of everybody. But always remember, the greatest of earthly kings is a mere pauper in the presence of God. The greatest of earthly kings is a mere pauper in the presence of God. Notice also the shape. that David's prayer has taken. It's a cry. It's filled with tears. Hear my cry, O God. So often in this life. The prayers of God's people are muffled by our tears. When the pain and suffering of this life builds up Do you call out to God like David does? Surely there are some of us here who have suffered in such a way that call out to God. We don't serve a Savior who tells us to suck it up. Nor do we serve a stoic God. No, for the Christian, the five senses have added to them a six. So for us, it's sight, scent, sound, taste, touch, and tears. The Christian life is full of tears. Are you hurting today? Does your soul feel like a spiderweb floating in the wind? Powerless? Does your heart feel like shattered glass this morning? Just call out to God. He hears and listens. That's the confidence that David has as he moves through this psalm. If it feels like the last ember of your faith is giving out this morning, I encourage you. Call out to God. He will hear you. And why is David crying out? Well we see that it's explained in the first half of verse 2. It says, from the ends of the earth. That's where David is existing right now. He's at the ends of the earth. That earth there is the land. The land of Jerusalem. So it's as though David is saying, I'm calling to you, God, from the ends of Jerusalem. I'm dwelling in the wilderness on the outskirts of the land. And it's not only that he's at the ends of the earth, it's that David has grown faint. Those specifics aren't given in the introduction to this psalm. It's likely that David is talking about his time where he fled from Absalom into the wilderness and was forced in the later chapters of 2 Samuel 7 to dwell on the outskirts of Jerusalem. We can know that because we look at verses 6 and 7. So many of the words used there ring of David of the promise that God made to David earlier in 2 Samuel 7. So it's likely this happened after. More importantly, than being separated from his home, David was separated by distance from God. You see, Jerusalem was a place where God's presence was specially made known in the tabernacle. It was there that man could meet God and commune with him. So for David to be separated from Jerusalem was most painfully to be separated from God himself. This is a man who knew such close communion with God. He loved God. He loved being in God's presence. Remember even the scenes of him, 2 Samuel 7, or 2 Samuel 6, when the ark is coming into Jerusalem? What's David doing? He's jumping around and dancing out in front of the ark. He loves God. This is the man who says in Psalm 16, at your right hand there are pleasures forevermore. Joy everlasting. Can you imagine the pain this must have caused David to be separated from God? Consider the pain that you felt yourself when a close friend has moved on. Or a loved one has passed away when it feels like God is carving a canyon into your heart. This must have been the pain that David felt And the distance was worsened by his depression, his spiritual depression. He's faint, overwhelmed, full of anxiety, full of fear. His strength was melting up like ice in the hot sun. His heart had become lead. His bones were like straw. Can you relate to David this morning? Maybe you feel distant from God. Maybe you feel spiritually depressed. Maybe you feel both. If that's you this morning, I just want to encourage you that you're not alone. So often spiritual depression surrounds us like a fog and we feel like there is no one else around us. There is no one else in a fog like us. Nobody understands what's happening in our life. But look to this text. David is a king. The experience of spiritual depression does not discriminate based on job. Or based on salary, or based on where you live. It extends to all pleases, all people in all places So David here, even as a king, knows this experience. It's an experience that is all too common to men. And you can do what David does and call out to God. Do not hit the mute button on your heart Your experience of grief in this life is being used by God to drive you to drink from the fountain, the bottomless fountain. of his comforts that he provides in his presence. To turn away from calling to God if you're experiencing what David is experiencing is like turning away a glass of water when you're dying of thirst. Take the water that God is offering, the refreshment that he gives through prayer with himself. You know, I'm sure that there are any number of us who are members of CHBC who feel faint as we look back over the last few years of our life together as a congregation. All the friends who've moved on from us. Jeannie and Jesse, the Rivera's, the Santa Maria's The Russell's, the Wheelers, the list goes on and on. Starting over again in new friendships just takes a toll on the soul. It's like a tax that God takes out of you. And so it can be easy for us to pull back, to not invest, to not want to extend ourselves anymore for fear of being hurt, or for fear of people leaving us If that's you, I just encourage you to drive into God. The God who provided those friends who at once in your life, I'm sure, seemed like they would be unexpected friends. is the same God who can provide new relationships to you in your time of need. If you feel faint, call out to God. He will hear. Ultimately, when we consider the faint-heartedness that so many of us experience in this life, we should recognize that we actually have more in common with David than we might have first thought. If you're here and you've recognized your need for forgiveness and have come to God through Jesus Christ for salvation then you specifically and specially have experienced a closeness and a communion with God that David could never fathom. All of his worship in the tabernacle, all of his experience of being miraculously sustained by God in trials and in battles with nations, with Saul, with Absalom. All of it pales in comparison to what you know about God the Father through his Son, Jesus Christ. Yet even though we who have trusted in Christ have been welcomed by God into a relationship with him Like David, we're here in the wilderness of this life. Longing Watching, waiting for Christ to return, longing for God's presence, longing to be home with him in the heavenly city. We should all of us Feel faint-hearted as we consider that we have a home that we have not yet made it to yet. I wonder, is it because you're making a home here and you stop longing for your true home in heaven with God? We should all feel faint. Christianity is for the faint of heart. But though we may be faint, let us not forget that like David, we can call upon a God whose power extends to the ends of the earth. So even though David was separated, from the tabernacle and separated from God's presence, he knew that he could call upon God and God would hear him, even from the ends of the earth. But what exactly did David call out for when he was faint-hearted? What would you call out for? Well, let's look at David's prayer. You'll see that in the remainder of verse 2, all the way through verse 7. As we look at David's faint-hearted prayer, we're actually going to see that he prays for three different things. First, in the remainder of verses 2 and verse 3, he prays for God's protection. Then in verses 4 and 5, he prays for God's presence. And finally, in verses 6 and 7, he prays to be preserved by God. I love alliteration, so we're using all P's this morning It's easy to remember these things, at least for me. So we're going to look at each one of those in that order. So let's look first as David prays for God's protection. You see that in the remainder of verse 2 and then in verse 3. Let me read it for us. Lead me to the rock that is higher than I. For you have been my refuge, a strong tower against the enemy. David uses the image here of a rock to communicate protection. A rock would have been shorthand for mountains or even a rocky summit that would have been high up and out of the reach of David's enemies. Think even about David's life, how he often found protection in the caves and mountains surrounding Jerusalem, surrounding Israel, as he was being chased by Saul or by Absalom. But more than mountains or a rocky summit. David knew his rock to be God himself. So look, one Psalm over, Psalm 62. Look at the first two verses of Psalm 62. For God alone my soul waits in silence. From him comes my salvation. He alone is my rock and my salvation. My fortress. I shall not be greatly shaken. David knew that the sole source of his protection in this world would come from God Himself. And look at his recognition of his own helplessness to bring himself protection, to provide protection for himself. He says, lead me to the rock, help me. Hold me, carry me, lift me up, take me there. God, please, I need you to do this for me. David is not a man who depended on his own power to do this Because the rock was too high for him, because God is too high for him. I need you to lead me into your presence, God, because you are too high for me. This is what David is saying here, like a parent helping a toddler walk up the stairs for the first time. That is what we need from God to help us into his presence. We're like that toddler walking up the stairs. We need God to lead us to himself And what is it that gives David confidence that God will answer? Well look there at verse 3. For you have been my refuge, a strong tower against the enemy. David's confidence in God's past present protection is based on his experience of God's past protection. David was so familiar with how God had delivered him throughout the course of his life that he was completely confident in asking for future protection. He could look to those ways that God had saved him in the past and be confident that he could ask and be saved in the future. Friends, how are you keeping track? of the ways that God has delivered you and protected you. The ways that God has helped you in your faint-heartedness. How are you keeping track of these ways? Consider Hansel and Gretel. On their first trip into the wilderness, they lay white pebbles on the forest floor. So that on their trip back from the wilderness, they could find their way back home. But on the second trip, Hansel leaves breadcrumbs. And as he walks along the forest floor dropping the breadcrumbs, the birds are swooping in and eating the bread. If you're keeping concrete examples of God's past faithfulness to you, it's like you're laying those white pebbles down on the forest floor to lead you back into God's presence. But if you're merely trusting in your memory to remember, it's like dropping those breadcrumbs that time will come in and snatch away from you Have you forgotten already the ways that God has protected you in the past? Can you spend this afternoon talking with one another Stirring those memories back up, recording them, thinking about them, considering them so that when you reach times of faint-heartedness, you can look upon those examples of God's faithfulness to you and have confidence. that he will answer again. You know, consider the ways that we store up pictures in photo albums For the younger generation, that is a book that inside of it you open and you put pictures, physical objects, pictures. Or consider the ways that you use Instagram or your Facebook page to store your pictures. What is your spiritual time hop to remind you of God's faithfulness to you? Where is your hashtag God's Past Protection of Me file kept Consider it, friends. Consider it. We store up memories of fun times, great events, times with family and friends, and these are good times to remember. But are these times that are going to remind us concrete examples of God's faithfulness to us? Store up those pictures and store up examples of God's present faithfulness and his past faithfulness. So that in a time of need, you can look to your stones of remembrance and know that God will answer you. As the desert rose of David's prayer continues to blossom, we see that David moves from asking for protection. To simply asking for God's presence. That's the second part of David's prayer we want to look at. You'll see that in verses 4 and 5 Let me dwell in your tent forever. Let me take refuge under the shelter of your wings. For you, O God, have heard my vows. You have given me the heritage of those who fear your name. These vows that you see there in verse 5 would have been some type of pledge to God that David made. in exchange for God's deliverance of him. He'd promise to be faithful to God if God would just deliver David from whatever troubles he may have had. This is David's way of saying that God had shown him past favor. So David calls out and says, you have heard my past pledges to you. And you've given me the heritage or the inheritance of those who fear your name. That heritage or the inheritance there would have been the promised land. of Israel, the inheritance that God gave to those who feared him, but it also would have been the enjoyment, the full covenantal enjoyment of a relationship with God. So David is asking for God's presence. Let me dwell in your presence. Why, David? Because you've already shown me such favor. You've heard my vows. You've given me the inheritance. So let me into your presence, O God. Like the rock in verse 2, David employs two more images there in verse 3 or verse 4, excuse me. Let me dwell in your tent. Let me take refuge under your wings. These images for David are loaded with meaning This tent of gods that David wanted to dwell in was the tabernacle. It was the specific place where God's presence was made known. And in the second part he has to be taken up under the comfort of God's wings. David there is calling back to Deuteronomy 32, where God is pictured as a eagle who spreads its wings out over his children. covers them in his wings, draws them near to him in comfort, lifts them up on his wings God there is being communicating to us this, or David is communicating through this psalm that God is a God who gives parental comfort Who draws his people near to him, and David longs for his presence. But when you read scripture and you see these images, an image like a tent or tabernacle. You should ask to yourself, what would David have been imagining when he thought about the tent? Well you might think to yourself, Well, he pictured a tabernacle. Well yeah, I get that. I get that. But what about the tabernacle would he have thought about? What happened at the tabernacle? What did the tabernacle look like? If he was to dwell in God's presence at the tabernacle, what would his experience have been? When David uses these images, that's what he's thinking about. So when David thinks about this tabernacle, we should think back on its description in Exodus woven the finest materials. Brilliant blues and purples and golds built to perfect measurements the most ornate designs woven throughout. It would have been stunning to see this tabernacle in the wilderness. It would have been a thing of unexpected beauty. And then as you enter the tabernacle, you experience a sensory explosion. The overwhelming scents are now coupled with overwhelming fragrances. You see, literally. Thousands and thousands of pounds of gold and silver and bronze shaped and fashioned into the most beautiful altars and lampstands and basins. Do you see this? Do you see this in your mind? The most unbelievable place to be. And the fragrances, oh my, the fragrances. It was like walking into a Yankee candle warehouse. Seriously, the finest of spices. The finest of fragrances constantly being offered up to God. Sweet aromas, liquid myrrh, sweet smelling cinnamon. Aromatic cane. Fragrant cassia and oils being offered up. Imagine, can you be there? Think about what it would have been like. The most stunning display of beauty. And the purpose of all of this beauty. This explosion of the senses was meant to point to the most beautiful thing of all about the tabernacle. God was there in the very middle of the tabernacle in its very presence. God was there, above the mercy seat, above the ark, with flanked by cherubim, whose wings cover their eyes because he is too holy. Holy, holy to look upon. This is where the holy Lord, God Almighty, would make himself known to man. Can you imagine being in that place? It's stunning. His presence, its glory, emanates throughout the tabernacle. It makes everything scintillating Think about being there. Now consider that if you've come to know Jesus Christ If you trust in him and follow him, the tabernacle that David worshipped in. It's like a pop-up book. It's like a children's story. It was like a sketch of the true tabernacle where you belong with God. Consider. Consider heaven. It will be a thing of most unexpected and awesome beauty There will be staggering sights and sounds and smells. It will be more radiant than the finest of jewels. No vista or view on this earth could ever compare with the sights of heaven The beauty of the heavenly city far surpasses everything we could ever set our eyes on here. Its foundations are laid with pure gold Sapphire, emeralds, onyx, walking upon its streets will be like walking on an ocean of sparkling diamonds. Can you see it? Friends, this is where you belong. This is your home. Are you longing for that place today? The sounds, think about the sounds. Oh my gosh, the sounds. Millions upon millions of saints in joyful assemblies singing, Behold our God, as the angels flank God. flying around with their wings, covering their eyes, saying, holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty. Do you want to be there? Think about being in his presence. It will be a place With no more tears or crying or pain or death, a place of perpetual joy, a place where all of your longings, all of your desires are fulfilled because the emptiness behind your present desires is filled in heaven with God. You will be there present with him. No more unfulfilled hopes. No more anger or bitterness or wrath or clamor or slander, a place where gentleness and peace and patience and humility reigns by the Spirit of God. Yet all of the wonder, all of the joy, all of the beauty and the goodness, the things that we want to think about when we think of heaven, point us to the fact that at its center At its foundation, at its core, beauty is emanating because on the throne is the Lord God Almighty and the Lamb who was slain before the foundation of the world. And we who have tasted of his mercy will drink from the river that flows from his throne forever. Why would you want to be here? So life is like a pop-up book compared to heaven. Are you making home here? You're just passing through. Keep your eyes fixed up, up, up. He is waiting. He is coming. There is a day where you will be glorified. And it will be awesome. For those of you here who don't follow Jesus. Do you want this as your future? Do you feel the gnawing sensation inside of unfulfilled desires Dreams, hopes that this life never fills Do you wonder why you're searching for heaven on earth but cannot find it? All you find is thorns and thistles and sadness and grief, and all you have to look forward to is death. You ever ask yourself why that's the reason? Why is this your experience in this life? The Bible tells us the sad story that though we were made to live in a world that God created We chose to rebel against God and now live in a world that we have created. This sin and evil is not God's fault He made everything perfect and showed us himself, but we have all chosen to turn away. But friends, if you don't follow Jesus Christ, if you don't believe in him, but you're longing for this future, you know that there is a way back. The future of the heavenly city can be yours if you would recognize your helplessness and your sinfulness before God and call out to Him. Lord, lead me to the rock that is higher than I. Take me to Jesus Christ because my works are not good enough I am not good enough. I need you to take me to that rock. I want to drink of this heavenly water. I know that's what I was made for. If you would turn away from yourself. Turn away from your sin. Confess your need of God. This reality of the beauty of heaven. And the existence of God and you lasting with Him for all eternity is yours. And you can be confident of it Because Jesus Christ, after he paid the debt of those who would trust in him on the cross, got up from the dead. verified that what he taught about heaven, that he wants those who love him, John 17, to be present with me where I am. Why can he say that? Because he got up from the dead. And you can trust in him. You can trust in him. Follow Jesus Christ today. The heavenly future That heavenly city can be your everlasting dwelling place too. Did you come in here faint this morning Considering your future. Do you still feel faint? Thinking about God's presence? Do you feel your strength starting to stir? I think that's what's happening to David in our Psalm. He's moved from faint-heartedness, asked for protection, longs for God presence, and now has forgotten about his faint-heartedness hardness-heartedness. This is a beautiful progression away from his first circumstances. And we're going to see that we haven't yet reached its full blossom David's prayers now become even more bold after asking for God's presence. And he asks in his third request to be preserved by God. You see that in verses 7 and 8. I'll go ahead and read it for us. Prolong the life of the King. May his years endure to all generations. May he be enthroned forever before God. Appoint steadfast love and faithfulness to watch over him. You know, I don't think we should be misled by the change in perspective in verses 7 and 8 I think David is still praying for himself. I think he's just switched to praying in the third person. So that's all that I think is happening there. You'll note his request is actually three smaller ones, all for the same thing, and each building in intensity. Prolong my life. Let my years endure to all generations. Let me live before you enthroned forever. It's the same request three different times. Isn't this our experience too? As we commune with God, whether in his word or in prayer. We begin to desire more at his presence. As we think about his presence, we just start to think about what it's like to be with him and then longing to be with him forever. And friends, that's why we place such a high priority, place such a high priority in this church on being part of a church. In this life where we are now before the heavenly city, this is the place where God makes himself known, where he makes himself present. And so we want to join together. We don't want to forsake gathering together for that reason. But the unexpected beauty of this song is also marred by a sad reality. David's prayer didn't come true. God didn't answer his request. He didn't endure to all generations, and he surely wasn't enthroned forever before God. David's reign only lasted 40 years. You turn to the first book of Kings, chapter 2, and you hear his last words and the account of his death. And then the pain of David's unanswered prayer would have also been shared by the nation as a whole. Remember that what we're reading is a song. These psalms were recorded for the people of God. At this time it was the nation of Israel. So after David died, and they sang or read this psalm and in their corporate gatherings, they would be reminded. Every time that they read this psalm, that God had not yet provided a king who would be enthroned forever. They'd be confronted by the awful line of evil kings who followed David. They'd read this psalm and feel the sting like salt in an open wound of unanswered prayers. And eventually David would die, and the people of Israel, because of their rebellion, would be exiled from God's presence It appeared as though God had failed to keep his promise to give David's family an eternal throne. It appeared that way until one evening, six hundred years later. At a most unexpected time, and in a most unexpected way, beauty appeared And it appeared in the form of a baby in a manger. In the wilderness. His name was Jesus. What does Jesus mean? God saves. People would call him Emmanuel. Why? Because Emmanuel means God with us. Because in this baby, in this child, the God who saves had come to pay for our sins. The God who exists had come to dwell with man. This baby was the eternal Son of God, who had existed with God in perfect communion, in perfect love for eternity past, knowing the presence The loving presence of perfect community with the Father and the Son for eternity past. Yet he, for our sake, took on flesh. He chose exile from that perfect heavenly tabernacle for our sake and came and dwelled among us. Away from God's immediate presence. He would call out to God regularly, faint-hearted, longing for God's presence in heaven Like David, he would find his protection in God alone and long to return to that place. You can imagine that he would pray this song. In his life, he would be guarded by God's steadfast love and faithfulness. He would show steadfast love and faithfulness to God, perfect covenant-keeping love by loving God perfectly and loving his neighbor as himself. And because he perfectly kept his vows to the Father, doing everything, as John 17 says, that the Father had sent him to do, God was pleased to give him his inheritance. Friends, the unexpected beauty of Psalm 61 is that Psalm 61 is a psalm about King Jesus Exiled and faint-hearted, yearning to return to the presence of God, but committing to do the work he was called to do And knowing that when he prayed for his life to be prolonged, that God would answer his prayer. He rose again from the grave and he ascended into heaven where he now sits at the right hand of the Father, enthroned forever before God. This psalm is a psalm of Jesus Christ. That is its unexpected beauty. So how should we who follow Jesus respond to the fact that he sits on a throne forever before God? As we conclude, we'll look briefly at our third and final point by looking at David's promise. You see that in verse 8. I'll read it for us. So will I ever sing praises to your name as I perform my vows day after day David's promise here is that if God would answer his prayers, prayers for protection, prayers for presence, prayers for preservation, that God would commit to serving and praising God with all of the days of his life. He says that he will always sing in jubilant song, offering praises. Now we shouldn't understand this as David trying to twist God's arm by offering something in return. Now instead, this is the prayer and promise of a man who knows himself to be completely dependent upon God. That if God would lead him to a rock, If God would let him dwell in his tent, if God had shown him such favor, what way to respond to this kind of God would there be other than singing? Praises to him day after day. It's the only right response to offer continually in an everlasting way to God. Does this type of praise characterize your life? Think about the fact that David was vowing that if God had delivered him, he would offer this praise. Well, have we not received a greater deliverance? Has God not shown to us a greater deliverance from faint-heartedness and sin and death? David fought mere men, but we have been rescued from Satan and sin and death through the power of Jesus Christ. What way would there be to respond for us other than praise? Consider your inheritance. Though we were dead in trespasses and sins, God looked down upon us He led us to his rock. He showed us mercy in Jesus Christ to drink of his life-giving water. He gave us new birth through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead and into an inheritance. that can never perish, spoil, or fade, kept in heaven for you who through faith in Jesus Christ have this inheritance. Our inheritance is much greater than David's. We have a perfect refuge in Christ, a strong tower from every enemy. We don't need to dwell to an earthly tent because God now dwells in each one of us, drawing us near to himself by his spirit. He's like a mother hen who gathers his chicks to himself. to comfort them and bring them security. This is our inheritance now as Christians in Christ. God has qualified us to share in the inheritance of the saints in light In Christ, we've received in this life every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places and be given all that we need for life and godliness. Consider what you've received compared to what David has received. Is this life of praise, your life of praise? Through Christ, we no longer need to fear death because we have the promised inheritance of a glorious resurrection from the dead. Being raised into a glory and eternal state of inheritance that is imperishable. It's undefiled. It will never go away. That is your inheritance today. And in that inheritance, that eternal state of glory, we will surround the throne of the true King And we will praise him with Psalm 61 verses 6 and 7. We will surround his throne. And praise the Lord Jesus. Prolong the life of the King. May Jesus' years endure to all generations. May Christ be enthroned forever before God. That will be our prayer. So let us live now in a way that will reflect the glory that will be ours for eternity. Let us live offering our lives as living sacrifices to the one true King who came to earth on our behalf, died the death that we deserved. And is raised to power and glory and has even prayed for us and will return. Friends, a day is coming where you will feel faint no more That day is coming. It is like a rock. It is a sure foundation. Take heart in that day. And know that you are not yet what one day you will become And what you will become is a thing of unexpected beauty. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we are amazed. Amazed and refreshed At the beauty of your word, the beauty of the Lord Jesus Christ, the risen and reigning King who is enthroned forever. Oh God, may we live lives of praise as we leave this place. May we sing songs of praise as we go about our day, for there is no other way for us to live than to praise you continually. Help those who are faint-hearted. Help us to behold you, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.