Well good morning everyone. How's everyone doing? Doing well. That sounded okay. I'm not gonna make you do it again, don't worry. I'm not gonna prod you to to give me a good response. It's a joy to see you guys here on this nice crisp Cool fall morning. Fall has set in. It's a time for puffy, shiny jackets that are big and warm, hooded sweatshirts and fires. For those of you who love summer, this is a time for sorrow. It's gone. But yes, it will return again. More than being joyful about being happy to that fall is here. I'm most joyful to be with you to share God's word with you, to look through it together, to study it, to see what God has to say to us through his word. So let me go ahead and pray for our time, and then we'll get started Let's pray. Heavenly Father, your word tells us that the man who meditates on your law day and night will be blessed. We pray, O Father, that this would be a time of rich meditation, where you show us your glory. Where you give to us your spirit, a spirit of wisdom and understanding, that you would be a lamp unto our feet, that we would see Jesus. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. The blessed life. The blessed life That's the life that most of us want to live, isn't it? The blessed life. To lead a blessed life may mean different things to different people, but the fact remains that if you ask people if they wanted to lead a blessed life, They would almost certainly say, yes. Of course I'd want to lead a blessed life. Why wouldn't I? But then the question must follow, how do we lead a blessed life What do we need to do to lead a blessed life? It seems like life in this world is full of people who are searching for ways. to lead a blessed life, but I don't know if anybody's found it. At least I haven't seen anybody write on it as of yet. No clear answers given. But as Christians, we shouldn't look to the world or to other people who are looking for this blessed life just like we are. We should look to Scripture. To see what Scripture says about how we can lead a blessed life. And that's what we're going to do with our time this morning. We're going to look to Scripture. And we're going to see what Scripture says about how to lead a blessed life. We're going to be looking this morning at Psalm 144. So if you have your Bibles with you, which I hope you do. Go ahead and open to Psalm 144. If you're using the pew Bibles that are under the seats here in the West Hall or the backs of the pews here in the main hall, you'll find it on page 524. As we're turning there, let me give you a little background on the book of Psalms. We were in the Psalms earlier in this summer, took a break, and now we're back. And we're in a different group of Psalms. We're in a different area. of the Psalms. It's a fairly long book, so we want to familiarize ourselves with the book as a whole. The Psalms were the hymn book, the prayer book for the nation of Israel. And the 150 prayers or hymns that make up this book capture with stunning beauty and accuracy the breadth of human emotion and experience in this life. They captured it with stunning beauty and stunning accuracy. But we don't want to make the mistake of looking at the Psalms like it's a book of 150 disconnected pieces of writing There is a purpose to the Psalms. There is a direction to it. It makes an argument. There's a progression throughout Like every other book in the Bible, the Psalms has a clear purpose. It progresses from lament. To praise. Laments begin in Psalm 3, carry on throughout, but as the book continues, lament is replaced. By praise. And by the time we reach the end of the book of Psalms, we hit Psalms 145 through 150, and we've reached the hallelujah chorus. Five straight Psalms of praise. Everything on earth will give praise to the Lord who reigns. And that is the purpose and argument of the book of Psalms. In the midst of a fallen world, the Lord reigns. Yahweh, the covenant God of Israel, creator of heaven and earth still reigns today. That is the hope. Open up your bulletin. If you have any doubt about this, page six. Psalm ninety three line one the Lord Reigns. He is in charge and he is ruling. He was ruling when that psalm was written, and he is ruling today. So we can take hope in the Lord. That's the message that's proclaimed louder and louder before it progresses all the way to the end. Our psalm this morning, Psalm 144. comes right before that hallelujah chorus. So what would our psalmist, David, King of Israel, what would he pray That would lead to such a glorious refrain of praise for five straight psalms to close the book of Psalms. We'll see that David's despair, despair that marked him in the middle of the Psalter when he was being attacked by enemies. There's groups of his Psalms throughout the Psalter of him being under attack. where he's in despair, that despair now has been replaced by a steadfast confidence that the Lord God will show him love. That's what we find here. So let's go ahead and read the psalm. I'll read it for us. If you're looking in the Bible for the first time and you're unfamiliar with it, you're looking for the big number 144. The introduction there right beside that number says of David. That means it's of King David, the king of Israel. And he writes, Blessed be the Lord, my rock. Who trains my hands for war and my fingers for battle? He is my steadfast love and my fortress My stronghold and my deliverer, my shield and he in whom I take refuge, who subdues peoples under me. Oh Lord, what is man that you regard him? Or the son of man that you think of him Man is like a breath. His days are like a passing shadow. Bow your heavens, O Lord, and come down. Touch the mountains so that they smoke. Flash forth lightning and scatter them. Send out your arrows and route them. Stretch out your hand from on high. Rescue me and deliver me from the many waters. From the hand of foreigners whose mouths speak lies and whose right hand is the right hand of falsehood. I will sing to you a new song. O God, upon a ten-string harp I will play to you, who gives victory to kings, who rescues David his servant from the cruel sword. Rescue me and deliver me from the hand of foreigners whose mouths speak lies and whose right hand is a right hand of falsehood. May our sons in their youth be like plants full grown. Our daughters like corner pillars cut for the structure of a palace. May our granaries be full, providing all kinds of produce. May our sheep bring forth thousands and ten thousands in our fields. May our cattle be heavy with young, suffering no mishap or failure in bearing. May there be no cry of distress in our streets. Blessed are the people to whom such blessings fall. Blessed are the people whose God is the Lord. If I were to summarize for you in one sentence what our psalm teaches, it's this. Those who take refuge in God who call out to God for rescue and who put their hope in the new creation will be blessed. Those people will live a blessed life Our Psalm teaches us that those who take refuge in God, who call out to God for rescue, and who put their hope in the new creation will live a blessed life Our first point. Take refuge in God. Take refuge in God. We see that in verses 1 to 4. Look at me at verses 1 and 2. You'll notice two things that stand out to us in these verses. First, David extols God's power to protect. He glories in and magnifies God's protective And he does this through the repeated use of images of God's protective power. He calls him my rock in verse 1. And my fortress, my stronghold, and he in whom I take refuge in verse 2. It's like David is creating a mosaic Of God's protective power. None of these words on their own are going to do justice to the way that God's protective power should be described So I'm just going to grab as many as I possibly can and hope if I can I can just describe how awesome his protective power is. He is a rock. A rocky cliff, a crag, his protective power brings David out of the reach of his enemies He is a fortress, a stronghold. His protective power is impenetrable. Not only is it impenetrable for those who are inside, it intimidates those who are on the outside. They see his fortress and know they cannot approach it. He is a refuge. He is a refuge. Those who come into his fortress are cared for by him. They are protected and satisfied in him. They are safe. and satisfied in this God's grip. But images of static protection of God, like a rock or a fortress or a refuge, also fail to do justice to the grandeur of his power to protect. So David includes images of active protection. We see first in verse 1 that the Lord trains David's hands for war. Fingers for battle. Moves from the larger hand down to the smaller finger. Fingers showing that God's protective power extends over even the smallest members of our body And at the end of verse 2, God subdues peoples under him. You take these two verses together that seem kind of odd to our ears. Basically, what it's saying is that God protected David by giving him victory in battle. That's the way that you would summarize those. He's also a deliverer and a shield. We see that in verse 2. He actively protects David by going out and delivering him from harm. He is a shield. He's maneuverable. You can carry his protection with you and fend off all kinds of attacks. His protection is glorious. He has all might and all power to protect his people from any enemy. But there's also something else that we should notice that's repeated in these verses. God's awesome Active and impenetrable power is also personal. It's also personal. Let me reread for you verses one and two. Blessed be the Lord, my rock, who trains my hands for war and my fingers for battle He is my steadfast love and my fortress, my stronghold, my deliverer, my shield, and he in whom I take refuge who subdues peoples under me. My wife and I recently decided to switch our internet provider. We had been using the very large, powerful, and impersonal Verizon. But we had become disillusioned with the quality of service. We were having constant connection issues in our home. We're having to pay out of pocket, more charges. So I did what most people would do. I picked up the phone to call Verizon. Wanted to resolve these issues. Just, hey, polite exchange. My name's John. You guys serve our house. It's not working. Want to get it fixed. I assume most of you have called an institution like Verizon before, so you're pretty uh familiar with what came next. The long ringing. Finally, someone picked up the phone that someone I mistaken mistakenly took for a human was a computer. It's a very soothing computerized voice, I might add. No doubt this was the computer attendant who is going to guide me through the never-ending maze of options. After suffering through the various computerized menus, I just began to ask, speak to a representative. No, no, no, speak to a representative. You're not listening to me. It didn't listen. Finally, though, my computer attendant understood my desires, swiftly forwarded me to a man halfway around the world. A man who clearly did not care about my problems He doesn't care about me. He doesn't know me from Adam. Friends, that is not what God is like. You don't get a computerized menu when you call on God. He doesn't tell you to hit press one for the Father. Then when you end up in the Father's department, the Father doesn't grumpily send you on to the Spirit because your problems are not his problems. We need to get you to the one who can take care of you. That is not what God is like. God is a personal God. You call on him. He listens. He is always there. This God, though he is all-powerful, he is all personal. He can create anything with the power of his word Yet he hears even the faintest of prayers from his broken-hearted saints. He holds the oceans in the palms of his hands, yet he comes down and he holds our hands as we walk through suffering, trials. He walks on the clouds of heaven. The heavens are his fortress, but he will walk down beside us as we suffer This all-powerful God is all-personal. So what do we do with such an all-powerful, all-personal God? We take refuge in him. We take refuge in him. Yahweh, Lord of the heavens and the earth, is worthy of you taking refuge in him. He is the only one who can protect you from life's ills and life's harms. When trials and persecution and suffering come, we should turn to our all-personal God, our all-powerful God, and take refuge in Him. How do we do that? How do we do that? We do that first through prayer. We do that first through prayer. It looks like praying to God. When you are in trouble, And need to take refuge in God, you should pray. Remember Psalm 61 that we did earlier this year, verses 1 and 2? David is under attack. Listen to how he prays. Hear my cry, O God. Listen to my prayer. From the end of the earth I call to you when my heart is faint. Lead me to the rock that is higher than I. Take me to that refuge, to that safe place. Friends, when you need to take refuge in God, it starts with prayer. Prayer is the hidden staircase of the saints into the fortress of God. Second. Taking refuge in God means leaving vengeance to God. We should never retaliate for any ills that come upon us, no matter how great or how small, and I know some of you here have suffered greatly at the hands of others. Think back in David's own life when he was being pursued by Saul. chased into the mountains and he took refuge in the cave. That cave was like a living image. It was a literal symbol of David taking refuge in God, his rock. And then Saul enters that cave. Saul had been unjustly pursuing and trying to kill David, and he offered David a perfect opportunity for David to seize him. and kill him and retaliate against him. But as David was taking refuge in God, did he retaliate? No, he left vengeance to God. He left vengeance to God. In what ways are you tempted to take refuge uh revenge into your own hands? In what ways are you doing this? In marital conflict? Are you actively looking for ways? To take refuge in God, are you looking for ways to retaliate against your spouse for something they've done? In your friendships, are you tempted to gossip about or slander those who've hurt you with their words or done something to betray your trust? Remember the Apostle Paul's words in Romans 12, 17. Repay no one, evil for evil, but give thought to do what is honorable in the sight of all. Beloved, if you've been harmed in any way, and I say that, knowing that many of you have been harmed, you can take refuge in God. By not retaliating or taking vengeance into your own hand and by praying to God. By praying to God. We need to also ask ourselves if we're looking to take refuge in things other than God. You know, do you look at the changing cultural tides that are going on around us and do you put your hope for protection in a candidate? a policy or even a constitution. We need only think for a moment about the governments and kingdoms and nations that have come and gone since the world began. There have been many There have been many. Consider the irony though, in the ways that past kingdoms have built monuments to their everlasting strength, their might, and their power. Kingdoms like Rome even. How ironic is it that those monuments to their great power and everlasting strength are now crumbling monuments to the fact that their lives were woefully short and they did not have the power that they thought they had. We should not look for refuge in the kingdoms of this world. Psalm chapter 20, verse 7, David says, some trust in chariots, and some in horses. But we trust in the name of the Lord our God. They collapse and fall, but we rise and stand upright. There will be no shame for you on that final day If you pray to God, don't take vengeance into your hands and take refuge in him. There will be no shame for you on that final day. You will stand as a monument to God's power for all eternity. Lastly, part of our taking refuge in God should include praising Him for His personal and all-powerful protection. We should praise Him. We see that in the very first words of the Psalm. Blessed be the Lord. These descriptions of God's personal protection are an act of David offering adoration and praise to God. for his power to protect, his ability to sustain him through all of the various trials that he faced. And it's this reflection on God's power to protect All those images that he just named, that reflection, that leads to David's beautiful reflection in verses 3 and 4 when he says, Oh Lord, what is man that you regard him or the Son of Man? That you take knowledge of him. Man is like a breath. His days are like a passing shadow. You know, the more that I've studied this psalm, the more these verses have communicated to me the natural awe and wonder that David expressed at the fact that an infinite and all-powerful God would also be so personal and so willing to condescend to a man that man could find personal protection in him. What other way than awe and wonder is there to respond to this reality? It's this kind of rich and searching praise of God. The kind that David delivers, the kind that plums the depths of the divine being, searching for all the different ways that we can describe and praise our God for the way that He's been a personal protector to us. It's that kind of praise that is the fertile soil that allows the seeds of awe and wonder to blossom in our lives. So if you meet someone who is in awe of God, then you've met someone who spends time praising God. If you meet someone who is in awe of God, then you have met someone who spends time praising God. Learn the language of praise, and you will learn to live an awestruck life. So as we look back to our text, we've seen in verses 1 to 4 that the blessed life requires taking refuge in God, which brings us to our second point. If you want to be blessed, call out to God for rescue. If you want to be blessed, call out to God for rescue. Where do we see that? We see David's call for rescue repeated twice. We see it first in verses 7 and 8. So if you look down at the text with me, verses 7 and 8, he says, rescue me and deliver me from the many waters. from the hand of foreigners, whose mouths speak lies, and whose right hand is a right hand of falsehood. He repeats it again in verse 11. Same one, almost word for word. There is a slight phrase missing. Verses 5 to 11 are marked by David's repeated call for rescue But what does he want rescue from? Well, let's look back at verses 7 and 8. David is calling for rescue from many waters, many waters. Unless we think that David is drowning, he explains the image of many waters in the very next line. So if you look at the look of the next line. He says that many waters are actually the hand of foreigners. The image of floodwaters in Scripture often refers to the persecution or chaos of those who oppose God and his rule. That's what many waters refers to. We don't know much about these foreigners. The psalm offers precious little information about them It's possible that David is describing all the people from those surrounding nations who are not ethnically Jewish that would have made them foreigners to David being an Israelite? But there are also instances in the Psalms where David is looking at his fellow Israelites and he describes them in similar terms, calling them foreigners. And the reason he calls them that is it because they they're revealed to be opposed to him and to the law of God. So I think it's best to understand these foreigners as a group of people, Jewish or non-Jewish, who are morally opposed to God and to his anointed king And I think that's why you see David focus more on their character as he identifies them. Look there in verse 8, he says, their mouths speak lies, and their right hand is a right hand of falsehood. So they lie with their mouth and with their hands. And David's culture, oaths and agreements were made with the right hand uplifted. Fellowship, thanks, friendship was made with the right hand extended. So it could refer to business transactions or oaths and promises that are being made that they don't intend to keep Or it could be the sad reality that David is meeting fellow Israelites who extend fellowship to them with their hands and with their lips, but behind their back, behind his back, they curse him. They curse him. These people are completely deceitful and they're attacking God, attacking David, God's anointed one. But this shouldn't be any surprise to any of us, should it You know, I've I've thought like how what else is there about these enemies that I that that that we can talk about on Sunday? There doesn't need to be much. This is a wonderful characterization of those who have always been opposed to God's people throughout scripture. Go back to the garden. Satan opposed Adam and Eve, God's people, by lying and being deceitful. Think about Joseph, Jacob's anointed son. In Egypt, Potiphar's wife lies about him and he ends up being thrown into prison. Daniel in Babylon, his co-workers can't stand how holy he is. He's God's anointed one and yet he is deceitful. They're deceitful against him, lie about him, and get him thrown to the lions. God's people will always be opposed by deceitfulness. By people who are deceitful against us, Satan, the great enemy of God and his people is the father of lies. And he uses deceit and lying to afflict the church. That means that as a church, we shouldn't be surprised when people arise who claim the name of Christian. Yet take God's word and twist it and manipulate it to make it say things that it clearly doesn't say. Nor should we be surprised when culture at large, who's not claiming to be Christian, rips verses out of context. And then attacks God and attacks his people by saying false things about what God's word actually teaches As long as this world continues, God's people will be attacked with lies and deceit. So we should be prepared for that as a church But how do we respond to deceitful opposition? How do we respond to deceitful opposition? Well, like David. We should call on God to rescue his people. But there is something distinct about this section and the way that David calls on God to rescue him that I want us to notice. We want to spend some time looking at this. I want us to notice how he asks God to carry out this rescue. Look at me at verses 5 to 7. Look at verses 5 to 7. He says. Bow your heavens, O Lord, and come down. Touch the mountains so that they smoke. Flash forth the lightning and scatter them. Send out your arrows and route them. Stretch out your hand from on high. Rescue me and deliver me from the many waters. from the hand of foreigners whose mouths speak lies and whose right hand is the right hand of falsehood. And we should note that throughout the Psalms, up until this point, David's prayers for rescue, up until this point have been fairly general. Throughout the Psalms, there are situations where he has a unique cry for rescue. But now this prayer, this call for rescue in his distress is unique. Its tone, its sense of urgency. David isn't asking, Lord, help me. I'm under attack. He's saying, Lord, come down and destroy them all. There is a sense of impending judgment and imminence that is present in this song. The call for God to touch the mountains to make them smoke and to flash forth lightning. That's a call for a reality-shattering intervention that culminates in that first line of verse 7 where he says. Stretch out your hand from on high. The outstretched hand of God throughout Scripture always means judgment for those who oppose God. and rescue for God's people. This is the culminating point of this rescue. It's the high point for God's people and the low point for his enemies. The careful reader of Scripture will note here that David is making strong allusions. to the Exodus event in the book of Exodus. When God acted on behalf of Israel to free them from slavery in Egypt. The scene of mountains smoking, lightning flashing, an unapproachable mountain. Well that's at Mount Sinai when God comes down to rest upon the mountain and to bring down his law. The presence of God coming into that world was reality shattering. And the outstretched hand accompanied each of the plagues that Moses, by God's command, leveled against the nation of Egypt before culminating in the outstretched hand of God, bringing judgment upon the Egyptians and rescue to the Israelites through the waters of the Red Sea. God's outstretched hand means judgment for his enemies and rescue for his people. And I take David's allusions in Psalm 144 to the Exodus event. to mean that he is calling on God to carry out a new and greater exodus. He's calling on God to carry out a new and greater exodus where the outstretched arm of the Lord would be revealed this time not through the parting of the seas, but in God's parting the heavens, to come down to judge his enemies and redeem his people. That's exactly what he's doing here. So we've talked briefly About following David's example to pray for rescue from deceitful opposition. But what should we do with this prayer? The remainder, the description of how David is calling on God to carry out this prayer. What do we do with that? Do we pray that way in our own lives? Should we pray like David here? I'm gonna take the totally unsatisfying route and say yes and no. Yes and no. I've been in DC too long. I didn't even realize that. I'll start with a no. We should not pray to God to rout our enemies because of the clarity with which the New Testament addresses this subject. The New Testament is clear on how we're responding to our enemies. For instance, in Matthew 5. 44, Jesus himself tells his followers that they should love their enemies. And pray for those who persecute them. When he says pray for them, he's not saying make a prayer of destroy them. He said pray for them, pray for their souls, right? Don't want to misinterpret that. Pray for those who persecute them. Also, we can't entirely follow David's example because David spoke in these Psalms throughout the Psalms as God's inspired and anointed king. prefiguring the coming anointed King, Jesus Christ, who has the right to pronounce final judgment on all of his enemies and will do so, as all of Scripture teaches. Now, yes, we should pray like David. What else can we note about how he prays here? Consider the sense of urgency Consider the sense of urgency. We should pray with urgency for God to come and rescue us. Jesus teaches his followers to pray. Our Father who art in heaven. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. That's a prayer, friends, for God to part the heavens and route his enemies, leaving judgment and vengeance to God. We pray for God to come to establish his kingdom. It would be better for this world if God's will were done here than were it not. So we should pray for it and we should pray with urgency. This is a come, Lord Jesus, come in Psalm 144. Friends, that is the pilgrim's motto. That should be on your lips daily. Come, Lord Jesus, come. Are you praying that? Are you praying that? Is that present anywhere in your prayer life? If you're not praying like that for Christ to come, I just want to ask you. Have you unknowingly become too comfortable in this world? Beware of the comforts of this world. Beware of the comforts of this world. Not calling you to become an ascetic, to get rid of everything you own. I think with the good blessings that God has given us, we should give praise to him But we should soberly assess and examine our lives to see whether those comfort comforts have dampened our longings for heaven. Friends, Satan is a master anesthesiologist. He will use the comforts of this world to put your hope for heaven to sleep. He will use the comforts of this world to put your hope for heaven to sleep. Don't let your heart be knit to them. C. S. Lewis once said regarding prosperity, but we could just use this quote for what we're talking about here. He said, prosperity knits a man to the world. He feels that he's finding his place in it. Well really, it's finding its place in him. It's finding its place in him. Ask those closest to you. Have conversations about this. Ask them if they see any ways that you've allowed the comforts of this world to knit your heart to this life. Friends, you have a much greater home awaiting you. Your hopes should be so fixed on your home in heaven that when the comforts of this world come to the door of your heart, they find a no-vacancy sign. There should be no room for comfort to take root in your heart because you are so cherishing the new heavens and the new earth because that is where you will be with God and Christ forever. Don't let those comforts Drown out your hope for heaven. Put your hope in the new creation. If you want to live a blessed life, take refuge in God. Put your hope in the new creation. Oh, finally, excuse me. Pray to God for rescue and finally, put your hope in the new creation. Put your hope in the new creation. We see that in verses 12 to 15. Following his call for God to come with an outstretched hand to judge his enemies and rescue him. David now begins meditating on the restored reality that will follow God's appearing to deliver him. That's what he's doing in verses 12 to 15. He's meditating on the restored reality that will follow God's appearing to rescue those who are his people. But as you look at verses 14, you'll see the phrase Mayour repeated a number of times. Mayour. May our sons and daughters be blessed. May our flocks be blessed. It's wrong to take that word, those words, as kind of a wishful thinking as though this won't follow the Lord's appearing. I think These verses are conditioned upon. It's a necessary consequence of what happens after the Lord appears. After he appears to rescue and judge, reality will be restored. That's the connection that David sees here. And what's this restored vision of reality like? Let's look at each of the verses. Let's look at each of the verses. First in verse 12, the people will flourish. The people will flourish. David says, May our sons and their youth be like plants full grown, our daughters like corner pillars cut for the structure of a palace The sons are to be like well-nurtured plants, and the daughters are to be like pillars in a palace. David is using imagery here from the garden and from the temple. to describe the well-being of the people and what was the garden and the temple. It was the dwelling place of God. So what causes human flourishing? The presence of God, living in his presence. That's what these images are meant to communicate here. And not only would the people flourish in this restored reality, but so would their land and their resources. We see that in verses 13 and 14. May our granaries be full, providing all kinds of produce Think here. Remember the curse on Adam. Genesis 3, 17. What happens when Adam sets out to work the land? Cursed is the ground because of you. In pain you shall eat of it all the days of your life. Thorns and thistles it shall bring forth for you, not granaries that are full, providing all kinds of produce This is a reality, a vision of restored reality in which the curse has been reversed Right? This is a vision of reality in which the curse has been reversed. David's envisioning a time where the land will produce plenty. It won't produce thorns and thistles anymore. The grain will be abundant. Providing all kinds of produce. Continuing on, he says, May our sheep bring forth thousands and ten thousands in their fields. May our cattle be heavy with young, suffering no mishap or failure in bearing. Possibly sounds odd to us because we don't live in an agricultural uh culture. Sheep and cattle were foundational to the ancient Israelite economy, and so if the sheep and cattle didn't reproduce, the country would suffer Thus David's envisioning a time of immense material blessing. That was a blessing promised in the Old Testament to the people of Israel, lest we mistakenly take these blessings and expect them now in our lives, as some false teachers will do today. If God gives us blessing, praise God, but we are not promised this in our lives. But not only would the people and its resources flourish, All of society would flourish. We see that in the second half of verse 14. May there be no cry of distress in our streets. David's looking forward to a restored reality where the evils of war and crime and hurt and pain no longer exist. This reformed society would be free from all tears and all crying and all pain. The anticipation of this restored reality leads to David's wonderful conclusion there in verse 15. Blessed are the people to whom such blessings fall. Some translations render it happy. Happy are the people to whom such blessings fall. Of course, why? Not just because of the blessings, but because of that final line. Happy are the people. Blessed are they whose people it is the Lord. Is the God your Lord today? Do you know that you are blessed in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places? The Lord has shown you and lavished upon you grace upon grace in Christ Jesus. I'm not talking about a false happy today. I'm talking about a deep seated joy knowing that you have been blood bought and purchased by the God of the universe. If you call upon God in Christ today, you are blessed. You are Don't forget that, friends. But this anticipation, this anticipation of the restored reality that leads to that final conclusion should cause us to think to ourselves. How can I get to this reality? How do I make it there? I want to go there. How do I do it? Lord, tell me how to do it. If you're thinking that today, if that's your question today. The good news is the Bible tells us how to get there. Turn with me in your Bibles to Deuteronomy chapter 28. If you're using the Pew Bible, it's gonna be on page one hundred sixty-eight. This is good news because it's going to tell you how to get to this blessed reality. I'll just kind of wait until the pages stop turning I'm going to go ahead and read for us Deuteronomy 28, verses 1 to 9. If you want to know how to make it to this place, this is what you have to do. If you faithfully obey the voice of the Lord your God, being careful to do all his commandments that I command you today. The Lord your God will set you high above all the nations of the earth. And all these blessings shall come upon you and overtake you If you obey the voice of the Lord your God, blessed shall you be in the city. Blessed shall you be in the field. Blessed shall be the fruit of your womb, and the fruit of your ground, and the fruit of your cattle, the increase of your herds, and the young of your flock. Blessed shall be your basket and your kneading bowl. Blessed shall you be when you come in, and blessed shall you be when you go out. The Lord will cause your enemies who rise against you to be defeated before you They shall come out against you one way and flee before you seven ways. The Lord will command the blessing on you in your barns. And in all that you undertake, and he will bless you in the land that the Lord your God is giving you. The Lord will establish you as a people holy to himself, as he has sworn to you. If you keep the commandments of the Lord your God and walk in his ways There is a path to the blessed life. But that path requires perfect obedience Which is devastating news for us. The path to the blessed life for us has been closed. There is no detour for David. This is what he had to do. And we know from David's well-documented moral failings that he did not do it This is sad news because none of us has kept God's commandments. None of us has walked perfectly in his ways If you're here and you're not a Christian, then you need to understand that the Bible teaches us with crystal clarity that none of us will ever find the blessed life because all of us has turned and gone astray from God. None of us will enter into this reality because we've all become like dead plants twice uprooted, not like well-nurtured plants. We're like pillars that are crumbling, Roman Colosseum pillars that are crumbling because we have turned away from the Lord our God. This is the sad news of this hope of blessedness. And all who have sinned against God will receive his just wrath, which they deserve. All men, everyone, will one day face God on his judgment seat and will be found guilty of having broken his commandments resulting in eternal condemnation at his hands. There is no hope for anyone separated from God by their sins But if that's the case, why are we gathered here today? with the hope, the true and real hope, that we will one day enter into this blessed reality. Why do we have the hope that God Himself will rescue us and bring us to live with Him? Because two thousand years ago, God looked down On the sons of men. And he was mindful of them. He showed good heart for them. He didn't leave us like dead and uprooted trees in our sins. He came to earth. God came to live with us. We had all sought to be blessed apart from him and have become like these dead trees, and even though we chose to turn from him He chose to show regard for us. He knew that we would never find this blessed life, this reality, this hope of reconciliation with him on our own. None of us could ever do this. And so he sent Jesus Christ into the world to show us the true way to blessedness. And in his life, Jesus walked. In all of God's commandments and all of his ways, keeping them perfectly, he alone deserved to enter into this reality. He alone deserved these blessings. But he chose instead to be delivered over to his enemies. To you and to me. Lest we hold our heads too high, we were as guilty as the ones who were there. He was given over to the cruel sword on the cross. But just when it looked like God had forsaken him, just when it looked like God had forsaken his son, God raised Jesus Christ from the dead. delivering him once and for all from his enemies, defeating sin and death and Satan and hell. And he told all people in all places if they would repent and turn from their sin, they could have the hope of this new creation, this reconciled relationship to God in him. It could be a sure foundation to them if you are here today and you do not follow Jesus Christ. I implore you, turn Turn from your sins. There is judgment coming. You have no hope. But there is a hope in Jesus Christ. The detour route has been opened. It goes through him. He is the way to the heavenly city and you can be restored to God in him if you would turn. What are you getting from this life? You're tasting bitterness. I've been there in that life. I've sought pleasure in every place and found it. Nowhere this life is wanting. But those hopes are there for a reason to point you to the real hope. Jesus spoke to his own disciples and said, John 14, do not let your heart be troubled. Believe in God. Believe also in me. In my Father's house are many rooms. If it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you? And if I go to prepare a place far greater than Deuteronomy 28 could ever imagine, I will come back. And I will bring you to that place that you may be there where he is, together with him. Where will that be? What will that place be like? Revelation 21 says, Then I saw a new heavens. and a new earth. For the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and the sea was no more. And I saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God. prepared as a bride, adorned for her husband. And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, behold The dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more. Neither shall there be any mourning, nor crying, nor pain any more, for the former things have passed away. That is the reality, the blessed reality that you and I are awaiting. Come, Lord Jesus, come rescue us. Make that part of your prayers. God is listening to them. He hears them. He will one day answer them if you want to live a blessed life. Now. Take refuge in God. Call on God for rescue. And put your hope in the new creation. Friends, that blessed day is fast approaching. Fix your hearts upon it. Remind one another about it. Encourage each other on as you go. For there will be a day when we sing a new song. We will not sing, hark, I hear the harps are eternal, because we will be there singing to them with those blessed harps. We will be playing them to the Lord our God when we cross that river. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you reign. We confess that you are the Lord God Almighty who reigns in heaven. right now and we long for you to come Lord Jesus come and rescue us we pray this in Jesus' name amen