Well, good morning everyone. It's a pleasure to see you guys. That's a good hearty response. Not too bad. Not too bad. For the members of the church, of family, it's so good to see you all here today. For those who are visiting with us, thank you for taking the time out of your morning to spend it here with us. today. It's a joy to see you guys here. It's a joy also to provide some sweet balm from God's Word for those people who are struggling. And I pray that today would be like that for us. Let me go ahead and pray for us. We'll go ahead and get started. Let's pray. Oh God, affliction and suffering seem everywhere in this world Teach your people that you are sovereign, you will triumph, and that you alone can save. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. The fear of rejection is a powerful force Whether it's in looking for friendship, going to a job interview, searching for love The fear of rejection has the power to paralyze us, to make us clam up To not want to extend ourselves to other people for fear that they would see us and deny us, exposing us for who we really are. What happens, though, those situations are with strangers or people you don't really know, trying to find a friend. or trying to find a mate or find a job. Those people don't know you all that well. What happens when the person who rejects you Is the person you love and cherish most? What happens when the person who rejects you Is God. Ask yourself this morning, now What would it take? What circumstances in your life would have to come to pass for you to feel rejected by God? Think of them. Hold them in your mind as we talk this morning and as we go through our lesson. Well, if you have your Bibles with you, go ahead and turn with me to Psalm 60. Where we'll feel where we'll find David feeling as though he's been rejected. If you're using one of the Pew Bibles, you'll find Psalm 60 on page 478. When you get there, you might notice something. The superscription of Psalm 60, the superscription is the smaller print that you notice there right beside the number 60. Psalm 60 is unique in the Psalter in that this is the most historical background of any psalm in the entire Psalter. So we want to take a quick look at it and make sure we're understanding what's going on here. Understand the context that David is writing this psalm from. Let's look at it together. I'll go ahead and read it for us. To the choir master, according to Shushan Edith, a micdom of David. For instruction. So here briefly, we find a useful bit of information. God intends these psalms as instruction for his people. We're meant to read these Psalms, understand them, and learn from them. Let's keep going. When he, that is David, strove with Aram Naharaim and with Aram Zobah. And when Joab, on his return, struck down twelve thousand of Edom in the valley of Salt. So the superscription is referring to specific battles. Documented in the book of 2 Samuel in chapters 8 to 10. First, he struggles or strives or fights against the Arameans from Mesopotamia and Zobah. And then Joab himself fights in the Valley of Salt, striking down the Edomites. The Valley of Salt would have been near the city of Edom in the Middle East. Since it refers to multiple events spread out over a short period of time, we should understand Psalm 60 to be referring to this general period of time. He's not referring to any specific event. He's just calling to mind this period of time when these battles were taking place. However, when we turn to 2 Samuel 8 to 10, We see a different story. We see that David is actually experiencing sweeping victories. So how is David sweeping victory from 2 Samuel chapters 8 to 10? How does that align with what we read? In Psalm 60, a psalm of defeat, a lament of rejection. I think the purpose is understanding the purpose of the two texts. Or I think the answer is in understanding the purpose of the two texts. So you'll remember in 2 Samuel 7, David is anointed as king by God and promised an eternal throne. And so then when you go into chapters 8 to 10, The author is communicating that God's anointed king, the one he has promised an eternal throne to, will have sweeping victories. No one will stop him. That's the purpose of those chapters in 2 Samuel. But when we drop in on Psalm 60, we find ourselves with authors communicating a different purpose. Psalm 60 comes in a stretch of Psalms of Deliverance. Psalms of rescue that runs from Psalm 52 and ends at our Psalm this morning, Psalm 60. And in each of these, David is being attacked by enemies and pleading for rescue from God. And so here, the purpose of these texts is meant to communicate that God's anointed king will be attacked and his deliverance will come from God Himself. So we want to remember that when we handle scripture, we're handling historical documents. And these historical documents can be accurate and not be comprehensive. So the victories in 2 Samuel 8-10 are true, and the defeat in Psalm 60 is true. They shed light on one another. They talk about different parts and aspects of the life of David and the events of Israel. So we want to remember that this morning. And it appears that even before we get into the psalm, the superscription provides us with some instruction. In periods of sweeping victory in your own lives, you may also experience staggering defeats. Well, the main lesson from our Psalm I want us to walk away understanding this morning is in the midst of distress, remember that God is sovereign God will triumph and God alone can save. In the midst of distress, remember that God is sovereign God will triumph and God alone can save. Let me go ahead and read our psalm for us. Oh God, you have rejected us, broken our defenses. You have been angry. Oh, restore us. You have made the land to quake. You have torn it open. Repair its breaches, for it totters. You have made your people see hard things. You have given us wine to drink that made us stagger. You have set up a banner for those who fear you, that they may flee to it from the bow. That your beloved ones may be delivered. Give salvation by your right hand and answer us. God has spoken in his holiness. With exaltation I will divide up Shechem and portion out the veil of Sukkoth. Gilead is mine. Manasseh is mine. Ephraim is my helmet. Judah is my scepter. Moab is my wash basin. Upon Edom, I cast my shoe. Over Philistia, I shout in triumph. Who will bring me to the fortified city? Who will lead me to Edom? Have you not rejected us, O God? You do not go forth, O God, with our armies. Oh, grant us help against the foe, for vain is the salvation of man. With God we shall do valiantly. It is He who will tread down our foes. Amen. So first, in the midst of distress, remember that God is sovereign We see that in verses 1 to 4. David's Psalm of Lament begins with his recognition of the fact that God has rejected Israel. This Rejection that David speaks of likely refers to a military defeat. We see that when we look down at verse 10. David says, have you not rejected us, O God? And he equates that with God not going forth with their armies. We see this rejection then that David describes refers to God temporarily withdrawing his favor from Israel. This isn't a permanent rejection. God has removed his hand of favor, his hand of protection upon them. He's given them over. to their enemies. And the extent of the rejection is far-reaching. Look down with me at verse 1. We see that the rejection has impacted the nation as a whole. You see that by the repetition of the words us and our. You have rejected us. This isn't just a lament of David. But a communalament of the nation as a whole with David standing as its head It also hasn't just affected the people. It's affected the land as well. We see that in verse 2. The land quakes. It's been torn open. The land has breaches and it totters. Now I don't think that David is referring to actual earthquakes. I think what David is trying to communicate. Is that all of life seems to be on the brink. This rejection that God has brought about has had the effect of an earthquake. So David in in the Psalms here is using poetic language. Life is trembling So if you've seen those video cameras when an earthquake hits, this it's kind of what life is like for them in Israel now. Everything seems off balance. They don't know what is going on. And finally, David intensifies and personalizes his description of the situation in verse 3. The people see hard things. They've been given wine to drink that makes them stagger. We can only imagine what they would have seen had they been attacked, pillaged, and defeated. And this wine that has been given them to drink is highly symbolic throughout Scripture and refers to the cup of wrath that God gives to his people So this rejection that Israel is experiencing, that the land is experiencing, is nothing less than the wrath of God being poured out upon his people. Some of you may be wondering why David doesn't just say that they've been attacked if that's what's been the case. We should remember that the Psalms are the songbook for the people of God for all time. And so as the Spirit moved in David to pen this psalm, God inspired him to write it in such a way that would allow saints from every age to come alongside David who are feeling rejected Who feel like life is crumbling around them, who feel like everything is being thrown off balance. He's written it in such a way for us to come alongside with him and read this lament to God for ourselves Can you join David in his lament this morning? Do you feel like All of life is trembling around you, like an earthquake is hit, like all seems to be on the brink. Does it feel like God is angry with you? Does it feel like he's pouring his wrath out on you? As I've studied this passage. The question that came to mind again and again was why? Why is this happening? What did they do? There must be some sin here that they've committed. They must have done something wrong, something to deserve this rejection from God. But the Psalm gives no reason. There is no reason whatsoever given for the rejection that they're suffering. Does this describe your situation this morning? Do you feel like God is tightening down around you, but there's nothing that you can see in your life that you've done wrong? No glaring sin to speak of, no great offense that you've committed against God, yet he seems to be turning everything in life against you. Is that you this morning? What I want you to see is what David does when he feels rejected by God, and there's no reason given. And the one thing that he does is he remembers that God is sovereign. He remembers that God is sovereign. The most oft-repeated phrase in these first four verses. The thing that stands out above anything else that's going on here is that David attributes everything that has happened to God. Seven times in the first four verses, David recognizes God's sovereign action in this situation. Go ahead and look with me at verses 1 to 4 again. You have rejected us. You have been angry. You have made the land to quake. You have torn it open You have made your people see hard things. You have given us wine to drink that made us stagger. You have set up a banner for those who fear you. David's circumstances don't change his theology, do they? His circumstances don't change his theology. He doesn't all of a sudden become an open theist. Think that God has no control. He might be He might be good and powerful and whatnot, but he he clearly doesn't have control. No, David sees God as completely in control of everything, even acting in this situation. He understands God's sovereign control over all events as so comprehensive that he can attribute the action to God himself. He sees it as coming from the hand of God. Do you see The same sovereign hand at work in your distress. Do you see the same sovereign hand at work? And your struggles and what you perceive to be God rejecting you Trying to search for God in the midst of tragedy or suffering is a bit like walking out of the light and into a dark room. Everything goes black. You slow your movements. Rooms that were once familiar all of a sudden seem unfamiliar. You trip. over things that you knew were there, you start to reach out for a piece of furniture or a wall or something. Something to support you in the midst of your suffering. That wall of support. The thing that you're reaching out to grab onto in your spiritual life is God's sovereignty. That is what you are trying to reach out for. That is what you need to reach out for in times of struggling and rejection. You need to reach out for God's sovereignty. That is your support. You aren't in a cosmic game of pong. There is a controlling, divine, and loving hand behind these circumstances in your life. So whatever may be befalling you. Whatever situation you are facing that makes you feel like God isn't paying attention to you, you can know and rest in the fact That he is in complete, total, and sovereign control. But let's step back into that room for a moment. The lights are out. You found that wall of support, and now you're navigating around the room. trying to find your way, trying not to stumble or stagger over the things that are placed at your feet. Well what begins to happen? Your eye begins to adjust. The shapes in the room become clear. You might not be able to see perfectly, but you can start to see. And then what you find is that the room is as it's always been. Just that somebody turned the lights out. That is how that wall of support, God's sovereignty, helps us to see God in the midst of suffering. As you hold on to his sovereignty, you try not to stumble over the spiritual obstacles in your life as your spiritual lens begins to adjust. You begin to see God as He's always been. He's the same good God that He always was He hasn't changed. The goodness of God that he expressed to you on the day that he saved you is still the same good God that is acting towards you today in the midst of your suffering. Hold on to his suffering. Hold on to his sovereignty in the midst of your suffering. He will carry you through. We also see a glimmer of God's goodness to his people, even in the midst of defeat, there in verse 4, as God sovereignly raises a banner for Israel to flee to. David here is using imagery from battle. Banners would have been raised as a signal for soldiers to gather themselves together in the middle of war. It's unclear exactly what this banner is meant to symbolize from God, but I think Exodus 17. 15 gives us a good clue. Where the Lord calls himself, the Lord, or Moses says about the Lord, the Lord Himself is my banner. The Lord Himself is my banner. This banner that the Lord lifted up in some way symbolizes himself. He's the one that the Israelites were to gather under for protection. And we see that in the second half of the verse where it says that they may flee to it from the bow. The bow, or bow and arrow, is an instrument of war So God is making himself a place of rest and protection in the midst of this battle that is going on. This is just like God, isn't it? Consider the structure of the psalm. The first four verses that we've looked at. Rejection, rejection, rejection, deliverance. For God's people, rejection is never the final word. Rejection is never the final word. No, but the sovereign God is our banner We can be confident that ultimately God will triumph. And that brings me to my second point. In the midst of distress, remember that God will triumph. Remember that God will triumph. We see that in verses 5 to 8 David's recognition of the Lord raising a banner for his people in verse 4 leads him to call out to God in prayer for salvation in verse 5. And frankly, this is amazing. In 2 Samuel 7, the period of time that this psalm is associated with, or right after the period of time, David is promised an eternal throne. He's promised sweeping victory by God, that God would be with him, that God would overcome his enemies. That's what happens in 2 Samuel 8-10. But here we have Psalm 60, which comes from that same period of time, this defeat. Even though David has this promise from God, and then he's defeated, he doesn't respond in anger towards God. Right? He doesn't turn his back on God. He doesn't become frustrated with him. He doesn't call God a liar. He simply comes to God in faith. And ask him to carry out what he's already promised to. David's distress is a path to prayer. David's distress is a path to prayer. Do you see times of distress and defeat this way in your own life? Are they opportunities for you to come to God in prayer? Maybe you're in a time of distress, a season of rejection now. Maybe you're struggling with unemployment Hoping for a spouse, praying for a child Battling a chronic illness, have you stopped calling out to God because you become angry with him or frustrated with him or you don't think he's going to answer or that he's not listening to you? Let me encourage you, do not stop calling out to God. Persist in prayer with God, and he will answer you. We see that even from the text. He will not always be silent. He will answer. Look down with us at verses 6 to 8. David's prayer for salvation. David's prayer of deliverance. is met with this resounding answer by God. David looks back on this promise that God had spoken in the past and sees God answer. Let me read six to eight for us now. God has spoken in his holiness. With exaltation I will divide up Shechem and portion out the veil of Sukkoth. Gilead is mine. Manasseh is mine. Ephraim is my helmet. Judah is my scepter. Moab is my wash basin. Upon Edom, I cast my shoe. Over Philistia I shout in triumph. So what are we to make of this section? This promise that David's recalling looks more to be like a lesson in ancient Near Eastern geography than a response to prayer. It's going to be difficult for us if we don't understand what's going on here to actually see the glory and the beauty of God's response in his past promise. You'll see there in verse 6 it says, God has spoken in his holiness. This took place in the past. David is looking back upon a prayer or a promise that God had made either to him or to his people And you see that it's made in his holiness. That refers either to the fullness of God's character, his the excellencies of his perfection, what we generally refer to as his holiness. Or it's shorthand for the Holy of Holies, the innermost place of the sanctuary where God appeared to his people, and it's there above the mercy seat that God would appear and speak from. Whatever's going on here, whether it's his holiness as in his character or the holy of holies, what is clear is that whatever God has said will come to pass. That's what he is making clear. The answer to David's prayer comes in the form of him recalling a promise that God had made in the past. I wonder how many of our present prayers, present desires have been answered by God's past promises. That might be a unique way for you to spend your afternoon today. Share with one another's the things that you're praying for most about, the things that you want to see change in your own life, and go to the scriptures. See if there are promises of God that speak to those struggles that you're praying about now in your own life. Looking back to the text in verse 6. We see that the remainder of the verses, with verses 6 to 8, God says, With exaltation I will divide up Shechem and portion out the veil of Sukkoth. In one failed swoop, God is calling to mind Israel's early history and the promises made to the patriarchs. So Abraham, when he first ventured into the promised land when God had told him to go in Genesis chapter 12, the first place he comes to is Shechem. And then Jacob later on his journeys through the promised land founded the town of Sukkoth. He built booths there. That's what it meant. That's what Sukkoth means. So God is assuring David that even though he's in the midst of contending for these lands with the Edomites, with Moab, with Philistia. God is assuring him that these are lands that God promised to his people, and he would be the one to divide them up He would be the one to win victory. And not only does he have authority over all lands, but he has authority over all people. We see that in the first part of verse 7. Gilead is mine. Manasseh is mine. The Gileadites were a people that lived just outside of the promised land on the east side of the Jordan. Manasseh was one of God's one of one of his uh the tribes of his people, one of the twelve tribes. And this authority that God would display over all lands and all people would be carried out through Israel. That's the point of the comment on Ephraim and Judah. Ephraim is my helmet, Judah is my scepter. These communicate power and law And they're both tribes of Israel. So God is saying, through Israel, my power and my law will go forth. Thus, God's power and rule over all lands and all people would be displayed through Israel. And finally, David's remembrance of God's authority culminates in verse 8 as he remembers that God has promised to triumph over his enemies. God has promised to triumph over his enemies. That's what the language there communicates. The wash basin associated with Moab would have been used to hold water for someone's feet, but you gotta we gotta remember that back then people walked everywhere and so their feet were generally filthy. And so the water that would have been in this wash basin would have been disgusting. That's what God's saying about Moab. They're the dirty water in my wash basin. Then upon Edom he casts his shoe. That is akin in our country to spitting in someone's face. God throws his shoe upon them. You would never do that in a culture like that that just communicates insult. But this is how God treats those who are his enemies. And finally, his comment about the Philistines just culminates there. God will triumph Edom, Moab, Philistia, I will triumph over them all. It is God who will triumph. Now I want us to consider how perplexing and even difficult recalling this promise must have been for David. Here he is, having just been attacked and defeated, and I'm sure part of him has got to be saying, God, how? How are you going to carry this out We're in the middle of defeat, yet you've promised in your past to triumph over our enemies. I'm sure there are many of us sitting here today. Holding fast to God's promise that He will build the church and that the gates of hell will not prevail against it. Yet our experience seems to be at contrast, at odds with that promise. At times it seems like the gates of hell are prevailing against it. Christians are beheaded by ISIS, put to death in North Korea, chased from house and home in Somalia Here in the U. S. , Christian churches, schools, and organizations are being leaned on and called on to compromise their beliefs in Scripture. They're being called on to turn away from saying that homosexuality is actually a sin. And all the while Unborn children are being sold for parts. It feels at times like the gates of hell are prevailing. And though the sufferings of this life are immense, as Christians, we must remember Like we remembered in point one that suffering and rejection are not the final word. Though we are aliens and strangers here and now in this land, we have the promise of a new home in the New Jerusalem, an eternal home. Though we are battered and bruised and broken now if we endure We will reign with God. God's promises of our future with Him are so sure that we might reread verses 6 to 8. It's as though God has spoken to us today in His holiness and said, Isis is mine. The Supreme Court is mine. Planned parenthood is my wash basin. Upon racism and injustice, I cast my shoe. Over Satan, I shout in triumph That promise of triumph is as sure for us today as it was for David in the midst of his defeat. You can count on it. God is not slow in keeping his promise. The day that he will finally triumph over sin and Satan and death and hell is fast approaching. So, like David, in times of distress, remember that God is sovereign. God will triumph. And finally, God alone can save. God alone can save. In the midst of distress, remember God alone can save. Coming out of being reminded of God's past promise to triumph over his enemies in verses 5 to 8. David now turns in verses 9 to 12 to recognize that it's God who saves. And he expresses that in three different ways in these verses. First, he ponders in verse 10. He prays in verse 11, and finally he proclaims in verse 12. In verses 9 and 10, David ponders. You see that in the three rhetorical questions that he asks. Who will bring me to the fortified city? In light of these promises that I know are true, who will bring me to the fortified city? Who will lead me to Edom? Have you not rejected us, O God? You do not go forth with our armies The fortified city in his first question is Edom. It's likely that David would have wanted to attack Edom because they were the ones who carried out the defeat that we are reading about in Psalm 60. David simply says the question two different ways to emphasize that he has no hope to attack Edom apart from God working on his behalf. He has no hope. And you see that in the following question in verse 10, which is just a rhetorical conclusion. Have you not rejected us, O God? You do not go forth, O God, with our armies. David knows that he won't have victory over Edom because it's God alone who saves. And God has rejected them. And then David's pondering causes him to break out in prayer in verse 11. Oh, grant us help against the foe, for vain is the salvation of man. David's conclusions from those rhetorical questions that it's God alone who saves manifest itself now in prayer. He calls out to God because he knows that God is the only source of any hope that he could have for help. Consider David's humility here. A humble king. It's kind of an oxymoron in our world. Kings aren't typically humble, and especially not a king who God spoke to directly and then promised to give him an eternal throne. Talk about a recipe for disaster for spiritual pride. I mean that's just like God if God spoke to me and promised me an eternal throne, you can bet I'd show up here and I'd be a bit more prideful than I don't normally am. I mean God speaking directly to David And yet David recognizes that it's God alone who saves. This is such a contrast to David coming on the heels of King Saul's reign. This is a king who lived by salvation from mankind alone. He didn't believe that God was his only hope. He was marked by trusting in mankind and came to a tragic end at the hands of the Philistines. Yet David, though he's God's anointed king, Though he's ruler of his people, though he has armies at his disposal, up until this point in his life, he's won every single battle that he's ever stepped to. David relies upon God for salvation. He knows that he's going to need God's help if he's going to succeed. Does David's posture of humility describe you? Does this posture of humility describe you? If it does, how does that show up in your life Does it come out in you regularly depending upon God in prayer for help? Maybe you understand yourself to be someone who believes in God. But this doesn't describe your relationship with Him. You don't regularly reach out to God in prayer. In fact, you haven't in a long time, not since you can last remember, but you think God and you are on good terms. Friend, if that describes you, if you don't regularly reach out to God in prayer, I think it's more likely that you don't know God. It's more likely that you don't know God. You know, there's lots of research being done today about how our posture affects our long-term health. So sitting is the new smoking. Sorry for y'all, I'm gonna be in good shape. Causes hip dysfunction, damages spines, rounding of the upper back from sitting all day. Sitting is the worst thing that you can do to your body. That's what that's what's being touted now in the research. Sitting is bad. So standing desks have been created for people to overcome that at work. Or if you don't have a standing desk, you can just stack boxes up like I used to do at my old job and put my keyboard on top of them My my job wouldn't purchase a standing desk for me, so I had to go out and make it myself. I needed to save my hips. Well, with all this discussion and conversation about the importance of physical posture. Let me give a word about spiritual posture. If your spiritual posture could be described as standing erect, back straight, shoulders back, head held high Hips in perfect alignment. If that's your spiritual posture, let me give you a word of caution. It is detrimental to your spiritual health. The best posture for any human being before God is prostrate. Are you like that in your own life? Or do you walk around in your spirit with your head held up high? Don't do that, my friends. That will not lead you to good places. This should always be a word to our church as well. There is no odor Quite as foul as the odor of spiritual pride. That means that in whatever ways that God has blessed this church And use this church to bless other churches. We should give all praise to God and not give praise to ourselves. So it's he's working through us. We understand that all things are from him, through him, and to him. To God be the glory, right? So let spiritual pride be found far from you. May we be marked as a church by humility And in doing that, we can come along David in verse 12 and proclaim with him that with God we shall do valiantly. It is he who will tread down our foes. With God we shall do valiantly. It is he who will tread down our foes. Brad and Aaron, as you guys go forth, remember Be like David. Be like Jesus. As you've always done, as you guys have done since you came here. Depend on God. Spurgeon says that the road to Edom, right? We should understand spiritually is the road to the sinner's heart. The hardness of heart, the fortified city, the last domain that God should conquer. Remember that David says, who will bring me there? Who will lead me there? It's God. Remember that as you've always done. Continue to depend on Him. And you can say with David from Arkansas, with God we shall do valiantly, y'all. It is he who will tread down our foes. I don't know if that was Arkansas. Apologies to Arkansas if you're in this room. It's too easy. It is God who will tread down our foes, is it not? And we know from the account in 2 Samuel 8 to 10. That David's prayer for God to help Israel against her enemies was answered. It was answered. We turn back to 2 Samuel and there he is, sweeping victory. He demolishes the Edomites. He sets up garrisons in all the country. He goes on. To just have victory after victory. God answers David's prayer. David's confidence in God proves true. God did, in fact, give him victory over his enemies. For a time. Yet eventually, even David would fall into sin And give God reason to reject him. Though there were no reasons in our psalm, David did eventually give God reason to reject him Those sins would destroy the second half of his reign, if not destroy it, mar it completely. The nation of Israel would continue to suffer at the hands of her enemies. Until eventually they too were cast into exile, completely rejected by God for their repeated sins. I suppose we're not so different from David and Israel, are we? I suppose we're not so different at all. Whether we feel as though we've given God reasons to reject us or not, the truth is. All of us have sinned and broken God's law and given him reasons to reject us. None of us could ever say that God has rejected us without reason. None of our trials are ultimately without cause. So how is it that we can gather here today singing songs of praise and worship to God and not being rejected by Him? How is that possible? What could make it possible? Maybe the better question is who can make it possible You see, this Psalm of Lament, the mystery of this psalm, of Israel rejected, its king rejected without cause, was a mystery to David. How would God conquer the earth through Israel if we were rejected? The Psalm of Lament foreshadows one more difficult to understand. When great David's greater son, Jesus Christ, the true King of Israel, The true son of God would suffer a greater rejection by God Though he had done nothing to deserve it, in his roughly 30 years on this earth, Jesus lived a perfect life of love towards God. And not once did he ever sin. He also loved mankind perfectly by calling us to be reconciled to God through repentance and faith in him. But we hated him and his message, and his perfection In our sinful state of rejection, we rejected him, condemning him to death on a cross. As he later recalled, the moment that Jesus died upon the cross in his gospel, Matthew wrote this. And behold, the curtain of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom. And the earth shook, and the rocks were split. When the centurion and those who were with him, keeping watch over Jesus, saw the earthquake and what took place. They were filled with awe and said, truly this was the Son of God. In the rejection of the true King. The earth really would tremble. God really would split it open. Everything would be shaken to its core Like David, Jesus understood it was God's sovereign plan to make him the substitute for our sins. He would bear our rejection so that we could be accepted by God. And as he was lifted up upon the cross to suffer our rejection. In the midst of rejection, God was raising up his banner. In the Israel's, true, true Israel's rejection. God was lifting up his banner of salvation for all those, look at verse 4. For all those that would flee to it, for those who fear God. If you're here today and you don't follow Jesus, please understand that any rejection you face in this life. From other people, from employment, dating, whatever it might be, any rejection that you face in this life is sadly a foretaste. of the eternal rejection that you will suffer at the hands of God. God is just and will not allow your sins against him to go unpunished. Yet he will gladly and freely forgive you. And wipe away your rejection if you would but turn away from your sin and flee to the true banner of salvation in Jesus Christ. And you can know that God will accept you because three days after he was buried, Jesus rose from the dead, triumphing over mankind's greatest enemies Sin, Satan, death, and hell. Where is your power? My wash basin. I cast my shoe upon all of them. Over them I will triumph. So for those of you who do follow Jesus, I know that the sufferings of this life may seem too much to bear at times. Rejection is painful. Let me encourage you to remember that if God is sovereign and holds all things, and he holds your sufferings too You are not forgotten by God. You are not rejected by God. He has wiped away your rejection. And you can come to him in faith through Jesus Christ and have confidence in him. So let me ask you one more time. What would it take for you to feel rejected by God today? What would it take for you to feel rejected by God today? Let's pray. Oh God, our Father We marvel at the mystery hidden for ages long past that the prophets and priests longed to see but did not see, yet you have allowed us to see in our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. May you comfort those who feel rejected today. May you let them know that you do not reject them. That they are yours. Make the gospel sweet to us today, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen