Let me pray one more time for us and we'll uh we'll go ahead and get started. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come to you in the name of your Son Jesus Christ, and we come in his spirit by his power. asking, needing for you to give us grace tonight that we might hear. We pray that your word would be like a sword working upon us tonight. We pray that you would give power to your word. And bring souls to faith. Encourage the saints, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, in this morning's sermon, Zach soberly described the rampant injustice among the leaders. of Israel. And he highlighted David's plea to God for God to bring a righteous judgment, a judgment that would be right and good for the way these leaders were acting, to bring a judgment upon them. In our passage tonight, we meet a man who is very much like these rulers. A religious leader Who unjustly opposed God and sought to actively turn people away from knowing the truth and coming to faith in Jesus Christ. So, how would God deal with such a man? And what is that going to tell us about how God deals with those who are opposed to him? Well go ahead and turn with me to Acts chapter 13, verse 11. If you're using the Pew Bible, it's going to be found on page 921. As you're turning there, let me go ahead and give you a backdrop for our text tonight. The book of Acts is the account of how the apostles, filled with the Holy Spirit, Bore witness to God and his gospel in the Lord Jesus, first witnessing to Jerusalem in chapters 1 to 7, then to Judea and Samaria in chapters 8 to 12. And then all the way to the ends of the earth, chapters 13 to 28. Our verse tonight marks a key turning point in salvation history. The Apostle Paul is gonna embark on his first missionary journey to the Gentile nations. That's the context of our passage tonight So, will the gospel continue to go forth in great power as it has so far? Or will the spiritual forces opposed to God and opposed to his gospel hinder the gospel's advance? Or will Jesus Christ and his chosen messengers prevail? Well, let's look together at the text. Our verse tonight is verse 11. I'll go ahead and read from verse 6 through verse 11 so we get a good feel for the context. When they had gone through the whole island, as far as Paphos, they came upon a certain magician. A Jewish false prophet named Bar Jesus. He was with the proconsul, Sergius Paulus, a man of intelligence, who summoned Barnabas and Saul and sought to hear the word of God. But Elemus, the magician, for that is the meaning of his name, opposed them, seeking to turn the proconsul away from the faith. But Saul, who was also called Paul, filled with the Holy Spirit, looked intently at him and said, You son of the devil. You enemy of all righteousness, full of all deceit and villainy, will you not stop making crooked the straight paths of the Lord And now, behold, the hand of the Lord is upon you, and you will be blind and unable to see the sun for a time. Immediately, mist and darkness fell upon him, and he went about seeking people to lead him by the hand. So what does this verse teach us about how God responds to those who are opposed to him? Well, we see one main thing. The main point I want you to take away from this passage tonight is that God will prevail over all his enemies. God will prevail over all his enemies. Look back with me at the passage. Look there in verse 6. Luke's description of Bar Jesus communicates that this man is thoroughly wicked. The text says he's a magician, which in scripture is always connected to the denot demon demonic realm. You remember that? from the Old Testament. But it also says he's Jewish. I mean that's just a contradiction, a Jewish magician. So it shows that this man is not only connected to the demonic realm, but this is a man who disregards God's law about dealing in divination and sorcery and things of that nature. And finally, he's a false prophet. This is a trifecta of wickedness. He's a false prophet, a man who intentionally leads people away from God. And we see that this is exactly what he's doing. Look there in verses 7 and 8. He opposes Paul and Barnabas with the expressed intent of wanting to prevent the Roman proconsul from coming to faith. Then in verses 9 and 10, Paul, note there he's full of the Holy Spirit. Luke wants you to know there that this is with Paul, God speaking through Paul to Lilemus. Paul, full of the Holy Spirit, condemns Bar Jesus. calling him a son of the devil and an enemy of all righteousness. This is just to highlight the spiritual source of this man's opposition to God. I just want to to underscore for you how opposed this man is to God. And because of his flagrant opposition to God and to the advance of the gospel, Paul delivers this curse that we have here in verse 11. So you see there that that phrase, the hand of the Lord. Behold, the hand of the Lord. I'm taking that phrase not just to refer to God's power at work in the world, which it typically refers to, but I'm going to go a little more specific. I'm actually going to take this to refer to Jesus Christ Himself. So you'll remember back in Acts 9, when Paul is opposing the gospel and seeking to harm those who would advance the gospel, it's Christ Jesus Himself. who appears to Paul on the road to Damascus. And he delivers a similar curse to one we see tonight. He causes temporary blindness to come upon Paul. Next we see that Paul's God-giving curse isn't an empty threat. You'll note there as the verse continues, immediately this man was blinded The verse then ends with a sad picture of Bar Jesus seeking people to lead him by the hand. This man's evident spiritual blindness. was brought into a clear physical reality. There was a clear picture of his spiritual blindness given for us. And since God will prevail over all his enemies, since no one can stand against the advance of the gospel, I want us to consider two ways that this should affect how we live as Christians in our world. First, Don't fear spiritual opposition. Don't fear spiritual opposition If you've ever watched a boxing match, then chances are you've seen a good picture of what Satan's opposition is actually like. Two fighters face off against one another. One throws a blow, dropping the other to the canvas. The ref comes in. He begins his 10 count. One. Two, three, the fighter knocked down by the blow slowly starts to get up off the canvas, staggering and wobbly. It's clear that he can't tell what's going on, that he can't fight anymore. The ref, seeing his condition, jumps in, calls a fight, it's over, but the fighter still leans into the ref, wanting to keep going, but it's clear he's lost the fight Well, this is what Satan's opposition is actually like. On the cross, Jesus Christ dealt the death blow to Satan. He's still staggering around in our day trying to fight, just like he was doing to Paul. So you see there, this staggering, wobbly enemy who opposed Paul in Acts 13 through the magician. It's the same staggering wobbly enemy who opposes us today. Though the weapons have changed, the enemy is still the same. So in Paul's day where it was imprisonment or physical harm, In our day it may more look like shame, mocking, name-calling, discrimination, bigots. Those types of insults that the devil will use to spiritually oppose those who profess faith in Christ and who want to advance the gospel. So if you're a college student, it may look like other students on campus being opposed to you. It may look like in your classrooms that professors use their classroom as a launching pad for their dislike of Christianity. It may look like in the workplace that you're no longer able to talk about Christ anymore. For Belinda or for other Chinese students, it may look like families and friends. disowning you for breaking with Chinese traditions and following the one true God, Jesus Christ. And for others of you, some of you may be going through that right now where your family and friends have disowned you. There are a manifold ways that Satan attacks the people of God, and you can be sure that as soon as the gospel begins to go forth. . . He will stand up and oppose. So Nick Roark, as you go down to Franconia, be prepared for spiritual opposition as the gospel goes forth. If there are members here of Anacostia River Church, expect spiritual opposition from Satan Anytime the gospel goes forth, he stands up and opposes God's people But one of the things I want you to note about this opposition, because Satan's opposition can at times be painful. It doesn't just happen through direct opposition. He brings people under spiritual duress. He can make life downright unlivable sometimes. But I want you to remember one thing about the God that we serve. This is a God who is not only with us, he's gone before us and is with us. So in every situation in which you face spiritual opposition, I want you to consider Jesus in his earthly ministry. Remember that you serve a God who has walked this path before you. So Jesus not only faced the types of spiritual opposition that we face, but he faced a much greater opponent and he faced him head-on. On the cross, Jesus Christ faced Satan down, seemingly climbing into the mouth of that roaring lion. Seemingly consumed by that roaring lion, being nailed to the tree and left for dead. Stuck in the ground in a grave. But this same Christ rose from the grave three days later, and what did he do doing that? He broke the teeth of the lion. He showed that the lion has no power over him. He could not be consumed by him. He rose victorious as a victorious king. And this risen king, Jesus, who went before us. Well, he now dwells with us by his spirit in our hearts. And so you can not only not fear opposition. But number two, you can face spiritual opposition with boldness. You can face spiritual opposition with boldness My guess is that when most of us read a book like Acts, we see a lot of amazing things going on. Uh a lot of just seemingly uh acts that are from another world from us. You know, the apostles are doing things that we only wish we could do. Well, to be fair, we want to want to understand that the apostles were given unique authority by Christ to carry out his ministry. So there are going to be certain things that they could do that we don't do But all of this was in order to affirm their authority as Christ's apostles. But as I read through Acts, some of the most memorable accounts in Acts to me aren't the curses. or the the the the great healings or all the great signs. Some of the best accounts in Acts are when God's people Stand up to spiritual opposition boldly and just proclaim God's word. Think of Peter and John before the council, Stephen before the sand. Talk about the account. that I want to be able to give. I want to be able to say I did that in the face of spiritual opposition. Not that I did great acts, but that I took this word and I boldly proclaimed it because I believed, like Jonathan was praying, I believed that this is a means by which people come to faith in Christ. So if you've ever seen the movie The Matrix, then you'll remember that that famous lead character, Neo, right? Neo receives this. Weird cryptic message that he's the chosen one meant to lead his people to freedom from the Matrix, but Neo Neo struggles internally with this call. He's struggling. He can't come to terms with who he is. He doubts that he has the power to fulfill the role that he's been called into. And as the storyline unfolds, we as the viewers realize that Neo is the chosen one. His only problem is that he doesn't believe, right? If he would just like Neo, wake up, man, you are the one. Just believe and you can do all this. You know, when Neo finally comes to believe that he's the one who has the power to overcome these forces opposed to him, well, it's game over. He just runs rampant all over all of them. Well, it strikes me that we're all kind of like little Neos, right? We're not leading people out of the matrix or anything like that. But in a way, we don't think we have the power to overcome spiritual opposition. But what we forget is that we've already been given all that we need for life and godliness here in God's Word. Paul, the one in our passage who calls down supernatural curses, says in Ephesians that the only weapons we need against spiritual warfare is what? It's the sword of the Word, it's the Word of God. And as Paul in our passage delivers a spirit-filled curse to neutralize his opponent, the spirit-filled message we use to overcome our opposition is the gospel. It is the gospel. Paul said it best when he said, I am not ashamed of the gospel because it is the power of God for salvation to all who believe. So if you're here tonight and you're not a Christian, maybe you're even like Elemus, this magician who is opposed to God, actively opposed to God. I want you to know that God is holy and righteous. He has authority over all people because he created us and we in our rebellion have sinned against him, incurring his just wrath and judgment against us. But in his great love, this holy and faithful God sent his Son Jesus Christ into the world to uphold his law, to show how glorious and good the Word of God is, and how good God is. And he went to the cross and died upon the cross, taking in himself the punishment for our sins, so that those who would repent of their sin and put their faith in him would be forgiven. And would not become enemies of God any longer. They would be turned from enemies of God into faithful followers of Jesus Christ. It was Paul's confidence in God's power that gave him such boldness to confront spiritual opposition. And look with me, what is the result of Paul's boldness? Look back with me at verse 12. Then the proconsul believed when he saw what had occurred. For he was astonished at the teaching of the Lord. Could it be that God has allowed spiritual opposition into your life so that you're boldly confronting it And proclaiming God's word is what God uses to bring another to faith. Heavenly Father, we confess that your word is good. It is sweeter than honey from the comb. It is finer than the finest of metals. It is pure and it is true and we rejoice in your word. We pray, Father. We pray for those who face spiritual opposition in their lives now. Give them power and boldness through your spirit. Help them to rest in you. We pray that we would all rest in you, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.