How's your hope today? You feeling hopeful about life this morning? I think it's safe to say that in every generation, hope has been a hot commodity. Hope has been a hot commodity. That's because hope is a powerful force. Hope has the power to keep us going as we eagerly anticipate obtaining, laying hold of that thing that we put our hope in. If you are feeling hopeful today, I wonder, what are you feeling hopeful about? What are you feeling hopeful about? Ask yourself that question now. Think on it. Is it a promotion at work? The thought of more money, more control over your work hours? Could it be the thought of a budding and blossoming romantic relationship? Or even the thought of getting away from a destructive relationship that you're in? What is it that's giving you hope today? Maybe you're here today and you're not hopeful. Maybe your life is looking pretty bleak today from your perspective. Maybe you've seen those things that you put your hope in in the past have never quite fulfilled the promises that they once held out. Or even you've seen those things that you put all your hope in come finally crumbling down altogether. If that's you, do you think there is anything worth putting your hope in that can finally and ultimately fulfill your hopes? I ask you this because if you are hopeful or hopeless today, the Bible has a lot to say to you. And specifically our passage this morning has a lot to say to you. So let me invite you to open your Bibles to Ezekiel chapter 33. Where we'll be looking at an account of hope lost and hope held out. An account of hope lost and hope held out. You can find Ezekiel 33 on page 720 of the Red Pew Bibles Around You. When you turn there, if you're not familiar with the Bible, you'll find the chapter 33 is a big bold number 33, the verse numbers, or the smaller numbers that follow after that. So if you need a kind of good gauge of how to find where we're at in the passages this morning, just look for the big bowl number and the smaller numbers that follow after. Today, as we come to the last of our five studies that have taken us through the book of Ezekiel, we'll be looking at chapters 33 all the way to the end of the book in chapter 48. As we turn to our chapters today, we find some familiar material. So you recall that in our first twenty-four chapters, you can divide the book of Ezekiel into two halves. The first twenty-four chapters are full of messages of judgment for the nation of Israel that's in exile for their sins. And rebellion against God. Those promises are fulfilled in chapter 24 as the promises of the destruction and siege of Jerusalem happen with the Babylonians come and lay siege to Jerusalem. But chapter 24, in all its doom and gloom for Israel, is also a turning point in the book. After siege is laid to Jerusalem in chapter 24, chapters 25, all the way to 48. proclaim hope beyond destruction for the people of Israel. And so last week we looked at chapters twenty-five to thirty-two as the hope was held out to Israel that God would go to war on behalf of them and defeat their enemies. And this morning, as we look at our chapters today, we'll see hope held out in a dynamic and astounding way. So just go ahead and look down with me at chapter 33. In the first half of the chapter, we find God calling Ezekiel again to be a watchman for Israel. A watchman was essentially a lookout, a person who would stand on the wall of the city and then warn the city whenever enemies were coming to attack. You may remember in chapter 3 that God had already called Ezekiel to be a watchman. Okay, so why is he doing it again? Well, look at me at the second half of chapter 33. You see starting there in verse 21. Jerusalem that had been laid siege to in chapter 24 had now finally fallen. The siege was successful. So what did this mean for the nation of Israel? Well, they may have held out hope when the siege hit the city of Jerusalem. think then that possibly the the the city would would sustain this the battering rams of the Babylonians. But here the Lord is showing them no there is no Hope left for the land of Jerusalem and the people of Israel, putting their hope in Jerusalem and in the temple So God is calling Ezekiel to be a watchman here, different from in chapter 3 where he proclaimed judgment now as a watchman. He's going to hold out hope. Hope beyond destruction. Hope beyond the fall of Jerusalem. Though their kings had been dethroned and taken into exile. Their life with God seemed to be in disrepair, and their home, their beloved home of Jerusalem, had been sacked and destroyed. Yet in the face of utter hopelessness, God sends Ezekiel to the Israelites as a watchman. To hold out a hope that God holds out in our chapters in the form of three promises that we want to look at this morning. Though all seem to be lost, God promises a new king. God promises a new life and God promises a new home to a people who had lost everything. They had lost their kings, they had lost their life, and they had lost their home. God says, no, I have for you a new king A new life and a new home. That is the wonderful message of chapters 33 to 48 that we're going to look closer at now. So first, our first point. God promises to send Israel a new king. Go ahead and look with me at chapter 34. I'm going to read it for us. The word of the Lord came to me, Son of Man Prophesy against the shepherds of Israel. Prophesy and say to them, even to the shepherds, thus says the Lord God. Ah, shepherds of Israel who have been feeding yourselves, should not shepherds feed the sheep? You eat the fat. You clothe yourselves with the wool. You slaughter the fat ones, but you do not feed the sheep. The weak you have not strengthened. The sick you have not healed, the injured you have not bound up, the strayed you have not brought back, the lost you have not sought, and with force and harshness you have ruled them. So they were scattered because there was no shepherd, and they became food for all the wild beasts. My sheep were scattered. They wandered over all the mountains and on every high hill. My sheep were scattered over all the face of the earth with none to search or seek for them. Therefore, you shepherds, hear the word of the Lord. As I live, declares the Lord God, surely because my sheep have become a prey. Then my sheep have become food for all the wild beasts, since there was no shepherd, and because my shepherds have not searched for my sheep, but the shepherds have fed themselves, and have not fed my sheep, therefore you shepherds Hear the word of the Lord. Thus says the Lord God, Behold, I am against the shepherds, and I will require my sheep at their hand, and put a stop to their feeding the sheep. No longer shall the shepherds feed themselves. I will rescue my sheep from their mouths, that they may not be food for them. For thus says the Lord God, behold, I, I myself will search for my sheep and will seek them out. As a shepherd seeks out his flock when he is among his sheep that have been scattered, so will I seek out my sheep, and I will rescue them from all places where they have been scattered on a day of clouds and thick darkness. And I will bring them out from the peoples and gather them from the countries and will bring them into their own land. And I will feed them on the mountains of Israel, by the ravines, and in all the inhabited places of the country I will feed them with good pasture, and on the mountain heights of Israel shall be their grazing land. There they shall lie down in good grazing land, and on rich pasture they shall feed on the mountains of Israel. I myself will be the shepherd of my sheep, and I myself will make them lie down, declares the Lord God. I will seek the lost. And I will bring back the straight. And I will bind up the injured. And I will strengthen the weak. And the fat and the strong I will destroy. I will feed them in justice. And let your eyes skip down to verse 23. And I will set up over them one shepherd, my servant David, and he shall feed them. He shall feed them and be their shepherd. And I, the Lord, will be their God. And my servant David shall be prince among them. I am the Lord. I have spoken. So the prophecy begins with God promising judgment against the shepherds of Israel, right? The title shepherds here doesn't refer to actual shepherds, but instead refers to the past kings of Israel. So it was common in this culture to refer to the king of a nation as the shepherd of a nation. And so you see this even in 2 Samuel 5, too. God calls David to be king over his people. He says to him, You will shepherd my people, Israel. And you will rule over them, uniting the role of shepherd and king. And we see the reason for God's judgment on the kings. Notice their description. They've exploited the people of Israel for their own gain. They've abused their power by taking the best of the land for themselves, the fat and the wool, clothing themselves in nice garments and fine linens. They've led the people into sin by rejecting God, and they've failed to protect the weak and the helpless among them. These are awful kings, poor rulers, concerned only with themselves. And so God, God is going to put a stop to them. No longer will he let his people be abused by their leaders. He's gonna come and he's gonna care for his people himself. Look at me at verses 15 and 16. Look at the tenderness with which he describes his care for his people. I myself will be the shepherd of my sheep. And I myself will make them lie down, declares the Lord God. I will seek the lost, and I will bring back the strayed, and I will bind up the injured, and I will strengthen the weak This is a God who tenderly cares for his sheep. He is not harsh. He is not rude. He does not butt his way to the front like the poor shepherds of Israel. You see how this passage describes God's rule as king He's not like the corrupt earthly kings who sought only their own welfare. He's concerned with the welfare of his people, each one individually, binding up those who are hurting, nurturing those who are weak. He's not a cold and distant ruler who hates to be bothered. We even heard Michael talk about that. He's not cold and distant. He actively initiates towards his people and he tenderly pursues each one of them. If you aren't seeing God as a shepherd Then you aren't seeing God as a king. It's who he is. That's his character as a king To my non-Christian friend. I'm glad that you're here. I'm glad that you're sitting among us and listening to this word today. I wonder what this description of God sounds like to you. Does this sound like the God that you hear about in TVs, and TV shows, and in movies, and on the news? Those descriptions you hear about God being capricious and mean and harsh Those descriptions couldn't be further from the truth. Look at how God's word describes him. God is tender. He pursues the hurting and the lost. He doesn't drive people away from him. So if you're here and you think that you're too dirty, Too sinful for God to ever love you. Hear these words. Please, friend, hear me when I say, if you would turn to God, he will never, ever turn you away. He will never do it. If you feel unworthy of coming to God, know that you are sitting in a room full of unworthy people. Our family name is unworthy. That is my last name, John Unworthy. That's who I am, John Unworthy Joseph. I have no right to my own goodness or grace to be standing up here to tell you about my own self. The only reason I'm up here is because of the goodness and kindness and mercy of God towards me, a sinner, and you are sitting around a bunch of people who know themselves to be unworthy. All of us who have come to God to receive forgiveness through Christ come as unworthy people. So don't be fooled into thinking that you are too sinful. or too dirty to come to the Lord. He delights in bending down to pick up those who are hurt, to bind up the weak. To clean off those who are dirty, to make them right before himself. God is a king whose power is displayed in his tender care for his people. We should notice that God would display this tender care not through another human ruler. Right? He's not going to make that mistake again, but by personally coming to rescue his people. So look at verse 11. For thus says the Lord God, Behold I, I myself will search for my sheep and will seek them out. Then again, look at verses 23 and 24. And I will set up over them one shepherd, my servant David, and he shall feed them He shall feed them and be their shepherd, and I, the Lord, will be their God, and my servant David shall be prince among them. I am the Lord. I have spoken. So what does he mean when he talks about David? Well, in referring to David, he's not saying that he's going to resurrect King David from the dead, this king who's been dead for hundreds of years at this point. What he's saying is that he's going to resurrect the lineage and the dynasty of David. So the corrupt kings addressed in this chapter had come from the line of David. These men who have been cast into exile, and the less last of the Davidic kings went into exile and had his eyes taken out and was put into bondage. It was signaling the end of the Davidic dynasty, but the Lord says, no, I'm going to raise up a greater ruler from the line of David. This one from the line of David would care for his people, but this king would be different from the other Davidic kings. He would be righteous and tender. He would be righteous and tender. And this God, this king will be God himself. Hear the words, behold, I I myself will be king over my people, Israel. I will search for them. I will seek them out. Oh my Christian brothers and sisters. Do you hear? Can you hear the words coming off the page? Do you hear the voice of the Savior in these passages? Do you hear the voice of the Lord Jesus Christ calling out to you from of old? Do you hear him speaking in these words through Ezekiel with power? and purpose and tenderness from his heavenly dwelling as the eternal Son of God. Do you hear him telling you of his plans to come? And find you to search for you to rescue you. Oh friend, your salvation is ancient The Lord chose you before the foundation of the world. He set his affections upon you. And he determined before the world was created that he would seek you And pursue you and rescue you. Your salvation, my friends, is ancient. When he spoke these words to the prophet, he had you and me in mind. He had you and me in mind. Think about your life Think about your thoughts. All you've ever done in all your wanderings and all your failings In all your sin. He had you in mind. I myself will be the shepherd of my people. I will seek them. Brothers, I'm talking to you. Mark, I'm talking to you. Joe, I'm talking to you. The Lord had you in mind before the foundation of the world. Jeremy, he had you in mind before the foundation of the world. He has sought all of us and has rescued those who have turned to him, hear his words. I will rescue. He looked down upon you in your sin. He said, that's my sheep. That's my sheep. I'm not going to let them keep wandering in sin. I'm going to get him. I'm coming to get him. And if you have turned to him, he has come. And he has gotten you. And he has rescued you. Coming 2,000 years ago, Jesus of Nazareth came. And what did people proclaim about him? Behold, the son of David. He is the promised king from the Davidic line. The Son of God came to seek and save the lost. He came not to be served, but to serve. And to give his life as a ransom for many. Here is a saying that is trustworthy and deserves full acceptance. Jesus Christ came into the world to save sinners, of whom you and I. are the foremost. He came to save. And how would he rescue his sheep? Our friend, hear his words to the Pharisees. John chapter 10. I am the Good Shepherd. I am the Good Shepherd. These men of the law who knew the law so well. What chapter do you think Jesus was talking about Ezekiel 34. They should have thought about it. They should have said, praise the Lord, He's come, He's come to seek and to save and to rescue the lost. But they don't, they don't do it, they don't see it. The good shepherd, he says next, lays down his life for his sheep. He came down to lay down his life The Son of God, for you and for me, who among us? Deserves this kind of love from God. Who among us deserves this kind of love from God? Speak now or forever hold your peace. Who among us deserves this kind of love from God that the eternal son would take on flesh and come and proclaim? I am the Good Shepherd, and I the Good Shepherd lay down my life for my sheep. And he lays it down willingly, such as his love for his sheep. And yet he does not stop there. He doesn't stop at rescuing us. Now that is only the beginning of his love. After rescuing, he binds up the injured. He strengthens the weak. He tends to his flock with the utmost attention. Now, friends, I'm confident that there must be some among us today who've trusted in the Lord Jesus who aren't feeling bound up today. Who aren't feeling like Christ is strengthening today. Who aren't feeling like his eyes upon them. Oh Lord. Friends, turn to the Lord and look at what he says about himself. Well, I can't tell you why your sufferings are happening. What I do know is that Jesus can sympathize with you in your suffering. He too was a man of sorrows. He too was well acquainted with grief. He too had many dark nights of the soul while he walked this earth He too experienced affliction, and it's because of his experience of affliction that he understands your pain. He understands your pain. Do not stop turning to him. He will tend to your needs. He will care for you. He is the good shepherd. He works through his spirit, through his word, and through his church to care for his people, and he will continue to care for you and hold you fast. Keep turning to the good shepherd. And Jesus coming to lay down his life for his sheep, not only was the long-awaited shepherd king appearing as the long-awaited fulfillment of God's promise in Ezekiel 34. But in him, God was fulfilling another one of his promises. Another one of his promises that we see in these chapters. And that promise was the promise of a new life. Which brings me to point two, a new life. In Ezekiel 33 to 48, not only do we see the promise of a new king, But we see the promise of a new life. Look with me at chapter 36, verses 24 to 27. I will take you from the nations and gather you from all the countries and bring you into your own land. I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you shall be clean from all your uncleannesses. And from all your idols I will cleanse you. And I will give you a new heart. And a new spirit I will put within you. And I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. And I will put my spirit within you and cause you to walk in my statutes and be careful to obey my rules. So not only would God initiate and act toward his people in coming to be the good shepherd, but he would also be the one to act and initiate in giving them new life. You don't see anything about the work of the Israelites getting new life for themselves in these passages, do you? No, you see the initiating work of God repeated nine times in these three verses. I will. I will. I will. God is the one at work here. And his work is a work of cleansing. So he says he's going to sprinkle them. The sprinkling here would have brought to mind the work of the priest in sprinkling the people of Israel as a means of outwardly purifying from their sins. These things are outlined in Leviticus. Numbers, water would have often been used to signal the outward purification from sins, but it's clear that this cleansing here is happening on a deeper level. It's happening on a deeper level. Look at the heartwork that's going on here. I will give you a new heart. I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. And not only would he give them a heart of flesh, but he would place within them his very own spirit. Which would have the effect of causing them to desire and actually carry out obedience to his laws and to his commands So throughout the Old Testament, the Israelites' utter rejection of God's law was often described in terms of their being hard of heart. You have to hear the description made of the Israelites, that they had hearts of stone. Even in Ezekiel 18, the Lord has come to them with messages of judgment And at the end of the chapter where he talks about the soul whose sin shall die, he says to the people, make yourself a new heart. Make yourself a new heart. Put a new spirit inside of you. Why does he say that? Because the Israelites should have heard this and said, We can't, Lord. We can't. We need you to give us a new heart. We cannot do it on our own. We've been disobeying for hundreds of years. We need you to give us a new heart. And that's the promise that's going on here. That rejection of God, that hardness of heart, brought certain physical and spiritual death. And so this spiritual surgery that God is carrying out for them is nothing short of God promising to bring them back from the dead, to give them new life. And in chapter 37, Ezekiel has a vision of that spiritual surgery. So you say, okay, I've read 36, 24 to 27. What does it look like? When God gives somebody a new heart and a new spirit, and God says, don't you worry, I'm going to give you a picture of it in Ezekiel 37. So let's turn to Ezekiel 37. And we're going to see a spiritual surgery being performed en masse on the people of Israel. So look with me as I read for us, verses 1 to 14. The hand of the Lord was upon me. And he brought me out in the spirit of the Lord and set me down in the middle of the valley. It was full of bones. And he led me around among them. And behold, there were very many on the surface of the valley. And behold, they were very dry. And he said to me, Son of man, can these bones live? And I answered, O Lord God, you know. Then he said to me, Prophesy over these bones, and say to them, O dry bones, hear the word of the Lord. Thus says the Lord God to these bones Behold, I will cause breath to enter you, and you shall live. And I will lay sinews upon you and will cause flesh to come upon you and cover you with skin and put breath in you, and you shall live, and you shall know that I am the Lord. So I prophesied as I was commanded. And as I prophesied, there was a sound. And behold, a rattling. And the bones came together, bone to its bone, and I looked, and behold, there were sinews on them, and flesh had come upon them, and skin had covered them. But there was no breath in them. And he said to me, Prophesy to the breath. Prophesy, son of man, and say to the breath, Thus says the Lord God, Come from the four winds, O breath, and breathe on these slain, that they may live. So I prophesied as he commanded me, and the breath came into them. And they lived and stood on their feet an exceedingly great army. Then he said to me, Son of man, these bones are the whole house of Israel. Behold, they say, Our bones are dried up and our hope is lost. We are indeed cut off. Therefore prophesy and say to them, Thus says the Lord God, behold, I will open your graves and raise you from your graves, O my people. And I will bring you into the land of Israel, and you shall know that I am the Lord when I open your graves and raise you from your graves, O my people. And I will put my spirit within you, and you shall live, and I will place you in your own land. Then you shall know that I am the Lord. I have spoken and I will do it, declares the Lord. There is so much here that we could look at, but we have so little time. In verses 1 to 10, we see a picture A vision that God gives to Ezekiel of the spiritual surgery that God has promised to perform on the house of Israel to bring new life to the people. Then in verses 11 to 14, God explains the picture, the vision that He's just given them. And the vision is shocking in a number of ways. You see, first how despairing the setting is The valley that he brings them out to is full of bones. God even gives them a tour of the land, bringing them back and forth. And his conclusion, there were very many bones. And the bones hadn't just died. You notice that the bones are very dry. The Lord is saying they're not just dead. They're extra dead. There is no hope in this house. And look again at verse 11. Then he said to me, Son of man, these bones are the whole house of Israel. So these bones reflect the spiritual state of the nation of Israel. Behold, they say our bones are dried up and our hope is lost and we are indeed cut off. The picture of the valley of dry bones is a picture. of the spiritual deadness of the nation of Israel and the hopelessness that is set in upon them because of their rejection of God. But even in spite of their rejection and their rebellion and their hopeless situation, they are not Beyond the reach of the God whose very words give life. And that's what we see being pictured in verses 4 to 10. When God tells Ezekiel to speak to the bones, and the bones come to life. God's word gives life. You see the two-stage prophesying there. He prophesies first to the bones and then to the breath. I think he's looking back on the creation of Adam, where he forms a man out of the dust of the ground and then breathes life into him. Creation, Genesis 1, recreation, Ezekiel 37. You must be born again. How do I do that? Do I enter again into my mother's womb? No, you turn to the Lord. Ask him to save you and he will give you a new heart and a new spirit. Oh, friend, and my non-Christian friend who's here, please understand that this vision of the valley of dry bones. This is not just a picture of the nation of Israel. This is not just a picture of the nation of Israel. This is a picture of all mankind. All mankind, with hearts of stone like the Israelites, has rejected God. Bringing upon us our spiritual death. We will die physically, and then we will stand before God to be judged, and because we are guilty, we will be judged eternally. Eternal spiritual death. This is a picture of that death. And because of our rejection of God, it may as well be our bones in this vision. May as well be our bones in this vision. Yet even in spite of our rebellion against God. He sent his son Jesus Christ, the Good Shepherd, to lay down his life and bear the punishment for the sins for all who would turn to him and ask for forgiveness. And to those who turn, he promises to give them new life. He will give you new life today He will cause you to be born again. So do not wait another moment turning away from God. Do not wait another moment rejecting God Look at his kindness and his tenderness and his sympathy here. If you turn to him, he will give you a heart of flesh. He will cause you to delight in his commandments, and he will cause you to follow them. If you're here and you call yourself a Christian, you say I'm a Christian, I'm here at church, I'm doing what Christians do. I wonder if you notice what God says happens when he places his spirit within someone and gives them new life. So look with me. 36, 27, chapter 36, verse 27. And I will put my spirit within you and cause you to walk in my statutes and be careful to obey my rules So what I want you to notice here, if you call yourself a Christian, is the cause and effect relationship between God's spirit coming into a person and the change of their desires and behaviors, right? So if you call yourself a Christian, what I want to ask you today is, does this describe you? If you say you're right with God, you say you've been born again, God has given you a new heart and a new spirit, do you delight to do his commands? Not perfectly, but is it your desire, your heartfelt desire to follow him? Do you rejoice in being obedient to him? I don't want you to mistake your saying you're a Christian with actually being a Christian. To be a Christian is to be someone who knows himself to be in need of forgiveness. And out of the overflow of our thankfulness for the mercy and grace that God has shown us, we say, yes, Lord, your laws are good. I desire to delight to do your will. And so if you call yourself a Christian and you actually can't say that you have been born again, you can't say you have those desires, I have good news for you. You can turn today and God will give you a new heart. You don't have to walk anymore as a hypocrite. You don't have to walk around being blinded anymore or fooled anymore by your own profession of faith that hasn't borne any fruit in your own life. Even that, God will forgive you of if you turn to Him. He will give you a new heart and a new spirit. God delights to seek his people. And so if you are a Christian, just reflect on chapter 37 and the power of God's word We talk about power in D. C. People want to be surrounded by other people of power. You want to be places of power. No one and nothing in Washington, D. C. can hold a candle to the power of God's word. So if you want change in your own life, turn to God's word. And as God changes you by his word, as his word through the Spirit. Speaks with the spirit inside of you and causes you to say, ah, but Father, he will change you and he will change those around you. God's word is powerful Don't forget that. Continue relying upon it. So God delights to seek his people, to rescue them, and to give them new life. We've seen them do that. We've seen them do that already in sending a new king. And we've seen him do it here in the vision of the Valley of Dry Bones, giving new life to the house of Israel. And that brings me to my third point. Not only does God promise this nation that is without hope a new king and a new life. He also promises them a new home. Promises them a new home. Two of the devastating results of Israel's persistent rebellion against God was their loss of the land. And the temple, both of which marked Israel off as God's people. So when they lost the land and they lost the temple at the hands of the Babylonians, the Israelites would have thought that they had lost God altogether. They would have thought that they lost God altogether, yet scattered throughout these chapters are God's promises to make Israel a new home. To make them a new home. And we see these promises. We see in these promises that their new home will be a place of abundant blessing and security. And we see those scattered throughout these chapters where God promises to restore the land to its original abundance, even making it to be like the Garden of Eden. And he brings his people in to dwell safely in the land. That's the point of the prophecies that you see in chapter 35 and then chapters 38 and 39. Chapter 35 he prophesies against Mount Seir. That would have been the nation of Edom and the Edomites who were enemies of God. Then he prophesies against Gog and Magog in chapters thirty-eight and thirty-nine, telling him telling him that because of your opposition to God's people. I will come against you. So he's going to protect his people from their enemies when he brings them into his land. They will dwell securely in the land. And the remainder of our chapters, chapter 40 to 48, and tell us why this new home will be a place of abundant blessing and safety for God's people. And the reason. Let's look at our chapters to find out. Turn with me to chapter 40. The first thing we notice in verse 2 is that Ezekiel is being transported in a vision to the land of Israel, where he's set down on a very high mountain. And on that mountain is a massive structure, a structure that according to Ezekiel is like a city. So this structure that he sees is gigantic. It's like a city. As chapters 40 to 42 unfold, we see that this structure that's built like a city is actually a new temple. A new temple. And we should understand how exhilarating this vision would have been for the Israelites. So many of us, Ezekiel 40 to 48 and Leviticus are the place where Bible reading plans go to die. You get into these measurements and you're like, please Lord, tell me the meaning of the vision. Just cut this off. But we need to understand how different our culture is from that of the Israelites. For them the temple was the symbol of their relationship with God. So you just got you got to see this in the context of the whole book. Chapters 40 to 48 come after chapters 1 to 39. These people in their sin had rebelled over and over against God and had incurred his judgment against them. They were completely undeserving of being reconciled or reunited to God. And so when God is giving this vision to Ezekiel of a new temple, he's saying to them, There is a future for you. All is not lost. Your hope is not gone. So the Israelites who would have heard these chapters explained as he goes through these measurements. They would have been sitting on the edge of their seat. No, no, no, tell us more. What was the inner court like? I remember the old inner court. I remember the altar. I remember the building and the temple. I remember the gates, but it's destroyed now and it's gone. Tell me, tell me what is this one gonna be like So Israel walked, Ezekiel walks through these chapters very carefully, spelling out these measurements. These would have had great meaning to the Israelites. He was telling him this is what your future home is going to be like. This is where it's going to all come together. And we need to feel the breathtaking mercy of the promise in this vision. The breathtaking mercy of it. Let's look closer at it. You'll remember the tragic account in chapter 8 of God departing the original temple because of the people's idolatry. He leaves in stages. Finally in the end of chapter 11, the Lord departs. Looking back, no one notices. This is a desperately sad scene. And so for God to come back to the people of Israel to build a new temple for them would have been unbelievable. It would have been a sign to them that God still loved them and that he was still their God, that he would one day dwell with his people. And he shows this in the temple vision. So look with me at chapter 43 after he goes through the measurements and 40 to 42 of the temple. Chapter 43. Verses 1 to 5. So Ezekiel has had a tour, the Lord has given another tour of the temple, and now he brings them out to the gate facing east. You remember in chapter 11, that was the same gate that he departed. Brings Ezekiel to the gate facing east. Then he led me to the gate, the gate facing east. And behold, the glory of the God of Israel was coming from the east. And the sound of his coming was like the sound of many waters, and the earth shone with his glory. And the vision I saw was just like the vision that I had seen when he came to destroy the city. Just like the vision that I had seen by the Kabar Canal. And I fell on my face. As the glory of the Lord entered the temple by the gate facing east, the Spirit lifted me up and brought me into the inner court. And behold, the glory of the Lord filled the temple. Can you imagine the joy of the Israelites hearing this? He's back. He's returned. The Lord has not abandoned us. And not only would the temple be a place where God would dwell, but a place where all life would be restored and revitalized. Notice, for instance, the presence of the life-giving river described in chapter 47. Look at me at chapter 47, verses 1 and 2. Then he brought me back to the door of the temple, and behold, water was issuing from below the shret threshold of the temple toward the east. For the temple faced the east. The water was flowing down from below the south end of the threshold of the temple, south of the altar. Then he brought me out by way of the north gate and led me around on the outside to the outer gate that faces toward the east. And behold, the water was trickling out on the south side. Then as the description continues in the following verses, this trickling stream eventually turns into a massive river. And this river would bring life to all the lands and all the peoples that it touches. So look with me at verses twelve verses twelve and following. And on the banks, on both sides of that river, there will grow all kinds of trees for food. Their leaves will not wither, nor their fruit fail, but they will bear fresh fruit every month, because the water for them flows from the sanctuary Their fruit will be for food, and their leaves for healing. This life-giving river will issue forth into all the lands of the city and bring life to all it touches, to all the plants. the animals to all the people who dwell around it. Yet even more impressive than the presence of this life-giving river is the name of the city in which that river flows. Look at me at chapter 48, verses 30 to 35. After the Lord has just divided up all the lands and placed all the tribes in their apportioned lands with his temple and his presence at the very middle. This is what verses 30 to 35 say. These shall be the exits of the city. On the north side, which is to be 4,500 cubits by measure, three gates. The gate of Reuben, the gate of Judah, and the gate of Levi. The gates of the city being named after the tribes of Israel. On the east side, which is to be 4,500 cubits, three gates. The gate of Joseph, the gate of Benjamin, and the gate of Dan. On the south side, which is to be 4,500 cubits by measure, three gates. The gate of Simeon, the gate of Issachar, and the gate of Zebulun. On the west side, which is to be 4,500 cubits, three gates, the gate of Gad, the gate of Asher, and the gate of Naphtali. The circumference of the city shall be 18,000 cubits. And the name of the city from that time on shall be. The Lord is there. The Lord is there Our brothers and sisters in Christ, take hope and encouragement from this vision. Take hope from this vision. Though the new king and shepherd has come to rescue his people and give us new life. And to take us to his resident, to take up his residence in us by his spirit, and among us as a body of believers, to dwell in our very midst. of the restored reality that is to come. It is only a shadow of the restored reality that awaits you. If you have trusted in Christ. In fact, Ezekiel's vision here is like looking at a 3D screen without the glasses. It's actually all fuzzy. You gotta put the glasses on to see what actually is going on here. So when we turn to Revelation. Chapter 22, we see the fullness of what's going to come here that's being spoken of in these chapters. So we read earlier from Revelation 21 about the new heavens and the new earth coming down, where God would dwell with his people, in the midst of them. But turn with me to Revelation chapter 22. If you're using a Pew Bible, it's going to be on page 1041. Here, the Apostle John gives us the 3D goggles to put on and to look back at Ezekiel's vision and to understand what is actually going on here. Verses 22 and following. Then the angel showed me the river of the water of life. bright as crystal, flowing from the throne of God and of the Lamb through the middle of the street of the city. Also on either side of the river, the tree of life, with its twelve kinds of fruit, yielding its fruit each month, the leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations. No longer will there be anything accursed, but the throne of God and of the Lamb will be in it, and his servants will worship him They will see his face, and his name will be on their foreheads, and night will be no more. They will need no light of lamp or sun, for the Lord God will be their light And they will reign forever and ever. The river that trickles out of the temple in Ezekiel is a foretaste and a picture of the river of life that flows from the throne room of God and from the Lamb and gives life as it issues out to all who would drink from it. I'll send to my brothers and sisters who are suffering and weary and broken, take heart. Take heart. There will be a day when your sufferings pass and your weary and broken body will be restored to glory There will be a day when you dwell on the banks of the river of life to drink from its life-giving waters forever. He who promised is faithful. The God who justified you will sanctify you. He will preserve you and he will one day glorify you. He is faithful. This is your future dwelling place. Ezekiel was commanded to give the vision of the temple to the people of Israel as an encouragement to them, to cause them to hold out hope for the day when God would return. This vision in Revelation is for you. There is a day coming not only when you will drink from the river of life, but even more glorious than that. There will be a day when you dwell in the very presence of the Lord God. And the Lamb, who is the good shepherd. And when you come into his presence, all of the struggles. All of the trials, all of the pain and hurting that you cannot understand now will make sense to you then When you see what he is doing in your life, you will look back on your life and you will say, yes, all of it was for good. He will not withhold good from his children. He has staked his glory on you. He has staked his claim and his name on you, and your life is to bring him glory, and he will not let his purposes Fail. It is for my sake that I do this. It is for my sake, says the Lord, that I might be glorified when I manifest my holiness in the sight of all the nations. And in the sight of all my people. And when he comes, you will look at him and you will say, Lord, all of my sufferings were worth it. You were worth it. You are worthy to be glorified, for you are the Lord God and the Lamb. There is nowhere else that you will want to be but in His presence. Friends, if he has fulfilled his promise to send the Good Shepherd to rescue his sheep, if he has fulfilled his promise to give new life, Will he not also fulfill his promise to come back and get his people and take us to be with them where he is? I mean, turn over one page in Revelation. What is his last promise? Verse twenty. He who testifies to these things says, Surely I am coming soon Friends, hold on hope. Hold on hope. Meditate on your future home. This is your eternal dwelling place. Are you feeling hopeful today? What are you placing your hopes in? You feeling hopeless today? Look at the hope that can fulfill all you need. Turn to the Lord, and He has promises of hope that will never crumble and never fail. Heavenly Father, we are a people who are prone to wander. prone to leave you, the Lord that we love. And so we pray, Father, that the good shepherd Jesus would hold us fast. That he that he would bind up those who are weak That he would strengthen those who are hurting. That he would tend to those who are wandering astray. And Father, more than that, we pray that you would cause us to delight in the new life. To desire to be obedient to your commands, to walk in the good works that you have prepared for us. And Father, we pray that you would set our eyes. on the glory that awaits us when we come into your heavenly presence forever to sing your praises. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen