Have you ever been in exile? Have you ever been in exile? Stories of exile are all around us. The numbers of humans around the world displaced, uprooted, and driven out of their homelands is staggeringly high. They weep, wander, and dream of the day that they might be able to return to the land that they once called home. To be surrounded by the familiar sights and sounds and smells. I assume that most of us here may not know this type of exiled experience, though some may. But I think many of us are familiar with different forms of exile. Some of us may be exiled from our families, perhaps even because of our faith. Others of us may be exiled from a significant other because of ways that we've acted towards them sinfully. Stories of exile are all around us. One question we might ask as Christians is: where is God in all of this? Where is God in all these stories of exile? Does he care? How does God treat his people who are in exile? Well, this morning we begin our study in the book of Ezekiel as we're going to be looking at chapters 1 to 3, and in it, we'll read a story of exile. And more specifically, how God treats his people who are in exile. So I invite you to open your Bibles with me to Ezekiel chapter 1. If you're using a pew Bible, you'll find Ezekiel 1 on page 692. 692. Before I begin reading this morning, but before I begin reading chapter 1, I want to go ahead and give you my three points up front. How does God treat his people in exile? We'll see first in chapter 1. God pursues his people in exile God pursues his people in exile. Then in chapter 2, all the way through chapter 3, verse 15, we'll see that God comes to his people with his word. God comes to his people with his word. And then finally in the last half of chapter 3, we'll see that God treats his people with justice and mercy. God treats his people with justice and mercy. And because of the stunning Frankly, overwhelming imagery that's used in chapter one. I want you guys to know up front. I want to offer you some handles as I read through this chapter to understand Just what it is you are seeing because this imagery can be overwhelming. It can be disorienting if you don't know what's going on. So up front, I want you to know that what we are looking at Is the Holy One of Israel riding forth in the fullness of his glory in justice and judgment, riding upon a divine throne chariot? pursuing his people who are in exile. That's what this vision is about. So I'm going to go ahead and read chapter 1 for us and then we'll get into the details. But I also want you to know because of our time today, I'm not going to be able to hit on every detail in chapter one. There's going to be ones that I skip right on over. If you have questions about them, please come see me at the door. I'm not going to be able to answer every question But I'm going to focus on the details that I think are most important for us to see in this vision, because there is much that is important for us to see here. So let me go ahead and read this for us now. Ezekiel chapter 1. In the thirtieth year, in the fourth month, on the fifth day of the month. As I was among the exiles by the Kabar Canal, the heavens were opened. And I saw visions of God. On the fifth day of the month, it was the fifth year of the exile of King Jawaqing, the word of the Lord came to Ezekiel the priest, the son of Buzi, in the land of the Chaldeans, by the Kabar Canal. And the hand of the Lord was upon him there. As I looked, behold, a stormy wind came out of the north, and a great cloud. With brightness around it and fire flashing forth continually and in the midst of the fire, as it were, gleaming metal And from the midst of it came the likeness of four living creatures, and this was their appearance. They had a human likeness. But each had four faces. And each of them had four wings. Their legs were straight, and the soles of their feet were like the sole of a calf's foot, and they sparkled like burnished bronze. Under their wings on their four sides they had human hands. And the four had their faces and their wings thus. Their wings touched one another. Each one of them went straight forward without turning as they went. As for the likeness of their faces, each had a human face The four had the face of a lion on the right side, the four had the face of an ox on the left side, and the four had the face of an eagle. Such were their faces. And their wings were spread out above. Each creature had two wings, each of which touched the wing of another, while two covered their bodies. And each went straight forward. Wherever the Spirit would go, they went, without turning as they went. As for the likeness of the living creatures, their appearance was like burning coals of fire Like the appearance of torches moving to and fro among the living creatures. And the fire was bright. And out of the fire went forth lightning And the living creatures darted to and fro like the appearance of a flash of lightning. Now, as I looked at the living creatures, I saw a wheel on the earth beside the living creatures, one for the each of four of them. As for the appearance of the wheels and their construction, their appearance was like the gleaming of barrel And the four had the same likeness, their appearance and construction being, as it were, a wheel within a wheel. When they went, they went in any of their four directions without turning as they went. And their rims were tall and awesome. And the rims of all four were full of eyes all around. And when the living creatures went, the wheels went beside them. And when the living creatures rose from the earth, the wheels rose. Wherever the spirit wanted to go, they went. And when the wheels rose along with them, for the spirit of the living creatures was in the wheels. When those went, these went. And when those stood, these stood. And when those rose from the earth, the wheels rose along with them. For the spirit of the living creatures was in the wheels. Over the heads of the living creatures there was the likeness of an expanse, shining like awe-inspiring crystal, spread out above their heads. And under the expanse their wings were stretched out straight, one toward another. And each creature had two wings covering its body. And when they went, I heard the sound of many waters. Like the sound of the Almighty, sound of tumult, like the sound of an army. When they stood still, they let down their wings. And there came a voice from above the expanse over their heads. When they stood still, they let down their wings. And above the expanse, over their heads, there was the likeness of a throne. in appearance like sapphire. And seated above the likeness of a throne was a likeness with a human appearance. And upward from what had the appearance of his waist, I saw, as it were, gleaming metal, like the appearance of fire enclosed all around. And downward from what had the appearance of his waist, I saw, as it were, the appearance of fire. And there was brightness around him. Like the appearance of a bow that is in the cloud on the day of rain, so was the appearance of the brightness all around. Such was the appearance of the likeness of the glory of the Lord. And when I saw it, I fell on my face, and I heard the voice of one speaking What do we see in chapter one? What do we see in chapter one We see that God pursues his people in exile. Look with me at verses 1 to 3. You'll notice that two different date markers are given. First in verse 1, it's the 30th year. But there's no exact frame of reference for it. Some people think this is the Ezekiel's 30th year of life, so he may be 30 years old. We're not sure. But we don't need to speculate. Because the second date in verse 2 gives us the exact date marker. We see that it's the fifth year of the exile of King Jawachim. The exile that Ezekiel is talking about here is one of two major events in the Old Testament involving the people of Israel. The other is the Exodus. In the Exodus, God rescues Israel from slavery in Egypt, making them his people, giving them his laws. Bringing them into his promised land where, in obedience to his laws, they were to display the goodness and glory of the Lord by reflecting the fullness of his beauty. Yet the people of Israel shockingly respond to this salvation with rebellion. And their rebellion persists for hundreds of years until finally God rejects the people. exiling them from the promised land. This exile would have been devastating to the people of Israel. It would have been like their earth was caving in upon them because for them, in losing the land, they would have thought that they had lost God. I hope you can already see how relevant this book is for us. We're not three verses into chapter one, and already Ezekiel has something to say to us. How do we know that? Because we are a people in exile. The Apostle Peter calls Christians exiles and strangers in this world. Yet for a little while left to wander through the wilderness of this life. Even if most among us haven't experienced physical uprooting from our home. I'm sure all of us have had to endure in one way or another the pain and anguish of internal experiences of exile. Whether it's through the loss of a loved one, the loss of a job, or desiring to be married, but finding no one at the end of your outstretched arms to catch you, the list is endless. This world, this world, is not your home This world is not your home. If you're feeling the acuteness of your exile this morning, take heart. Take heart, weary saints, because what we see in this passage is that the Lord pursues his people in exile. This vision that Ezekiel has, that he has as a conscious, sane, and sober man. reveals the Lord in pursuit of his people, riding forth in glory upon his divine throne chariot. So let's look closely at it. We see first there in the first few verses an ominous approaching storm in verse 4. But there's something different about this storm. It's as though the clouds appear to contain fire and gleaming metal. And then out of the storm clouds come four living creatures. And you'll see the most notable detail about the four living creatures there in verse 10. They have four faces. They have four faces. What do these faces mean? They seem odd to us or foreign to us today. I think we could probably reason our way to what some of them mean. But in Ezekiel's context, these faces would have carried great power and significance. The lion was renowned for its ferocity, its strength, was a symbol of royalty. The eagle was the swiftest and most stately of birds, keen vision, superb insight, view from above. The ox was a symbol of strength. And the human being created in the image of God was invested with divine majesty. He was the noblest of all of God's creatures And the four faces. One facing each direction. Help us understand How they can move in any direction without turning as they go. Because in whatever direction they go, there are eyes seeing that direction. They move in all places at all times, unconstrained, full of power, full of insight. Then in verse 15 we see the wheels. They're made of barrel or dazzling, bright, green, beautiful. Emerald for your jewelry junkies out there. Beautiful emerald, massive wheels constructed out of pure, glorious sapphire and emerald. They defy engineering explanation. There's a wheel within a wheel. How does this work? I have no idea I don't know if they're both inside of one another, if they're intersecting. I I just don't know what's going on here It's clear to Ezekiel that this vision is stretching his ability to accurately describe what he's seeing Look how many times he uses the word like or as or likeness or it appeared like. This is a vocabulary-defying event. And the wheels were full of eyes all around. Again, we see the omniscience, all-seeing, presence of the Lord. Then Ezekiel notes the spirit-filled unity and harmony with which the entire thing moves together. When the spirit moves, the living creatures move, and the wheels move with them. When they rise, they all rise together in unison. Then he moves on from the wheels. After that in verse 22, he turns to describe the awe-inspiring crystal-like platform sitting atop the four living creatures with their wings outstretched, holding the platform up. He then moves back beneath the platform, describing again the wings of the living creatures and the deafening sound that they make. They're like the roar of the nations all together marching forth in might. Then he looks up. He looks up. And atop the crystal-like, awe-inspiring platform above the cherubim, above the platform, there is a throne. The throne is majestic. Our translations say sapphire. It's also a stone called Lapis Lazali. It would have been brilliant. It was one of the most cherished stones in ancient Israel. The entire throne was wrought with this lapis lazuli, this majestic stone. It's beautiful. And then upon the throne. Is the indescribable enthroned one. One with a human likeness, glowing like blazing fire When we take the vision as a whole, we're seeing the appearance of a mobile throne. A mobile ark. A divine throne chariot. The eye-field wheels beneath the four living creatures with their wings outstretched carrying the throne platform represent the all-seeing. all-powerful, ever-present, unconstrained power of the enthroned one, the living God of Israel. Glory, glory, glory. The Holy One of Israel has invaded the land of the Chaldeans to come to his people in exile. Chaldea cannot stop the Lord from rescuing his people. He has come to be with his people. All has not been lost. The Lord has come in his might. And so Ezekiel does exactly what he should do. He falls on his face, prostrate. If you're here and you're not a Christian I wonder what you think about God. I wonder what you think about God. I think it's pretty common for people today to think of God as a friendly old man in the clouds. Just a kind old man. No power. Maybe kind. Certainly no power. Maybe you don't believe in God because you couldn't bring yourself to worship a God like that. A kind old man in the clouds. Someone who sounds a lot like Santa Claus. I want you to know that if that was what God was like. I wouldn't worship him either. I wouldn't worship him either. But I think when we come to the Bible, we see what God is like. So if you're going to describe God like a kind old man, you are not describing the God who exists. The God who is enthroned in fire. If you want to know why God is worthy of your worship and your absolute allegiance, I would encourage you just to open the Bible. Read about it. He is infinitely glory. For the members of CHBC, I don't want us to miss the instruction that Ezekiel has for us here I know there are some of you here. Let's call you. Keep calm and carry on, Christians, right? Keep calm and carry on, Christians, right? God is glorious. Yes, yes, nothing to see here. Jesus died and rose again. Yes, yes, nothing to see here. We just go about our business. Keep calm and carry on, Christians. God is glorious. I want you to see that God is worth getting excited about God is worth getting excited about. I'm not telling you to stop being yourself. I'm just asking you, do you live in awe of God? Whether you show it or not, does God excite you? Does the thought of him excite you? But now I also got to give a word to my passionate brothers and sisters. The ones who are quick to raise an amen at the name of the Lord Jesus, going to throw up a hand as soon as you hear his name, right? Zeal is good, but zeal without knowledge is not good. Zeal without knowledge is not good. In your passion and excitement, do you know who you're getting passionate about I ask that because when we look at the passage, we see throughout this passage images of judgment and justice Ominous signs of impending doom coming to the people of Israel. The approach of the fiery storm coming out of the north. The north was associated with the enemies of Israel, so the enemies of Israel would attack from the north. That means the Holy One of Israel is coming in judgment as an enemy of the people of Israel. Then you have the four living creatures. We're gonna see later in our study that the living creatures are cherubim In Scripture, there are different types of angels. We don't know much about them, but we do know two different types at least, Seraphim and Cherubim. Cherubim are the guardians of the throne room. The cherubim was placed at the edge of the garden to keep Adam and Eve from coming back in with a fiery sword. Cherubim are woven. on the curtain that hang that hung in the temple with their wings outstretched. I think that's why Ezekiel, when he turns to look at the expanse He can't really describe it because he's got to look back down because the wings are outstretched, blocking his view. They come proclaiming back up. The Lord is holy. You are not. There are signs of judgment. I point this out because I want to know if my passionate brothers and sisters, if you praise God for his justice and his judgment. Do you praise God for his justice and his judgment? If you don't praise God for his justice and his judgment, you yourself are unjust. Because you cannot disagree with God's standard of justice, because he himself is the standard of all that is right and true. Praise him for his justice. Learn what his justice means. Learn his commands. See why he is good. See what makes him holy. And why do I bring this up? I bring this up because this is a trembling image. God is riding in, invading the land of Chaldea. Yes, yes, he is pursuing his people in exile, but he's pursuing his people in justice and judgment. And why is he doing that? Let's look at chapter 2. I'm going to read for us, chapter 2, verse 1, all the way through chapter 3, verse 15. And he said to me, Son of man, stand on your feet and I will speak with you. And as he spoke to me, the Spirit entered into me and set me on my feet. And I heard him speaking to me And he said to me, Son of man, I send you to the people of Israel, to nations of rebels, who have rebelled against me. They and their fathers have transgressed against me to this very day. The descendants also are impudent and stubborn. I send you to them, and you shall say to them, Thus says the Lord God. And whether they hear or refuse to hear, for they are a rebellious house, they will know that a prophet has been among them. And you, son of man, be not afraid of them, nor be afraid of their words, though briars and thorns are with you and you sit on scorpions. Be not afraid of their words, nor be dismayed at their looks, for they are a rebellious house. And you shall speak my words to them, whether they hear or refuse to hear, for they are a rebellious house. But you, son of man, hear what I say to you. Be not rebellious like that rebellious house. Open your mouth and eat what I give to you And when I looked, behold, a hand was stretched out to me. And behold, a scroll of a book was in it And he spread it before me. And it had writing on the front and on the back. And there were written on it words of lamentation and mourning and woe. And he said to me, Son of man, eat whatever you find here. Eat this scroll and go. Speak to the house of Israel. So I opened my mouth, and he gave me this scroll to eat. And he said to me, Son of man, feed your belly with this scroll that I give you and fill your stomach with it. Then I ate it. And it was in my mouth, as sweet as honey. And he said to me, Son of man, go to the house of Israel and speak with my words to them. For you are not sent to a people of foreign speech and a hard language, but to the house of Israel Not to many peoples of foreign speech and a hard language whose words you cannot understand. Surely, if I sent you to such, they would listen to you But the house of Israel will not be willing to listen to you. For they are not willing to listen to me. Because all the house of Israel have a hard forehead and a stubborn heart. Behold, I have made your face as hard as their faces, and your forehead as hard as their foreheads. Like emory harder than flint have I made your forehead Fear them not, nor be dismayed at their looks, for they are a rebellious house. Moreover, he said to me, Son of man, all my words that I shall speak to you, receive in your heart and hear with your ears, and go to the exiles. To your people and speak to them and say to them, thus says the Lord God, whether they hear or refuse to hear Then the Spirit lifted me up, and I heard behind me the voice of a great earthquake. Blessed be the glory of the Lord from its place. It was the sound of the wings of the living creatures as they touched one another, and the sound of the wheels beside them, and the sound of a great earthquake. The Spirit lifted me up and took me away, and I went in bitterness in the heat of my spirit, the hand of the Lord being strong upon me. And I came to the exiles at Tel Aviv, who were dwelling by the Kabar Canal, and I sat where they were dwelling. And I sat there, overwhelmed among them. Seven days. The main point of this section is that God comes to his people with his word. God comes to his people with his word. And he's coming to his people with his word because they've engaged in persistent multi-generational sin against him. They've been sinning against him, if you're familiar with the Old Testament, since they entered the promised land. And so they've continued in their sin and rebellion now for roughly 700 years. 700 years, and so the Lord is coming to call them to escape the coming judgment that accompanies those who persist in rebellion And he does this by setting apart Ezekiel to be a prophet. Chapters 1 to 3 as a whole are Ezekiel's call to the prophetic ministry. This is his call to be a prophet. And we see there that Ezekiel is to be a spirit-empowered, word-infused messenger. He's to be a spirit-empowered, word-infused messenger. He's spirit-empowered. Notice there in verses 1 and 2 of chapter 2, how the spirit enters into him and sets him on his feet Then again in verses 15 to 17 the Spirit acts upon him, lifting him up and carrying him away. He's also to be word-infused. That's the point of the whole image of the scroll, this portion of the vision right between chapters 2 and chapter 3 regarding the scroll, where he's to take the scroll and eat it. He's to be a word-infused messenger to whom the word of the Lord tastes as sweet as honey. He's to make his word his own. He's to internalize it. As a bag of tea steeps in hot water, so the word is to steep in Ezekiel's soul Friends, think about what's going on here. Now we may not share with Ezekiel the role of prophet. Ezekiel's role or office as a prophet was unique in Scripture. This specific role no longer exists. The foundation has been laid. The apostles and prophets have been laid. So this particular type of communication from God to man. for the sake of being a messenger no longer exists for us, but that doesn't mean that we can't learn from this. Because we see there in the prophet Joel, who lived before Ezekiel. He said that it would eventually come to pass that God would pour out his spirit on his people and that all his people would be spirit-empowered, word-infused, messengers, and people. And that time has come to pass for us. But the pouring out of the Spirit at Pentecost, the Lord now dwells among us and in us. This holy and awesome God dwells in and among his people as we are exiles and strangers in this world. That means that if we're going to fulfill the service God has called us to, we need to be people of the Spirit and people of the Word. We need to be people of the Spirit and people of the Word. DC is a place of coming and going, getting things done to the max of people on the move. We may be a people on the move, but if the Spirit isn't moving in us, what are all our movements for anyway? One pastor said, our greatest need is not to be more active, but for the Spirit to be more active in and through us. That's a good word for us to hear. And that means we need to be people of prayer. If we're going to be people of the Spirit, we need to be people of prayer. Praying for large and small things alike. Are you only praying for large things in your life? Are you only praying for those things that you think in your own power, I can't get this done because you know I'm not strong enough to do this? Let me direct you to verses 1 and 2 of chapter 2. Look down there with me. What's the command he receives? What's the command he receives? Stand up? Does he do it on his own? Verses 1 and 2, verse 2, he spoke to me, then the Spirit entered into me and set me on my feet. The simplest task in life, get up, cannot be carried out apart from the Spirit for Ezekiel We need to be a people who are so dependent upon the Spirit that you're asking the Lord for all that you need. Praying at length, setting apart quiet time to pray, you know, trying to be a Puritan pray for hours, that is good. I want to encourage you. If you have that, do that. But pray throughout the day. Pray for everything that you need. Lord, give me words to speak to this person in this conversation. Give me wisdom in this discipling lunch that I'm about to have. I'm about to confront the person. I don't really know what to say. Help me Lord, help me get out of bed today. And you know what? He gives what he commands. Ezekiel, get up. Here's my spirit to help you get up. The Lord will give you his spirit to fulfill what he commands of you. So call upon him. Ask. Be people of prayer. We need uh we display our dependence upon God here at CHBC through our consistent and persistent prayers That's why we dedicate time in the morning service to praying as we do, confessing, praising, asking God. If you're visiting with us this morning, I am so glad that you're here We gather back as a congregation at 5 p. m. for another service this evening, a time of prayer and praise, where we'll bring more things before the Lord because we understand that if we're to live as a body of believers, we're to live in prostrated dependence upon God. We're to live in prostrated dependence upon God. It is our lifeline to God. If any meaningful work is going to be done here at CHBC, It will be done in dependence on the Lord. And that will be displayed in our prayer life. Spurgeon once said, I would rather teach one man to pray than ten men to preach. Yes, and amen Yes and amen. Lord, fill this place with praying people. I am so thankful for the Lord's astounding, truly astounding work. And raising up so many men here who are gifted and able to teach the word. But hear me when I say to you, you who want to preach the word Hear me when I say to you. Your godliness and usefulness to God will be seen in your prayerfulness and not in your preaching Hear that word. The demons can preach. Only a Christian can pray. Let's be people of prayer. And we're not just to be spirit-empowered, but word-infused. Word-infused people. I hope you noted the surprising instruction that the Lord gives Ezekiel. Look at me at chapter 2, verse 8. Want us to meditate on this for a second. He has just finished describing the rebelliousness of the house of Israel. They are rebellious people. And so he's chosen Ezekiel to be his prophet. Does that call secure his faithfulness? Chapter 2, verse 8. But you, son of man, hear what I say to you. Be not rebellious like that rebellious house. Open your mouth and eat what I give you Ezekiel's call to the awesome office of prophet does nothing to secure his own faithfulness. His own faithfulness as a prophet will be seen in his own dependence upon the word. In fact, Israel at this time will see throughout this study. is full of false prophets, full of men who don't rely upon the word or teach the word or tell the people about God's justice and judgment And so Ezekiel as a prophet needs to himself depend upon the word of God. A word to my fellow elders. Notice this and take heed of this. Ezekiel's position. Does not protect him. He may be a prophet, but he could just as easily end up in the pit He may be a prophet, but he could just as easily end up in the pit. The Lord is telling him, in so many words, Ezekiel, keep close watch over yourself. Guard your life and your doctrine closely. Why do we need to hear that as elders? Because we need to heed and hear the word in our own lives. So how regularly, if you're an elder of this church, are you coming to God's word? How much are you, congregation, praying for your elders? I was thinking about this. Trying to think about the Christian life and the way that elders and congregations fit together and we're kind of like a Jenga tower, right? You pull pieces out, you pull the wrong piece out, and it all crumbles, right? We are to be mutually dependent upon one another. So as the elders gather together and pray for the congregation As we pray for those things that you need, as we pray for God's blessing upon your life, we at the same time need you to support us in your own prayers. I fear if we pull that wrong one out, we pull prayer out, it's all gonna fall apart. That's what we're at. We're like a spiritual house that's mutually dependent upon one another. So congregation, pray for us. Pray for your elders. We need the strength that comes from the prayers of the saints. The Apostle Paul needed the prayers of the saints so that he would be strengthened for his own work. So my elders, I just want you to know that a man who depends on and delights in the Word of God Whose word is sweeter than honey to him is a man that God delights to make his messenger. Take the word in, brothers. Live by it. It is your life. Now for the church, I want to give you some instruction regarding this, some brief instruction. If the elders ever stop preaching and teaching the word, you need to hit the eject button on us immediately. Get us out. Either get us out or get out for yourselves, because as soon as the word departs the pulpit, God departs the building and you should go with him. That's why it's so important for you. When you go forward from this place, you need to find a church where the word is preached No word, no Lord. No Lord, no hope for you. Preach the word, hear the word, go to a place where the word is preached Gotta hear that word as Christians. I think we need to think better about our lives. We need to think in a way that puts the church at the center of our lives more than we do. So I want to challenge you to do that in your own lives. To my non-Christian friend, consider the mercy of God in sending a messenger to warn his people of the coming judgment. Do you recognize the fact that you're here today as a sign of God's mercy and patience towards you? You see, as Christians, we believe that all things that happen happen in accordance with God's sovereign will, which means that everything that happens happens because God has determined that it should happen, which basically means that you are sitting here because God has decreed that you should be sitting here today. Praise be to his wisdom. Who knows how it happens. And whether you believe it or not, I'm just telling you what Christians believe. And so the fact that you're getting to hear God's warning to those who persist in being captains of their own souls, that's a sign of God's mercy to you. Turn to God. Entrust yourself to a God who is a much wiser and kinder captain than yourself. He is a just and merciful God. And that's in fact what we see in our final point. Let's look back and I'll read chapter 3, verses 16 to 27 for us. And at the end of the seven days, the word of the Lord came to me. Son of man, I have made you a watchman for the house of Israel. Whenever you hear a word from my mouth, you shall give them warning from me. If I say to the wicked, you shall surely die. And you give him no warning nor speak to warn the wicked from his wicked way in order to save his life, that wicked person shall die for his iniquity. But his blood I will require at your hand. But if you warn the wicked, and he does not turn from his wickedness or from his wicked way, he shall die for his iniquity. But you will have delivered your soul Again, if a righteous person turns from his righteousness and commits injustice, and I lay a stumbling block before him, he shall die. Because you have not warned him, he shall die for his sin. And his righteous deeds that he has done shall not be remembered. But his blood I will require at your hand. But if you warn the righteous person not to sin, that he does not sin, you shall surely live, because he took warning and you will have delivered your soul. And the hand of the Lord was upon me there. And he said to me, Arise, go out into the valley, and there I will speak with you. So I arose and went out into the valley, and behold, the glory of the Lord stood there, like the glory that I had seen by the Kabar Canal, and I fell on my face. But the Spirit entered into me and set me on my feet. And he spoke with me and said to me, Go. Shut yourself within your house, and you, O Son of Man, behold, cords will be placed upon you, and you shall be bound with them, so that you cannot go out among the people And I will make your tongue cling to the roof of your mouth, so that you shall be mute and unable to reprove them, for they are a rebellious people. But when I speak with you, I will open your mouth, and you shall say to them, Thus says the Lord God. He who will hear, let him hear. He who will refuse to hear, let him refuse. For they are a rebellious house In the last half of chapter 3, we see that God treats his people with justice and mercy. God treats his people with justice and mercy. The final instructions that you see there at the end of the chapter in verses 24 to 27 sound odd because you've just told Ezekiel to go. And preach, and now you're telling him he's mute and he'll be bound by cords. All this image is intended to communicate is that Ezekiel will not speak his own words ever. Every word that comes forth from his mouth will be a word of the Lord. He's a man constrained by the Spirit of God. You'll note there, it says, But when I speak to you, your mouth will be open. That's what that picture is meant to communicate. And some of you may also have taken notice of verse 20. Let's look at it together. It says, again, if a righteous person turns from his righteousness and commits injustice, and I lay a stumbling block before him, he shall die. Some may take the stumbling block to make it sound like God has a hand in our doing evil, that He's responsible for it. It's at times like this in Scripture when we have something unclear. That we need to be very careful to understand it in light of what is clear in Scripture. And what is crystal clear in the Bible is that God never acts in such a way to be the author of evil or sin. If you have more questions about that, there is actually a systematic theology class going on in the mornings before service. If you talk to me or Matt Merker or Charles Headman who are teaching the classes, there will eventually be a class on this. Mankind alone, according to Scripture, is responsible for sin. He is personally responsible for the acts that he commits. That means that whatever the stumbling block is, It's not something that makes God directly responsible for sin. And there will be more appearances of this in the book of Ezekiel, so we'll deal with this further as we come upon it. And the first half of this final section gives us more information on what specifically Ezekiel was being called to do as a prophet. We see in verse 17, he's to be a watchman. He's to be one who warns. He's supposed to be like one of those siren towers. You live on coastal cities, they have those siren towers warning of hurricanes or floods. He used to be like a siren tower. And you'll notice how serious this responsibility is. Ezekiel's very own fate is wrapped up with how faithful he is to carry out his responsibilities. If he doesn't warn them, Then they will die guilty and condemned for their own sins. And he will be responsible. Their blood will be on his hands. God will also free him if he does his job. This is a grave responsibility that he bears as a prophet. This aspect of Ezekiel's ministry, the responsibility that he bears, is unique to him. Yet we as Christians, though we are not watchmen in this way, should feel the weight The utter importance with which God places upon the ministry of proclamation of his gospel. We all should feel the weight of the importance Of the proclamation of the gospel. Noted atheist Pen Gillette once said, if you believe that there is a heaven and a hell, How much do you have to hate somebody to believe that everlasting life is possible and not tell them? Let that sink in. That's a hard word. I think he chose the right word. Because if we consider the most loving thing that we can do in this world is to warn somebody of the coming judgment and also tell them of the hope that there is in heaven, if that is the most loving thing that we can do in this world, then you must hate somebody if you are persistently unwilling to tell them. Feel the weight of that. Feel the weight of that. So we should take seriously the role that we've been given as ambassadors of Christ. Holding out the hope of reconciliation through the gospel to a world awaiting judgment. Unlike Ezekiel, we will not bear judgment for not opening our mouths, but we will answer to God at some point. For not telling people about this great news. But we also can't miss what this passage teaches us. God will treat his people with justice. God will treat his people with justice. If there is a wicked person, you see in verses 18 and 19, the wicked are those who reject the Lord and his commands. They want nothing to do with God. And when they die, they will be held accountable for their sins. They will have no hope. The righteous in verse 20 and 21 are those who are faithful to the Lord and his commands, people who intend to follow the Lord. Not perfect, but they intend on following the Lord, to be faithful to him. Yet if even the righteous turns from his faithfulness and gives himself to sin, he will be held accountable for his sin. The soul that sins will die. And the death that is in view here is a physical and spiritual death. As we know from Hebrews, that man is destined to die once and then to face judgment. So to my brothers and sisters in Christ, let's hear this word. We should hear with sober ears what Ezekiel is saying. If there's a righteous person who turns from the Lord, that person will die. Hear and heed this warning. If there are any among you who are toying with sin, Who are giving yourselves over to persistent, rebellious sin, that soul will die. The author of Hebrews says the very same thing. For if we go on sinning deliberately after receiving the knowledge of the truth, there no longer remains a sacrifice for sins. But a fearful expectation of judgment and a fury of fire that will consume the adversaries. Your preservation. Your preservation will be shown in your perseverance. Work out your salvation with fear and trembling Work it out with fear and trembling. To my non-Christian friends, hear the evacuation sirens ringing loud in this passage and turn from your sin and rebellion against God. He is a just God who will be swift to carry out judgment on all who have sinned against him. Yet he is also a merciful God. He treats his people with mercy. How can you know that? How can you know that? Because of how God treats his exiled people. Because this passage points forward to a day. when God would pursue his exiled people in a much more glorious way, when he would appear not in vocabulary defying visions, but in the form of a man, the Lord Jesus Christ. And we have seen his glory. Glory as the only Son from the Father. And in Jesus, God came to us with his word. Except Jesus didn't have to consume the word because Jesus was the word He is the one who speaks only what the Father tells him to speak, the one who came to his own, and yet his own did not receive him Who came to prove to all that God treats his people with justice and mercy by being exiled on our behalf, nailed to a cross. Bearing in himself the justice that we deserve, so that we could fully receive God's mercy and we could praise him for it. No justice remains for the household of God. You now can approach the throne of grace, free from all condemnation, free from all fear of God, free from all pursuit of God injustice and judgment, because he has poured out his wrath. on his son so that you can have life and life in abundance. Take up that life. There is a day coming. When Christ in the glory of God will return again in a storm cloud, arrayed in glory. Surrounded by his holy angels to carry out justice on all who have rejected him, yet mercifully rescuing all. Who have patiently waited for his appearing. Hear the final words of our Lord Jesus Christ. Behold! I am coming soon, bringing my recompense with me to repay everyone for what he has done I am the Alpha and the Omega, the first and the last, the beginning and the end. Surely I am coming soon. Come, Lord Jesus, come. Let's pray Heavenly Father, we are debtors to grace and to mercy. We are wholly, undeserving, yet joyful recipients of the mercy that you have poured out on us through your Son, Jesus Christ. And we pray, Father, that you would return, that he would come back soon with his holy angels, that his kingdom would come and your will would be done in the new heavens and new earth. Just as it's done in heaven now. Then we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.