Can history teach us anything about the future Can history teach us anything about the future? A commonly held belief is that by knowing history and being familiar with the things that have happened in the past, whether good or bad. We can somehow predict those similar situations in our lives and then avoid them if it looks like we're going to make the same mistake as was made in the past. But what I want to know is can history can history tell us anything more certain Can it tell us anything more certain than merely offering us warnings that may or may not come true? Is there anywhere in history that we can look to know for certain what will happen in the future? If you have your Bibles, I would ask you to go ahead and open to Ezekiel 25. If you're using one of the Pew Bibles this morning, you'll find Ezekiel 25 on page 712 of the Red Pew Bible around you. 712 of the Red Pew of Aroundi. This morning we're going to be studying Ezekiel chapters 25 To 32 as we continue with a fourth of five studies that's going to take us all the way through the book of Ezekiel. Next week will be our final study as we look at chapters 33, all the way through 48, through the end of the book. But this morning, we're going to be looking at chapters 25 to 32. And as in past weeks, I want to encourage you this morning to have your Bibles open with you. We're going to be looking at a number of different texts. We have a fairly large section this morning, eight chapters. So we're going to be moving around, looking at various passages in those chapters. So I want to encourage you to have those Bibles open. If you're not familiar with reading the Bible this morning, when we talk about chapter numbers, what we mean is that big bold number. So if you look down at your Bible, chapter 25 is going to be the big bold 25, and then the verse numbers are those smaller numbers that come after it. This is a helpful reference as we go through our passage this morning. And before we get into the text, let me take a moment to remind you of what we've seen thus far. And so really you can look at the book of Ezekiel as divided up into two large halves, chapters 1 to 24, and chapters 25 to 48. Chapter 24 is kind of the hinge point, it's a turning point in the whole book. So God arrives in chapters 1 to 3 on his divine throne chariot. He commissions Ezekiel to bring a message of judgment to the nation of Israel. And that message of judgment is a number of different prophecies that Ezekiel prophesies against the people of Israel who are in exile in Babylon. And that happens from chapter 4. All the way to chapter 24. He's just preaching these messages of judgment. And that's what we've seen in the past weeks. Well, chapter 24. All those prophecies are fulfilled as the nation of Israel is laid siege to by Nebuchadnezzar in Babylon. And so all those things fulfilled right there. And we've looked at those promises throughout as how God was promising in the midst of all this judgment to gather a people to himself, to give them a new heart and a new spirit, to atone for their sins. On chapter 24 now, the book turns, and Ezekiel moves into chapter 25, his attention is going to turn from the nation of Israel. Those people who are in Jerusalem, and he's preaching to the exiles of Israel who are in Babylon. And now he's going to turn and look at the surrounding nations. And he's going to preach messages of judgment for the surrounding nations. That's what chapters 25 to 32 are all about. If I were to summarize the message of our chapters in one sentence this morning, it would be that God will judge Israel's enemies. And bring Israel to safety. That's the message of chapters 25 to 32. God will judge Israel's enemies, and he will bring Israel to safety. So point one, God will judge Israel's enemies. Point two, God will bring Israel to safety. Two points. Before we step into the lesson for this morning, just want to give you a fair warning. We're going to spend most of our time in point one. So when I spend a long time on point one and then move to point two, you don't have to panic. We're going to spend more time on point one than we will in point two. So I just want to prep you ahead of time for that. So first looking at our text point one God will judge Israel's enemies. And we'll see there as we look at chapter 25 that he first judges Israel's enemies for their malicious mocking. For their malicious mocking of his people. Look at me at chapter 25, verses 1 to 3. The word of the Lord came to me. Son of man, set your face toward the Ammonites and prophesy against them. Say to the Ammonites, Hear the word of the Lord God. Thus says the Lord God, because you said, Aha, over my sanctuary when it was profaned, and over the land of Israel when it was made desolate, and over the house of Judah when they went into exile You see there that the Ammonites are mocking his people for falling. The Israel is falling to the Babylonians. You see it not just there in verse 3, but look again with me at verse 6. For thus says the Lord God, because you have clapped your hands and stamped your feet and rejoiced. With all the malice within your soul against the land of Israel. Then he goes on to talk about the judgment that's going to come on the Ammonites for maliciously mocking the people of Israel. And it's not just Ammon. In fact, when we look at the rest of chapter 25, we see that each of Israel's neighbors is accused of the same thing. We see that in verse 8. Look at me, verse 8. He prophesies against Moab and Seir for saying that the house of Judah has become like the rest of the nations. Then verses 12 and 15, look back on the past. As God looks at Edom and Philistine and they're charged with acting revengefully toward Israel and toward the people of God. And then finally, in chapter 26, verse 2, this smaller unit of judgments is closed out with a nation of Tyre. They're digging on Israel's downfall. Look at them. They say, aha, the gate of the peoples is broken. It has swung open to me. I shall be replenished now that she Is laid waste. Tyre is rejoicing there that with the fall of Israel, Tyre being to their north, the fall of Israel means open trade routes for them with the rest of the nations around them. It means riches for Tyre with the fall of Israel. In the ancient Near East, the well-being of a country was often thought to be a reflection of its relationship with God. So one of the things that we need to keep in mind as we see this mocking going on here Is that these nations in mocking Israel are actually mocking Yahweh. Because as Israel falls, that means Yahweh Must be toppled over. He too is shown to be too weak to protect his own people. So their mocking of Israel is also a mocking of God. But God would respond to their mocking The God who had been faithful to his covenant and carrying out judgment on Israel, as we saw in chapters 1 to 24, would be faithful to remember the promise he made to Abraham in Genesis chapter 12, 2 and 3, when he said I will make you a great nation and I will bless you and make your name great so that you will be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you. And whoever curses you, I will curse. So God's looking back on his covenant that he made with Abraham, through whom the nation of Israel came, and he's holding fast to that promise made hundreds of years earlier. Whoever curses you. I will curse. And his responses to their cursing are a fulfillment of that promise. We also want to notice the perfect justice, the perfect justice with which he carries out judgment on the nations. So the Ammonites in verses 2 and 3, they've rejoiced that the land of Israel was made desolate. And so what happens to them? The Lord makes their land desolate. Edom and Philistia have acted revengely towards God and towards Israel, and so God will act with vengeance. Towards them. Tyre rejoices in Israel's fall because it has opened up trade right routes for themselves and made them rich. And so the Lord will carry out justice by plundering the nation of Tyre. Point for point Curse for curse, he responds to each nation with perfect justice. According to their deeds, it will be done to them. But we also see that it's not just this malicious mocking. Actually, 26 to 32, chapters 26 to 32 highlight that God will bring judgment on Israel's enemies. Because of their pompous pride. That's really the main point of the remainder of all of our chapters. And Ezekiel spends the remainder of chapters 26 to 32 focusing on two kings and two kingdoms. He focuses on the king of Tyre and the kingdom of Tyre and the remainder of 26 and 27 and 28. And then in chapter 29 through 32, he turns and he focuses on Pharaoh, ruler of Egypt, and prophesies against them. And since the messages for each of these kings and their kingdoms are so similar, we're going to spend the majority of our time looking at chapters 26 to 28. But so that you have an idea of what happens in Ezekiel's prophecies against Egypt in 29 to 32, I just want to take a quick walk through those chapters. So go ahead and turn with me to chapter 29. So remember, 26 to 32 is God is bringing judgment on the enemies of Israel for their pompous pride. Both Tyre and Egypt are prideful, so a lot of what goes on there overlaps. But in chapter 29, here you have the first prophecy against Pharaoh and his nation, and you see the charge of pride in 29, verse 9. Look down there with me. Because you said the Nile is mine and I made it, therefore, behold, I am against you and against your streams. So because of Pharaoh's pride and him thinking himself the creator of the Nile, the Lord is going to bring judgment upon him. Then again in chapter thirty, look at me at chapter thirty, and a prophecy against the nation as a whole, we see in verse six. Chapter 30, verse 6. Thus says the Lord, those who support Egypt shall fall, and her proud might shall come down. The Lord is promising to carry out judgment on them for their pride. The theme continues in chapter 31, where Pharaoh envisions himself. This whole chapter is about Pharaoh envisioning himself to be a mighty tree, like the once great tree of Assyria who is now fallen. Pharaoh imagines himself to be great like the former king of Assyria, and so God promises that he's going to drop the heavenly axe on the root of Pharaoh. Pharaoh will come to an end for his pompous pride. And finally, in chapter 32, we find another prophecy against Pharaoh. Look with me at verse 2 Son of man, raise a lamentation over Pharaoh, king of Egypt, and say to him, You consider yourself a lion of the nations, but you are like a dragon in the seas. See, Pharaoh's pride, his pompous pride has blinded his own perception of who he actually is. He sees himself to be a lion, but as the Lord looks at him in his pride, he sees him as a dragon of the seas. A foolish and deluded man. And all these themes of pride, the pride of Egypt, are present for us in these messages in 27 and 28 against Tyre. So let's look there in chapters 27 and 28. Let's turn to chapter 27. The nation of Tyre, Israel's neighbor to the north. Let me go ahead and read verses 1 to 11 that described Tyre. The word of the Lord came to me. Now you, son of man, raise a lamentation over Tyre, and say to Tyre, who dwells at the entrances to the sea, merchant of the peoples to many coastlands, thus says the Lord God. O Tyre, you have said, I am perfect in beauty. Your borders are in the heart of the seas. Your builders made perfect your beauty. They made all your planks of fir trees from Sanir. They took a cedar from Lebanon to make a mass for you Of oaks of Bashan, they made your oars, they made your deck of pines from the coast of Cyprus, inlaid with ivory. Of fine embroidered linen from Egypt was your sail, serving as your banner Blue and purple from the coast of Elisha was your awning. The inhabitants of Sidon and Arvad were your rowers. Your skilled men, Otire, were in you. They were your pilots. The elders of Gabal and her sk and her skilled men were in you, caulking your seams. All the ships of the sea with their mariners were in you to barter for your wares. Persia and Lud and Put were in your army as your men of war. They hung the shield and helmet in you. They gave you splendor. Men of Arvad and Helec were on your walls all around, and men of Gamad were in your towers. They hung their shields on your walls all around. They made perfect your beauty. So Ezekiel here is describing Tyre as a beautiful ship that's been built. You see that it's been built of all the finest woods from the nations surrounding them. It's been clothed with embroidered cloths from all of the nations, the finest linens that man can find to set up its sails. It's got a tall mast, a cedar from Lebanon. Then you see that all the nations are present. It's men of war are present in it from all the nations surrounding it. All the peoples. This is a melting pot of all the peoples. And not only are they the splendor of the nations, but they're also a merchant to the nations. So if you look there, just skim your eyes over verses 12 to 25. Look at all the various nations that came to do business with Tyre. They were the splendor of the nations and the merchant of the nations. Tyre's GDP crushed all other countries. Everybody came to them to get their goods. That's how awesome Tyre was. It was the melting pot, the commerce center for this Transjordan area. And look again with me at the beginning of the prophecy in the second half of verse 3. See the pride there. O Tyre, you have said I am perfect in beauty You see, Tyres' fatal flaw was not that they were beautiful. Their fatal flaw was not that they were wealthy. Even the Lord goes on to say, they made perfect your beauty. Tyre's fatal flaw was that they knew it Tyra's fatal flaw was that they saw their own splendor and began to glory in it, to stare at themselves, to say, you know what? We are perfect in beauty. We are glorious. The nation should look at us. And it appears that the prideful nation of Tyre also had a prideful leader. It appears that the prideful nation also had a prideful leader. Look at me at chapter 28, verses 1 to 5. The word of the Lord came to me. Son of man, say to the Prince of Tyre: Thus says the Lord God. Because your heart is proud, and you have said, I am a God. I sit in the seat of the gods, in the heart of the seas. Yet you are but a man and no God. Though you make your heart like the heart of a God, you are indeed wiser than Daniel. No secret is hidden from you. By your wisdom and your understanding you have made wealth for yourself, and have gathered gold and silver into your treasuries By your great wisdom and your trade you have increased your wealth. And your heart has become proud in your wealth. Notice again that the Lord does not accuse him of being wrong for having wisdom. The Lord does not accuse him again for even being wealthy. What the Lord accuses them of being guilty of is becoming proud in his wealth and in his wisdom and in his understanding We want to pay attention to that. The nation and its kings have been corrupted by their pride. They look at their beauty and their riches and gloried in themselves and not God. And so God would judge them for their pride. And each chapter overflows with messages of judgment for this prideful, pompous pride where these men lift their hearts up against God in rebellion against him. And Ezekiel here makes a point to punctuate these messages, emphasizing the ominous end that awaits the pride of this nation. So look at me at chapter 26, verse 21. You see a theme here in the way that he closes out each of these prophecies. I will bring you to a dreadful end. And you shall be no more. Though you be sought for, you will never be found again, declares the Lord God. Then again, flip over to 27, verse 36. 27, verse 36. The merchants among the peoples hiss at you. You have come to a dreadful end, and shall be no more forever. Then again, chapter 28, verse 19. And speaking to the king, this is what Ezekiel says, chapter 28, verse 19. All who know you among the peoples are appalled at you You have come to a dreadful end and shall be no more forever. Ezekiel's message to the king of Tyre and to the nation of nation of Tyre is pretty clear. Stand tall in this life. And you will be laid low in the next. You will be forever forgotten. So if you're here and you're not a Christian, I just want to ask. I wonder what this sounds like to you. Does this seem harsh to you? That God would bring judgment on a people for merely being proud I mean, we are only talking about pride. Certainly there've got to be greater sins than pride for God to be worried about to carry out this kind of judgment on. But this is where I'd encourage you, even though I can agree and sympathize with you in that thought to some degree, this is where I'd encourage you to just listen. Listen to what the Bible has to say about pride. And I think what you're going to find when you look at the Bible is that the Bible describes pride. As the bleeding heart of rebellion against God. The Bible describes pride as the beating heart of rebellion against God. The sin of the king of Tyre and saying, I am a God, is the sin of all mankind. All of us in our pride has turned from God. In our deluded foolishness, we have rejected his good authority. We have chosen to become our own gods to make decisions and choose what is right for ourselves And God will bring judgment upon all who do that. So if you're here today and you have not trusted in the Lord, If you have rejected his rule and his authority, I just want to point you to the end of the King of Tyre. Be instructed by chapter 28, verse 9. Look at look at me what the Lord says to him there. Chapter 28, verse 9. Will you still say, I am a God, in the presence of those who kill you? Friend, a day is coming when your pride will be revealed for the delusion that it is. Just like the king of Tyre said, I am a God, the Lord said to him, No, there's one day where there's people going to come with a sword. And you're gonna die. And you're gonna find out that you are no God. Well, friend, that is true for all of us as humans. We all one day will die. And the Bible is clear that we will all come before the judgment seat of God. And when we come before that judgment seat, do you know what the Lord will ask you? Are you still going to say that you are a God? Will you still say, I am a God standing before the one true God A day is coming when that pride will be revealed. So I'd ask you today to lay down that rebellion against God. Lay down that pride. Humble yourself before his throne and turn to him for forgiveness. And we see even in our text when we think about the importance of pride and how God will carry out judgment on it, we see in our text the sinister source of prideful rebellion, don't we? Look at me at chapter 28, verses 11 to 17. In speaking to the king of Tyre, Ezekiel says this. Moreover, the word of the Lord came to me, Son of Man, raise a lamentation over the king of Tyre and say to him, Thus says the Lord God. You were the signet of perfection, the full of wisdom and perfect in beauty. You were in Eden, the garden of God. Every precious stone was your covering Sardius, topaz, and diamond, beryl, onyx, and jasper, sapphire, emerald, and carbuncle, and crafted in gold were your settings and your engravings. On the day that you were created, they were prepared. You were an anointed guardian cherub. I placed you. You were on the holy mountain of God. In the midst of the stones of fire you walked. You were blameless in your ways from the day you were created till unrighteousness was found in you. In the abundance of your trade, you were filled with violence in your midst, and you sinned. So I cast you as a profane thing from the mountain of God, and I destroyed you, O guardian cherub, from the midst of the stones of fire. Your heart was proud because of your beauty. Notice here how Ezekiel describes the king of Tyre. He was the signet of perfection. He was full of wisdom and beauty. But then in verse 13, we see this odd description that the king of Tyre was present in the Garden of Eden. He was clearly full of splendor and the various gemstones that adorned his presence. Who could this be describing? And then we see the description becomes even more curious in verse 14. He was an anointed guardian cherub, a cherub who in verse 15 was blameless until unrighteousness was found in him. So I think we're to understand what Ezekiel is doing here is that the guardian cherub who was blameless and then became unrighteous. I think we're to understand that as Satan himself. So I don't think Ezekiel is saying that the king of Tyre was actually Satan. That's not what I think is going on here. I think what Ezekiel is doing here is in describing the king of Tyre in this way. In Satan-like terms, he's showing that the king's pride and his rebellion speaks to the king's deeper allegiance to the satanic, prideful kingdom of the evil one. That's what I think is going on here. I think he's describing him in these terms to show his allegiance to Satan. And friends, when we're prideful. When we're choosing, when we're prideful, we're actually choosing to align ourselves with Satan and with his prideful kingdom. That's what pride is. Pride is the chief fruit of the hell-bound spirit. It's the chief fruit of the hellbound spirit. So I just want to ask you today, are you proud? Are you proud? Look at me at chapter 27, verse 35. Look at the response of the kings in witnessing the destruction of the city in which they took so much pride. I know when we ask a question, are you proud? might be a little hard to answer. I think most most Christians would say no, because it's the right answer, right? But I want you to look at chapter 27, verse 35, and see the way Ezekiel describes the way the witnesses of the destruction of the city of Tyre, in which they took so much pride, look at how they respond. All the inhabitants of the coastlands are appalled at you, and the hair of the kings bristles with horror. Their hair bristles. It bristles. They cannot believe that the pride of their eyes has been brought to destruction. What makes your hair bristle? I think it's a good way to find out where you're proud. What makes your hair bristle? Is it the thought of possibly ever being wrong? Is it the thought of not seeming like you have everything in life together? Is it the thought of not knowing everything, thinking about how much knowledge is thought of his power in the city? What makes your hair bristle? Whatever those areas are for you, you can know that pride is at work in your life and that Satan is rejoicing because you are becoming more like him. And he is dragging you down to the eternal pit. And we need to be extremely cautious about the effect of pride in the church I'm sure there aren't many of you who live in the city that leave your doors unlocked while you're gone. Right? I'm sure most of us lock our doors being in the city. I assume even less of you prop your doors open when you leave the house. And then I would assume that even less of you, when you go on vacation, prop your doors open and then put a sign out front welcoming thieves to come in and take your stuff. Right? I'm sure none of you do that. And so, friend, if none of you do that, then why would any of you want to bring pride into the church? Why would any of you want to bring pride into the church? Because when we give way to pride in the church, we're leaving the doors wide open and inviting Satan to come in and to be a member with us. When we bring pride into the church, we usher him right through the front door. And when we do that, we pave the way for him to wreak havoc among us. And one of the main ways we do that in the church is trying to bring glory to ourselves rather than giving glory to God for the good gifts that He's given us. That reminds me, and when I think of that, I think of Hank Aaron. Hank Aaron was asked how he felt about breaking Babe Ruth's all-time home run record. And when he was asked that question, he responded by saying, hey, I don't want them to forget the babe. I just want them to remember me. I don't want him to forget Babe Ruth. I just want him to remember me. That's what we do in the Christian life when we try to take glory from God for the good gifts that He's given us. Hey, I don't want him to forget Jesus Christ. I just wanted to remember John Joseph. That guy had awesome gifts, right? They came from Jesus, true. I just want to be remembered alongside him. Right? That's the kind of insipid way that pride manifests itself in the Christian life. We all know that we're supposed to give glory to God. We all say we give glory to God. We want to praise God for the gifts that we have in our life. But how many of us secretly, secretly want to be remembered right alongside of him? I think of Kanye West's song, I Am a God. He says, I know Jesus is the most high, but I'm also a close high. Is that how you think about Jesus? Jesus will lay low all who think that way. There is no room in his forest for any trees creeping up into his glory. He will have glory alone. Friend, it's better for us to be nameless and to be forgotten and to give glory to the name that is above all names than for us to want to make a name for ourselves. That name will be short-lived. And the only thing that might happen to our name is that it goes down in infamy like the king of Tyre for being so boastful and prideful. You know what he's remembered for? Not his glory and his splendor. He's remembered for his pride. Friends, we should give glory to God alone. We should not want our names to be remembered alongside his. And we should also be warned by the text about the allure of sinful pride. Look at me at chapter 27, verses 28 to 36. This is describing the sinking of the great ship of Tyre. It says, at the sound of the cry of your pilots, the countryside shakes. Down from their ships come all who handle the oar. The mariners and all the pilots of the sea stand on the land and shout aloud over you and cry out bitterly. They cast dust on their heads and wallow in ashes. They make themselves bald for you and put sackcloth on their waist, and they weep over you in bitterness of soul with bitter mourning In their wailing, they raise a lamentation for you and lament over you. Who is like Tyre, like one destroyed in the midst of the sea? You know, a few years ago I stumbled across one of those motivational posters that you see hanging in offices. Except when I got closer to the motivational poster and actually read it, I realized it wasn't actually a motivational poster, but a parody of a mo motivational poster. It was made by a company called Despair Inc. , meant to promote despair And when I looked at it, for me with my dry sense of humor and sarcasm, love of sarcasm is probably was not not the right thing for me to rejoice in, but I loved it. And the picture on it, you know how they have those pictures with a with a single word and then a caption below it? Well, the picture on the poster was of a massive ship sinking into the ocean. And the word says, mistakes. And the text below the word said, could it be? that your life was meant to be a warning for others. I laughed. I laughed for a few minutes and then I stopped and said, hold up, wait. Could it be that my life was meant to be a warning for others? Friends, look at the warning that prideful rebellion. The sinking ship of Tyre is meant to be for us. Mistakes. Could it be that the purpose of your life was to serve as a warning for others? Yes, in the case of Tyre. Do not let the same thing happen to you. Learn from Tyre's mistakes. Be warned by the fall that awaited them. You know, giving us this account, God is saying to us, warning, warning, do not make the same mistake of becoming prideful. So where are you tempted to boast in yourself What gifts, skills has the Lord given you that you're tempted to boast in and glory in? Satan only wants a little bit of your heart. Once he has a little, he's just going to keep spreading out, making room there. Don't give him any room in the home of your heart to take hold of pride. But also being warned by these chapters, we need to see that these chapters are full of hope for God's people. So one of the things we need to remember about these chapters is that Ezekiel didn't go to each of these nations to deliver a four or five verse warning. Right? So he didn't travel around all these nations and give these. He gave these warnings in the presence of his people. So he was speaking to those nations facing them, but I don't think they actually heard him. I think he was just speaking in the presence of the exiles And he looks around him. He starts with Ammon to the east, and then he moves clockwise around until he gets to Tyre to the north. Just naming off prophecy of judgment after judgment. And these messages about coming judgment to the nations are directed at the exiles in Babylon. So though they're in exile Though it seems like their weak God who is being mocked is no longer for them, there is still hope. These are messages of hope for the people of God. God will judge the enemies of his people who mock them and who go about in pompous pride, acting like they are God's gifts to the earth That's the way the Lord is going to treat the enemies of his people. And that's a message of hope for us. And that hope is held out to the people of God in these chapters In the form of God promising to deliver his people from their enemies and bring them to safety. Which brings me to my second point. God will bring Israel to safety. So we just saw that God will judge Israel's enemies for their malicious mocking and their pompous pride and the way that they attack the nation of Israel. Second, we see that God will bring Israel to safety. The prophecies of judgment against Israel's enemies in these eight eight chapters falls neatly into two halves. So the first half of the prophecies against the various nations and against Tyre is comprised of 97 verses. And then the prophecies against Egypt and against Pharaoh is comprised of 97 verses. And right smack in the middle of those 97 verse sets of prophecies is this promise that's held out. to the nation of Israel. So look in me at chapter 28, verses 24 to 26. This is a promise of a future hope for the people of God. And for the house of Israel, there shall be no more a briar to pick, or a ther thorn to hurt them among all their neighbors who have treated them with contempt. Then they will know that I am the Lord God. Thus says the Lord God, When I gather the house of Israel from the peoples among whom they are scattered, and manifest my holiness in them in the sight of the nations, then they shall dwell in their own land that I gave to my servant Jacob. And they shall dwell securely in it. And they shall build houses and plant vineyards. They shall dwell securely when I execute judgments upon all their neighbors who have treated them with contempt Then they will know that I am the Lord their God. So though God's people are surrounded by prideful, mocking enemies, These people who have aligned themselves with Satan himself, God will execute judgment on the nations and will deliver his people to safety There will be a day when Israel would no longer be scattered. A day when God's holiness would be manifest among them in the sight of those mocking nations. And when that happens, when he would manifest his holiness in that way in the sight of all the nations, his people would then be brought to safety in a place where they would dwell in security forever. I don't think there's any reason to doubt the end of this promise. And this would happen. The way God would go about doing this is when God's chosen king would bear God's sword. And exact judgment against the prideful nations. So the question is: who is that chosen king? Who is the one who would bear the sword on behalf of God and rescue his people from their enemies and bring them into safety? I think when we look at the text, we're surprised by the fact we find that it's Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon. Look at me at chapter 30, verses 24 to 26. And I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon and put my sword in his hand. But I will break the arms of Pharaoh, and he will groan before him like a man mortally wounded I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon, but the arms of Pharaoh shall fall. Then they shall know that I am the Lord, when I put my sword into the hand of the King of Babylon, and he stretches it out against the land of Egypt. And I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations and disperse them throughout the countries, then they will know that I am the Lord. This isn't the only place that we see that God's sword is being given to Nebuchadnezzar. So look at me in chapter 30, verses 10 and 11. Chapter 30, verses 10 and 11. Thus says the Lord God, I will put an end to the wealth of Egypt by the hand of Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon. He and his people with them, the most ruthless of nations, shall be brought in to destroy the land, and they shall draw their swords against Egypt and fill the land with the slain. And again, turn back on me to chapter 29. Chapter 29, verse 19. Therefore, thus says the Lord God, Behold, I will give the land of Egypt to Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and he shall carry off its wealth and despoil it and plunder it, and it shall be the wages for his army. And then there's one more account. Look at me at chapter 26. It just keeps increasing. Chapter 26, verses 7 to 11. God's sovereign work through this king Nebuchadnezzar. For thus says the Lord God, Behold, I will bring against Tyre from the north, Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon. King of Kings, with horses and chariots, and with horsemen and a host of many soldiers. He will kill with the sword your daughters on the mainland. He will set up a siege wall against you, and throw up a mound against you, and raise a roof of shields against you. He will direct the shock of his battering rams against your walls, and with his axes he will break down your towers. His horses will be so many that their dust will cover you Your walls will shake at the noise of the horsemen and the wagons and the chariots when he enters your gates as men enter a city that has been breached With the hoofs of his horses, he will trample all your streets. He will kill your people with the sword, and your mighty pillars will fall to the ground. Throughout these chapters, Ezekiel is emphasizing that Nebuchadnezzar, the king of kings, is God's chosen instrument. To execute his judgment against the prideful nations that have lifted themselves up against God Yet though God sovereignly used Nebuchadnezzar to carry his sword of judgment on the nations, he wasn't ultimately the king of kings who would bring his people to safety. We see nowhere in this account where Nebuchadnezzar actually gathers the people of Israel and brings them to dwell in a secure land. And we know from the book of Daniel that Nebuchadnezzar fell prey to the same satanic temptations that the king of Tyre and Pharaoh of Egypt fell prey to. Recall the account of him standing upon the top of his palace looking out at his kingdom. He says, my, look at the kingdom I have made. This is my kingdom. I am like a god. He fell prey to the same satanic temptation that the king of Tyre And Pharaoh fell prey to. He trusted in himself. He became proud, thought himself to be equal with God. And Nebuchadnezzar was judged for it. He was judged for it. And if God's people were going to ultimately be delivered from their prideful enemies and be brought to a place of safety, they would need another king, a humble king. And who is that humble King? What's the Lord Jesus Christ? The Lord Jesus Christ is our humble King, this Jesus, who in his temptation, when Satan offered him the kingdoms of the world, and he said, No I trusted my Father and his word alone, showed himself to be different from all prideful earthly kings by denying Satan offer to rule over the kingdoms of the world? He displayed his humility in that he didn't account in quality with God, something to be grasped, but humbled himself, humbled himself to death, even death upon a cross. The one who had every reason to be proud. The one who had every reason under heaven to be proud humbled himself. Showing that the path to true life would come not through self-exaltation and pride, but through humility and through the cross. That is the path to true life. And in his death upon the cross, he went to battle for his people against the kingdom of prideful rebellion And in his resurrection proclaimed his victory over Satan, sin and death and hell, and offered freedom for all who would turn from their sin, who would turn from their prideful satanic rebellion to put their trust in him, the one true and humble King who reigns in heavens above. And before he ascended into heaven after his resurrection, proving that God accepted his sacrifice, Promised to his people that he would one day return to bring them to be with him where he is. Is this not what he meant when he said, in my father's house there are many rooms? If it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you? And if I go and prepare a place for you, Will I not come again and take you to myself, that where I am, you may also be? And when he comes again, friends, this time when he comes, he is coming as the true King of Kings to wield God's sword. to finally and fully destroy the prideful kingdom of Satan that has set itself up against God. And he's going to bring his people to safety. When he does this, he will return to gather his people. And as the true King of Kings, bring his people with him. So go ahead and turn with me to Revelation chapter 18. What we find in chapter 18 is the account of the fall of Babylon. The fall of the city of Babylon, Babylon in Revelation symbolizes all the prideful and satanic rebellion of man against God. And as Babylon falls, we find the people lamenting its fall, its ruin and destruction. Look at me at verses 10 to 14. They will stand far off in fear of her torment and say, Alas, alas, you great city, you mighty city, Babylon. For in a single hour your judgment has come, and the merchants of the earth weep and mourn for her, since no one buys their cargo anymore. Cargo of gold, silver, jewels, pearls, fine linen, purple cloth, silk, scarlet cloth, all kinds of scented wood, all kinds of articles of of ivory, all kinds of articles of costly wood, bronze, iron, and marble, cinnamon, spice, incense, myrrh, frankincense, wine, oil, fine flour, wheat cattle and sheep, horses, and chariots, and slaves that is, human souls. The fruit for which your soul longed has gone from you, and all your delicacies and your splendors are lost to you. Never to be found again. Our friends notice how in verse 10 to 14 how similar The response to the fall of Babylon is to the fall of Tyre in Ezekiel 25-32. They weep and wail over the great city that's never to be found again. And who will carry out this judgment on this kingdom, this great city of pride, this one Babylon? Who will bring judgment on this kingdom for their prideful rebellion Well, it is the King of Kings, of course. Look at me at chapter 19, verses eleven to sixteen. Then I saw heaven opened, and behold, a white horse. The one sitting on it is called faithful and true. And in righteousness he judges and makes war. His eyes are like a flame of fire, and on his head are many diadems. And he has a name written that no one knows but himself. He is clothed in a robe dipped in blood, and the name by which he is called is the Word of God And the armies of heaven, arrayed in fine linen, white and pure, were following him on white horses. From his mouth comes a sharp sword with which to strike down the nations, and he will rule them with a rod of iron. He will tread the winepress of the fury of the wrath of God, the Almighty, on his robe. And on his thigh, he has a name written. King of Kings and Lord of Lords. Now, friends, the story that Ezekiel is telling in chapter 25 to 32 of his people being mocked by their enemies, awaiting the arrival of a great King of Kings who would bring them to a place of safety. This is where we are today, friends. This is where we sit as God has atoned for the sins of his people through his son Jesus Christ and has gathered a people from all nations. giving them a new heart and a new spirit. We now wait for our King of Kings to return, to strike down the great city of Babylon, the prideful nations that sit set themselves up against God. This is where we wait today in this place where our enemies mock us, where the nations surrounding us make fun of us. Where they laugh, where is this God, this one who is crucified? When will he come? When will he come again? Well the Lord has promised, and his promise is sure, that the King of Kings will return And he will gather to himself his people, and they will dwell with him in the new heavens and the new earth, in the presence of the Lord. Forever. And that is the hope that you have today in Christ. So can history teach us anything about the future? When we look to the pages of Scripture, we find that the answer is yes. The certain judgment that fell upon proud Tyre is the certain judgment that awaits all who persist. in prideful rebellion against God. And the certain hope that God's people had of being rescued from their prideful enemies is the certain hope that we have today of being rescued by the King of Kings. And being brought to dwell securely in his presence forevermore. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we give you praise for the Lord Jesus Christ, that the one who was stricken, smitten, and afflicted for us now reigns in heaven above, that the Son of God became flesh, lived a perfect life in our stead, died upon the cross, rose again to newness of life. And has proclaimed freedom for the captives. Lord, we give you praise for the Lord Jesus, and we pray that you would renew our hope and cause us to hold fast for the day when Christ will return to gather his people to himself. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.