How is your relationship with God this morning? Are you on good terms with God today? If so, I wonder what gives you that confidence? What gives you that confidence? And if not Why not? Why aren't you on good terms with God today? And how do you think you might go about changing that? It's a question we should all consider how our relationship with God is. Because the answer to that question has major implications for not only how we'll live out the rest of our lives but also what our experience of life in eternity will be like. And I ask, because it's the question. That should have been on the minds of the audience to which the book of Ezekiel was written. And this morning we'll continue with the second of five studies. That is going to take us through the whole book of Ezekiel that we'll go through this summer. So let me invite you to open to Ezekiel chapter 4, which you'll find in your Pew Bibles on page 694. Today we're going to be looking at Ezekiel chapters 4 to 11. Let me encourage you to have your Bibles open throughout the sermon because we're going to be covering a lot of ground. I'm going to be referring to a lot of different verses that are kind of scattered all over the place because since we are looking at a larger piece of text, I'm going to have to pull verses from different places to help you understand why I'm seeing the main point as the main point. If you're not familiar with reading the Bible, it may be helpful to know that when you hear me reference chapter and verse numbers, I'm referring to the big bold number. That's the chapter number that you see there on your page. The verse number of the smaller verses that come after that. And before we begin, let me take a moment to remind you what we've seen thus far. So in chapters 1 to 3, we saw the stunning vision of the Lord arriving on his great divine throne chariot. And he arrives in order to call Ezekiel to be a prophet. He commissions him to give his message to his people of Israel who are in exile. And that message was a word of warning. So go ahead and look with me at chapter 3, verse 15. You're going to see Ezekiel, and this is his response to his commissioning. Chapter 3 verse 15. After the Lord commissions him and tells him what he is to do, Ezekiel writes, and I came to the exiles at Tel Aviv Who were dwelling by the Kabar Canal. And I sat where they were dwelling. I sat there overwhelmed among them. Seven days. Why do I point this out? Because the message that we will cover this morning, chapters 4 to 11, I think is the reason that Ezekiel is overwhelmed. This will be a message of warning and judgment and destruction. Yet for God's people, there is hope included in these chapters. So if you're looking for a one-sentence summary before we begin of what these chapters are about, Ezekiel 4 to 11, this is what I tell you. God will destroy Depart and deliver idolatrous Israel. God will destroy Depart and deliver idolatrous Israel. And those would be all thro our three points. Point one, destruction. That's chapters four to seven. Point two, departure. That's chapters 8 to 11. And point three, deliverance. Those will be texts that we'll see scattered throughout the passage this morning So let's go ahead and look down at our text at Ezekiel chapter 4. We're going to begin our time this morning by reading for you chapter 4, verse 1, all the way through chapter 5, verse 4 Do read along silently with me. And you, Son of Man, take a brick and lay it before you and engrave on it a city, even Jerusalem. And put siege works against it, and build a siege wall against it, and cast up a mound against it, set camps also against it, and plant battering rams against it all around. And you, take an iron griddle and place it as an iron wall between you and the city, and set your face toward it, and let it be in a state of siege. and press the siege against it. This is a sign for the house of Israel Then lie on your left side and place the punishment of the house of Israel upon it. For the number of the days that you lie on it, you shall bear their punishment. For I assigned you a number of days, 390 days, equal to the number of the years of their punishment. So long shall you bear the punishment of the house of Israel And when you have completed these, you shall lie down a second time, but on your right side, and bear the punishment of the house of Judah. Forty days I assign you, a day for each year. And you shall set your face toward the siege of Jerusalem with your arm bared, and you shall prophesy against the city. And behold, I will place cords upon you so that you cannot turn from one side to the other till you have completed the days of your siege. And you, take wheat and barley, beans and lentils, millet and emmer, and put them into a single vessel and make your bread from them During the number of the days that you lie on your side, 390 days, you shall eat it. And your food that you eat shall be by weight twenty shekels a day. From day to day you shall eat it. And water you shall drink by measure, the sixth part of a hen. From day to day you shall drink, and you shall eat it as a barley cake, baking it in their sight on human dung. And the Lord said, Thus shall the people of Israel eat their bread unclean among the nations where I will drive them. And I said, Ah Lord God, behold, I have never defiled myself. From my youth up until now, I have never eaten what died of itself or was torn by beasts, nor has tainted meat come into my mouth. Then he said to me, See, I assigned to you cow's dung instead of human dung, on which you may prepare your bread. Moreover, he said to me, Son of man, behold, I will break the supply of bread in Jerusalem. They shall eat bread by weight and with anxiety, and they shall drink water by measure and in dismay. I will do this, that they may lack bread and water, and look at one another in dismay and rot away because of their punishment And you, O son of man, take a sharp sword. Use it as a barber's razor and pass it over your head and your beard. Then take balances for weighing and divide the hare. A third part you shall burn in the fire in the midst of the city, when the days of the siege are completed. And a third part you shall take and strike with a sword all around the city And a third part you shall scatter to the wind, and I will unsheath a sword after them, and you shall take from these a small number and bind them in the skirts of your robe. And of these again you shall take some and cast them into the midst of the fire and burn them in the fire. From there a fire will come out into all the house of Israel. In our first point, destruction, we see destruction portrayed and destruction proclaimed. First, we see destruction portrayed. That's the point of those four mini-dramas that Ezekiel's called to act out. That's what's going on in chapters four and five. He's called to act out the coming destruction of Jerusalem and the subsequent exile that the people are going to suffer. This is visual theology. It's visual theology. He's teaching them by acting them out. So first in verses 1 to 3 of chapter 4, look with me there. Ezekiel plays the role of the Lord coming to lay siege to Jerusalem. In verse 1, he's called to sketch a map of Jerusalem on a brick or a clay tablet. Then he's called to lay siege to the brick by building model warcraft and placing it around the brick. I have no idea how big this model warcraft would have been But I think we're to understand that he actually built this, built these things and did this. He acted out the siege of Jerusalem. And in verse 3, you see there the iron griddle. That's the Lord's posture towards Jerusalem. An iron wall has been erected between the people and their God. They have as much hope of their prayers reaching God as sound waves going through an iron wall. The end of verse 3 makes clear this is a sign for the people of Israel. Destruction is coming. It is imminent. Then in verses 4 to 8, you see Ezekiel changes his role. He's not playing the Lord now. He plays the role of a sin-bearing priest. He lies first on his uh lies on his first side for 390 days and then a second time. for 40 days. And the scene is perplexing. It raises a number of questions based on a number of things that we've got to interpret from the text and how we interpret those things. will determine what we think this means. So there are a number uh of commentators who have a number of views on what this passage means. I'm just going to tell you for the sake of time what what I understand it to mean. If you have questions, we can talk uh at the door afterwards. So first Who is intended by the house of Israel and the house of Judah? Most people would think this refers to the northern kingdom of Israel and then the southern kingdom of Judah, but I don't think that's what's going on. Ezekiel throughout his book uses these names interchangeably to refer to the one nation, the one covenant people of God. And we'll actually see that in chapter 8 as we read that later. So when he refers to the house of Israel And then the house of Judah, 390 days and 40 days, he's not talking about separate people. He's talking about the same people group. The days represent punishment. and exile for this one people group. So what do the days refer to? You have the 390 days the first time, the 40 days the second time. Well, I think the 390 days are the 390 years roughly that stretch back to when Solomon, after erecting the temple, building the temple of the Lord, then filled the land with idols after he had turned from God. It was roughly 309 years before that. So those days refer to the amount of time that has passed of accumulated sin that is built up And the reason that I say that is because it looks here like Ezekiel is supposed to bear their punishment. You should have a footnote in your Bible by the word punishment. You can see down in the bottom, it also refers to iniquity or sin. You shall bear their sin. So he's looking back 390 days at the accumulated sin of Israel. And he's got to lie on his side for 390 days in order to pay for that sin or to show that that sin has existed. Then when he refers and rolls over to the 40 days, well the 40 days should remind us of the 40 years of wandering that came upon the Israelites in the wilderness after leaving Egypt. That was the judgment that was coming upon them. So the 390 days refers to 390 years of accumulated sin in Israel throughout all the people. And the 40 years refers to the coming exile and judgment that was going to fall upon them. If you've ever wondered whether Ezekiel actually laid on his side, I think the answer that we're left with is yes. Yes, he laid on his side. But you'll also notice in verse 9, He's told to make bread at the same time that he's supposed to be laying on his side, right? Okay, so what's this mean? I think the picture that comes to us if we look at these these portions of scripture and put them together is that Ezekiel lays on his side for part of the day. Then he gets up, he tells people what he was doing, prophesying to them, and then he uses the rest of the day going about his priestly duties, making this bread, ready for the next day. I think that's what's going on here. Finally, in verses the bread that he's called to eat, you see there he's rationed out. This would have been a tiny amount of bread, maybe a few pieces out of a loaf and a few ounces of water a day. That instruction, that odd instruction there about how to cook the bread was to instruct them that this is how the people will eat their bread. They're going to eat it unclean in the exile. It was a sign of the coming judgment. Then finally in chapter 5, verses 1 to 4, Ezekiel's called to take his sword and cut his hair and beard and break it up into thirds and enact various judgments on it It shows the completeness of the coming judgment. Some will be burned by fire, some will be struck by the sword, some will be scattered to the wind. All of Israel will be destroyed. They've taken together these signs warn of an imminent, inescapable, and terrifying judgment. It is an imminent, inescapable, and terrifying judgment. I think the question we need to ask is why? Why would this judgment come upon God's chosen people? And it's here that Ezekiel moves from portraying destruction to proclaiming it. And that's what he does in the remainder of five. all the way through seven. Look at me with chapter five verse eleven. Therefore, as I live, declares the Lord God, surely, because You have defiled my sanctuary with all your detestable things, and with all your abominations, therefore I will withdraw. My eye will not spare, and I will have no Pity. The coming destruction of Jerusalem is because of their idolatry. Israel had been guilty of putting their trust and their confidence in foreign and false God's for hundreds of years. And that's what idolatry is. When we talk about idolatry this morning, we're talking about placing our trust and our confidence in something or someone other than God. And the idolatry that God says has defiled the sanctuary, has spread to the whole land of Israel. Look at me at verses 3 and 4 of chapter 6. Ezekiel says. You mountains of Israel, hear the word of the Lord God. Thus says the Lord God to the mountains and the hills, to the ravines and the valleys, behold, I, even I will bring a sword upon you and I Will destroy your high places. He calls out to the mountains and the hills, the ravines and the valleys, because the whole land has become sick and infected with idolatry. The only cure at this point for the Lord is destruction. Complete and utter destruction. And this destruction will be terrifying It will be terrifying. Look at chapter 5, verses 16 and 17. When I send against you the deadly arrows of famine. arrows for destruction, which I will send to destroy you, and when I bring more and more famine upon you, and break your supply of bread, I will send famine and wild beasts against you, and they will rob you of your children Pestilence and blood shall pass through you, and I will bring the sword upon you. I am the Lord. I have spoken. This is an awful and terrifying destruction. And it is inescapable. Look at chapter 6, verse 14. And I will stretch out my hand against them and make the land desolate and waste in all their dwelling places, from the wilderness to Riblah That's the whole land, the wilderness in the south, Riblah in the north, all of it will be laid destruction to. And it's not only inescapable But it's imminent, terrifying, inescapable, and imminent. Look at the urgency of the message that Ezekiel is called to proclaim in chapter 7, verse 5 and following. Thus says the Lord God, disaster after disaster Behold, it comes. An end has come. The end has come. It has awakened against you. Behold, it comes. Your doom has come to you, O inhabitant of the land. The imagery employed throughout these chapters is horrifying. God's destruction, his imminent, inescapable, and terrifying destruction is coming upon the land. The Lord has spoken and he will not Turn away from his word. And as this message is directed at Israel, the old covenant people of God, How should we, as the new covenant people of God, respond to this? We should heed God's warnings We should heed God's warnings. Nothing that occurs in these chapters should surprise any of us. Nor should it have been any surprise to the Israelites, because 850 years earlier, in Leviticus chapter 26, verses 23 to 33 The Lord spells out to the T these curses and destructions that were to come upon the people should they turn away from him and serve false gods. 850 years these curses existed to warn them, and they did not heed them. So we, as God's new covenant people, should heed God's warnings. Consider Paul's warning to the Galatians about the destiny of those whose lives are characterized by sin. He says there, now the works of the flesh are evident. Sexual immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry. Sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, envy, drunkenness, orgies, and things like these. I warn you As I warned you before, that those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. Those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of the God. The kingdom of God, people of God here at CHBC, hear me when I say, heed God's warnings. They are serious. He will make good on his promise. Those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. This warning is terrifyingly real, and it is for us, so we should heed. His warnings. Now if you're here and you're not a Christian, You need to know that your time for turning from sin is quickly drawing to a close Do not treat getting right with God like a buzzer beater. Do not think you will get salvation at the last moment. Your eternal destiny is far too important to continue putting off Do not wait to get right with the Lord. Do not make the mistake of presuming upon his kindness. His patience is meant to lead us to repentance. And his patience with you is quickly drawing to a close. And when it expires, your life Will expire, and so will your hope of being reconciled to God. Turn to God in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and be saved. There is no hope for you to stand before God outside of him. And please don't think that any perceived wealth Or power or prestige in this life will save you from God when He comes calling. That's for non-Christians and Christians alike. Look with me at chapter 7, verse 19. They cast their silver into the streets, and their gold is like an unclean thing. Their silver and gold are not. Able to deliver them in the day of the wrath of the Lord. Oh man. Human Human, hear these words. Do you see how foolish it is to put your hope in material things? Do you think your home will save you? You think your car will save you. You think your bank account will save you. Your bank account and its funds will be exhausted far before the Lord's fury against your idolatry is ever. exhausted. Your material things, your power or prestige or fame will not save you before the Holy One of Israel. Do not put your hope in material wealth. Don't mistake this passage. Just because we aren't bowing down to idols and statues doesn't mean you aren't worshiping idols The idols in this text may seem foreign to us, but they are in fact common. Baal and Asherah would have been the patron saints of sex, drugs, and pleasure in that day. Do they not exist in our world all around us today? Do not bow down to these idols. There is a day coming where the Lord will make himself known to the people who bow down to those idols. We see this. There's a purposeful pouring out of his judgment on idolatry. Look at me at chapter 6, verse 7. And the slain shall fall in your midst, and you shall know that I And the Lord. Eight times. Eight times in three chapters. He repeats this refrain. His judgment upon those who give way to idolatry is meant to reveal. It's meant to reveal It reveals the futility and trusting in anyone but him. And it reveals his awesome might and authority to carry out perfect and just judgment against the people that he has created. He has created us. Turn to him in repentance and faith today so that on that day of judgment when you bow before him, You can bow in full confidence that the God who promises to judge idolatry is the same God who promises to forgive all who turn to him. You can have that confidence today. In the end, the widespread idolatry that had pervaded the land and people was a symptom It was a symptom of a deeper disease. A deeper disease. The Israelites' hearts were infected. And nowhere was this more clear than in the heart of Jerusalem, in the temple, where just like in the rest of the land, idolatry had run rampant. So much so that God dis God's destruction could or God could never no longer live among the people. And so not only would he destroy them, but he would also depart from them. He would soon depart from his home. Which brings me to point two. Departure. Let's look back at the text. Here we're going to be looking at chapters 8 to 11. I'm going to go ahead and read for us chapter 8. In the sixth year, in the sixth month, on the fifth day of the month, as I sat in my house. With the elders of Judah sitting before me, the hand of the Lord God fell upon me there. Then I looked, and behold, a form that had the appearance of a man Below what appeared to be his waist was fire, and above his waist was something like the appearance of brightness, like gleaming metal. He put out the form of a hand and took me by a lock of my head, and the Spirit lifted me up between earth and heaven, and brought me in visions of God to Jerusalem, to the entrance of the gateway of the inner court that faces north. Where was the seed of the image of jealousy, which provokes to jealousy? And behold, the glory of the God of Israel was there, like the vision that I saw in the valley. Then he said to me, Son of man, lift up your eyes now toward the north. So I lifted up my eyes toward the north. And behold, north of the altar gate, in the entrance, was this image of jealousy. And he said to me, Son of man, do you see what they are doing? The great abominations that the house of Israel are committing here to drive me far from my sanctuary. But you will see still greater abominations. And he brought me to the entrance of the court, and when I looked, behold, there was a hole in the wall. And he said to me, Son of man, dig in the wall. So I dug in the wall, and behold, there was an entrance. And he said to me, Go in and see the vile abominations that they are committing here. So I went in and saw, and there, engraved on the wall all around, was every form of creeping things and loathsome beasts, and all the idols of the house of Israel. And before them stood seventy men of the elders of the house of Israel, with Jaazaniah the son of Shaphan standing among them. Each had his censer in his hand, and the smoke of the cloud of incense went up. Then he said to me, Son of man, have you seen what the elders of the house of Israel are doing in the dark, each in his room of pictures? For they say the Lord does not see us. The Lord has forsaken the land. He said also to me, You will see still greater abominations that they commit. Then he brought me to the entrance of the north gate of the house of the Lord, and behold, there sat women weeping for Tamis. Then he said to me, Have you seen this, O son of man? You will see still greater abominations than these. And he brought me into the inner court of the house of the Lord. And behold, at the entrance of the temple of the Lord, between the porch and the altar were about twenty-five men. With their backs to the temple of the Lord. And their faces toward the east. Worshiping the sun toward the east. And he said to me, Have you seen this, O son of man? Is it too light a thing for the house of Judah to commit the abominations that they commit here? That they should fill the land with violence and provoke me still further to anger? Behold, they put the branch to their nose. Therefore I will act in wrath. My eye will not spare, nor will I have pity. And though they cry in my ears with a loud voice, I will not hear them. God's departure of the temple In chapters 8 to 11 begins with him giving Ezekiel a tour of the temple And the purpose of this tour is to show Ezekiel just how corrupt and idolatrous Israel had become You'll notice in verse 4 that Ezekiel's Tora begins outside the temple complex, north of the entrance of the gateway of the inner court Then by the last stop in verse 16, he finds himself at the front door of the temple. And the movement from far to near is purposeful. It's purposeful. Because it's not just that he's moving closer to the center of the temple. It's as he moves closer to the center of the temple, the idolatry gets worse. It's as though the very heart outside the Holy of Holies is completely corrupt. Backs turned to his presence facing the sun He created the sun. Genesis 1, they should have known it. This is their word. God created the great lights. They should have known this. And here they are worshiping God's creation rather than the one who created That's why he keeps repeating that refrain, tells Ezekiel, greater abominations are in store. We're moving closer to the center. What are these abominations? We see the first one in verse 5. Look at verse 5 there with me, chapter 8, verse 5. It's called the image of jealousy. It's called an image of jealousy because it's a carved image or a statue that evokes God's jealous passion, his holy righteous passion to have a faithful covenant relationship with his people. So the image of jealousy is an idol to a foreign God. It's an idol to a false God standing outside the temple. And now the glory of the Lord upon his divine throne chariot is faced off with this idol. Can you imagine what that would have looked like for Ezekiel? Seeing this? They're worshiping this when you exist? How heinous this is. Then in verse 10, look at me at verse 10. We see that creeping things and loathsome beasts have been carved into the wall Idols have been set up. The seventy elders you see there, I think, are representative of the whole nation of Israel. But it gets worse. Zika moves closer to the temple. In verse 14, he finds women sitting at the entrance At the entrance to the temple court in verse 14, weeping for Tamas. This is an agricultural god of the Canaan, uh Canaanite people. It's as if it couldn't get any worse. The last and final stop is right at the front door of the temple, where he finds a group of men who literally have their backs turned to God. Israel's idol worship. In God's eyes was equal to them turning their backs on him. Israel's idol worship was them turning their backs on God. So what do you think God cares most about in how people approach him? What do you think God cares most about in how people approach Him? Do you think sincerity is most important? Sincerity is most important. Yeah, you can come to God in any way that you want as long as you have a sincere heart. God will be fine with that. That's a pretty common thought in our day, right? Well, if you think that, I want you to look closer at our text. Look at this passage. From an earthly perspective, from our perspective, these people. They look pious. They look sincere. Women weeping for the God that they want to return. Men bowing down to the sun. Men inside the temple offering incense to foreign gods. They seem sincere in their worship From an earthly perspective, this scene sounds like a beautiful and sincere multi-faith service. The gods of the animal and insect kingdom are here. So is the God of the harvest, and the God of the sun has made an appearance too. But from God's perspective, I want you to see this. It's not their sincerity that he cares about. It's that they worship him in truth, that they know him, the one true and living God, and worship him according to his word. From God's perspective, they've turned their backs on him. And since God sees this type of worship among his people as they are turning their backs on him, we should understand him to be saying that he cares. about we, his new covenant people, about how we approach him in worship. We don't have free reign to worship God however we want. to approach the throne and do all manner of things as long as we're sincere. We need to see what God's word says and approach him rightly. And so we try to do that here by seeing songs that are rich in Scripture. Even the songs that we sang before the service started to get your hearts affected and turned towards the living God because they're rich in Scripture. Then not only do we sing, but we pray. We try to pray scripture, and then we read scripture together, corporately, reading from the Gospel of John and Colossians. And we do this because this is what we see being done in the New Testament, in God's word. And so we intend to carry that out here by approaching him rightly and reverently. With love and confidence, but with reverent fear, because our God is a consuming fire. We need not forget that. Cannot forget that. We also try to be cautious in our membership process. So if you're here and you've been thinking about joining, I want you to I want to uh say to you, I hope you're not put off. by the membership process here. We certainly don't intend it that way. We don't mean it to be entry rights to some sort of exclusive club. Unless what you mean by exclusive club is that we are exclusively sinners. Then yes, that's what we mean by an exclusive club. We are all sinners in need of God's grace. And so we intend the process to be careful because we think we should be careful as a church. In affirming people's professions of faith as they come into the church body, to allow sincere people to come into membership who actually don't believe the gospel. Makes us at risk to become just like Israel. We become no different than a multi-phase service where people worship God as they like, as they see fit. We don't want to make the same type of mistake that Israel makes here. And the spiritual adultery in this temple scene is staggering, isn't it? I mean, it's staggering And that's why he promises at the end of chapter 8. Look at that last verse with me. Therefore, I will act in wrath. My eye will not spare, nor will I have pity. And though they cry in my ears with a loud voice, I will not hear them. I will not hear them. Do you imagine the horror of being away on a work trip? Coming home to find that your spouse had hung pictures of their lovers all over your home? Could you imagine that? The horror, the shock, the rage Israel is hanging pictures of their lovers all over God's house. This is why he acts in wrath. His people have abandoned him. They have committed adultery. This is awful. They are his people. He has saved them miraculously out of bondage to slavery. He brought them into his land. He gave them his law. He showed them his grace. He protected them. And they did this. This is amazing. We cannot, when we open up the scriptures, lose the sense of horror at the sins they were committing. Because if we lose that sense of horror, we will be prone to fall into those same sins. This is awful spiritual adultery. And so the only thing that's left for God to do in a situation like this, only thing that he can do, is to depart the temple altogether. There's no saving this temple. There's no cleansing this temple. This temple must be departed. And that's the scene we see unfolding in chapters 9 to 11. As with the previous chapters, these chapters are full of overwhelming, mysterious imagery. In chapter 9, we see a vision of six executioners and a man in linen arriving at the temple in Jerusalem. The man in linen is responsible for marking off for protection the individuals who've not turned to false gods. While the executioners then are responsible for putting to death the rest. It's a remarkably similar story to the Passover Exodus. Where God rescues his people from bondage in Egypt. I think what you're seeing here is a visual reiteration of the destruction that God's going to carry out on those who've turned to false gods, who've become like Egypt. But the overwhelming emphasis here is on the much greater judgment of God departing the temple and the land. He is leaving his people. He is leaving his people. As with the Torah of the temple, God's departure moves forward in stages. It begins first in chapter 9 at verse 3. Go ahead and look there with me. Now the glory of the God of Israel had gone up from the cherub on which it rested to the threshold of the house. What you're seeing here is a manifestation of the glory of God that dwelt above the ark in the Holy of Holies has now moved from inside the Holy of Holies to the front steps of the house. This is the beginning stages of him leaving the temple. The departure scene is then interrupted and picks back up again in chapter 10 as Ezekiel again sees the Divine Throne Chariot from chapter 1 appearing. And we see now why this divine throne chariot appeared like burning torches in chapter 1. And that's because in verse 2, it's carrying burning coals. These are supposed to be cast upon the city of Jerusalem by the man in linen. Further emphasizing the completeness of destruction that's coming upon Jerusalem. Ezekiel then goes on to describe the living creatures and wheels again. And it's here in chapter 10, verse 18, that we find the second leg of God's journey out of the temple and the land. Then the glory of the Lord went out from the threshold of the house and stood over the cherubim. And the cherubim lifted up their wings and mounted up from the earth before my eyes as they went out, with the wheels beside them. And they stood at the entrance of the east gate of the house of the Lord, and the glory of the God of Israel was over 'em. So as his chariot arrives on the south side of the temple, he departs from the front door of the building, moves around to his divine throne chariot, climbs up on it. And then the chariot moves around to the east gate. It pulls up out front of his house. Out front of his home. Right at that gate. Looking back Stops there for a moment. The departure scene is interrupted again by two more prophecies and picks back up again at the end of chapter 11. Look at chapter 11, verse 22. Then the cherubim lifted up their wings, with the wheels beside them. And the glory of the God of Israel was over them. And the glory of the Lord went up from the midst of the city and stood on the mountain that is on the east side of the city. Like that, he's gone. I don't think there is any sadder scene in the entire Old Testament apart from Adam and Eve being cast out of the garden than this right here. God has left his people. Hope no longer exists for Israel The text says that he went up from the midst of the city and stood on the mountains on the east side of the city. Picture here of him stopping twice, first outside of his house, the temple. Then again, on the outskirts of the land, on the mountain east of the city, stopping, waiting. Will anyone even notice? Will anyone even notice that I'm gone? Where are the people? Where are the people chasing them down saying, Lord, no, don't go? You're our Lord. You're our only hope. Where are they? There's no one calling out for the Lord. No one even knows that he's gone. This is awful. No one cares that he's gone Do not mistake this, friends. This is the greatest judgment in these passages. This is the greatest judgment in these passages. No judgment coming from the hand of God could ever compare to God withdrawing his hand. No judgment can compare to that. When God withdraws his hand of protection, there is no hope. And friends, Israel in these chapters is like a microcosm of all mankind. All of us born enslaved to sin. to lust and passions that we've turned into idols, that we bow down to on the regular. We all exchange the glory of the immortal God. For images resembling mortal man and birds and animals and creeping things. Our idolatry blinded us from the very presence of God. And the only hope that any of us has is for God to deliver us. That brings me to point three. Deliverance. Woven throughout these chapters are whispers. Whispers Whispers of a new exodus. Whispers that turn into shouts. Look at me at chapter 4. Look at chapter 4. Even in the promise of judgment that Ezekiel is called to act out by laying on his side, we hear there the first whisper. Did you notice it? Do you notice the number of days Ezekiel is called to lie on his side? 430 days 430 days, representative of 430 years. We should recall that the last time that number is used in scriptures in reference to the amount of time that the Israelites were in bondage in Egypt, and Exodus 12, 40 and 41 says the time that the people of Israel lived in Egypt was 430 years. At the end of 430 years, on that very day, all the hosts of the Lord went out from the land of Egypt. Even Ezekiel's portrayal of judgment is signaling to the Israelites a new exodus is coming A new Exodus is coming. Then in chapter 5, when Ezekiel is called to cut his hair and his beard, a third's to be burned, a third struck, a third scattered. Yet even of these three-thirds, the completeness, even of these, in verse 3, some are to be bound in Ezekiel's robe. Hidden away, Ezekiel in this middle mini-drama is playing the role of the Lord. The hair is representative of the people. The people are going to be bound up in his cloak, brought close to him in this new Exodus, protected by him. He will care for them. They will be his people once again. Then in chapter 6, the whisper gets louder. Look at verses 8 and 9. Yet in the midst of judgment I will leave some of you alive. When you have among the nations some who escaped the sword, And when you are scattered through the countries, then those of you who escape will remember me among the nations, where they are carried captive. How I have been broken over their whoring heart that has departed from me, and over their eyes that go whoring after their idols, and they will be loathsome in their own sight for the evils that they have committed, for all their abominations. Notice there that it's God's gracious choice to preserve some. I will save some of you. I will leave some of you alive. Then look at that final line of those verses. How are the people to respond? People respond to his grace by being loathsome in their own sight for the evils they've committed. They will be a people who have a firm grasp on why they don't deserve forgiveness. But they will receive it by God's grace, nonetheless. Then in chapter 9, the promise of the new Exodus begins to crystallize when we look back at that vision of the executioners and the man in Lennon. It's a scene that is at once about destruction and deliverance. The man in linen, the savior-like figure, has the power to protect people from destruction by marking them off. Notice again the similarities to the Passover scene in Egypt before the Lord miraculously delivered his people out of bondage. There the Israelites were called to take shelter under the sign of the blood being marked off. It's here in this scene in chapter 9, God's visually displaying again, he is going to mark off a people that he will bring out of bondage. That he will bring out of bondage in this new Exodus. Then again in chapter 11, look at me at verses 17 to 20. Just before he departs the city. Just before he departs the city, for the people who will be gathered by God to be his people, destruction is not the last word. The last word for his people is hope. The last word for his people is hope. Look at this, therefore, thus says the Lord God, I will gather you from the peoples and assemble you out of the countries where you have been scattered, and I will give you the land of Israel. And when they come there, they will remove all its detestable things and all its abominations. And I will give them one heart. And a new spirit I will put within them. I will remove the heart of stone from their flesh and give them a heart of flesh, that they may walk in my statutes and keep my rules and obey them. And they shall be my people, and I will be their God. Amen This new exodus. This new exodus that God would accomplish for his people would be a gathering of people from all nations. Be a gathering of people from all nations, people who are scattered to all the nations. They would be brought into a new land, a land free from idolatry. No more would this people follow laws etched into stone. Why? Because God will pull out their heart of stone and give them a heart of flesh, a heart on which his spirit has written his law, and they would delight to keep his laws and be obedient to his statutes. Surely this promise held out to a people so deserving of judgment would cause them to wonder, would cause them to wonder when and how God would accomplish this deliverance. And we see, even in our text, God gives us a hint. Just drops a little nugget. You don't even see it if you're not looking closely about how he's going to accomplish this deliverance. Notice the route that he takes out of the city. We're looking at the end of chapter 11. Notice the route that he takes. He's left the temple, gotten on his chariot. He rides off east of the city to a mountain on the east side of Jerusalem. That is the Mount of Olives. It says though he's given a clue as to how he'll one day return to the temple He's gonna come from the east from the Mount of Olives. And he's gonna come and cleanse his temple. Go ahead and turn with me in your Bibles to Matthew twenty-one. Starting in verse one. Now when they drew near to Jerusalem and came to Bethage. to the Mount of Olives. Then Jesus sent two disciples saying to them, Go into the village in front of you. And immediately you will find a donkey tied, and a colt with her. Untie them and bring them to me. If anyone says anything to you, you shall say, The Lord needs them, and he will send them at once. This took place to fulfill what was spoken by the prophet, saying, Say to the daughter of Zion, Behold, your king is coming to you, humble and mounted on a donkey And on a cult, the foal of a beast burden. The disciples went and did as Jesus had directed them. They brought the donkey and the colt and put them on their cloaks and he sat on them. Most of the crowd spread their cloaks on the road, and others cut branches from the trees and spread them on the road. And the crowds that went before him and that followed him were shouting, Hosanna to the Son of David, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Hosanna in the highest. And when he entered Jerusalem, the whole city was stirred up, saying, Who is this? And the crown said, this is the prophet Jesus from Nazareth of Galilee. And what did he come to do? Look at the heading of the next section. Jesus cleanses the temple. You can't make this stuff up. He cleanses the temple. The temple that was left full of idols, he has returned, not on his divine throne chariot, but on a humble beast of burden coming off the Mount of Olives, riding like a humble servant king into his city to reclaim his temple and his throne that had been lost all those years earlier. He rides right back into the city from the same direction that he left. And what did he come to do? This kind God sent his very own son. not to act out a sketch like Ezekiel, but to become incarnate. To give his life as a ransom for many by going to the cross. To visually portray In visual theology, God's wrath against sin and all who would persist in sin, yet at the same time displaying his love. For God so loved the world. God so loved The world that he gave his one and only Son. That whoever would turn to Him, whoever believes in Him, should not perish, but have eternal life. Are you on good terms with God today? If you've not sought protection from the coming destruction, let me warn you once again, it is coming. Turn to the Lord Jesus Christ and be saved. Because the same God who promised to judge promises to save all who would turn to Him. And if you have trusted in Christ, then you can be confident that on that day, when the Lord returns once again, You will stand before him, protected from all destruction, protected from eternal damnation Because of his kindness to you and his son, and you will hear the words, well done, good and faithful servant. Praise be to God. You will not perish, but you will have everlasting life. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we lift up our hearts in praise to you and give you thanks that you have saved us from so great a destruction. Lord, we pray again that you would reveal idols in our hearts to us, that we might not turn away from you We pray that you will preserve us. We pray for those who have not turned to you, those who still persist in sin, that they would turn even today, remembering that your judgment is imminent, but your deliverance is great. For there is more grace in the Lord Jesus Christ and mercy in him than there is sin in us. Father, help us to remember your grace, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.