Happy New Year's, everybody. Happy New Year's. Alright. That was good. 2017 seems like it's off to a good start. Bodes well for the year to come, right? New Year's time, which means it's a time for making resolutions. That's right. People who prior to this point, prior to this day, struggled with self-discipline maybe, have all of a sudden resolved to Run a marathon every month this year. I will do it. I've never run more than two miles in my life, but I'm gonna do it now, right? You know resolutions can be silly. Alright, we can make very silly resolutions, ones that If we look at them, we understand these probably won't happen. But resolutions can also be serious and heartfelt and meaningful. So whether it's improving your health, wanting to become more healthy and take better care of your body. Maybe you want to spend more time with your family, maybe you've been working too much and you want to resolve to spend more time with your family. Your wife, your husband, your kids, love on them more. It's a good resolution, something to work towards. Well, I think I want to take our time this morning as we open up God's Word to propose to you a resolution. To hold forward to you a resolution that I think you should consider making your resolution for this year to come And what is that resolution? What will it be? Well, let's turn to God's word. Why don't you open with me in your Bibles to 1 John chapter 3? If you're using the Pew Bible, you'll find our passage on page 1022. And if you're not familiar with the Bible, if you're visiting with us, if you're not usually in church, we're really glad that you're here. There really is no other place that we'd want you to be today. But if you're not familiar with being in church and you're not used to the Bible and making your way around the Bible, when we talk about 1 John chapter 3, you want to turn to page 1022. Chapter 3 is a big bold number 3 on your page. Just look for that. We're going to be looking at verses 1 to 10. Those verse numbers are the smaller numbers that you see after that bold number. Before we actually get into the passage this morning, let me provide some background to our text. We are just kind of parachuting into this book for one week only. We're landing almost right in the middle of the book, so we want to understand what's gone on before this. The letter that we're studying this morning was written by the Apostle John. He was writing to a community of believers in the city of Ephesus. Ephesus is what is in uh would be in modern day Turkey on the western coast in a in a province called Ismir. Ephesus was a wealthy city and the community that John was writing to was facing Some great difficulties. They're facing great difficulties. They had suffered loss in their church community as some who had previously professed faith were tempted by the wealth. and the power of the city around them. You think even in Ephesus there was the temple of Artemis. So many tourists would have come at one of the seven wonders of the ancient world. See the wealth and the power of DC is not all that different, is it Some of these struggles that they were facing may be struggles that we might face, temptations that we might have. And it's clear that some had left their community and walked away from the faith and chose to pursue the world. Not only that, but the community was being afflicted by false teachers who were previously part of their church. And these people had gone out from them. And had started teaching different things about Jesus, that Jesus didn't actually appear in the flesh, that he wasn't actually the Son of God, that he didn't actually atone for sins. And these difficulties that these Christians were facing left them in a very shaky position. Some were questioning whether they could really know God. Others whether they had actually believed the truth. Maybe those people actually believe the truth and not us. And still others wondered whether they really had eternal life. Can we know that we have eternal life? And so the Apostle John, like a good pastor, he responds to these difficulties in detail with this letter of 1 John. And in a few different places, we get a very clear sense for why he's writing this book. So if you have your Bible open, turn back with me one page, should be one page, to chapter one. Verse 4. We're going to look at three reasons he wrote this letter before we begin. Chapter 1, verse 4, John says And we are writing these things so that our joy may be complete. John intends this letter to give these believers joy. Now look at chapter 2, verse 1. You see his heart here for these people. My little children, I'm writing these things to you so that you may not sin John intends this letter to produce holiness in the lives of these people who would hear or read. And then turn over with me to chapter 5, verse 13. This is our last one. Chapter five, verse thirteen. I write these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, that you may know that you have eternal life. So why is John writing this letter? To produce joy, holiness, and assurance in this congregation, to produce joy, holiness, and assurance. And to produce these qualities, John gives a repeated instruction throughout his letter. He repeatedly calls them To abide in Christ. Abide in him. Remain in him. Continue in him. Stay the course In fact, just prior to the passage we're going to be looking at this morning, he encourages them to abide in Christ. So look at right before chapter 3, chapter 2, verse 28. Look at what John says. And now, little children, abide in him. Abide in him, so that you may not be ashamed when he appears. Abide in him. That should be your resolution for 2017. If you're here and you follow the Lord Jesus, I want to hold this for to you, that you should consider making this your resolution, that in 2017, you will abide in Christ. And if you're here and you're not a Christian, this is maybe the first sermon that you've ever heard, I actually want to hold this out to you as a resolution that you should make for this year. you should consider coming to understand what it means to abide in Jesus Christ. That's the resolution I want to hold forward to you. But like any good resolution, we're gonna need a plan, right? We're gonna need some instruction to understand how I can best abide in Jesus. And thankfully, the Apostle John doesn't just call them to abide. He teaches them what it looks like to abide and gives them instruction in our passage. this morning. So get in look with me at chapter 3, verses 1 to 10. I'm going to read it aloud for us now. See what kind of love the Father has given to us that we should be called children of God. And so we are The reason why the world does not know us is that it did not know him. Beloved, we are God's children now. And what we will be has not yet appeared. But we know that when he appears, we shall be like him, because we shall see him as he is. And everyone who thus hopes in him purifies himself, as he is pure. Everyone who makes a practice of sinning also practices lawlessness. Sin is lawlessness. You know that he appeared in order to take away sins, and in him there is no sin. No one who abides in him keeps on sinning. No one who keeps on sinning has either seen him or known him. Little children, let no one deceive you. Whoever practices righteousness is righteous, as he is righteous. Whoever makes the practice of sinning is of the devil, for the devil has been sinning from the beginning. The reason the Son of God appeared was to destroy the works of the devil. No one born of God makes a practice of sinning, for God's seed abides in him, and he cannot keep on sinning, because he has been born of God. By this it is evident who are the children of God and who are the children of the devil. Whoever does not practice righteousness is not of God, nor is a one who does not love his brother. If you are going to abide in Christ this year, how will you go about doing that? I have two points for us this morning. First, you must marvel at the love of the Father. And second, you must live lives that reflect your relationship to the Father. You must live lives that reflect your relationship to the Father. So first. If we're going to abide in Christ this year, we must marvel at the love of the Father. We see that right away in verse 1. John says, see what kind of love the Father has given to us. If you're casually reading through this passage, you may not feel the force of this instruction the way John intends it to be understood. He's not saying, hey guys, look over here. God's love. Isn't it great? And then keep on going. That's not what he's saying at all. He said, see what kind of love is this That phrase what kind of is one single word that's translated into the phrase what kind of. And the other place that we see it used is when the disciples say of Jesus after he calms the wind and the waves, what sort of man is this? And that's how John intends you to see this here. See what kind of love the Father has given to us. This is a proclamation that's meant to induce Jaw dropping wonder and amazement. Little children, behold the wonder and amazement of God's love. See it. Look at it. Behold it. Marvel at it. The first aspect of God's love that John wants to marvel at is his adopting love. His adopting love. Look at verse 1 again. See what kind of love the Father has given to us, that we should be called children of God. And so we are. God's adopting love is seen in him making us his children. Friends, ours is a most unlikely adoption story What should you think with me if you're familiar with the Bible? Think back to Ezekiel chapter 16. How does Ezekiel describe Israel? Went before they knew the Lord. He describes them as an infant, covered in blood, helpless and hopeless, cast out on the open field. And when the Lord passes by this baby, what does he say? Live and the baby comes to life. Friends, we are that baby. That is us before the Lord gives us life, but us is actually a worse state than just a cute picture of a baby baby. We lived in open rebellion against God. The Bible's clear, we were dead in our trespasses and sins, hostile to God, hostile, his enemies. And yet he adopts us and says to us, live and we come to life By his word. This is a beautiful adoption. He has adopted us. Consider also, consider also the costliness of his adoption of us. Our adoption was not a free transaction for God. He did not just say it and make it happen and that was it. There was no punishment for sins. No. The cost of our adoption was that he would give the life of his true child, Jesus Christ, in our place so that we could become his children. Look how much it cost him. His beloved son. Oh, it is a very beautiful thing to adopt a child It is a very beautiful thing. But it is a whole other thing to give one of your own children. for the child that you are trying to adopt. And that is what God has done for us. He gave his beloved son so that we could have eternal life in him and be his children Marvel at the love of God. See what kind of love the Father has given to us. That is why John is instructing the congregation. The way that he is. This is a love worth marveling over. We who have put our hope in Christ are God's children now. Yet we must also recognize that the fact that we are God's children now doesn't mean that we won't experience difficulty in this life Setbacks, trials. These are all common even for God's children. Look with me at verse 1. After he tells them to look at the love of God, that he has made us his children, he then goes on and says, the reason why the world does not know us is that it did not know him. So apparently the believers that John was writing to were struggling with the fact that they had apparently or come to believe that they were God's children, yet the world around them was opposing them. And when John uses the word word world, he's he's he means the unbelieving world. So non-Christians in the world city of Ephesus around them. were opposing them, and it was causing the Christians to doubt whether they actually were God's children. Why is this happening if we're God's children? And so John says to them, the reason why the world does not know you is that it did not know him. It did not know him. These Christians needed to be encouraged by John. And so he says, beloved, we are God's children now. Well, we too should understand that God's marvelous adopting love of us by which we become his children in no way means that we will not face opposition in this life. It's quite the opposite, actually. Being adopted into his family as children means that you and I who follow him will follow in the footsteps of his true child, Jesus Christ. And in following Christ, we will know in some way the opposition that Jesus also faced. If he suffered mocking, opposition, opposition even from his own family, if you recall from the Gospels persecution, shame, and even death for his faithfulness to God, then we too who follow Christ should expect that same opposition. The world will not know you because it does not know God. Recall, if you think you're not going to face opposition for following Christ, recall what Jesus said in the Gospels If the world hates you, know that it has hated me first, before it hated you. If you were of the world, the world would love you as its own But because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you. Remember the word that I said to you The servant is not greater than his master. If they persecuted me, they will also persecute you. Friends, we have been adopted into God's family and we are his children now, but we will also face opposition in this life from the world around us. So for those of you, I want to take a moment to speak to those of you who might be in middle school or high school, maybe approaching those years of your life. Whether you're in public school, private school, homeschool, it doesn't matter. If you intend to faithfully follow the Lord Jesus Christ Don't be surprised if your peers don't accept you. Don't be surprised if they don't accept you Jesus was also not accepted by those around him. And I know how hard that can be. I have faced shame and mocking from co-workers in the past myself for talking to them about Jesus. But I want to encourage you, if you're in middle school or high school and you have peers who are rejecting you, kind of treating you like an outcast because you're faithful to the Lord Jesus, I want to encourage you to continue to be kind to them. to be loving towards them and to be bold and share the gospel with them because God takes rebels and makes them his children And he can do that to your peers too. I want to encourage you to do that. This is an instruction for all my brothers and sisters in Christ. Do not be surprised when the world opposes you because you follow Jesus. Don't be surprised at it, brothers and sisters. In adopting us as his children, God has given us the privilege of following in the footsteps of his son. And as we take up our cross and follow him and face opposition from the world, God is transforming us into the likeness of his son. And that's the second aspect of God's love that I want us to look at this morning. I want us to marvel at his transforming love. Marvel at his transforming love. Look with me at verse 2. Beloved, we are God's children now, and what we will be has not yet appeared But we know that when he appears, we shall be like him because we shall see him as he is. So though they're facing opposition from the world, John wants to encourage them to set your sights on the future. Brothers and sisters in Christ, set your sights on the future. When God will transform them perfectly into the image of his son. What's that gonna be like? I have no idea. I have no idea. I don't think John even knows. He says, and what we will be has not yet appeared. This is the Apostle John, and he's not quite sure. So he doesn't give a clear answer of what's going to happen. This is a quick sidebar. As a Christian, I think one of the most helpful things that you can learn how to say when talking about God, Jesus, or the Bible, learn how to say, I don't know. Man, I don't know. Baffles me too. Baffles me too. Learn how to say, I don't know There are things that will come up in this life, questions that either you have or others have that you will inevitably not be able to answer. How can God be good in so much evil in the world? How can God be sovereign and we still be responsible? When is Jesus coming back? I don't know. I don't know the answers to those questions. And the reason we can't know is because God hasn't given us answers to every question. And that's completely within his bounds of authority to do so. The secret things are for the Lord, and the things that have been revealed are for us and for our children and for all generations. Right? Not everything has been revealed to us. Yet the fact that he's withheld some information from us. Doesn't mean we can't know anything. And our passage this morning is a perfect example of that. Though we don't know exactly what we will be, we can know for certain two things in our passage. Look at me at verse 2. When he appears, the first thing you can know is that Jesus is coming back. Jesus is coming back. At some point, history will come to an end. There may be a day in the near future or the distant future when the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven with his holy angels to return for his people and not just to return for them. The second thing we can know for certain, John says, when he appears, we will be like him. He is coming to finally and fully transform his people into his likeness. When he appears, brothers and sisters, we will be made like him. Not that we will become gods. That's not at all what John means, but that we will be transformed. Our lowly bodies will become heavenly bodies, imperishable bodies. Our souls will be finally and fully cleansed from all spiritual corruption and sin. Friends, dwell on this reality. Let your mind swim in it, as Spurgeon like to say, bathe in it Let the waters of this reality wash over you. This is your future hope. This is your destination to finally and fully be transformed into the likeness of Christ. No more sin. No more broken relationships. No more abuse. No more anger. No more jealousy. No more hatred. No more sorrow. No more broken bodies. No more murder. No more pain. No more robbery. No more sickness. No more death. No more sin. If the wages of sin is death, and death will be no more, then sin will also be no more, brothers and sisters. This is our hope. This is where we're heading. Let your mind swim in that reality and consider it. And why? Why will this happen? Look back at the text. Look at me at verse 2. Why will we be made like him? Because we will see him as he is. We will see him as he is. There are lots of things that I cannot wait to see. I cannot wait to see the next episode of This Is Us. It's a good show. I cannot wait to see what type of men my boys grow up to be I also can't wait to see that. But I'll tell you what I really, really, really can't wait to see. It is this The Lamb of God for sinners slain, who is making all things new. My eyes will behold the Son of God in the fullness of his beauty. We will see him as he is. We will no more look at him in his word because the word will be made flesh and he will be before us. He will be standing in our very presence and we will be made like him. Oh friends, that is so good to think about. That's where we're going. That's where we're going. And look at what John says next. Everyone who has this hope. Hope. Hope, friend. If you are in Christ, you have this hope In Matt Damon's movie The Martian, Damon plays an astronaut who travels with a team to Mars to set up camp to study the planet. On one particular day, a massive storm is headed for the camp, and the team realizes they need to get out of Dodge because the storm is gonna really hurt the ship that they have to get back with. And so they run for the ship to return to Earth. In the mayhem of running for the ship, Damon's character is injured and he's left behind for dead because the team has to get there before the storm actually hits. Except that Damon doesn't die. Sorry for the spoiler alert. And he spends the next months fighting to sustain himself as he attempts to find a way to contact the space station on Earth, which amazingly he does. But it's a movie. He is swept up in a wind of hope. He's swept up in a wind of hope, and he's re-energized to continue pressing on until help can arrive, which they promise it will, until one day. Another storm ravages his makeship living quarters and the food supply in it, and Damon is devastated. He's despairing. Because his only hope was that rescue, and that hope of rescue was taken from him. Friend, if you are in Christ, your hope of rescue will never be taken from you. You will never lose this hope. That despair that descended on Damon in that movie when he saw his hope disappear doesn't have to mark you, friend You have a sure and certain hope that the Lord Jesus, when he appears, will make you like him because you will see him as he is. You will be transformed by him. And praise God for his marvelous adopting and transforming love. And since we have this hope now, how should we then live? Since we have this hope And we are God's children. How should we then live? Look at what John says. Everyone who has this hope purifies himself as he is pure. That brings me to my second point. If you are going to abide in Christ this year You need to strive to live lives that reflect your relationship to the Father Strive to live lives that reflect your relationship to the Father. And that's what we see in the remainder of our passage. Look at me at verse. 10. If you look all the way down at verse 10, which I think captures the theme of these verses, we're going to see what goes on in these verses. John says, By this it is evident who are the children of God and who are the children of the devil. Whoever does not practice righteousness is not of God, nor is the one who does not love his brother So in these remaining verses, what John does is he depicts two families. One family is marked by sin and lawlessness and has the devil as its father And another family is marked by an increasing righteousness and devotion to God and has God as its father. There are only two families. There is no middle way. There is no timeout place where you think and consider and ponder. There are two families, right? For you who is considering whether God exists. Think about this today as we cover these passages. There are two. One is devoted to God and the other is devoted to Satan. Let's think about this. It seems the reason that John lays out his description of these two families was due in part to the false teaching that was affecting his congregation So what's going on is these false teachers were teaching a philosophical belief called Gnosticism. It basically says that everything material like the body is evil and everything spiritual like the soul inside the body is good. And so you could Sin with your body because your body was inherently evil and not affect the state of your soul because your soul is inherently good. Sin has no effect on the soul. That's what Gnostics were teaching. And to counter this, John tells them very clearly in verse 4, everyone who makes a practice of sinning also practices lawlessness. When John says makes a practice there, what he means to say is that this person is devoted to sin. They're devoted to sin. They love sin. They have no desire whatsoever within them to turn away from it and to turn to God. And so he's saying those false teachers who claim that they're not affecting their spiritual state by sinning are actually lawless. Their actions in sinning reveal that they are children of the devil because sin itself is lawlessness. And that's why John instructs him the way that he does in verse 7. Look with me there. Little children, let no one deceive you. Let no one deceive you. John's saying to them, hey, hey, don't fall prey to this teaching. Don't get laxadaisical. Pay attention to what you're being taught and look at the scriptures This is not what the Lord teaches his people. Sin is lawlessness. Now we would do well to heed John's instruction. This is a call for discernment, brothers and sisters. This is a call for discernment. Do not be deceived. If anyone teaches you, whether it's in a book or in a sermon or a movie that you're watching, Maybe it's a pastor who is supposedly Christian. If anyone teaches you that you can willfully Pursue and enjoy what God calls lawlessness and not affect your standing before Him is lying to you. Sin is lawlessness. Sin brings death. Sin is awful To my non-Christian friends who are here, we're glad that you're here. And as you're here today and hearing what the Bible says about sin, I hope you would seriously consider it. And not just about sin in general out there, but about your sin. About your sin. All of us. We're born into this world by nature as lawless individuals, rebels against God, and we show our opposition to God by our sinning against him And willfully breaking his commands, we show that we are guilty and we stand guilty before a holy and just God because of our sins. And your sins don't just reveal your lawlessness. It reveals something deeper and darker that is at work. Look at what John says about the spiritual heritage of all who by their practice who all who by their practice sin against God and stand in opposition to God. Look at me at verse 8. Whoever makes a practice of sinning is of the devil Your opposition to God, my non-Christian friend, it is seriously dangerous to your soul And it reveals to the world around you, to those who are looking at God's word and comparing your life to what his word says, it reveals that you are spiritually aligned with the devil. Who is the devil? According to the Bible, he is a very real entity. He was an angel who fell from grace. because he sinned against God, and with him fell a very large number of angels, over whom he is the head And he hates God. And he hates you. And he hates all mankind. And from the beginning, he has sought to destroy man by causing him to turn. from s turn from God and join him in his rebellion by sinning against God, which is what he has done from the beginning. And to all who join him in his rebellion, he would be called their father because they are spiritual offspring of him. They have joined with him in his rebellion. Friend, if you are here and you are not a Christian, what you most need today is a new spiritual father You need a new spiritual father. Turn to God and ask him to forgive you of your sins. Ask him to adopt you into his family today and know the joy of what it means this year and for years to come of what it means to abide in God. Because we do see in these verses that God's family is very different. Look at me at verse 6. No one who abides in him keeps on sinning. And then again, look down at verse 9. No one born of God makes a practice of sinning For God's seed abides in him, and he cannot keep on sinning because he has been born of God. So if that's what marked the other family, what marks this family? Well, it's a pursuit of holiness A love of God and a hatred of sin. That's what John's describing here. John's language is sharp in these verses and has been misinterpreted often and to disastrous results in some cases. When John says, no one who abides in him keeps on sinning, in verse 6, and then in verse 9, he says he cannot keep on sinning. He is not saying that Christians never sin. He is not saying that. Nor is he saying that they will never sin in the future. Which is how these verses have been misinterpreted and twisted by those whose views go by the names of Christian perfectionism or sinless perfectionism. It's the view that Christians in this life can become perfect. Sinless. And that is false. Because if John were arguing that here, he would be directly contradicting what he says in chapter 1 when he says If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. In the context of this passage, John is concerned with a character of your life. A bent, a shape, a direction of your life. And he's saying that the life of a true Christian will not be characterized by a love of and devotion to their sin. A true Christian is at war with their sin. Are you at war with your sin? Are you at war with your sin? Does that characterize your life? That desire to put it to death, does that characterize your life? Friends, these passages teach us sin is not safe. Sin will hurt you. Sin will destroy you and to play with it and toy with it and dabble in it is like asking, how much poison can I actually take without actually dying Sure, you may be able to take some, but why on earth would you want to? Who would take a little bit of poison and just to tow the line? Friends, poison is not as dangerous as sin. We don't want to toy, we don't want to see how much can I actually get away with and still call myself a Christian. Don't make that mistake. Sin is lawlessness. I don't bring this up to condemn you. Don't bring this up to condemn you, brothers and sisters in Christ. John is writing this letter to bring assurance to his people. And if you have repented. and trusted in Christ and are fighting against your sin, maybe not perfectly, but that is the direction of your life, you can be assured that you are God's child. Just be warned. Sin is serious. If you're here and you wonder whether or not you are actually a Christian, let me encourage you to seriously look at this passage. Read it again after you leave here. John is actually telling you that you can know whether or not. You are not a child of God or are a child of God. Look how many times he says the word, we know, you know, we can know. You can know these things by looking at your life. Is your life marked by a pursuit of holiness? if you call yourself a Christian? Is it marked by a love of God's word and of God's people? Are those things present in your life and are they growing and moving in that direction? If they are, you can be confident that you are abiding in Christ. If you don't see them at all, I want to kindly and lovingly ask you to reconsider whether or not you're actually a Christian. And it's actually something I'd love to talk to you at the door about afterwards. So if you do have questions about whether or not you are a Christian, come see me at the door afterwards. We can talk about it. A true Christian is at war with their sin. Now this conversation about abiding in Christ and the seriousness of sin. May cause some true children of God to wonder, how on earth, how on earth will I be able to abide for the rest of my life and continue to fight against sin? How am I going to do this? Well, John knows that his believers will need to be encouraged that they can actually continue. And the reason that they can actually continue to abide in Christ and have confidence that they will is because they don't pursue God by their own strength. Look with me at the passage. Verse 9. No one born of God makes a practice of sinning. Why? For God's seed abides in him. Oh, brothers and sisters, if you are feeling condemned or discouraged about how you are going to continue to fight against sin in your life, be encouraged by these words. All who believe in the Lord Jesus God's seed dwells within you. God's seed is the supernatural power that dwells within a Christian. gives them a new nature and a new heart and new desires so that when they stumble and fall, they get up and they say, Lord, I have stumbled and fell. I confess my sins to you, and because he's faithful and just, John chapter 1, he will forgive you of your sins, and he will continue to make you more and more like Jesus Christ throughout this life by his Power, friends, you have a supernatural power dwelling within you to wage war against your sin. This is an encouraging thing And how did God's seed come to dwell within you to give you a new nature? How did that happen? Look at verse 5. Look at verse 5. You know that he appeared in order to take away sins. The he is the eternal Son of God, the Lord Jesus Christ. Come from heaven, appeared on earth, living a holy, perfect, and sinless life, and then going to the cross to be crucified, to bear the punishment. for the sins of all who would turn and trust in him, so that all who do can say with the Apostle Paul, I have been crucified with Christ. And it is no longer I who live, but the Lord Jesus who lives in me. God's seed abides in you, Christian. You have a new nature Oh, to my non-Christian friend, if you're wondering, how can I fulfill this resolution to abide in God in 2017 and for the years to come? This is how you come to abide in God, and God comes to abide in you. Jesus bears the punishment from God for all your sins. In your place, condemned, he stood. He takes your punishment and gives to you his righteousness. The sweet exchange, such that you now before God are righteous in his sight. And then he conforms you into the image of his son Turn today from your sin. Trust in the Lord Jesus Christ. Let the power of God come to live within you, and he will give you a new nature. He will give you a new heart and new desires. My brothers and sisters in Christ, because Christ appeared to take away sins, that means There is no more punishment for sin. Not for you. He paid it all. And you can say, my sins have been forgiven, and I am righteous in the Lord's sight. And not only did he take away sin when he appeared, but look at verse 8. Look at verse 8. The reason the Son of God appeared was to destroy the works of the devil. Not that the devil doesn't continue to wreak havoc in this world. But that his wreaking havoc in your life, Christian, has been robbed of its power. He has no more power to wrest you from the hands of the Lord Jesus Christ, because the Lord Christ will lose none who have come to him. None of his sheep will he lose. And when Christ conquered the serpent on the cross and rendered his work against the people of God forever powerless, Even the greatest of the devil's works was rendered powerless. That is death. Death holds no power any longer over the Christian. You have no death to fear. Because if you even aren't alive in this life to see him when he comes, if you have passed to sleep for a little while in the grave as a Christian. You can know. You can know and say with Job. Remember what Job says in Job chapter 19. Even if you aren't here living when the Lord Jesus appears, if you have gone to the grave and are awaiting his return, listen to what Job says. I know that my Redeemer lives and that in the end he will stand on the earth And after my skin has been destroyed, yet in my flesh I will see God. I myself will see him with my own eyes. I and not another Friend, death cannot harm you because even if you pass into the grave, you will yet one day stand and set your eyes upon the Lamb of God, the Lord Jesus Christ. And when he appears, you will be made like him, because you will see him as he is. Oh, the marvelous power of God's adopting and transforming love. A power that will be with us even after we have gone to the grave. A power that is abiding in all who believe even now and slowly is transforming us into his likeness until that day that is fast approaching arrives. When we do finally stand together and see him as he really is. Until then, friends, let us live lives that reflect our relationship to the Father. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we stand before you humbled as adopted children. That there was nothing in us that would cause you to love us, yet you have loved us so wonderfully, and you are transforming us now and will return for us. When the Lord Jesus appears, Lord, until that day, help us to live lives that reflect our love for you. And by your power, our God, strengthen us and sanctify us That we may live lives that are pleasing to you. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.