How are you feeling about the government today? How are you feeling about the government today? I realize we're in Washington, D. C. , so that's a dangerous question to ask. Please don't shout it out. Keep it to yourself for now. Maybe we can ask that question again at the door after the service. And I also realize that being in D. C. , there's a lot of people who are here who might not be from Washington, D. C. , who might be citizens of another country. So I would just ask you the same question. How are you feeling about your government today? In a room this large, I'm confident there's going to be lots of disagreement on that question, and that's okay. We don't all need to agree on that. But I bet I could find one thing that we can all agree on. And that is that our government, and if you're from another country, your government is not perfect. It's not perfect. So the question I want to ask you this morning is, hypothetically speaking, if you were going to change anything about this government or your own government, what would it be? I want to be crystal clear with you. I am not calling for us at all to think about changing this government in any type of revolutionary type way. So hear me clearly. This is a hypothetical question. What would you change about this government? What would the perfect government look like? Keep that question in mind as we go through our morning passage this morning. This morning we come to the last of our three studies in Romans chapter 12 and 13. The title of the miniseries that we've been in is How to Be Happy, and each of the sermons has been aimed at answering that question. How can I be happy? This morning we'll be looking specifically at Romans 13, verses 1 to 7. And the answer that the Apostle Paul is going to give us might surprise some of us. And so let me invite you to turn in your Bibles to Romans chapter 13, verses 1 to 7, that you'll find on page 948 of the Pew Bible, if you're using the Red Pew Bible. Chapter 13 will be the big bold number 13, and verses 1 to 7 will be the smaller numbers that follow after that. Since it's been a month since we were last in Romans, let me provide a bit of context for our passage this morning so we know How we've gotten to where we've gotten. The letter to the Romans was written by the Apostle Paul to the church in Rome during the middle part of the first century. In the first eight chapters, Paul walks systematically through the gospel. He begins with our sinfulness and need for a savior, then moves to God's merciful provision in Christ and what it means to be justified by faith alone, and then all the spiritual blessings that come through being united to Christ. And after explaining the glorious gospel message in the first eight chapters, he deals briefly with the fate of the nation of Israel before turning in chapter 12 and following to look at the effects. the gospel should have on our lives. So if you have your Bible, look at Romans chapter 12, verse 1. He says, I appeal to you therefore, brothers or brothers and sisters. That therefore at the beginning of chapter 12 is Paul's way of saying, based on everything I've just said in the first 11 chapters, therefore, this is how you should live. And in chapter 12, he deals with four basic relationships: our new relationship to the Lord, our relationship to ourselves, our relationship to one another, and then our relationship to our enemies And he switches in verse 13 to a new relationship. It's the relationship that we're going to be looking at this morning. And he addresses how Christians should relate to the government. So, how should Christians relate to the government? How should you relate to your government Do you reject the government because you now serve a new king? Do you insult, slander, or mock earthly rulers when you disagree with them or dislike them Or is there another way that God would have us who've been purchased by the blood of His Son relate to the government? Look at me at Romans chapter 13, verses 1 to 7. I'm going to go ahead and read it for us now. Let every person be subject to the governing authorities For there is no authority except from God. And those that exist have been instituted by God. Therefore, whoever resists the authorities resists what God has appointed, and those who resist will incur judgment For rulers are not a terror to good conduct, but to bad. Would you have no fear of the one who is in authority? Then do what is good, and you will receive his approval, for he is God's servant for your good But if you do wrong, be afraid, for he does not bear the sword in vain, for he is the servant of God, an avenger who carries out God's wrath on the wrongdoer Therefore, one must be in subjection not only to avoid God's wrath, but also for the sake of conscience. For because of this you also pay taxes. For the authorities are ministers of God, attending to this very thing. Pay to all what is owed to them taxes to whom taxes are owed, revenue to whom revenue is owed, respect to whom respect is owed, honor to whom honor. is owed. Through his instruction to the Roman church, Paul is telling you that you must submit to the governing authorities because they're established by God. Because they're God's servants for maintaining order, and you must submit by supporting them in their work. You must submit to the governing authorities because they're established by God. Because they're God's servants for maintaining order and by supporting them in their work. So why do I say you must submit to the governing authorities? Look at me at the first half of verse of the first verse. The very first thing we notice in the passage is Paul's clear command that every person is to be subject to the governing authorities. This is what the whole passage is about. Paul explains why we should do this and then he gives some examples of how we can go about doing this. You'll notice first that this command is for every person. Since Paul is writing to a Christian church, I think we should primarily think that he has his audience in mind. But I think if you draw the scope out, I think he is talking to all people, every person, Christians and non-Christians. If you're sitting here this morning, Paul is speaking to you, whether you're a Christian or not. And every person is to be subject. This implies not only an action, but a posture, right? Literally, the word means to subordinate oneself to. To subordinate oneself under, we're to be obedient, that's our action, out of a posture of deferential submission This isn't grumbling servitude that Paul has in mind, but deferential submission. And that submission is to the governing authorities. The governing authorities here don't just refer to the most prominent people within a particular government, but to the state as a whole and every official at every level in that state. The meaning of this first part of verse 1 is plain. You must submit to the governing authorities You must submit to the governing authorities. And this command, it shouldn't surprise those of us who are Christian It shouldn't surprise us. Submission is the posture of the Christian life. If we walk with swagger in this life as Christians, that swagger better have the aroma of submission behind it, right? Submission is the pattern of the Christian life. And it's shown in different contexts and in different ways and with different limits. So think about some of these ways with me. Submission is shown by Jesus to the Father, by servants to masters, by Christians to church leaders By wives to husbands, by husbands to Christ, by children to parents, and by Christians to the governing authority. Submission is the pattern of the Christian life Yet I'm also well aware of the myriad of objections and questions that this text raises. I mean, before you even get out of the first half of the first verse. There are a ton of objections and qualifications that are wanted and new nuance that's desired, right? People start raising up their voices. But Paul, how can you be saying this? Right? We haven't even gotten into the passage yet. I'm well aware of this. I even had to struggle with it this week as I'm studying the passage. And the chorus of objections and questions can be so loud that we don't actually get to hear what Paul is saying, right? It reminds me of the story of the captain of the ship. who while out at sea he looked into the dark night and saw faint lights off in the distance, as he was sailing his vessel. Immediately he told his signalmen, Signal to them, alter your course ten degrees south. And promptly a message was returned from the other vessel. Alter your course, ten degrees north. The captain. He was angry. His command had been ignored, so he sent a second message. Alter your course ten degrees south. I am the captain. Again, another message was received. Alter your course 10 degrees north I am Seaman Third Class Jones. Immediately the captain sent a third message, knowing that this one would strike the fear it was supposed to evoke. Alter your course ten degrees south. I am a battleship. Then the reply came. Alter your course ten degrees north. I am a lighthouse. In the midst of our dark and foggy times, all sorts of voices are shouting at us to tell us what we should think about our government and how we should relate to it. But out of the darkness One voice signals something quite opposite to the rest. Something that sounds almost absurd to our ears. But that voice happens to belong to the light of the world. And we would do well to heed what he's saying here. And what he's calling us to do as Christians. He's calling us to submit to the governing authorities. And the question I want us to answer next is why, which brings me to point one. Why should we submit to the governing authorities? We should submit to the governing authorities because they are established by God. That's the reason that Paul gives. And he says the same thing in two slightly different ways. Look with me there in verse one. He says that all authority is from God. Authority in the way that Paul is using it refers to the government's power to give orders, make decisions, and enforce obedience. But more important than that, we need to notice where authority comes from And that is from God. There is no authority except from God. Though Paul is speaking about governmental authority here, we must recognize that all human authority in any form, in any setting, in any relationship is derivative. Are you a parent? A husband? A pastor? A church member? An employee? A boss? These are just a few of the many different roles in which we have and use authority. How are you using God's authority in your life today? How are you using the authority that He's given you in the various roles that you have in your life? Oh, friends, know that this authority is not your own, and you will give an account for how you use it. But Paul then clarifies his statement in case there is any confusion about what he says. He goes on to say, those that exist have been instituted by God. All governments that existed in Paul's day, all governments that exist today, all governments that have ever and will ever exist owe their existence to God. So wait, wait, wait, John, are you saying that God has instituted governments that had acted wickedly throughout history? Yes, that's what I'm saying, and I think that's what the scriptures say. Are we saying that the government in North Korea exists because God established it? Or the violent government of communist Russia under Stalin? Or the oppressive regime under the Egyptian government of Pharaoh? Yes, I am saying that, but I'm only saying that because of what Scripture says. Listen to what these passages say. You don't need to turn there. Just listen, maybe write them down if you want to look at later. Romans chapter 9, verse 17. Paul is quoting God's words to Pharaoh of Egypt and says. For this purpose I have raised you up, Pharaoh, that I might show my power in you, and that my name might be proclaimed in all the earth Romans 9, 17. Proverbs chapter 8, verses 15 and 16. By me, says the Lord, kings reign, and rulers decree what is just. By me, princes rule, and all who govern justly. John chapter 19, verse 11, at his trial, Jesus says to Pilate, You would have no authority unless it was given from above. You would have no authority over me at all unless it had been given you from above. Friends, these are just three examples of numerous examples in Scripture of God establishing and instituting the governing authorities. And so I want you to think about when you get into conversations with friends and family who question God's sovereignty over nations and governments, I want to encourage you, dear Christian, to be rapidly scriptural. Be rapidly scriptural. The human tendency is going to backpedal and try to distance God as far from these governments as possible. You're going to try to protect him from having his character called into question by the implication that he was at all involved in the establishing of an existence of a government that would do evil things. But God Doesn't need you or me to protect him. God doesn't need you or me to protect him. He is the sovereign Lord. If these governments could come into existence apart from him and on their own and he had no power to intervene in their evil schemes and wicked actions, then he wouldn't be sovereign. And if he isn't sovereign, then he isn't God. But he is sovereign. And by his sovereign power, he is able to institute governments that act wickedly. Without being ever guilty of sin himself. He always remains the holy, holy, holy Lord in whom there is light and there is no darkness at all. And yet, at the same time, all the men and women who work evil in the governments that God has ordained and instituted are completely responsible for their sins and evil actions, and God will surely bring justice and perfect justice on each and every government official that has sinned in abusing his authority that he's given them. So, how can God be sovereign and man be responsible? You know, I don't know how it actually works itself out. I don't know, but I know that he's greater than me, and I trust God when he says that there are things that I can't know. Remember what Moses said to the Israelites in Deuteronomy 29, verse 29. The secret things belong to the Lord our God, but the things that are revealed belong to us. And to our children forever. So I don't know exactly how his sovereignty and our responsibility work themselves out, but I do know is the Bible is so crystal clear that he is sovereign And we are responsible. God doesn't need us to distance him from establishing governments that do evil He wants us to stand in awe of his sovereign power and wisdom to accomplish his perfect purposes in and through fallen governments. And because God is sovereign in establishing governing authorities, we should be able to confidently submit to those that are over us. And I think that's what Paul wants us to feel and believe in these verses. You see, he's not offering these verses as his all-encompassing theory of how to relate to the state. He's merely, simply, and positively instructing Christians to submit to the governing authorities Submission is your mission as a Christian. Submission is your mission as a Christian I realize that when I say that, some of you are going to recoil, and likely for good reasons. Examples of abuses of authority abound in our world. Husbands abusing their wives, parents abusing their children, governments abusing their people. If you're in a relationship in which you're being called to submit to abuse of authority, I want to encourage you to speak up. Talk to your pastors or your elders. Do not submit to abusive authority. You should speak up for their good and for your own. There are times when speaking up is the right thing to do, and we'll even consider that this morning as we look at this passage. Yet, even with that, we must recognize the pattern that God, the pattern of living that God has called us to is one of submission. Ultimately to Him, knowing that Jesus is not ignorant of our struggles, but Himself took on flesh. and submitted himself to fallen earthly governments. To the kids who were here. You might think that this passage, since it's about government, doesn't have anything to say to you. I can understand why you think that. If you haven't already checked out, let me encourage you to think about this. God has given you your parents to prepare you for learning how to submit to both Him. And to the government. Well, the only difference between him and your parents and the government is that he is perfect and they are not. And you can remind them that I said that. But because he's good, you can submit to them both. How are you doing as kids following your parents' instruction? Submission is our mission as Christians. And it's our mission because God has established the governing authorities And for establishing governments, we should give thanks to God. Because even bad government is better than no government at all. Because no government at all is anarchy, and anarchy is hell's government. Yet in his common grace, God gave government as a way to restrain mankind from becoming as evil as he could be. Right, just a couple days ago I went down into the basement to bring my boys up for dinner. They were playing with their Legos. I say that they were playing with their Legos, but what they were doing was chucking them across the room and laughing wildly while they did it. But that's their way of playing, and I get that. So when I told them that it was time for dinner, you could say that they were displeased. They didn't want to stop throwing their Legos across the room. So one of them begrudgingly started making his way up the stairs. And the other one was so upset that I had to pick him up and physically carry him up the stairs. And as I was carrying him up the stairs, about halfway up, he bucked against me as hard as he could, swinging himself backwards and down over my arm, trying to break loose from my hold. And if he would have broken free from my hold, he would have tumbled down the stairs and seriously hurt himself. If he would have broken free from my hold. And it struck me. That's what God's gracious restraint of us is like by establishing governing authorities. Were He to let go, we would tumble to a disastrous place as a People. So give thanks to God because bad government is better than no government at all. And even though He restrains us, we still rebel against the authorities he's placed in our lives. Which is why Paul warns in verse 2 that to resist or oppose the governing authorities is to oppose God himself. Since he stands behind all authority and gives all authority, those who violate and transgress those earthly authorities are violating and transgressing God's law and God himself. And so that will result in judgment. You see that there at the end of verse 2, and that brings me to my second point. You must submit to the governing authorities because they are God's servants for maintaining. Order. Because God has established them and because they are God's servants for maintaining order. That's what we see in verses 3 to 5. You see there in verses 3 to 5, Paul explains the way in which the judgment he's just mentioned in verse 2 will be carried out. Right? We see that it will be carried out through earthly rulers. Rulers here refers to the highest position in earthly government, but Paul's using it to refer to the whole system of government. They're like the representative of the head. So if you obey the ruler, you obey all who's under him. And that ruler is the one who's going to carry out judgment. And in verses 3 and 4, Paul goes on to explain their God-given role. Look there with me. The first thing I want you to notice in these verses: notice how rulers are described in terms of their relationship to God. Verse four, he is the servant of God. He is a servant or minister of God, all rulers, all officials. All authorities at every level are servants of God. Is your work at all related to the governing authorities and to their maintaining of order? Then you are a servant of God. Are you acting like a servant? Or are you using your position of authority to serve yourself? Frank, consider this. We will all give an account for the way that we use our authority and those who are in the governing authorities and Called to maintain order, have a special obligation to live as servants of God. God has given you your role for a very specific purpose And we see that he goes on to spell that purpose out very clearly. The governing authorities maintain order by commending those who do good and by punishing those who do wrong. And while Paul mentions both aspects here, his emphasis in this section is on their role as agents of justice. Notice in verse 4 that the rulers bear the sword. The sword represents their God-ordained authority to execute justice and to carry it out. And that authority is not a mirage. It's. . Not in vain. . They don't carry the sword in vain. The state has actual power to carry out justice on behalf of God as his servants. But not just as his servants, but as avengers who carry out God's wrath on wrongdoers. I can't help but think about the way that governing authorities in this passage sound like angels. Servants of God who carry the sword of God to bring the justice of God upon a world who has rejected his authority. That's going to happen at the end. And notice how the judgment in verse 2 is replaced by God's wrath in verse 4. Paul wants you to see is that both an earthly and an eternal Judgment are in view. The judgment in verse 2 is the temporal judgment that comes through the rulers who bring as avengers the wrath of God. The wrath of God in the book of Romans always refers to the wrath at the end of time. And so to transgress earthly authorities and to incur judgment at their hands is to be God's warning shot across your bow You are in danger of eternal judgment. Trouble with the law may be God's way of getting your attention, that you are in danger of a greater judgment. And so he repeats the command in verse 5. Be subject to avoid wrath, verses 3 and 4, but also for the sake of a clear conscience before God, verses 1 and 4. and two, because he's behind all authority. Since we know that God is the source of all earthly authority, we know that it's right for the pattern of our lives to be lived in submission to the government. And regarding conscience that he uses up there at the end of verse 5, do you notice how often Paul mentions aspects of it in verses 3 and 4? So look there in verse 3. For rulers are not a terror to good conduct. Rulers cause no fear for good conduct. And then again he uses the word fear, and then he says Do you not want to be afraid of the governing authorities? Afraid he's he's getting into the conscience aspect of our living out in this world. As I was studying the passage this week, I couldn't help but be reminded of my own past life. I can't help but be reminded of the life that I used to live. For the better part of my 20s, I lived in open and blatant opposition to the law and to God. It's a period of life that I never want to go back to for a number of different reasons. But one of the main reasons that I don't want to go back to that period of my life is because for years I lived in fear. I lived in fear every time a cop was behind me. I lived in fear whenever I saw headlights pull into the alley behind my house. I lived in fear anytime a state official came into my place of work because I was breaking the law I was plagued by fear. Every time that somebody came around me who was a state authority, I thought, this is it. They figured me out. This is the end. I wonder. I wonder if that describes you today. I wonder if that describes you today. Are you hiding in some way from the governing authorities Is there something you've done that you know they're gonna find you out for? Do you know yourself to be living in open opposition to the governing authorities and its laws Friend, whether or not you've been caught makes no difference at all. One thing is clear from this passage is that there is one who is greater than the government, and he sees all things. His justice will be perfect. For those of you who are here who are non-Christians, I want you to understand that whether or not you've ever been guilty of breaking a law in this land or not or any other land, it says nothing about your relationship with God You could be perfectly innocent according to the laws of this land and totally guilty before God. Because all of us have broken his laws, sinned, and rebelled against him. We do it every day. The Bible is clear that it's possible to be a law-abiding citizen of the state while openly breaking God's law In fact, all people and all nations have done so and are guilty before him. Yet God has made a way for you, friend, to be forgiven of breaking his law. He sent his son, Jesus Christ, the perfect, sinless one, to live a perfect life that God demands, completely keeping all the laws of the land, insofar as they honor God and were in line with God's commands. Never breaking one of God's commands. He kept the law perfectly. He was crucified to take our punishment. And three days after he was buried, he got up from the dead. and proclaim his victory over sin and death and hell and offers eternal life to lawbreakers like you and me. It is a glorious truth. Turn to him today for the forgiveness of your sins, and the Father will welcome you with open arms. Turn to him, friend. For those who follow Jesus, we should be sure to give praise to God and thank those who work within the authority structures of this land, because when those who do good are being commended, and those who do evil are being rightly punished punished, Then the government is working in accordance with God's good design. I'm in no way saying that it's carried out perfectly, but it does happen in our country with regularity, and for that we should be thankful. And we should be praying for it also more and more of that. How often are you praying for those in authority over you? How often are you praying for the authorities of other lands? Paul, remember his encouragement to Timothy, pray for kings and those in authority. Why? Because the book of Proverbs says, the hearts of kings are in the hand of God, and you can turn them whichever way you can. He wills. Be praying for those in authority over you. Plead with the Lord to raise up public servants in this country and other countries who will be concerned with righteousness and justice. Pray for that to happen, friends. And we must plead with the Lord because even with all of the ways our government does carry out its work in accordance with God's good design for government, there are so many ways in which it fails to act justly and for the good of its people. So what do we do when that happens? What do we do when the government punishes good and rewards evil and approves evil? As we take Paul's teaching in Romans 13, we lift it up, and we set it in the context of the broader scope of Scripture. Of living under fallen human government, we see that there are in fact times when God approves of his people not submitting to the authorities that he has established. One example we see in Scripture is of the Hebrew midwives in Exodus chapter 1, verses 15 and 20. The king of Egypt commands the midwives to kill the male Hebrew children as they're born, yet the midwives feared God and did not do as the king of Egypt commanded them. That was his law. And so the Lord dealt well with the midwives Another example we see is in Acts 5, verses 27 to 32. Peter and the apostles are strictly commanded not to preach the gospel by the high priest. And Peter famously responds: we must obey God. rather than men. We also see other examples in the book of Daniel and Revelation. And so, if there is evidence in Scripture Of God approving of his people, not submitting to the government, when is this behavior okay? When is this behavior okay The most concise answer I can give is that civil disobedience is okay when the law commands what God forbids or forbids what God commands. When the law commands what God forbids or forbids what God commands. That's a simple and clear answer. The issue is every situation is not simple nor clear. We need to recognize that it's not always clear. There are times when the laws of a particular land don't explicitly violate a command of God. Yet are so evidently unjust and evil that civil disobedience may be warranted. What do you do then? And friend, this is where I want you to know we're getting into the realm of conscience. And as it's a matter of conscience in working with wise counsel to figure out what the Lord has said, we should respect one another. Deal kindly with one another, and remember Paul's commands for in his instruction for how Christians should communicate with one another in Ephesians chapter five. Let all anger and wrath and malice and clamor and slander be put away from you, right? Do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God that's among us. So as we think about these issues, we want to think with unity in mind and God's justice in mind. So when it's unclear, what do you do then? I can't give you clear answers. This wouldn't be the appropriate place to do that. But in situations like that, you need to consider at least two factors First, you should consider how horrifying the action is that's been authorized by the law. Are they putting up a new stop sign? Or are they making it okay, though not explicitly commanding, for thousands of people to be killed? You see the difference there? How horrifying is the action that's been authorized by the law. Second, you should consider the magnitude of the results of the law. Will only one or two people be affected, or hundreds of thousands, or even millions? Consider the magnitude of the law. Depending on the answers to these questions, some Christians may determine that civil disobedience is the right response, and others may not. Those who would desire to pursue civil disobedience or are thinking about it, I would encourage you to surround yourself with wise counsel. Talk to pastors and other Christians around you. So if it is the case that we would move forward and take the route of civil disobedience, we need to ask then as Christians what it should look like. What should it look like? And the answer we find in Scripture is that civil disobedience should be characterized by respectful defiance. respectful defiance and a willingness to accept the punishment handed down by the state. Recall, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego in Daniel 3, after being told to bow down and worship the statue of Nebuchadnezzar, they didn't throw stones. They didn't riot. They didn't hurl insults. They simply spoke the truth. We will not serve your gods or worship the golden image you have set up. Then they were thrown into the furnace. Think about it, a couple chapters later, Daniel. Daniel respectfully defies the edict prohibiting prayer to any other God but King Darius, the man, the human, the one who is not God. And then Daniel, after respectfully defying that edict, is thrown into the lion's den. We should also recall Jesus in John 19. When being questioned by Pilate, he respectfully defies Pilate by speaking the truth to him, to Pilate, about where his authority truly comes from, and then accepts his punishment. If we are ever to engage in civil disobedience of any kind, we must be marked by respectful defiance. We should not engage in hostile, aggressive, or violent protest. Our Lord submitted himself He submitted himself willingly to the evil actions of an unjust government so that we, rebels by nature, could be forgiven. Our life now as Christians is lived in the shadow of the cross. We take up our cross daily And one of the ways that we take up our cross in this life is living in such a way that the normal pattern of our lives is to be lived in submission to the governing authorities. And that brings me to my third and final point. We must submit to the governing authorities by supporting them in their work. We must submit to the governing authorities by supporting them in their work. That's what we see in verses six and seven. After giving two reasons for why you must submit to the governing authorities in the first five verses, Paul then provides some practical application about what that will look like. And the first example that Paul offers in verse 6 is paying taxes. Look there with me. He says, for because of this you also pay taxes. Just a quick quick note on how Paul's transitioning in this argument. The this there, I don't think, refers to the conscience, which if you look at the passage, it makes it sound like he's saying, for because of count, conscience you also pay taxes. But I don't think that's what he's saying. I think what Paul is saying there, the this in verse 6 refers to the work of maintaining order that Paul has just outlined in the first in verses 3 and 4. He's saying, because the governing authorities maintain order, you pay taxes. Notice again what Paul calls them. They're servants of God. Servants of God. The word he uses is the same that describes a work done by priests in the Old Testament temple of Israel. Here, in this passage, all the world and all the earth is seen as God's temple, and even secular rulers, whether unconsciously or not. are God's servants. And since they serve in his earthly temple, devoting themselves to the maintaining of order, they should be paid for their work. They should be paid for their work. And so Paul goes on to conclude by commanding Christians to pay to all governing authorities what is due to them. Verse 7: Taxes to whom taxes are owed. Revenue to whom revenue is owed. Parking tickets toom parking tickets or building permits to building permits or a jury duty to jury No, wait, that's not in there. But those are the types of applications that I think Paul has in mind when he's talking about taxes and revenue. All entities that work for the maintenance of order that you owe money to, you should pay them for their work. Taxes were and always have been the grand sign of submission to a governing authority. So it's no surprise that Paul uses a specific application to be drawn from his teaching here. He's simply joining with Jesus and saying that this is one important responsibility of a Christian, right? Recall Jesus' words in the Gospels. When asked about whether or not it was right to pay taxes, he said, give to Caesar what is Caesar's. A Christian is to support his government by paying taxes. Well, what about all the awful things our government might do with the money? Surely Paul couldn't have that in mind, John, right? Friends, Paul wrote this letter when Nero was emperor of Rome. And under his reign, Rome was a godless Anti-Christian persecuting regime. Yet Paul calls these Roman Christians to pay their taxes. God will judge every governing official for every penny they've used for wicked purposes. He calls you and me To pay our taxes. And since it is tax season, a brief word on taxes is due. Those of you familiar with this church will know that we never stop for the church calendar. We just keep preaching through series. But we will always line up a sermon as long as it lines up with tax season. Right? Just kidding. I'm just kidding. We didn't plan this sermon for now. The spirit led, and it just so happens to be on taxis In all seriousness, how are you doing on your taxes? I don't mean have you finished them and turned them in. Right? It's not what I mean. Not have you completed them, but how faithful and honest have you been in completing them As Christians, we need to be aware that God is concerned with sins of commission, sins that we actively commit, and sins of omission Sins that we commit by failing to do them, by looking the other way. Just not gonna pay attention to that over there. Right? Have you actively altered numbers Or manipulated the system in any way that breaks the law, or have you chosen to turn a blind eye to ways that you might be benefiting unlawfully? I ask you this. Thinking that as long as you don't know it does thinking that as long as you don't know that it doesn't matter Friends, consider Jesus' approach to his father's law and how we're to be an example that we follow it or we're to follow in his example. Think about Jesus' approach to his father's law Where would we be if he chose to turn a blind eye to some areas of God's law? We would be dead in trespasses and sins. Friends, this is where the rubber meets the road of God's authority being behind all human authority. Do you pay attention to what you're doing with your taxes? And are you being Honest. If not, confess and repent. God rejoices to forgive sinners. You don't need to hide it from him. He sees it. He's God. We've already covered his sovereignty, right? Do it for the sake of conscience, in the sight of God. I commend that to you. Paul then moves from the specifics of tax and revenue to the general obligation to respect and honor all who are placed over us in God's gracious ordering of society. And as Paul makes a transition from tax and revenue to respect and honor, we can hear echoes again, right? Echoes again of Jesus' teaching on taxes. Recall the fuller account in the gospel. He's asked if it's lawful to pay taxes to Caesar. And so he asks for a coin, right? Takes the coin, looks at it. Whose inscription's on it? Caesar's, they say. Right? So he replies, give to Caesar what is Caesar's, pay your taxes. And to God what is God's He's driving home the point there, friends, that since God's image is inscripted on them, they should give their lives to serving God. Friends, when we think about respect and honor, we need to understand that the reason, one of the reasons we show honor and respect to our president and to all who work to govern society. is because he and they are made in the image of God. Whose image is on them? Same image. It's on you, friend. God's image. And not only that, but because God has endowed their positions with divine authority that requires honor and respect. We do not treat them according to their actions, but according to their position. I suppose there's an analogy there with our own salvation, right? God doesn't treat us as Christians according to our actions, but according to our position in Christ. Remember that when you think about speaking about a governing official of this land or any other land. We should never speak maliciously Spitefully, belligerently, mockingly, or hatefully toward those in authority over us. We honor them by refusing to speak disrespectfully of them. How are you doing with that? How are you doing with that? What do your tweets and retweets and posts say about your respect for God? and the honor that he's established governing authorities with. Now I'm not saying you never speak up. I know some of you are in the business, it's part of your job, to disagree with To even speak critically of those in governing authorities and other positions. I am not telling you you should not do that. But what I am saying is that if that's your job, you should think very clearly, carefully, about what you're saying and how you're saying it, and even help other Christians come alongside you to think about the ways that you're going to be crafting those messages. There is a world watching us There's a world watching us as Christians. And I fear that all too often when they watch Christians talk about those in authority, it's like they're looking in the mirror. Right? What's different about the way that you speak about those in authority over you than your non-Christian friends? To my non-Christian friend, I want to apologize for the ways that we as Christians fail to live out these commands the way that we should. I want to apologize for the ways that we fail to live out these commands the way that we should. We still struggle with sin, and sin sometimes gets the better of us. But I'm also confident, also confident that if you asked each of us Why we can submit to fallen union government in such a confident and respectful way? It's because we know that this government isn't the one that we were made for. I couldn't help but reflect with sadness this past week that the only reason, the only reason. We even have to sit and listen to this sermon about submitting to fallen human government is because in the beginning our first parents chose to reject God's perfect government And chose to rule themselves. And we all have made the same choice. That's why we're sitting here listening to this sermon For all its benefits and blessings, even our democracy falls far short of the government God intended us to live under. And since we rejected God's government, he sent his son to come down from heaven to submit himself to the tyranny of fallen earthly government so that we could be freed from the bondage to our sins and know the joy of living in submission to Him as our ultimate authority. Friends, our submission now in this life shows off his great character as a God who can be trusted Our submission to falling governments now shows off the sure hope that we have a greater and more perfect government coming. The divine monarchy of our Lord Jesus Christ. That is the government you should desire to replace this government with. Come, Lord Jesus, come. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for establishing governments in our world that we might not fall into a pit of anarchy. We pray, Father, that you would establish more righteous governments, and even more than that, that you would send your Son to establish his perfect government here on earth Come, Lord Jesus, come, we pray. We ask in your name, Lord Jesus. Amen.