Never forget. Never forget. Always remember. Always remember. Phrases like these are often used to memorialize important events in our lives, whether these events be tragic, life-altering. And we use phrases like these because we understand that there's something innate in the event itself that should be remembered. These phrases remind us of the heartaches suffered, the lives lost, the lessons learned. But we do also need to understand that there's something else that these phrases communicate to us. Phrases like these remind us that we Are a forgetful people. We are a forgetful people. And in our time together this morning, we're going to look at an account of a people Who were forgetful like us. And we're going to see how God responds to them. So if you have your Bibles with you, go ahead and open to Ezekiel chapter 12 If you're using one of the Pew Bibles, you can find Ezekiel chapter 12 on page 699. I'd encourage you to go ahead and open up the Bible to have it open before you the whole sermon. We're going to be jumping around. We've got 12, 13 chapters to cover this morning, so we're going to be looking at a lot of different things in these chapters. If you're not familiar with reading the Bible, it may be helpful to know that when I reference chapter and verse numbers, the chapters, the big bold number that you see there in the Bible, and the the verse numbers are the smaller numbers that follow. But let me before we begin, let me take a moment to remind you of what we've seen thus far. So in the first 11 chapters of Ezekiel, we've seen the Lord appear to Ezekiel on his divine throne chariot. To commission Ezekiel to carry a word of warning, a prophecy of judgment to the Israelites who were in exile in Babylon. Then in chapter 4, which we looked at last time, 4 to 11, he actually carries out the message of judgment. He begins proclaiming the coming judgment. And in our chapters today, they fall into a lot one larger section that runs from chapter 4 to chapter 24. Last time we looked at 4 to 11. So today we're going to look at 12 to 24. And in our passages today, the drumbeat of judgment continues. Ezekiel's called to carry out more prophecies of judgment. But there's also something else that's a little unique about the the chapters we're looking at this morning. They don't offer much of a structure to us. He seems to jump back and forth between subjects. So before we get to the kind of the main lesson for this morning, what I want us to do is just walk through each of the chapters. I'm just going to give you a one-sentence summary of each of the chapters so that you can kind of see what's there because we're not going to have an opportunity this morning to look at all of it. We're going to be looking at specific parts of these chapters that I think tell us what's going on in all the chapters. Sound good? Alright, so go ahead and look down with me at chapter 12. The section that we're looking at opens up in chapter 12 with Ezekiel being called to act out two more mini-dramas. So you remember in chapter 4, he was called to act out some of the judgment. And chapter 12, he's acting out the coming exile of the king and the house of Israel. They are going to be exiled permanently from Jerusalem. Then in chapter 13, Ezekiel turns to condemn the false prophets for failing to properly carry out their duty. They did not call the people to repent of their sins. They even went as far as telling the people who were going to be judged by God that everything was okay. They preach peace, peace. And Ezekiel says, there was no peace. So he carries out this condemnation of them in chapter 13. In chapter 14, he condemns the elders of Israel for their idolatry. We remember that from 4 to 11. And he promises judgment on Jerusalem. Then in chapters 15 and 16, we see these images start to appear. Ezekiel uses a lot of images in these chapters. You have an image of a charred vine and Chapter 15 is to show that Jerusalem has become useless. And in chapter 16, the adulterous woman is used to describe the faithlessness of the people of Israel. Chapter 16 is possibly the most devastating prophecy and description of the faithlessness of Israel in all the Old Testament. If you have time this afternoon, I'd encourage you to read it. It is sobering. Then in chapter 17, we turn to chapter 17, he tells a parable about the failings of the kings of Israel who trusted in the king of Egypt for salvation rather than trusting in God. That's what the parable with the two eagles and the vine is about. Then in chapter 18, God delivers a speech about his perfect justice. The soul that sins will die. And in chapter 19, he turns to lament again the end of the Davidic dynasty. It's basically a lament for all the kings of Israel. They've all failed. This Davidic dynasty that was once supposed to be a beacon of hope for the nation had utterly fallen into ruins, and the last of their kings was had his eyes put out in the nation of Babylon. It's a an awful end to their dynasty. Then in chapter 20, Ezekiel recounts the faithlessness of Israel, except this time he doesn't use the image of adulterous woman. This time he just goes step by step through their history. He was look there, generation after generation has rejected the Lord. Then in chapter 21, the Lord prophesies of the coming judgment that will fall upon all the land. Why is he bringing judgment? Because it's a nation that sheds innocent blood. They are a nation of people who shed innocent blood. They are the sons of Cain Not Abel. Chapter 22 assures us that this judgment against Israel is right, as their land is described. Excuse me, chapter 22 is about the shedding of blood. Then we look at chapter 23. Ezekiel returns to the image of an adulterous woman, this time describing two different women, but both meant to describe his people. And then finally the section comes to a close in chapter 24. As all these prophecies of judgment that we've been looking at, you know, so when the Lord appeared in chapter 1 to where we are in chapter 24, this happens over the course of years. And all these prophecies of judgment in 24 finally come true. Look at me at chapter 24, verse 1. In the ninth year, in the tenth month, on the tenth day of the month, the word of the Lord came to me. Son of man, write down the name of this day. This very day. The king of Babylon has laid siege to Jerusalem this very day So all these prophecies that have been coming to the Israelites in exile over the last two to three years have come true. The Lord is faithful and he carries out what he promised. So that's what's going on in these chapters. But the lesson that I want us to see today as we focus in on chapters 12 to 24, what I want us to take away from these chapters is that first Israel is faithless. It's going to be point one. Israel is faithless. And two, God is faithful. That's what we see in these 13 chapters. Israel is faithless and God is faithful And when we look at point two, we'll see two subpoints for those of you who take notes, who are helped by that. God is faithful to judge. And God is faithful to save. So that's where we're going to be headed this morning. So first, first, Israel Is faithless. That is the shout from the mountaintop message and theme of these chapters. The chosen people of God are corrupt at every layer of society. All are corrupt. Look at me at God's description of them in chapter 22. I'm going to read for us, chapter 22, verses 23 to 30. And the word of the Lord came to me. Son of man, say to her, You are a land that is not cleansed or reigned upon in the day of indignation. The conspiracy of her prophets in her midst is like a roaring lion tearing the prey. They have devoured human lives. They have taken treasures and precious things. They have made many widows in her midst. Her priests have done violence to my law and have profaned my holy things. They have made no distinction between the holy and the common, neither have they taught the difference between the unclean and the clean, and they have disregarded my Sabbaths, so that I am profaned among them. Or princes in her midst are like wolves tearing the prey, shedding blood, destroying lives to get dishonest gain. And her prophets have smeared, whitewash for them, seeing false visions, and divining lies for them, saying, Thus says the Lord God, when the Lord has not spoken. The people of the land have practiced extortion and committed robbery. They have oppressed the poor and needy and have extorted from the sojourner without justice. And I sought for a man among them who should build up the wall and stand in the breach before me for the land, that I should not destroy it. But I found none. From the prince to the priest to the prophet to all the people, all of them are faithless. And what we see in these chapters is that Israel's faithlessness Is rooted in their forgetfulness. Israel's faithlessness is rooted in their forgetfulness. They have forgotten the Lord. Look with me at chapter 22, verse 12. You can just draw your eyes up there. In you, they take bribes to shed blood. You take interest and profit and make gain off your neighbors by extortion, but me, you have forgotten, declares the Lord God. This idea of Israel's forgetfulness, forgetting the covenant, is repeated throughout. So if you want to write these down, you can look at them later. Chapter 16, verse 22. Chapter 16, verse 43. Chapter 23, verse 35. And the thing that we need to recognize about this forgetfulness is that it's scandalous. It's scandalous. It's not like they've walked outside of their house and forgotten where they parked their car. This isn't like a simple kind of forgetfulness This is an intentional spurning and rejecting of the Lord's covenant and his commands. They are intentionally turning away from what they know to be true. They know from these chapters, from what God has recounted to them, that they would be nothing without Him. They would be nothing without him, and they could care less. They could care less about his grace. Look in me at chapter 16. Let me read to us verses 1 to 15. Chapter sixteen, verses one to fifteen Again, the word of the Lord came to me. Son of man, make known to Jerusalem her abominations, and say, Thus says the Lord God to Jerusalem. Your origin and your birth are of the land of the Canaanites. Your father was an Amorite and your mother a Hittite. And as for your birth, on the day you were born, your cord was not cut, nor were you washed with water to cleanse you, nor rubbed with salt, nor wrapped in swaddling cloths. No eye pitied you to do any of these things to you out of compassion for you, but you were cast out on the open field, for you were abhorred on the day that you were born And when I passed by you and saw you wallowing in your blood, I said to you in your blood, live. I said to you in your blood, live. I made you flourish like a plant of the field, and you grew up and became tall and arrived at full adornment. Your breasts were formed and your hair had grown, yet you were naked and bare. And when I passed by you again and saw you, behold, you were at the age for love. And I spread the corner of my garment over you and covered your nakedness. I made my vow to you. And entered into a covenant with you, declares the Lord God, and you became mine. Then I bathed you with water and washed off your blood from you and anointed you with oil. I clothed you also with embroidered cloth and shod you with fine leather. I wrapped you in fine linen and covered you with silk. And I adorned you with ornaments and put bracelets on your wrists and a chain on your neck. And I put a ring on your nose and earrings and your ears and a beautiful crown on your head Thus you were adorned with gold and silver, and your clothing was of fine linen and silk and embroidered cloth. You ate fine flour and honey and oil. You grew exceedingly beautiful and advanced to royalty, and your renown went forth among the nations because of your beauty For it was perfect through the splendor that I had bestowed on you, declares the Lord God. But you trusted in your beauty and played the whore. Because of your renown and lavish your whorrings on any passerby. Your beauty became his. God is painting with broad and beautiful brush strokes to communicate to Israel the grace that he has shown them. They were completely helpless, like a helpless babe cast out on an open field, left for dead. Yet the Lord in his divine condescendent, he passed by them. He stooped down to pick them up. He spoke life to them. He gave them life. He gave them life And then he heaped upon them grace upon grace, adorning Israel with the finest gifts, making her beautiful. And she. She responded to unbelievable grace with unspeakable rebellion Israel trusted in their beauty. They didn't even say thank you. Look at these verses He just goes on a tangent about how kind he's been to them and all he's done for them. There is not even the slightest hint of thanks anywhere in this passage. They're gone. The Lord adorns him with grace upon grace. See you later. I am beautiful. The world should look at me That's what they're doing. I mean, this is awful. Look at how quickly they turn from God and become proud. Oh, friends, beware of pride. Pride is like a flower whose roots are named rebellion There is nothing sanctified in being proud. Rejecting God and trusting in yourself is like stepping off of a spaceship with no tether. You have nothing to hold on to. Nothing can bring you back. And the sin that you've turned from God to pursue, it will not satisfy. It will not satisfy. Look at me at uh verses 28 and 29 of chapter 16. You played the whore also with the Assyrians because you were not satisfied. Yes, you played the whore with them and still you were not satisfied. You multiplied your whoring with the trading land of Chaldea and even with this, you were not satisfied. Friend, has sin ever lastingly and fully satisfied you? Has it ever sin never satisfies It's the illusion of water in a desert when your mouth is parched. It's like moths on the garment of your soul. It will eat you away until nothing is left. It is the universal acid. Sin is the universal acid. It will burn through and eat through all that is good and holy and pure and leave in its wake an appetite that cannot be filled. That's what sin does. It never fulfills. It's because that appetite was meant to be filled by God. And since God has shown us as the new covenant people a much greater grace and display of love that He showed to Israel, How much worse will it be for us if we intentionally forget God and His commandments and give way to sin in our lives? How much worse will it be for us? And to fight against turning away from God, we need to be a people who remind one another of the grace that God has shown us. The church, this gathering, this local body needs to be like a giant AA meeting. I'm not talking about Alcoholics Anonymous. I'm talking about Amnesiacs Anonymous. Amnesiacs Anonymous, we will all walk out out of these doors today. And I'm confident That many, if not all of us, will forget the grace that God has shown us that we even look at this morning. We are forgetful people. We need to be a place where people share openly about their amnesia, where we're encouraged and reminded about God's grace in our lives. Seriously, let me start. Hey, y'all. My name's John, and I'm an amnesiac. No, seriously, this past week, this past week, I struggled to mourn with those who mourn. I know that God calls me to do this, but I was too proud. I didn't know how to empathize and sympathize with those who were different from me. I know that God told me that I have nothing to fear, that I should not be anxious for anything. But me, this past week My heart would not be silent because I was thinking about the circumstances that are present in my life, and I could not trust in him to the point that I didn't even turn and ask him for help. I need y'all to help me Remind me of God's grace. That's the type of people that we need to be. So that means you need to be the type of person who when somebody shares with you the way that they've turned from God's grace. That they feel comfortable going to you. We shouldn't be surprised when people come to us with their struggles. That's like saying you don't even think that you struggle. I mean, just look at yourself in the mirror, right? Let's welcome people coming to us and be a comforting reminder to them of God's grace to them. Because we ourselves know that we too forget God's grace. Right? Let's be that kind of people. It's part and parcel of the Christian life And fundamentally, giving in to sin is an intentional rejecting and forgetting of the grace that God has shown us in Christ. And it reveals our faithlessness. It shows us to be just like faithless Israel. Yet even though Israel is faithless, God is faithful. That brings us to our second point. The second thing we learn from these chapters is that God is faithful. We see first that God is faithful to judge. He displays his faithfulness by remembering his covenant promises. And he remembers his covenant promises in two different ways in these chapters, that he is faithful and will remember to judge them in the way that he promised to carry out judgment. And he is going to be faithful to carry out salvation in the way that he promised to carry out salvation. We see that his judgment here, that God is faithful to judge, that his judgment is certain. It's certain it's the persistent drumbeat. The chapters sing the sorrow of a woeful and fallen people who have completely forsaken the Lord. And so God prosecutes them for their sinfulness, promising a sure and certain judgment. At the close of these chapters, it's as if the Lord knows that his people will doubt his sincerity. And that's what that's what the people of God do throughout the Old Testament. They're going to continue pushing the limits of the rebellion. So right there in the middle of chapter 24. In the middle of chapter 24, we find this terrifying promise. In all of the book of Ezekiel, I think if you're looking for the most frightening and clear reference to the fact that God will judge his people. It's chapter 24, verses 13 and 14. Let me go ahead and read that for you. On account of your unclean lewdness. And because I would have cleansed you, and you were not cleansed from your uncleanness You shall not be cleansed anymore till I have satisfied my fury upon you. I am the Lord. I have spoken. It shall come to pass. I will do it. I will not go back. I will not spare. I will not relent. According to your ways and your deeds, you will be judged, declares the Lord God. If you doubt his sincerity, read that verse again. The Lord will carry it out in perfect accordance with his word. And friends, this is a promise to all mankind because Israel's forgetting of God And rejecting his covenant is a microcosm in this book of how all mankind has forgotten God and rejected his rule. These verses apply to all humanity. It's a picture of the covenant that was broken in the garden when our first parents, Adam and Eve, rejected God, choosing their own way. And now we, all like sheep, have gone astray, each to his own way. And God will judge all mankind for our forgetting of him. He will not forget his promises to judge all who have sinned against him. And so if you're here and you don't follow Jesus, I just want you to hear this as a solemn and loving warning. God will judge you for your rebellion against him. You will suffer an eternal conscious separation from the Lord after your death that will not end. That is the solemn warning and the loving warning that I have for you this morning. If you're tempted to think that you have nothing to worry about because things just seem to keep seem to keep on going as they always have. Go ahead and look at me. Let me show you. This is exactly what the Israelites thought. Turn with me to chapter 12, verse 22. If you're tempted to think, okay, I hear that warning of judgment, but man, life is just going on. Nothing ever seems to happen. Chapter 12, verse 22. Son of man, what is this proverb that you have about the land of Israel saying, The days grow long and every vision comes to nothing? That means the people had come up with a saying on their own that they had heard prophecies of judgment for long enough and nothing ever seemed to occur, so they They say all these visions, they never seem to come to anything. What's God's response to that? Tell them therefore, thus says the Lord God. I will put an end to this proverb, and they shall no more use it as a proverb in Israel. Their skepticism Their skepticism of hearing prophecies of judgment that seemed to go unfulfilled became like calluses on their heart. Like cotton balls in their ears. Made it impossible for them to hear true and right prophecies. But please understand that God delays his judgment for a time. God delays his judgment for a time, not so that you would become skeptical. But so that you would turn and trust in him. I'm sure we all understand this that God would delay for a time, right? We all understand the phrase, enough is enough. Right? Somebody annoys you or hurts you or does something very harmful to you time after time after time till eventually you say enough is enough Now I'm going to do something about it. This is an analog of what happens with the Lord. He's patient with his people. He delays his punishment so that we would see his mercy and turn to him in the time that we've been given. And see the heart of his patience. Look in the at chapter 18, verse 23. See the heart of his patience. These warnings of judgment can make it sound like God is just completely angry. But we need to see what he says about himself. Chapter 18, verse 23. Have I any pleasure in the death of the wicked, declares the Lord God, and not rather that he should turn from his way and live? And look again at verse 32, 1832, for I have no pleasure in the death of anyone, declares the Lord God. So turn And live, so turn and live. Do you hear the call of the Father beckoning you today? Turn and live. Why would you persist in rebellion against a loving God who is holy with sure and certain judgment, but who offers forgiveness? Why? Why? That's the only question that comes to my mind. Why? He is good. Hear his call to turn How long? How long if you persist in denying and rejecting that call? How long do you think God should allow you to persist before he says enough is enough And can you trust that your answer is God's answer? Friend, you have no certainty that today isn't your last day. These last weeks, if nothing else, should teach us that. Be made right with God. Do not persist in sin. But if you choose to persist in sin. God will be faithful. He will judge you. He will not. He will not turn away from judging you because he is perfectly And his judgment is just. That's the other thing we see here about the certain judgment is just judgment. That's what we see in chapter 18. Go ahead and turn with me to chapter 18 if you're not already there. You'll notice there that the land of Israel had become full of proverbs. These people had turned away from the Lord and had kind of come up with their own sayings of wisdom, wise, pithy things that the people of Israel would say. And we see here that the Lord is responding to another one of these proverbs. Look in verses 1 and 2. The word of the Lord came to me. What do you mean by repeating this proverb concerning the land of Israel? The fathers have eaten sour grapes and the children's teeth are set on edge. You know, so common among the Israelites of this day. It was this idea that the exiles, these Israelites who Ezekiel's talking to, that they thought they were innocent. And that they were actually being punished for the sins of their forefathers. So if you look at the Proverb, that's what it means. The fathers eat the sour grapes, and the children make the funny face. That's it, the teeth are set on edge. It's like saying the father stubs the toe and the child shouts in pain. Right? So that the children are being punished. That's what they think is going on. But we see here that the this idea that they're paying for their sins was a mistaken understanding of God's promise in the Ten Commandments, where he said that he would punish the children for the sins of their fathers. The commandment there is meant to warn parents of the consequences that their actions will have on their children. You'll remember, even in that commandment, it says to the third and fourth generation. Well, in Israel's time If the father walked in wickedness, he would probably have three or four generations of children around him who would then follow in his footsteps. And then they would be punished for their own sins. They're not being punished because of their father's sins. The father's sins affect them, then they walk in wickedness and are themselves punished. Right? This is clear even in the Old Testament. So Deuteronomy chapter 24 verse 16. Very clear. You don't have to turn there This is what it says. Fathers shall not be put to death because of their children, nor shall children be put to death because of their fathers. Each one Shall be put to death for his own sins. God will show mercy to those who walk in faithfulness. And God will be just to those who do not. That's the point of all of chapter 18. And so the principle has always been the same. So the fact that the Israelites were suffering in exile was a testament to their own personal sinfulness and transgressions against God. It wasn't anyone's other anyone else's fault. And so for God's people, the fact that God is just The fact that guys just should be a comforting reminder to us in times like these. This should be a comforting reminder to us in times like these. With the horrific attacks in Nice this past week. And to the questions surrounding the police shootings and the subsequent attack in Dallas, it's easy to fall into despair, wondering, wondering if justice will ever be done. But brothers and sisters, be reminded that the God that you serve and love is a perfectly just God. Not one injustice that has ever occurred will go unpunished. This is your rock, solid hope in Christ. Every wrong will be made right. Every crooked path will be made straight. And because God is just, we should respond by leaving vengeance to Him. Because God is just, we respond by leaving vengeance to Him. Vengeance is not a weight that humans were meant to carry. It's not a sword that we are wise enough to swing. We are too innately self-interested to see situations objectively, especially situations in which we feel personally involved. Human vengeance corrupts, corrodes, and destroys everything it touches, even the one who is carrying it out. But holy vengeance. Holy vengeance is good and right. It heals. It restores. It makes all things new. Because God sees all things as they are. God sees all things as they are. Every motivation, every desire, every internal dialogue that's going on with every action that's been carried out is laid bare before him. And he weighs out the human heart perfectly. He knows all who have committed injustice. And that leaves us with the question though If God is just and the soul that sins shall die, how can we come with confidence to God today? If God is just and the soul that sins will die, how can we come with confidence to God today? And how can you, if you don't follow Jesus, know that God will accept you if you turn to Him today? That's because God is faithful. Not only is he faithful to judge, but he's faithful to save. That's our second subpoint. God is faithful to save. So a number of years ago when I was still in the Coast Guard, I was homeported. That was my home base, was in Astoria, Oregon. It was on the upper northwest coast of Oregon right on the Columbia River. And like with most uh waterbound units, we were regularly out to sea. We were regularly out to sea. And so one of the responsibilities that I had on that boat from time to time, it wasn't my only responsibility, but one of them was to man the helm. And so for those of you who don't know ships, that means to be behind the wheel. So I would have to get behind the wheel of the ship from time to time, and I would have to steer it. I would have to steer it. But what you need to know about the Pacific Northwest and especially that area of the ocean surrounding it is that it is violent. It is a violent place to be. It's a frightful and terrifying beast. Storms will erupt on that ocean like a volcano just spewing fury. And the darkness will come as the clouds descend, and the waters will lift you up, 15, 20, 30-foot swells, tossing the boat back and forth. And while you're manning the helm, your only hope is that the buoys are working and that their lights are on. So as I'm being tossed back and forth trying to hold this helm, trying to keep the ship on course, my eyes are fixed on those Buoys, those lights are my only hope to be led back into safe waters, back into our home port. And friend, when we look at the frightful, terrifying judgment that is like the sea of the Pacific Northwest, that is the chapters of 12 to 24. Our hope are the promises of God to save in these chapters. In the darkness and terrifying storm that is chapters 12 to 24. The hope of anyone who reads them is to keep their eyes fixed on these beacons of hope that will lead them back to God's grace. That's what God's promises or salvation are like in these chapters. They are beacons of hope. And we see in these chapters that he would establish a new covenant with his chosen people Now people who would be marked by repenting of sin, turning and trusting in him And now we see more about how God would work on behalf of his people to establish his covenant with his chosen people. So we remember in our last study that God would give them a new heart and put a spirit inside of them. That's one way. In chapters 12 to 24, these beacons of hope lay out further explaining the ways that God would save his people. He would make atonement for them Look at me at chapter sixteen, verses fifty-nine to sixty-three. For thus says the Lord God I will deal with you as you have done. You who have despised the oath and breaking the covenant. Yet I will remember my covenant with you in the days of your youth, and I will establish for you an everlasting covenant. Then you will remember your ways and be ashamed when you take your sisters, both your elder and your younger, and I give them to you as daughters, but not on account of the covenant with you. I will establish my covenant with you, and you shall know that I am the Lord, that you may remember and be confounded, and never open your mouth again because of your shame. When I atone for you, for all that you have done, declares the Lord. The sisters mentioned they're symbolically referred to surrounding cities that will be restored along with the people of Israel when God carries out this salvation. But what's most important here, what's most important here for us is that we notice how. How God will establish that covenant there. Did you see that? Look there at the end of those verses. I will establish my covenant with you. And you shall know that I am the Lord, that you may remember and be confounded and never open your mouth again because of your shame when I atone. When I atone for you, for all that you have done. This idea of atonement would have been well known to the Israelites because once a year on the Day of Atonement the high priest would bring forward two goats from the flock to offer as a sacrifice for the sins of the people of Israel. to make atonement for them. So this is probably where their mind would have gone when they read this. One would be sacrificed and offered at the temple. And the other would have the sins of the people symbolically placed on its head by the high priest laying its hands on the animal and then confessing over it all the sins of the people, and then that goat would be sent out into the wilderness. To take the sins of the people far away from them, where the sins would surely die with that goat who is helpless. And so as they hear this idea of the Lord making atonement for all that they had done, they must have been thinking in the same way, he'll probably offer some sort of sacrifice. It could be like the old ones, it may be different, probably thinking that he's just going to atone in the same way. I don't think they could have fathomed I don't think they could have fathomed the personal involvement, the personal interest and action that God was planning to take when He said, When I Tone for you for all that you have done. God is established promising the establishment of a new covenant that would be based not on the blood of bulls and goats. but on his personally taking responsibility for the atoning work that his people so desperately needed. And that's not all. That's not all that we see in these chapters. Look at me at chapter 20, verses 32 to 34. What is in your mind shall never happen. The thought: let us be like the nations, like the tribes of the countries and worship wood and stone. As I live, declares the Lord God, surely with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm, and with wrath poured out, I will be king over you. I will bring you out from the peoples and gather you out of the countries where you are scattered with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm and with wrath poured out. The first thing that I want you to notice about these verses is look at the posture of the people that he is going to become king over. They want to be like the rest of the world. They have no interest in being like God. They want to be like the nations, Lord. Let us be like the nations. We want to worship wood and stone. We want to turn away from you, the living God. We want to be like the nations. These are a people who are hell bent on destruction by their own choice. This is their own choice. Let us be like the nations. The only hope, the only one that can stop them. From choosing to be like the nations is the Lord Himself. And what's ridiculous is that he does this for people who don't want him. He stops them. They don't want to be like him at all. They are running the other direction, and the Lord says, No, you will be mine. I have marked you off with wrath poured out. I will be king over you. That's amazing that he would do this for people who have no care for him. That's what he's promising to do. And look how he's going to do it. Look how he's going to do it. As I live, declares the Lord God. Surely with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm, and with wrath poured out I will be king over you with wrath poured out. I will be king over you Let us marvel and remember and rejoice in God's Faithfulness to remember his promise to save because God made good on that promise that with wrath poured out He would be king when he made atonement for all that his people had done Let us remember the sacred head of the Divine Son of God, Jesus Christ, the sacred head wounded for us. Like a spotless lamb, he went to the cross to atone for his people by bearing the punishment. For all that they had done. When I when I atone for you For all that you had done. Right here. Right here. This is your promise And with arms outstretched, hands pierced and nailed to the tree, the Father. Poured out his wrath on the Son. And the Son became king over his people. Amazing. Is this not? Is this not what the inscription said? This is the king of the Jews. Praise be to God. Praise be to God. This is the king of the Jews. Such is the love of the king for his people. That even, even as he was dying, Even as he was there dying for their sins, the king remembered his promise to forgive those who would turn to him, didn't he? In his account of the crucifixion, Luke writes this: One of the criminals who were hanged railed at him, saying Are you not the Christ? Save yourself and us. But the other rebuked him, saying, Do you not fear God? Since you are under the same sentence of condemnation? And we indeed justly, for we are receiving the due reward of our deeds, but this man has done nothing wrong. And he said, Jesus, remember me Remember me when you come into your kingdom. And Jesus said to him, Truly, I say to you, Today, you will be with me in paradise. Oh, friend, do you feel like God has forgotten you? Do you feel like God has not remembered you today? Do you feel like He's abandoned you? Look to the cross. Look to the cross and know that he will never forget you. He will never abandon you. He will always remember you. Never forget. Always remember. Remember what the Lord has done to rescue you. And take comfort in the fact that if you forget, he will still remember. When we are faithless, he is faithful, for he cannot deny himself. If in fact you have repented of your sins and trusted in Christ, the only thing God will not remember is your sins. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we are amazed in remembering and seeing and beholding your faithfulness to your covenant promises. That the promises you made long ago you have kept. And the promises that you made to your new covenant people, you will keep. We praise you. For from him and through him and to him are all things. And to you be all the glory, oh God. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen.