Well, good morning, church family and visitors. It's wonderful to see you all here today. Thank you for taking the time to be here with us if you are visiting. I'm thankful to be able to have this opportunity to share with you the hope, the very real and sure hope that we have in the gospel of Jesus Christ today. It is an awesome hope, so I'm thankful to be here with you. I'm going to take a moment to pray, and we'll go ahead and get started. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you tell us in your word to pour out our hearts before you, and so we pour out our hearts now. For those who are weak, wondering, questioning, faithless, trembling, Father, show us the hope in Jesus Christ, the solid rock on which we stand. Bless the preaching of your word, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, our culture places a high priority on having the best. You can think of any number of things that might come to mind. The best jobs, the best homes, the best cars. We also place a high priority on having the best education, the best training So when it comes to education, we look for schools with professors who have vast amounts of expertise. Expertise in the fields that we're interested in studying so that we can go and learn from them that we might become the best one day in our own field. Or we might attend any number of conferences or seminars. To hear from counselors or teachers or lawyers, to hear from experts in the fields that were interested. We have this inherent understanding. That if we want to be the best, then we need to learn from the best. There are other forms of training as well. Think of physical fitness or sports. We want the best coaches, the best instructors so that we can be the fittest, strongest versions of ourselves possible. We place a premium on this because if we're going to be the best, we need to be trained by the best. Well, we have an opportunity this morning to be trained in something that all of us should have an interest in. Because at some point in all of our lives, it may have already happened to you, or it may one day happen to you, you will face severe adversity and suffering. If you live long enough in this life, it will come to you. And this morning, we have a lesson from a professor. Who is an expert in dealing with adversity? Our professor today will be David, that is King David. And some people would say that certain skills are better caught than taught. And in our lesson this morning, we get to watch David deal with adversity. And hopefully catch some lessons for him to see what he does and where he turns. So if you have your Bibles with you, I invite you to open with me to Psalm 62. If you're using one of the Pew Bibles, you'll find Psalm 62 on page 479. And if you're unfamiliar with using a Bible, if you just open to page 479 and look for the big number 62, that's what we're going to be studying this morning. That's Psalm. 62. If you're there already, you can go ahead and look with me at the introduction. That's the little writing that you see there next to the big number 62. I'll read it for us. To the choir master, according to Judhan, a psalm of David The introduction is simple. It says to the choir master, that means that this psalm was written to be sung. It would have been sung in public gatherings of worship. Or if various Israelites had an opportunity to memorize the psalm, they could certainly sing it on their own, but it just point out for us that this was to be sung. It says it's according to the to Jeduthan. That introduction occurs in only two other Psalms in the entire Psalter. That's Psalms 39 and Psalms 77 Judan was one of the chief musicians appointed by David to lead the nation in worship. We see that in 1 Chronicles chapter 16. And finally, the last line of the introduction says, a psalm of David. For those of you unfamiliar with the Bible, that means that this psalm was written by King David. David was especially chosen by God, king of Israel, to lead the nation of Israel, which was a specially chosen nation that would make God's character known to the world. Yet though he was a king, David's life was far from cushy. I mean we need to only look at some of the surrounding psalms that we've been in to think about that. So we started A few months ago in Psalm 59, we've worked our way to Psalm 62, but you can go back to Psalm 51. Psalm 51 to Psalm 65 form the Psalms of David. This is a group of Psalms written by King David, not the only ones written by him, but they're a distinct group. 51 starts with a prayer of repentance. And then Psalms 52 through 60 really bring us into the trials of David's life. He's under attack in each of these Psalms, crying out for deliverance from God. And then after Psalm 60, we move into the Psalms of Communion with God, where we find ourselves today. And last week, you remember David was dealing with adversity. He was on the outskirts of Jerusalem, dealing in the wilderness, on the run from maybe an attacker, and he's longing to be in God's presence. Or if you look at Psalm 63, our very next Psalm, he says, Oh my God, very first verse, earnestly I seek you, my soul thirsts for you. He's in a low place spiritually, emotionally. He's longing for God's presence. His life was not cushy. David is a man who is very familiar with suffering. He graduated Simicum Lade from the School of Hard Knox. He's got a double PhD in adversity. This man is the best professor for you to sit under, to learn from, to learn how to deal with adversity. So we want to look today at what he does. So if you're here as a Christian, or if you're just checking out what happens in church, I want you to pay careful attention to our lesson today. It can have an eternal impact on your soul. I'm going to go ahead and read the text for us, and then we'll get into our lesson. Let's look down at it together. For God alone my soul waits in silence. From Him comes my salvation. He only is my rock and my salvation, my fortress. I shall not be greatly shaken. How long will all of you attack a man to batter him? Like a leaning wall, a tottering fence. They only plan to thrust him down from his high position. They take pleasure in falsehood. They bless with their mouths, but inwardly they curse. For God alone, O my soul, wait in silence. For my hope is from him. He only is my rock and my salvation, my fortress. I shall not be shaken. On God rest my salvation and my glory. My mighty rock, my refuge is God. Trust in him at all times, O people. Pour out your heart before him. God is a refuge for us. Those of low estate are but a breath. Those of high estate are a delusion. In the balances they go up, they are together lighter than a breath. Put no trust in extortion, set no vain hopes on robbery. If riches increase, set not your heart on them. Once God has spoken twice, have I heard this? That power belongs to God. And that to you, O Lord, belongs steadfast love. For you will render to a man according to his work. That's God's word. The lesson of our psalm this morning is simple. Whether in adversity like David or suffering in regular trials that we all occur, that we all experience in this life. The only place to turn, the only place to put your hope in this life at all times is in God alone. And we see this lesson taught in two different ways in our Psalm. First, in verses 1 to 7, we'll learn this lesson as we look at David's example. Then in verses 8 to 12, we'll learn this lesson as we look at David's instruction. Those will be our two points this morning. 1-7, David's example, and 8-12, David's instruction. First, in verses 1 to 7, we learn from David's example Let's recall again that David wrote this psalm in response to an attack that's being waged against him. That's why this psalm is being written. So even though he starts with God, there is an attack that is logically prior to the psalm being written. That prompts him writing the Psalm. So we want to look first at the attack to get a feel for what's going on there. So we're going to start in verses 3 and 4 to allow David to speak for himself. And to draw us into his circumstances. I think that'll give us a better appreciation for how he responds. Notice the first question he asked there in verse 3. How long? You know, by asking this question, David makes clear that the attacks have been persisting and occurring for a long time. This is an evil, persistent campaign that's being waged against him. And you can look at the state that he's in. He's like a leaning wall. He calls himself a tottering fence. His strength has been sapped. He feels weakness. He wants the reader to feel his weakness too. It's as if it would only take one last shove, and David's life would come crumbling down. And his attackers can smell his weakness. They're pressing in on him. And their evil persistence is matched by evil motives. Look there, it says they want to tear him down from his high position. This is referring to the time in David's life when he was already king. That's the high position that David's referring to there. And we see that their evil persistence and motives are matched by evil methods. They bless, they take pleasure in falsehood. They bless with their mouths, but inwardly they curse. These attacks are being carried out by lies, spreading rumors. Although it's unstated given the obvious close nature of these attackers to David that they could come and speak to him and bless with their mouths and then walk away and curse with their lips, I think it's safe for us to assume that these are Israelites. So this may have occurred during the conflict that he had with Absalom, where Absalom was gathering men to himself to revolt against David and to take over the throne from him. It's possible that this is That this is what's occurring. But whoever these attackers may be, one thing is certain. They want to topple him down. They want to see him crumble. Now put yourself in David's shoes. How would you respond? How do you respond to a situation like this? Even if you aren't under attack, maybe you can identify with David's feeling today. How he's feeling in this psalm. Maybe you feel like a leaning wall Maybe you feel like a tottering fence. Maybe you feel like a leaning wall because your marriage is just persistently difficult. Maybe you feel like you're tottering because you just got an unexpected prognosis from the doctor Maybe you feel weak and ashamed because you keep struggling with the same sin, day after day, falling into it, giving into it time and time again. Where do you turn if that's you? How do you respond to that situation? What do you say? Where do you go? What's your fire escape when it feels like your life is burning down? And for the church as a whole, David's situation, it isn't all that different from the situation that we currently find ourselves in, this cultural battle that we're already all of a sudden waging You know, the Bible and Scripture's views on things like sexuality and gender are now under persistent attack. These attackers have even taken these attacks to the highest courts. and have had their views validated by society. And we should only expect that as the church and as scripture looks to them like a leaning wall or a tottering fence. that they will begin to push harder and harder until it all comes crumbling down. What are you going to do when you are a social outcast? When your views are no longer welcome, what will you say? Where will you turn? Who will you turn to? Now hold the answer to those questions in your mind as we look at David's response. Let's see what he does, where he turns. His response to the situation is repeated in strikingly similar refrains in verses 1 and 2, and then again in verses 5 and 7. I'll start by reading both of them. I want to read both verses 1 and 2 and both verses 5 and 7 because I think even the way that this psalm is structured has something to teach us about dealing with adversity. So first in verses 1 and 2. For God alone my soul waits in silence. From him comes my salvation. He only is my rock and my salvation, my fortress. I shall not be greatly shaken. Then he reflects on his trial, which we've just looked at, and he goes on to say. For God alone, O my soul, wait in silence, for my hope is from Him. He only is my rock and my salvation, my fortress. I shall not be shaken. On God rests my salvation and my glory. My mighty rock. My refuge is God. David's response to these attacks is exemplary. And the first lesson that we want to learn from his example is to see our trials in the light of our hope in God. And that's what I'm talking about. That's what's most clearly seen in the structure of his psalm. Do you notice first? These attacks are already occurring, right? But he doesn't start out in verse 1 by addressing the attackers. What's he do? He starts out by addressing himself. about his position before God. He's proclaiming his confidence. Then the account of the attackers is nestled between another account of his confidence in God. What David is doing here is he's putting this picture of this attack inside a picture frame of his hope in God. His attackers can't move him because he sees this situation perfectly through the lens of his hope in God. It's like putting on night vision goggles. David's got these attacks happen, suffering, adversity, attacks. These things are like a cloak of darkness in your life, but you drop night vision goggles on and what becomes clear? The landscape. It may not be perfectly clear, but you can begin to see your way through it. That's what he's doing. This hoping God that David has frames the entire conversation about these attackers. So he doesn't look first to them and panic. He starts with God. What is true about my relationship with God? What do I know about him? He's a refuge. He's my salvation, my glory, my fortress. He is everything to me. Then he sees the attackers in light of that and he returns to his hope in God. That doesn't mean that you need to in conversation start with God, go to your attack, and then go back to God. But it does mean that you should see all of your trials in this life. Through the lens of your hope in God and your standing in Jesus Christ. And if we're wanted to better approach adversity in our own lives, his example should teach us the same thing. So whether you're talking to friends, Whether you're reflecting on a situation personally, that should be the bedrock. The hope in God that you have should be the bedrock. There's a perfect image. When I was in the Coast Guard, I used to work on a buoy tender. And these buoys, these massive buoys, would be out in the ocean, be 100 feet of water. This would be a 10-ton buoy. It's connected with 120 feet of chain, and there's a 10-ton sinker on the bottom. In a storm, that buoy is going to be swinging around. It's going to be swinging the circumference of that 120 feet or so of chain. But it's not gonna move from its foundation. I shall not be greatly shaken, right? My hope in God is sure. I might be moved a bit But I have hope in God. I will not be moved. It's like that buoy swinging around. That 10-ton sinker is not going to move. There might be a massive storm, but that buoy. is going to stay in place. That is your hope in God. Always remember that in your conversations, in your own reflection, if you're suffering, enduring trials. Remember your hope in God. And listen, this is how we should approach all of life. David isn't just giving you this attack to say only if you are being attacked this way can you respond how I am. No, this is this is a paradigm for all of life. Your hoping God should be the foundation of everything you do, even in the mundane kind of monotonous or monotony of daily life. You always have that hope in God if you are in Christ. You can always look to Him as a refuge for you. But you should also notice that this isn't some kind of nondescript hope that David has. This isn't some sort of wishful thinking. Instead, we find a confident, confident expectation of deliverance and protection founded in personal relationship Founded in personal relationship. That's a second lesson we want to learn from David's example. David's hope is rooted in personal relationship. Where do we see that? Look again at verses one and two and five and seven. Just scan across them with your eyes. You'll see David repeating his personal knowledge of God's characteristics God is not a rock or a salvation or a fortress. God is my rock, my salvation My fortress, this personal knowledge that David has is not without effect either. You see this there. The roots of this relationship with God have produced fruit in David's life. You see that the roots there produce fruit. It's right there in verse 1. Though he's under attack, his soul is serene. It's like a country pond. Nothing affecting the surface. It's perfectly crystal clear. It's not a crowded marketplace. It's not Eastern market on a Saturday where you're bumping into people. It's not noisy and crowded. It's quiet. You could hear a pin drop in his heart. That's the fruit of rest that comes from knowing God. That's what he means to wait in silence. His soul is at rest in God. There's nothing about this conflict that is going to cause his soul to murmur. To question, to become anxious, to become fearful. He's quiet and resting in God. And then the other fruit that we see, there at the end of verse two, I shall not be greatly shaken. Though he may be moved some, he will not be broken from the solid rock on which he stands. God is his rock. He knows it. He won't be moved. So even after describing his attackers in verses 3 and 4, it's like he's looked at God, recalled his relationship with God. looks at his attackers and then goes back in verses 3 and 4. And what do you notice happens about his confidence? I shall not be greatly shaken turns into, I shall not be shaken. They can do nothing to me. In God, in Christ, I am perfectly protected. He is a refuge for the weak. He is my salvation, my glory, my honor. In the midst of conflict, the roots of knowing God produce the fruit of rest and confidence. Rest in God's protection and confidence in God's deliverance. Consider the situations that we just talked about earlier. You might be in a marriage that feels like a war. You may have gotten a prognosis from a doctor that could bring your life crumbling down You could be struggling with sin and feel like there is no hope of overcoming it. It's just an unending battle. Who do you turn to in those moments? Who is the God and Savior that you turn to? What does Jesus Christ look like to you? Is he a surfer-looking guy wearing white robes and playing with lambs? That is not your God. You worship a king. He sits on a heavenly throne. He has a rod of iron in his hands. He dashes. The nations to pieces. His heart, his eyes burn with passion for your protection, for your refuge. You are his church and his people. He will guard you at all costs. Do you know this God? Do you know this Savior? Cultivate this hope in Him. He is yours. He will protect you until the very end. There will be nothing. That can attack or harm you. You will look to this God, you will look to this king, and you will look back at your sufferings and you will say, I will not be shaken. Nothing can shake me in him. He is an awesome king. The greatest fear that we all have in this life is the fear of death And you can know that in Christ and his conquering death, you don't even need to fear that anymore. Nothing will take you down as a Christian. You can hope and rest in him. And the final and most important lesson we learned from David's example is that God alone is worthy of putting our hope in. That is the point of these first verses. God alone is worthy of putting our hope in. The noble call of David's hope in God alone rings throughout these verses. Verse 1, for God alone my soul waits. Verse 2, he only is my rock. Verse 5, for God alone, O my soul, wait. Verse 6, he only is my rock. Consider the various resources that David would have had at his disposal to turn to. This is a king. He could have turned to his council, his people. He could have waged a counter-campaign against those who were who are warring against him. He could have gathered armies to himself He could have used personal authority, influential relationships with kings of other nations, maybe his own military force, but he doesn't, does he? Now David rightly realizes that no force on earth could compare to the power of God. There is only one force that will help him through his suffering, through his adversity. That should continue, that should encourage us as a church. Not just as individuals, but as a church, should encourage us to continue to hope in God. Consider the various attacks that are being waged on church and scripture, even now. We feel like it's trembling. We feel like a tottering wall, but look back 2,000 years. What do you see? What's happening in every century and on every continent wherever the church is being planted? It's facing attack. It's facing adversity. God has protected the church for the last 2,000 years from hypocrisy in every age, heresy in every age, liberalism, false teachers, Christians being killed. It will be no different here today. And it will be no different in the future. He will protect his bride. God will gather his people on every continent in every century, and the gospel will continue to go forth. There is no doubt about it. It will happen And that should encourage us as Christians today. God is a true and sure hope for you as an individual Christian, and he is a sure hope for us together as a church. The gates of hell will not prevail against his people. As we consider David's trust in God through the situation, though, we do see something else going on. This situation that he's attend that he's in, this attack that David is suffering, is acting like a test of David's faith. And David comes through this test with his faith unscathed He moves from not greatly shaken to not shaken at all. This test of faith proves David's authority to now turn and teach Israel. The king is going to become a rabbi. And he's going to turn to his people now in verses 8 to 12. And he's going to instruct them. So what will he teach the people based on what he's learned about hoping in God through his trials? What will he show them and instruct them about hoping in God through conflict? Let's look at verses 8 to 12. I'm gonna go ahead and reread them for us Trust in him at all times, O people. Pour out your heart before him. God is a refuge for us. Those of low estate are but a breath. Those of high estate are a delusion. In the balances they go up. They are together lighter than a breath. Put no trust in extortion. Set no vain hopes on robbery. If riches increase, set not your heart on them. Once God has spoken, twice have I heard this. That power belongs to God and that to you, O Lord, belongs steadfast love. For you will render to a man according to his work. The structure of the section is pretty straightforward. It actually looks a lot like section 1, verses 1 to 7. So David's teaching about man and riches is flanked on each side by two teachings about God and how to approach him. In verse 8, he tells them what they should trust in. Then in verses 9 and 10, he warns them of the two temptations that are sure to confront them that they might be tempted to put their trust in. And he's ultimately going to teach them, don't put your trust there. Then in verses finally in 11 and 12, then he gives them the reason for his instructions. He tells them why they should trust in God and not trust in man or riches. So hoping in God alone through such a prolonged conflict and coming out the other side with his faith tested, being steadfast and confident as he does in verses 6 and 7. David proves that there is only one hope for the people of Israel. And so now he turns to Israel and he instructs him. And his instructions are crystal clear. Trust in God at all times. How, David? Pour out your heart before him Why, David? Because God is a refuge for us. They should trust God at all times because he is a refuge for them. David's personal faith of verses 1 to 7 now becomes public. He begins to teach the public about how they are to relate to God. He tells them how to relate to them as the community, as a whole. So let me take a moment to talk to those saints. Who have either endured great suffering or are in the midst of enduring suffering. Your sufferings Are a lesson for us as a people. We need you to teach us This church needs your wisdom, what you've learned about God through your sufferings, what you've seen of His grace, what you've seen of His mercy, what you've seen of his steadfast love, how he's been a refuge and a protector to you, how he's been a fortress to you, and we need you to teach us I cannot tell you why your sufferings have occurred. We're not always guaranteed answers in this life. We may not even know until heaven, but what I do know is that God will hold you fast. He has promised to do so through all of your sufferings. He will not hold withhold good from his children. But your sufferings have been given to you Now you can curl up away from them and not teach the people anything. Or you can lean into God, rely upon him, pour out your heart to him And what you've learned about him through your suffering, you can now share with us. This is what we use the testimonies of grace time for on that Sunday night. If you have sufferings, if you've endured conflict, if you've seen God's riches. and grace and mercy through it and come out strengthened on the other side. Reach out to one of the pastors. Share it with the church. It will be wisdom for us. These are treasures that we need to help prepare us as a body. for the suffering that's sure to come to us all. Now looking back to our text, David goes on to instruct Israel how to display this trust when he says, pour out your heart before him. You know, there's nothing silent about a relationship with God. There's nothing silent. If you have a question about what how much you trust in God or what your trust in God is like, just look at how much you talk to him. How much do you pray to him? I think that'd be a good indicator for you to wonder, how much do I actually trust in God? How much do you share with him? We instinctively share with those people that we trust the most. I think this this is something common to all men, those people that you feel safest around Those friends of yours who are a refuge to you, you share with them, you pour out your struggles and how you're thinking through things. Nobody on this earth is a place of refuge and protection like God is to his people. You can pour them out if you have anxieties and fears and questions and doubts and joys. If it feels like your heart is saturated like a sponge, pick it up and wring it out before God You can pour all of your struggles, all of your thoughts, all of your temptations, all of your trials before him because he is a refuge for his people. He is a sure hope In times of trial. The same mighty God who powerfully controls all things. Who is mighty in power is the same God who does not break a broken wreath. He doesn't put out a smoldering wick. If you draw near to this God, he will draw near to you. He is a refuge to his people. Well now coming off instructing Israel who to put their hope in and where to put their trust and when to do it and how to do it and why to do it. He now warns them of two temptations that will compete for the trust that God deserves. First, the temptation to trust in man. In verse 9, the first half of verse 9 or verse 9. And then the temptation to trust in wealth. That's the point of those two verses taken together. First, the temptation to trust in man. That's what's at the heart of his description of mankind in verse 9. He wants them to see that all mankind is like a vapor to God. It's like a breath. So he mentions men of low estate, and by there he means the poor or the powerless. They're like a breath, they're fleeting, they're nothing before God. Then he mentions those of high estate and he calls them a delusion. It sounds odd, but all he's talking about are the people of high estate, the rich, the powerful, the mighty. They're a delusion. Their power, their might, their wealth is an illusion to God. It doesn't actually exist. Only we see it, only we respond to it God judges what's inside the man, not what's on the outside of the man. So to God, both low and high alike are nothing. Mankind is nothing to God. Put them on a scale together, and they weigh nothing. They're like a breath. Both people. Lowest state, high estate. You ever plucked a dandelion? What do you do? You blow on it? And you watch the little petals float off into the wind. That's what mankind is like. It's like a dandelion. You pluck him up, blow on him, and off he goes. You feel like a redwood today? You're not before God. You are a dandelion. I am a dandelion. A proper estimation of man will only increase your trust in God. Start seeing man rightly, and you will start to see God rightly. Not only should they not trust in man, but they also shouldn't trust in riches. That's the point of those three commands there. And you'll notice he's actually addressing the same two groups again. So what does he say? Put no trust in extortion. Set no vain hopes on robbery. Who's going to be tempted to do that Those of low estate, those with few means, those who are powerless, those who are not wealthy, they're going to be tempted towards fraud or extortion or robbery Then he switches to the other group. Those of high estate, what's their temptation going to be? To put your trust in riches, setting your heart on your wealth, looking at your bank account and getting all bubbly inside. Thinking that that is going to save you from anything. Notice even, we shouldn't ignore the fact that God equates robbery and fraud with trusting in your wealth. They are both crimes before God. How badly do we need to hear this here in Washington, D. C. A place where man's power is worshiped. The desire for wealth runs really deep. DC, it's like a bottomless ocean. These two temptations together in one city in such a concentrated way are a massive temptation. For you as a Christian to turn away from God. These two temptations Can be intoxicating. They can cloud our judgment. They can make it difficult for us to see if we've exchanged our trust in God for trusting in man or in riches. So consider asking yourself. You can even ask yourself at lunch today with friends, or just think about yourself, reflect on it, what troubles you the most when you lay your head down at night? What is it that you're most anxious about when you wake up in the morning? What are the things that you wouldn't be able to do without if you lost them? And don't just think about physical things, think about the opinions of your co-workers. Am I willing to commit some type of small fraud or tell some type of lie so that the congressperson that I work for might be pleased with me, that I might not lose their esteem. What is it that I'm willing to do? What is it that I'm willing to do that I'm not going to give up for my trusting in God? Ask yourself those questions. This city in all of its glory. It's a beautiful place, isn't it? The Capitol Building, Senate, Congress, the Supreme Court, the monuments, the Pentagon, the Fortress of Mankind. These symbols of American might and power, all of it taken together. It's like a sandcastle on the beach. And there is a hurricane coming. Don't keep building a sandcastle on a beach when there is a storm approaching. This place will go away soon enough. Think of all of the great civilizations. That have come and gone when at the height of their power they thought they were immovable. Think of even David's own time. And the nations that would develop around him, Assyria, Babylon, Egypt, massive empires, Rome even. They would last forever. They built their buildings like they thought they would last forever. One theologian said it best, I think. Caesar is dead and Jesus is still alive. Put your hope and your faith and your trust in the kingdom that will surely never end And put your hope and your trust in this city. The opinions of men are fleeting. They will turn on you in a heartbeat. Put your esteem in God. Come to him through Jesus Christ and his opinion of you will be perfect. It will never change because Christ can never change. Put your hope in him As we look back to the text, we see in verses 11 and 12 that David closes by teaching Israel why they should trust in God alone and not trust in man or in riches. That wording that you see there in verse 11, once God has spoken, twice I've heard, that's just a figure of speech. It's used in Hebrew literature, meant to emphasize the certainty of what the author is about to say. So what does David go on to say that we can be certain of Well, he goes on to say that God is all-powerful, God is merciful, he has steadfast love towards his people, and that God will judge everyone perfectly God will judge everyone perfectly. That's what it means to render to a man according to his works. He will look at everything that you've done, and he will deliver the perfect sentence. He will deliver the perfect sentence to all people. And as David brings his lesson to a close, there is much to consider in both his example and his instruction. But we should also consider the fact that David didn't always keep this teaching perfectly himself. Even David himself failed to perfectly trust in God. He didn't always put his hope in God alone. But as we look to David's other writings, so if you look to his other Psalms, or if we even look to the account of his life in 1 Samuel, It's clear that David himself was waiting on a king. A king who would come and display perfect trust in God at all times. A king who would come, who would live forever. And friends, that's the king that we find and see in Jesus Christ. Consider how we even see him in this psalm this morning. He's right there. Just look down at the psalm with me during his three-year ministry. On earth, Jesus suffered prolonged attacks. And who did he suffer prolonged attacks by? Men who would bless him to his face, and as they walked away from him, they would plot to kill him. They would plot to murder him. They would curse him behind his back. They hated his claims to be the Son of God, and they wanted to tear him down from his throne So they waged a deceitful campaign against him. And like David, only in a far greater way, Jesus' perfect, steadfast hope in God. gave him perfect authority to turn and teach all people. He is the one who is truly authoritative, who can turn to Israel and tell Israel who to trust in at all times because he perfectly kept faith and hope in God. By way of his instruction, he regularly warned people against the deceitfulness of riches and the vanity of man. He called out to mankind, told him to repent of his sin, put their faith where? In God alone. He was the perfect teacher of Israel the perfect teacher of his people. He too would teach that to God belonged all power And to God belonged all steadfast love. And he too taught that God would render to a man according to his works. He said that God was the perfect judge, that God would deliver a punishment in accordance with what we've done. That was his instruction. By way of his example, he also taught his people. He taught them what it looked like to hope in God alone. In all his suffering, all that he endured, he maintained a steadfast Sure and steady hope, perfect faith in God. Remember, even his words in the garden. Not my will, Father, but yours. Not my will, but yours. Steadfast. Perfect hope in God. He was even able to trust God unto death because he knew that to God belonged all power, even power to raise him from the dead if he so choos. Regarding Jesus' example, Peter would write to the Christians of his day and say to them, these people who were suffering for their faith, who were enduring trials, who were enduring suffering and adversity, he would say to them, For to this suffering you have been called, because Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example, so that you might follow in his steps. He committed no sin, neither was deceit found in his mouth. When he was reviled, he did not revile in return. When he suffered, he did not threaten, but what? Continued entrusting himself to him who judges justly He continued entrusting himself to him who judges justly. Just as David didn't take matters into his own hand, Jesus Two would share the same confidence. He wouldn't take matters into his own hands when he suffered attacks. He wouldn't revile when he would when he was reviled. But Jesus alone, of all men on earth, Could have confidence that when God judged him, he would find nothing to prove him guilty for in his works Though David could proclaim that God alone would render to a man according to his work, so he could say that confidently, only Jesus could say it with perfect confidence, because Jesus knew. Just like Peter knew, that he had never sinned. Peter says he was without sin. If you're here and you don't know yourself to be a follower of Jesus Christ, you don't consider yourself somebody who believes in God, I wonder. Do you share this confidence? Can you stand before God and say, I'm confident that when he renders to me according to my works, I won't be guilty? Friends, none of us can stand before God and think that we'll be innocent. We need another hope because before God on our own we are hopeless. So if you're here and you don't follow Jesus Christ, Let me hold him out to you and offer him to you as that living hope. Jesus Christ is a sure and steadfast hope for all who would repent and turn from their sin and put their trust in him. So much so that you could stand before God and confess before him. Praise be to God. He is my refuge and my fortress and my salvation. But friend, if you don't If you do not take refuge in Jesus Christ, God will render to you according to your works. You cannot stand before him. You will be guilty. We are all guilty. None of us has perfectly put faith and hope in God. We all need the grace, even us Christians, need the grace that comes through the gospel of Jesus Christ to propel us and give us further hope, to stand upon the rock that is Christ. We can't do it on our own, and neither can you. You need a sure hope that you cannot find in yourself. Your only hope is God, but your only hope is God if you take refuge in His Son. Apart from that, you are hopeless before God. Take refuge in Jesus Christ. For those of you who are believers and trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ, if you've wavered in your hope this past week, if you feel faithless Let's rejoice as we come to the table this morning. We have a living picture Of Christ becoming this tottering wall who was torn down for us. His body broken for our sake. He bore our sins in his body on the tree so that we would die to sin. And live to righteousness. But friend, if you have not lived to perfect righteousness, Christ tells you you can come to him and he will forgive you. You can confess your sins to God. And you can know that you are forgiven because God is just and God is faithful and he will forgive those who confess their sins. That's the hope that we have this morning. That is our refuge. There is no other hope in this world for you or for me. Jesus Christ is the solid rock Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we delight to come to you in your Son Jesus Christ and through him, because in him alone have you made a way for us to come to you. We pray, Father, that you would give us grace through the gospel of Jesus Christ, that we would recognize that He is our sure hope and foundation. Oh God, give your spirit to be with us as we go through our week, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.