Well, good morning. It is a pleasure to be with you all this morning, and I do want to thank the church and the elders for the opportunity to speak about Psalm 28. I was thinking this week uh just about how well our elders uh lead the congregation every Sunday through the faithfulness of their preaching and My hope is that despite me preaching, you'll still walk away like you would every other week, more encouraged and more strengthened in your faith. Or perhaps, maybe after listening to me for a few minutes today, you will be freshly reminded of just how good the church's elders are in comparison, and you'll be that much more excited to come back next week. So uh with that, please join me in the book of Psalms, chapter 28. If you're using the black Bibles uh on the chairs around you, that'll be located on page 460 While turning there, I'll mention that God often uses music in my own spiritual walk and in my heart to remind me of truths. And to just help point me back to God and his truth. So there were a couple of songs that kind of stood out to me as I was kind of working through this passage this week. I just gave them over to song recommendations for you all as well, if you want to think about some of these themes through the week. One of them is called The Silence of God by Andrew Peterson. Another is called Omnipotent by Beautiful Eulogy. And then there's the hymn, Dear Refuge of My Weary Soul. All of those I would commend to you. But what we'll do today is uh I'll begin by reading the text. of scripture and then uh just say a brief word of prayer for us before we get into the details. So uh let's read Psalm 28. This is the word of the Lord. Of David. To you, O Lord, I call my rock. Be not deaf to me, lest if you be silent to me, I become like those who go down to the pit Hear the voice of my pleas for mercy when I cry to you for help, when I lift up my hands toward your most holy sanctuary Do not drag me off with the wicked, with the workers of evil, who speak peace with their neighbors while evil is in their hearts. Give to them according to their work and according to the evil of their deeds. Give to them according to the work of their hands. Render them their due reward, because they do not regard the works of the Lord Or the work of his hands. He will tear them down and build them up no more. Blessed be the Lord, for he has heard the voice of my pleas for mercy The Lord is my strength and my shield. In him my heart trusts, and I am helped. My heart exults, and with my song I give thanks to him. The Lord is the strength of his people. He is the saving refuge of his anointed. Oh, save your people and bless your heritage. Be their shepherd and carry them forever. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word, which teaches us, which guides us. We thank you for the saints who have gone before us, who have trusted you in times of difficulty. And who speak to us of your faithfulness that never ends. Lord, as we read and listen to your word now, please open our minds and our hearts. May your spirit be with us to convict us. Of what is true and to guide us into righteousness. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. A number of years ago, one of my first jobs as an adult, I was working for a company that had one of those anonymous reporting boxes. You know, it's a box where you could like drop a note in anonymously, and allegedly the leadership of the company would read them. So my company had this box so that you know you can inform the leadership of any concerns that you might have Uh while not having to identify yourself. So if you saw a particular business practice that was unsafe, you know, if someone was wasting company resources, or maybe someone was just being discriminated against by a middle manager You could report those things anonymously to the company's leadership in the hope that someone would look into the problem. Now, in my younger days, um I wasn't as good of an employee as I should have been and uh didn't have the appropriate respect for my leadership that had kind of viewed them with suspicion at times. Um so to be honest, I kind of questioned whether anyone like actually you know cared about us as people Uh and I was pretty convinced that when it came to like this anonymous reporting box that like no one actually checked the box. Uh so one day I decided I was gonna test out this system just to see if it worked So I took a piece of paper, I wrote my name on it, put the date, put my phone number, uh, and then I said something to the effect of like, I don't know if anyone actually checks this box. But if someone ever finds this note, please contact me. Um here's my phone number. Let me know you received it. Uh then I put it in the box and it kind of felt like a modern day message in a bottle. We'll see if anyone stumbles across that thing in five years. Um But to my surprise, actually within a few days, one of the senior members of our leadership team found me in the hallway and told me that he'd been performing his routine checks of the box. And he had found my note. And I was, first of all, I was kind of shocked. Second, I was kind of embarrassed that I'd submitted the note in the first place. But then after that, I was also grateful. I was grateful that the leadership of my company actually did take small things like that seriously. And they actually did care enough about us to at least listen if there was someone that needed help. So that's a very small example. It may not even seem like that big of a deal, but think about it like this. Think about the person who might actually need help. Maybe that reporting box was their only lifeline. Maybe someone was being harassed or threatened and they didn't feel like they could let someone know about it. In a case like that, being heard could be the most important thing in someone's life. Because when people need help, when life is starting to unravel around you, being heard and then being helped Could be the difference between hope and despair. And we see a very similar line of thought today in Psalm 28. We see the words of a man who's crying for help, hoping that God would hear, and then hoping that God would help. And I don't think it's a stretch to say that many of us wrestle with a similar thought or concern when we wonder: is God really listening? Does he really care about what I'm going through? I think those thoughts can be especially common when we've been praying for a long time and it seems like nothing's happening. Maybe it's the healing of our body or the salvation of a friend or a family member. After praying for weeks, months, or even years, naturally we start to wonder, is God really listening? Or if he is listening, does he really care? And so those are some of the themes that we'll explore in our passage today. So let's look at the text with a little more focus. If you're taking notes, you'll find the main idea and the outline for today's sermon in the bulletin. But the main idea is this. Despite times of perceived silence, God hears the prayers of the righteous and will be their help and strength in times of need. So to repeat that, despite times of perceived silence, God hears the prayers of the righteous, and will be their help and strength in times of need. So let's begin just looking in verse one. We see it says of David. This is a Psalm of David, one of the most famous kings in Israel's history. From the context of the psalm, it's a little hard to tell if the psalm is about him individually. or about the people of Israel collectively. I think there's some evidence to think it's a little bit of both, especially since the king often serves as the representative of the people as a whole. But either way, David appears to be threatened and facing harm So his prayers, you can feel it, has have a sense of urgency and desperation that makes me think his life is on the line. We see later in the psalm where he'll talk about God judging the wicked and repaying them for their actions. So it seems like he's facing trouble beyond his ability to handle the situation. Which whether we also, like David, are in physical danger or not, I think The same truths still apply as we face any situation that's beyond our control. So let's look at what David has to say. Point number one for this morning. Let's talk about man's despair and God's silence. Man's despair and God's silence. The psalm begins in verse 1 with a cry from David to the Lord. David recognizes that God is his deliverer and his rock of refuge. And then he asks something interesting. He says, he asks, God Please do not be deaf to me. As though he were concerned that God might not be listening at all. And he says, Lord, please don't ignore me in my desperation. And then he gives a reason for that. He says, Lest if you be silent to me I become like those who go down to the pit. Or put another way, God, if you're not listening to me when I cry, if you don't hear your people when they pray to you, then I have no hope. This is as good as it gets And I'm as good as dead, like those who go down to the pit. And this points to the desperation that David is facing. You know, we don't know specifically what the challenge is. The text doesn't clearly tell us. But we can clearly see that it's bad, that he, you know, help is needed. And it's needed soon. He talks about in verse 2 how his. Voice is pleading, his voice is you know begging for mercy. And it seems like he's just completely consumed by this. He says in verse 2, you look at even his posture and the actions of his body reflect that As he's lifting up his hands towards God's holy sanctuary, because our bodies are often reflections of what we are feeling in our inner condition. This struggle to wonder whether God is listening is something I wrestle with frequently. Personally, I don't think I've ever doubted God's power But I've definitely doubted his goodness. Yes, I know God can, but will he? And of course, it's true that since God is all-knowing, right? He's all-present, so of course he hears every word that we pray. But I think what David is talking about here is something a little bit different. It's not just hearing the words, it's hearing and responding. It's hearing and helping. So what does the Bible teach about whether God hears our prayers? Well, I think the answer, surprisingly, uh kind of depends on you, in the sense that it depends upon your spiritual condition. That God does hear those people when they pray. I think we see that clearly in 1 John chapter 5. In verses 13 through 15 of that chapter, the Apostle John tells us this He says, I write these things to you. He's talking about the letter that he just wrote. I write these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, that you may know that you have eternal life. And this is the confidence that we have toward him, that if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us. And if we know that he hears us in whatever we ask, we know that we have the requests that we have asked of him. So what John is saying is that if you believe in the Son of God, if you are a Christian, then you know two things according to that passage. First, you know that you have eternal life, according to 1 John 5. 13. Then you know, according to verse 14, that if you ask anything according to God's will, that he hears you in whatever you ask. So if you're a Christian who's walking in the truth and you're praying according to God's will, then you have it on the authority of God's word that your prayers are heard by God. Conversely, if you are not a Christian, then you can't have that confidence. In fact, quite the opposite. We see places in the Bible where God does not listen to those who don't follow after him If you're to look in the book of Isaiah, chapter 59, verse 2, kind of see that the prophet Isaiah says this: But your iniquities, your sins, right, your iniquities have made a separation Between you and your God, and your sins have hidden his face from you, so that he does not hear So if you're not a follower of Jesus, if you're still in your sin, that means your sins have made a separation between you and God that He's not hearing So if you aren't a Christian, your sins have hidden God's face from you. And that affects more than just an answer to a prayer on this earth. That also means you'll stand before God in judgment one day. And this idea of judgment is actually where the psalmist goes next in verses 3 through 5, which point brings us to point number two: man's hypocrisy and God's judgment Man's hypocrisy and God's judgment. David makes the argument that it's right for the ungodly to face God's judgment And then by implication, he's implying that those who are not ungodly, right, those who are righteous, should not share the same fate as the wicked. He says, I agree that the wicked should face judgment. Give to them according to their deeds. But I'm not wicked. Right? So don't let me face the same fate as them. He says in verse 3. Don't drag me off with the wicked. Don't make me part of them, right? With the workers of evil who speak peace with their neighbors while evil is in their hearts. Give to them according to their work and according to the evil of their deeds. David says, hey, give to those guys what they deserve. And since I'm not one of those guys, don't let me share the same fate. And it seems kind of black and right, white, right? You have the righteous and you have the wicked. Many of you here know my son James. Uh if you haven't had a chance to meet him yet, uh just wait till after the service. He's the three-year-old that uh makes his own sound effects when he runs around. Uh you should be able to find him pretty quick But James is in this stage of life where like every time we're reading a book, every time we're watching a movie or a TV show, he like stops you in the middle of the book, stops in the middle of the movie. He's like, Dad, is that the good Guy? Hey Dad, is that the bad guy? It's like, yes, James, that's the good guy. We've you know kind of one of we've answered this three times. Uh but he's just obsessed. He's like, I have to know who the good guys are. I have to know who the bad guys are. And I think the big thing right now is um he's been Watching uh a lot of Toy Story when we when we do family trips and the good guys are pretty clear, right? It's like you've got you know Woody and Buzzlight here, uh and then you've got bad guys who are like Sid and the evil Emperor Zerg. And if you were to ask James James, what makes someone a bad guy? How do you tell someone is a bad guy? I mean, he's only three, but he could probably get pretty close to a good definition for you. The bad guys are the ones who hurt people. The good guys are the ones who help people. Or maybe you would say it's you know based on how they're dressed, right? The the bad guys have like, they laugh maniacally, they wear masks, they have deep voices. But what a- what a three-year-old might not be fully able to capture is a nuance and a complexity that we see in Psalm 28. Sometimes we can't tell the good guys just by looking at them, or the bad guys by looking at them. Because bad guys are often deceitful. They say one thing, but they actually mean another Look at verse 3 again. The wicked are described as those who speak peace with their neighbor while evil Is in their hearts. They have an appearance of goodness, but it's a false appearance. Being righteous or being a good guy is not just about what we say, it's about really who we are. It's about what's going on in our hearts. It's our actions and our words, and our hearts should all be in alignment with each other. They should be in sync But the wicked aren't like that. The wicked, their lives are out of sync. It's like a type of schizophrenia, right? Their mouths say one thing, but their heart is actually saying another. There's no wholeness, there's no completeness in who they are. There's a division in their own soul. And I think that's kind of what Jesus is getting at later when we look to the New Testament, to the Sermon on the Mount. He describes a way of life, a way of happiness, a way of human flourishing, and it occurs partially when our hearts are in sync with what God says is good, and when those desires manifest through our own words and actions. Remember Jesus says in in Matthew 5 and Matthew 6, right? It's not enough to not commit murder, right? You shouldn't even have hatred in your heart. It's not enough to not commit adultery. Your heart shouldn't even burn with lust in the first place. Our hearts should be in sync with God's heart, which then should be seen in how we live our lives. But it's in contrast, it's the wicked who say one thing while secretly wanting another. So if that is in your heart today, if you aren't convicted by it, then take this warning from Psalm 28. And I should note that if we're honest, this is all of us to a certain degree, right? None of us are perfect. We all need the grace of God in Christ to change our desires so that we want what God wants. No amount of willpower can do that. It's only when we receive God's grace, His free gift, that God's Spirit takes our old heart and gives us a new one, a new heart with new desires. But like I said, none of us are perfect. We all need God's grace because even as a Christian, my life is out of sync when I don't rely on God's Spirit to guide me I'll give you a minor example of this from my relationship with Allison, but I hope it goes to show that how easy it is for that out-of-synchronous to creep into our lives. I have a tendency in life and in our relationship to kind of bottle up problems and emotions. And Alison will see that and she'll see that on my face. And then she's very gracious and she'll try to help. She'll say, hey Is everything okay? You seem distracted, you seem distant, you've been staring at a wall for 15 seconds, like everything going all right? And then how do I normally respond? Usually I just real quick say, yeah, yeah, I'm fine. Are you sure? Yeah, yeah, I'm good. When in reality, it's like I'm not doing okay, right? There's actually something really wrong that I'm I'm struggling with and that I need probably need to talk to somebody about and definitely need to talk to God about. So how would I describe what I just told Allison? Well we actually have a word for it in the English language. It's called lying, right? Like I'm not fine. I'm not all good. What would happen? What would happen though if I were just honest? With her, instead of speaking one thing with my mouth, I'll mean another thing in my heart. Maybe I should just acknowledge, like, hey, it's me Hi, I'm the problem, right? What if instead of lying, I just embraced the way of Christ and remembered that I should be poor in spirit, like Jesus talked about? That I should acknowledge when I'm struggling and when I need help But it's my hypocrisy, even as a Christian, this heart of mine that's out of sync, which causes me to deny the help that my wife is trying to give me. And it's also what often keeps me from seeking God's help as well. So as the text continues, we see in verse 5, verse 5 ends with the psalmist indicating that God will finally tear down the wicked and build them up no more. While there is certainly a judgment that often happens in this life, there is an ultimate judgment that will that can't be escaped by the workers of evil. The book of Romans tells us the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus. He uses that word. It says the wages of sin is death. It's kind of not a word I use all the time. Like what is a wage? Well, it's what we earn, right? We think of like a minimum wage, an hourly wage, the payment you get for your work. And in the same way, everyone who sins earns a wage, and the ultimate wage is death. And we see that for everyone, right? Payday for those wages is coming. There will be a day when every one of us will have to stand before God to answer for his or her own life. And we'll either stand underneath the condemnation of our own actions. Where our conscience accuses us, or we'll stand under the umbrella of mercy found in Jesus. Those are the only two options that we're given. So if you aren't a Christian today, I would just ask, what is stopping you today? From turning from that life of sin, that life of disorder and being out of sync with the way the world works, and then asking for God's forgiveness and for his help. Because his mercy and help are free to all who ask for it. And that brings us to point number three. God's help and man's thankfulness. God's help and man's thankfulness The psalm began with David asking God to hear the voice of his pleas for mercy. He was kind of implicitly wondering if God was listening, and here we have the answer that David found, verses six through seven. In these verses, David begins thanking God because God does truly hear the prayers of his people. Blessed be the Lord, verse six says, For he has heard the voice of my pleas for mercy. The Lord is my strength and my shield, and him my heart trusts, and I am helped David blesses the Lord because God has heard and God does help. And notice here in verse 6, we see that same phrase repeated from verse 2 where he talks about the pleas for mercy. You know, one of the things that marks this passage for me that kind of just stands out is David's tone of desperation as he's praying. He doesn't describe it like a casual prayer or just like a casual request for assistance. No, he says, thank you for hearing my pleas for mercy. Difficult times make us pray differently. The greater and more challenging the circumstances, the more eagerly and the more desperately God's people pray. Tony spoke to us last week about how God answers prayers. He mentioned people often describe God's responses to prayers as yes, no, or not now. But that doesn't always capture the full picture of what he's doing, and Tony acknowledged that. Oftentimes, God is inviting us into his presence to be changed by the circumstances that we're in. And that's where things get a little bit uncomfortable for us because our vision for our lives and God's vision for our lives might be two different things. C. S. Lewis once said, We're not necessarily doubting that God will do the best for us. We are wondering how painful the best will turn out to be. And while God works things that we don't understand, it can often be unnerving from our perspective. Notice again this phrase found in verses 2 and 6: the voice of my pleas for mercy, right? That desperation. I'm not saying that like desperation alone makes God hear you better than any other praying. What I am saying, though, is that this desperation has a way of changing us. So that we seek God more completely. And we start discarding all of the other false supports that we're holding on to, all the things we put our trust in that can't actually hold us up. It's the sinking sand Of what the world offers us. But there's nowhere else but God. So our trust ultimately then gets cast fully on the God who alone can provide. And that's what desperation does. It forces us to the only true source. of help bound in Christ. It kind of makes me think of one particular example from the Gospels If you remember the story of the blind man in Luke 18, starting in verse 35, there's this blind man sitting on the road, and he hears that Jesus is coming by, and he knows, hey, Jesus is someone who could heal me of the blindness. So what is what does the man do? Well he starts crying out, Jesus, right, son of David, have mercy on me. This guy wants to be healed. And then everyone else around this guy starts like shushing him and like, yeah, be quiet, like you're annoying us, stop talking. We're trying to do other things. But then the text says he cries out all the more and gets louder, son of David, have mercy on me. And then Jesus hears him. And heals them. You know, when when we're desperate, when we need God's help, like we don't care what other people think about what's going on. We only care about getting closer to Jesus because we know that Jesus is where our healing can be found. Desperation changes us because we pray different when we realize that there is nowhere else to go. The text said that the blind man went away praising God for being healed of his blindness. And in a similar way, when we look back in Psalm 28, the psalmist acknowledges God's goodness. And praises him as well. It says in verse 7, My heart exalts, and with my song I give thanks to him. His response is expressive, right? He's not stoic about what God has done for him. His heart is light, his lips are singing, like this guy is rocking and rolling in response to what God has done. And like as an extreme introvert, like that verse makes me uncomfortable uh to think about, but then again, when God provides his help, it changes how we act. You think of the uh the parable of the prodigal son, right? The father is running. The woman who loses the coin, she's exulting. She's telling all of her friends, look what I found. When God helps us in our desperation, we can't keep it to ourselves. We have to share it. We have to praise Him. We have to tell other people. And lastly, notice that the psalmist praises God, even though the text does not specifically say that God answered the prayer the way that David wanted it answered. We don't actually know if David got the specific thing he was asking for. And there's a sense in which it may not fully matter. And that's why I find these verses even more interesting. Because it's as if David is saying, you know, it's not about what we receive from God, it's about who we receive it from. It's about God Himself, it's about being drawn into His presence. Which brings us to our final point for today. Point number four. God's strength and man's refuge God's strength and man's refuge. David rejoicing, not in knowing that his prayer was answered necessarily, but in knowing the one who answered Or who heard the prayer, right? He says in verses 8 through 9, the Lord is the strength of his people. He is the saving refuge of his anointed. Oh, save your people and bless your heritage. Be their shepherd and carry them forever. I don't think it's a coincidence that this psalm comes after the content that we read last week in Psalm 27. Because there we saw David recognizing the supreme worth of seeking God's face and being in God's presence, right? About allowing God to be his strength and to rely on him even when the future seems unsettling. It's about drawing close to the one who hears our prayers. Through his desperation and cries for help, David is drawn closer into God's presence. And that is the comfort and the grace that David actually needs. Think back to the New Testament in 2 Corinthians, where the Apostle Paul is asking God repeatedly for help with a thorn in his side. The answer from God wasn't an answered prayer where the thorn all of a sudden goes away. Instead, God responds to Paul and says, My grace is sufficient for you. My power is made perfect in weakness. So then Paul said, I rejoice in my weakness, that God's power might be shown through me The strength God provided in that case wasn't to make the thorn go away. It wasn't about Paul getting what he wanted, but it was Paul in the wisdom and sovereignty of God receiving what he needed in that season. To make him more like Jesus. And what he needed was a circumstance that forced him back to relying on God's strength and provision rather than his own. So at the end of this psalm, David acknowledges the source of his strength as well. Look again at verse 8. It says, the Lord. Is the strength of his people. He is the saving refuge of his anointed. Given the reference to God's anointed, it's likely that David is referring back to himself as the king of Israel since he was the one anointed king. But even that's kind of interesting to me because you would think of all of the people in the country, the king would be the one person most able to say that he didn't need help. Right? This guy's got an army at his disposal. He's got like entire teams of servants. He has the wealth of the nation behind him. He can say and do whatever he wants. And yet, in verse 9, he says Lord, save your people. You need to save them, Lord, because I as the king am unable It's like he's saying, Lord, please do this because I can't. I am not strong enough. And he ends the psalm by saying, Lord, be their shepherd and carry them forever. David recognizes his own insufficiency. He recognizes his own limitations, as should we Whether it's fighting against a sin, whether it's providing for your family, whatever you might be facing, remember that your strength is insufficient to handle that And it's actually good that that's the case. It's good that we aren't able. Because as verse 8 says, it is then that we acknowledge that it is the Lord who is the saving refuge of his people. That it is actually God who carries his people, not that we carry ourselves. Think back to what David learned early in life as a shepherd for his father. About everything we heard preached from Ryan Payne a few weeks ago in regards to Psalm 23. Now, if you're able to like import all of that meaning from Psalm 23 about what it means to be a shepherd, and plug it into verse 9, like a hyperlink. where he asks God, Be the shepherd of your people. What does a shepherd do? The shepherd provides for his flock. He protects the flock. He faces the harshness of the elements and the threats of danger for the sake of their safety. Ultimately, if needed, he lays down his life for the flock. The shepherd is the one who provides, in times of plenty, or even through the valley of the shadow of death, because God is the refuge of his people. By his presence, right? It's the God who said, the same one, I will never leave you nor forsake you, is also the God who will carry you when you can't carry yourself. So let me give one uh final word of encouragement um before closing. There's likely someone here who's saying to themselves Like look, hey man, I I understand what you're saying. I get it that God might care about the big problems of life, you know, like heightening political violence, you know, the next election, world hunger. But what about the small things of my own life? You know, the the trouble that I have with a coworker, the the sibling that takes or steals a toy from me when you know that boy or girl a school that I like puts me in the friend zone. Like, does God actually care about those things as well? The things that don't affect the world order? If you're wondering that, I would encourage you with a story I read from a blog recently, the Uh the author of the of the article was looking back at uh an Old Testament passage in 2 Kings chapter 6. And uh the story there is that uh there's a group the group of guys, uh particularly one man who uh borrows an axe head from a friend, borrows an axe, and they're all going out and just like chopping down trees. And then while this guy's chopping down the tree, the axe head like flies off of the axe and then lands in the river and sinks to the bottom. And this guy's freaking out. It's like that wasn't even my axe, right? I've lost the thing I was supposed to give back. And in the grand scheme of world events, that seems really minor, right? Like I lose stuff all the time and no one's writing a book about it. But how does God respond when this one man cries out about the lost axe head? God sends the prophet Elisha, one of the most powerful, one of the most famous prophets in Israel's history, God sends him to perform a miracle, to raise the axe head out of the water, so this guy can take it back to the person who he borrowed it from. Why does the Bible give us a story like that? Well, I think there are a lot of reasons, but I think one of them might be to remind us of the heart of God. Right? That no problem is too small to escape his notice. He's the God who pursues us when we are the lost sheep, and he's also the God who helps us when we've lost our keys. But how often do we not bring those problems to God? We sang earlier in the service, oh what peace we often forfeit. Oh, what needless pain we bear, all because we do not carry everything to God in prayer. The Christian, we're reminded that Jesus sympathizes with our weaknesses. He sympathizes with our needs because he himself faced every trial and temptation just like we have, yet without sin. He knows our need even before we even ask. And he doesn't need some special anonymous tip box to do that. He hears and he helps because like a good shepherd, he is the one that carries and provides for his people. So with that, please join me in prayer. Lord, we thank you that you are the good shepherd of your people, the one who has never lost even one of your sheep. And we're reminded and encouraged to know that you never will lose one either. Lord, we ask that you would remind us anew of your care for us. And as we go out from here, that you would remind us and keep it in our minds that you hear your people when they cry to you, that you do help your people. That you comfort us with your presence, that we never walk alone, that having faced everything we have, you give us the help we need as our sympathetic and great high priest. Lord, we pray that you would indeed be our shepherd today to preserve us and protect us and to carry us. In Jesus' name. Amen.