Well, good morning, friends. My name is John Malone. For those of you who might not know me, I serve here as one of the elders at Chevrolet Baptist Church. And I don't often get the opportunity to preach the sermon, but I'm looking forward to that, been looking forward to that. I was initially planning to continue my sermon series in the book of Philippians that I had started in June. But since I had I started it in June of 2019, I'm not sure how many of you will will remember exactly what I talked about. about that morning. So we are going to continue in the Psalms with Psalm 24, since that's what's on your bulletins. In all seriousness, it's a joy to be here with you this morning. Let's go to the Lord and ask him to bless our time and his word together. Let's pray. O Father, would you open our eyes to hear from you as we study your word this morning? Open our eyes to see wondrous things in your law. And open many hearts to receive from you. Would you convict those who need it and comfort those who need it in Jesus' name Jesus' name. Amen. Well, friends, last week in the first episode of our Summer Psalm series, Ryan Payne took us through one type of song, the relational poem. Where David, the king of Israel, writes and sings in Psalm 23 about the Lord as his shepherd, who provides for and leads and protects and preserves his people. That psalm focuses David's camera lens in on that relationship between the Lord and his people. If it were a musical genre, it would be a calm and a beautiful piece of classical music with layers of depth and encouragement for the individual follower of the Lord as we walk through trials. and tr and the troubles of life as we follow our good shepherd. Well today's psalm is very different. It's more like an epic With sweeping views and vistas of God's creativity and his holiness and his power. It's like the best movie soundtrack with danger and mystery and suspense. As King David paints us a picture of a majestic and a just king who reigns in glory. So he's going to give us a short summary of the whole Bible here. The story of history and of salvation, of God coming to dwell with his redeemed people. I'm excited to see this with you, so please open your Bible and turn to Psalm 24 with me. You can find Psalm 24 on page 458 of the Bibles on the Chairs. As you turn there, let's remember this type of writing. Psalms are written poetry, they're given in vivid and carefully chosen language for God's people to read and to speak to one another and to sing. David We know that David was a skilled musician and a poet, and his psalms make up a large chunk of the book of Psalms. Since these Psalms were originally written in the Hebrew language, we do lose some of their beauty in their translation. As a linguist, you know, I'm I feel that. But we do our best, we will do our best this morning to see the picture of this king of glory that David describes. If you're new to the Bible, uh the large numbers there on the page are the chapter numbers, or in this case the number of the psalm, and the smaller numbers, the ones that look kind of like footnotes, are called the verse numbers. So when I say the verse, those are the numbers that I'm referring to. Let's read Psalm 24 together. A Psalm of David. The earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof, the world and those who dwell therein. For he has founded it upon the seas and established it upon the rivers. Who shall ascend the hill of the Lord? And who shall stand in his holy place? He who has clean hands and a pure heart, who does not lift up his soul to what is false, and does not swear deceitfully. He will receive blessing from the Lord and righteousness from the God of his salvation Such is the generation of those who seek him, who seek the face of the God of Jacob. Selah. Lift up your heads, O gates, and be lifted up, O ancient doors, that the King of Glory may come in. Who is this King of Glory? The Lord, strong and mighty, the Lord, mighty in battle Lift up your heads, O gates, and lift them up, O ancient doors, that the King of Glory may come in. Who is this King of Glory? The Lord of hosts, he is the King of Glory. Selah Well, friends, what a beautiful exaltation of our Lord. The main idea that we want to stare at today in Psalm 24 Is that the Lord of hosts is the creating, righteous, and conquering King of Glory? Let me say that again. The Lord of hosts is the creating, righteous, and conquering King of glory. And David shows us this in his three-part poem of Psalm 24. So in verses 1 to 2, we're going to see how this King of Glory rules his creation. Then in verses three to six, we see how this king requires perfection. And in verses seven to ten, we see that this king reigns with his people. And as we stare at this psalm this morning, I pray that we will see the Lord's glory more fully and wonder at his mercy more deeply. Let's look first at the very end of the song where David tells us directly who this king of glory is that he's writing about in verse 10. Look at those very last two lines. The Lord of hosts, he is the King of Glory. So we see here and throughout this psalm the name of Yahweh. Which is translated with these small capital letters in English. The Lord. This is the revealed name of God that he gave to his special people, Israel. His covenant name that he gave to them when he heard their cries in slavery and promised to deliver them from Egypt. When we see that name here, the Lord, let's be clear that we are talking about the one true God of the universe in this passage: the Lord of hosts, the Lord of armies. the one who has all rule and all authority and all power to keep his promises to his people. So, to get to this concluding shout of worship, that the Lord is the King of glory, David answers three questions in his poem of Psalm 24 here. First, what has this king done to receive this title of the king of glory Well, he answers that question in verses one to two. The king of glory rules his creation. Let's read verse starting in verse 1. The earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof, the world and those who dwell therein. For he has founded it upon the seas and established it upon the rivers. Well, David states in verse 1 here that the Lord owns the world. Just like an artist owns his or her painting or sculpture or musical composition. David claims here that the Lord not only owns the earth, but everything that lives in it See in verse 1, the earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof, the world and all those who dwell therein. In other words, friends, everything that we see, every tree, sunset, fingerprint, and face belongs to God Everything that we don't see, the birds flying over untouched mountain peaks Every drop of liquid rock that's boiling miles beneath our feet right now, every planet deep in the universe, every star burning with joy in the heavens belongs to God. In verse 2, David explains to us why all of this is God's. Because he has made it. Back in Psalm 19, David described the world as God's handiwork. He saw what he had made, and he knew that it was good. If we remember back to the account of God creating the world in Genesis 1-2, it is a creation of completeness. We see in the in the first three days of creation, God made the heavens and outer space, the sky, the water, and the earth The ground. In days four to six, God then fills each of those spaces. So in day four, he fills the heavens and the earth with light and darkness, the sun, the moon, and the stars. In day five, he fills the sky with birds and the seas with creatures. And then in day six, he fills the land with plants and animals and people made in his image to represent him. Him as rulers on the earth. So space, sky, water, the earth, God's creation of the world was complete As is and as was his authority over it, the world and those who dwell therein. The Lord is a master craftsman, and his work is glorious So if you're here and you're a child, eight years old or younger, I have a very important question for you all now. After the Lord created the world in six days, what did He do? Yes. Gemma, he took a rest. That's absolutely right. Thank you. God rested from his creating work. And it's important that he rested from making the world. His creation was complete. It was done. It was comprehensive. It was very good. And he blessed it. He enjoyed it. His presence was with his people in his place. So in this Psalm, David connects this founding of the earth with God's perfect authority. The Lord's claim that everything in the world is his because he has founded it. All of this is his idea, and he cares deeply for the world and for those who dwell therein Well, if you're here this morning and you don't believe in this God, if you think that the world somehow, someway lifted itself up by its bootstraps and made something from nothing. Or if you think that that God is some blind watchmaker that set the world in motion and then left it alone, I wonder how this story hits you As naive? Maybe as a myth that we make up to make ourselves feel better Let's imagine for a moment that you've just discovered a lost city with carefully planned streets and well-ordered houses, soaring buildings with beautiful architectural designs. What would your response be? Wow, those perfectly flat walls had just the right combination of temperature and pressure over time. How impressive is it that those trees fell exactly in the right way to make that beautiful library? No, friends, we would be asking different questions. We'd be asking, who did this? Who were these people? How did they make this? And how did we not all how did we not know about this? Well, the orderliness and the unity and the diversity of the universe vast exceeds any of our ability to understand or to produce The complexity of the smallest quarks and the largest star clouds that are deep in the universe speak to us. They declare the glory of the one who made them, the king of glory, the Lord of hosts. Well, how do we as Christians know this? We take it by faith, just as anyone does about the origins of the universe. As Hebrews 11:3 says, by faith we understand that the universe was created by the Word of God, so that what is seen was not made out of things that are visible. Well, friend, who or what are you putting your faith in today? If you're here today and you are a follower of the of this Lord through his Son Jesus Christ, Christ, be encouraged. Are you struggling when you don't see God's plan? When the news just seems to be getting worse? When chaos seems to be creeping in Teens and children, does it seem like your mind and your body and your heart are out of order? Look again this morning. At the God of the universe, who made the heavens and the earth, who has founded the earth upon the seas, and who therefore has all authority and all right and all ability to Demonstrate his love for his people. Well, friends, no internal fears, no world events, no natural disasters, no political turmoil can change the fact that the earth is the The Lord's and the fullness thereof, the world and all and those who dwell therein. I wonder how much do our daily lives show to others that we believe that the earth really is the Lord's? Does the way that you use your time and your money show that you know that it's all his Do the habits that you keep show that you trust that He cares for all that He's made? Do your relationships show it? Well, friends, I am so continually encouraged by the way that you all show in so many ways that you trust the Lord's good rule over And I encourage us to trust him more and more. Let's pray that God would enable us to see how following Him involves recognizing and rejoicing in His power over creation. And in faithful obedience to his commands as our Maker and our Good Father. Which leads us to the second scene in this Psalm 24 drama of King David's. When we see that the Lord has created the world, A second question that we might ask is this: What does this creating king demand of his subjects And David provides the answer in verses 3 to 6. The king of glory requires perfection. Let's read those verses again, starting in verse 3. Who shall ascend the hill of the Lord, and who shall stand in his holy place? He who has clean hands and a pure heart, who does not lift up his soul to what is false, and does not swear deceitfully. He will receive blessing from the Lord and righteousness from the God of his salvation. Such is the generation of those who seek him. Who seek the face of the God of Jacob. So David's questions here in verse 3. Call us to many other places in the Bible. If you're between the ages of 9 to 18, I have a question for you all now. You're not off the hook. Where else in the Bible is God's presence with his people located on a mountain? Yes, Simon. Mount Sinai. So Exodus 3, uh God meets with Moses on the mountain. Exodus 19, God meets with his people on a mountain. Yes. Where else, Caleb? The Mount of Transfiguration, the Lord Jesus Christ on the mountain with his people. Anywhere else? God Meeting with his people on a mountain. Yes. At the cross, Jesus ascended the hill of Calvary Yeah, so uh on a couple of other places, a couple of other references, Ezekiel 28, the Garden of Eden is actually referred to as the mountain of God. Mount Zion in Jerusalem, where uh King David lived, uh, and where the Lord Jesus will reign one day in the new Mount Zion forever. So all of these are places where a holy and a righteous God dwells with his people. So it's a very common picture in the Bible. Well my home state is the great state of Oklahoma. And if you don't know where that is, it is the far superior state just north of Texas. No offense to any Texans. Yeah. In in the late nineteenth century, the US government decided to settle what it called unoccupied lands, which uh We're actually occupied already in many cases, mostly through a series of five land runs. Has anyone ever seen a reenactment or a movie with a land run in it? I I see the Oklahomans nodding. Um it was a dusty and a chaotic race, uh where people on horseback or on buggy or in wagons, uh or even on foot, they would line up at a starting line with wooden stakes in their hands. And a gun would sound, and the people would rush to these designated areas to put the stakes in the ground to claim the best of the free land for themselves, to build houses on, to farm, and to settle. Well, one of the most famous parts of these land runs were how crooked and corrupt they were. Many people snuck on to the best parts of land the night before the land run or before the land runs. Uh and as soon as the gun went off, they would put their wooden stakes into the ground on the best land. These cheaters were called sooners by the angry people who were trying to follow the rules. So these people might have looked the part of participants in the land runs, but in truth they were frauds. They tried to enter the land, but in the wrong way and without the proper qualifications. Well, here in Psalm 24, David gives us the Lord's requirements for entry into his holy presence. But this isn't the first time that David has done this. Let's turn back turn back with me a couple of pages to Psalm 15, where we see another similar description of the one who can ascend and And stay on the holy hill of God. So back in Psalm 15. O Lord, who shall sojourn in your tent? Who shall dwell on your holy hill? He who walks blamelessly and does what is right, and speaks truth in his heart, who does not slander with his tongue and does no evil to his neighbor, nor takes up a reproach against his friend in whose eyes a vile person is despised, but who honors those who fear the Lord, who swears to his own hurt and does not change. Who does not put out his money at interest and does not take a bribe against the innocent? He who does these things shall never be moved. Well, friends, God knows the way in which we try to approach him. Well, David's focus in Psalm 15 and in Psalm 24. Isn't on who got there first. It's not on who can touch the mountain once and then retreat, or even who can come in repeatedly, as the priests would do in offering continual sacrifices. For sins. David isn't interested in a vacation house or a verbo on God's holy hill No, his focus is on who can come in to God's presence and live there, who has a right to stay there. So let's go back over to Psalm 24 to see again how it answers this question. Who has the VIP pass to come into the Lord's presence? Well, if you look at verse 3, the word stand is a legal word. It means being in good standing. In other words, David is asking this question: who has the right to be here? And the God of the Bible is perfectly good. And he does perfectly good things. So David outlines four areas of necessary qualifications for being in God's presence in Psalm 24, verse 4 here. So we see first clean hands or innocent hands. So this person's actions are always right. Secondly, a pure heart. This person's mind and thoughts are always right. This person does not lift up his soul to what is false. This person's worship is worship is rightly ordered. So God has no competitors in this person's worship. And fourth, Does not swear deceitfully. This person's words are always right. Well, friend, are your actions and your mind Your thoughts, your worship, and your words always perfect? Those are the requirements that David specifies here For someone who wants to enter into God's presence, God requires perfect obedience to his good law. Why does he require perfection? Because he himself. Is perfectly good. He is completely and totally and unfailingly good. He always does what is right. If he were like the other gods of the ancient world, or Greece, Rome, the Norse, or the tribes of North or South America, or African gods, the Hindu gods, or the more modern gods of atheism and self-help. This claim for his followers to be perfect would be utterly ridiculous because all these other gods are imperfect or capricious or wicked or scheming or immoral. Friends, the God of the Bible, the God of the universe, the God over all, is a God of complete goodness. And our response to this should be holy fear. We cannot ascend this hill. In every way, we deserve to be exiled. From his presence. Our hands have been bloody since Cain killed Abel. Our hearts, our worship, and our words have been corrupt. Since the Garden of Eden, when our first parents put themselves over God, twisting his words to their own ends. And friends, each of us has done the same. When Jesus said, blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God, how could he have been talking about us? Well, God's perfect standard for those who would dwell with Him is very bad news for us. It was very bad news for David. He knew and he explored in many psalms the way that his own sins meant that he failed to measure up to God's perfect holiness. But, friends, that isn't the end of the story. David didn't fully understand the implications of what he was saying in this psalm. But he did understand that those who put their hope fully in God for his mercy, who seek his face, can be counted. Righteous. They can see God and dwell with him. And we'll see David seeking the Lord's forgiveness of sin more directly with Luke Murray preaching to us from Psalm 25 next week. But we aren't there yet. We're still here. How can a holy God allow sinful creatures to live with him? Well, there's never been someone who had perfectly clean hands, save one. There's never been someone with a pure heart whose mind and thoughts are always right, save one. There has never been someone whose words were always right, save one The message of Psalm 24 at its core is that the Lord's eternal King, the righteous one, must be the one to accomplish this holiness for his people. That those who are in him, the generation who seek him, his spiritual offspring, may likewise receive righteousness In other words, friends, the Lord's King must be the Lord himself. And David points forward to the one who the Lord had promised. Would sit on his throne forever, who would be descended from his own line, the one who would be called the Lion of the tribe of Judah, the conquering Lamb of God, Jesus Christ. Who would live this life of perfect obedience to God, in his actions and in his thoughts and in his words, he alone was qualified to dwell in the Lord's presence. But as Caleb just said, he would also willingly ascend God's holy hill at the cross. to stand in the place of sinners, to take upon himself the punishment and the exile from God's presence that sin requires. As the Apostle Paul said in 2 Corinthians 5. 21, for our sake, he, God the Father, made him Jesus Christ. to be sin who knew no sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God Well, the good news of Christianity for all who are in this room this morning is that we might find righteousness in Christ by turning away from our sin. Trusting in him. And if you're here this morning and you're not a follower of Jesus, we would love to talk with you after the service about what it means to do just that. Just turn to the person next to you. To follow Christ to receive this blessing that David talks about in Psalm 24 You too can be welcomed into God's glorious and holy presence by his Spirit because of the finished work of Jesus Christ. And for those of us who do follow Christ, I pray that this reminder of the Lord's work on our behalf in bringing us into his presence would refresh our hearts and motivate our obedience. We love because He first loved us. Well, friends, Jesus didn't stay dead. His righteousness was vindicated by the God of his salvation And that recognition was shown by Jesus rising from the dead, where he ascended to heaven and sat down at the right hand of the Father. The call here to seek God's face, to be a part of this generation or offspring of the righteous one is the call of the gospel. What we could never do in our sinful flesh, God has done through his son Jesus Christ. Seek him today. So in our epic poem Psalm this morning, we have seen this champion king who rules over his creation. And who both requires and then supplies the righteousness that his people need to enter into his presence and to serve him rightly But our drama in Psalm 24 doesn't end here. King David turns again to answer one more important question. What does this king's reign look like? David's answer in verses 7 to 10 gives us the third part of our main idea. The king of glory reigns with his people. Let's read verses 7 to 10 again. Lift up your heads, O gates, and be lifted up, O ancient doors, that the King of Glory may come in. Who is this King of Glory? The Lord, strong and mighty, the Lord mighty in battle Lift up your heads, O gates, and lift them up, O ancient doors, that the King of Glory may come in. Who is this King of Glory? The Lord of hosts, he is the king of glory. Selah Well, in this final section of Psalm 24, we see the King of Glory, the Lord of armies, entering into his kingdom to rule and reign and live with his people. King David may have in mind here the scene of 2 Samuel chapter 6, when all of Israel gathered in Jerusalem to celebrate the Ark of the Covenant. Which symbolized God's presence as it was brought into the city. The people of Israel and David Specifically knew that their military success, their protection, their provision, their preservation all depended on the Lord's presence among them. And when in his youth David had faced Goliath the giant, who opposed and mocked God's people, listen to what he said. Listen to what he said to Goliath He said, you come to me with a sword and with a spear and with a javelin, but I come to you in the name of the Lord of hosts. The God of the armies of Israel, whom you have defied. This day the Lord will deliver you into my hand, and I will strike you down and cut off your head. And I will give the dead bodies of the host of the Philistines this day to the birds of the air and to the wild beasts of the earth, that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel. And that all this assembly may know that the Lord saves not with sword and spear. Well, in that case, David saw and lived and experienced how the Lord used his anointed king to crush the head of his enemies. the seed of the serpent that we recall from Genesis chapter 3, and to deliver his people through judging his enemies And the language of our dramatic poem here in Psalm 24 shows this king coming back and the heralds announcing his return to reign. We see this call and response here. As the call goes out to the gates of the city, the doors of the city, the response comes from the gatekeeper. So the call, lift up your heads, O gates, and be lifted up, O ancient doors, that the King of glory may come in, they command. In verse 8, we see the Lord identified by his strength and his power in battle. He is worthy of coming in. Notice then the second reply in verse 10. The Lord of hosts, he is the king of glory. Well, we return to where we started our study today. But I want us to see that phrase, the Lord of hosts, or the Lord of armies. The God of the universe is not isolated. Our triune God is relational. As we saw last week, at length, He loves and He cares for His people. And David uses the end of his poem to show us a king coming into his kingdom to reign with his people. So let's close our time together this morning by looking to the day that David anticipated. This king of glory. His presence would not stay in Jerusalem, in a temple. He would give Israel over to exile when they rejected him. But he would never abandon his promise to set a ruler on the throne of David forever. In John 1, the Apostle John writes that this king of glory, the eternal word of God, became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory. Glory as the only as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. Well, in his great love for his people, this Lord of hosts, the creator of the universe, the holy and the righteous judge, the conquering king, took on flesh to conquer sin. And death forever. It was finished upon that cross. And the sign that his sacrifice was accepted came when he got up from the grave. He ascended to heaven, to God's holy dwelling place. He sat down at the right hand of the Father, where he intercedes for his people night and day. The Lord has conquered our greatest enemy, eternal death and separation from him that our sin had brought, and he will bring us to live with him. And worship him forever. We saw a few weeks ago in Habakkuk 2. 14 this promise that the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord. as the waters cover the sea. God's glory will be shown, as Habakkuk promised, in saving his people. And defeating his enemies. King Jesus, the eternal King of Glory, will one day return Well, friend, which side will you choose? There will only be two options. You are either allied to this king or you are one of his enemies Brothers and sisters, how are you doing at remembering that Christ will come again What does this reality of being counted among his hosts? One of his chosen and beloved children, what does this mean in your life Does it bring gratitude and thankfulness and worship? Well, friends, these realities should shake us out of apathy and out of distraction. They should motivate us to speak with joy and boldness to our friends and our neighbors and our families about this very creating and holy and conquering King. And this remembering is is that exactly what we've been doing today. This is what we do every week The gathered church is a rehearsal every Sunday for this triumphant entry of the king into his dwelling place, surrounded by his retinue, his entourage, his hosts His armies, his people, his sheep. We want to be ready to welcome him. Well the drama of our psalm today concludes as the Bible does. With a conquering king coming into his kingdom to rule with his beloved people. Turn with me to the very end of your Bible, to Revelation, the very last book. of the Bible, chapter nineteen. Chapter nineteen, verse six Where the Lord's host rejoices in his reign with his people. This is the only place that we can finish this morning where we see the ultimate fulfillment of David's vision. in Psalm 24. So let's let's read Revelation chapter 19 starting in verse 6. Then I heard what seemed to be the voice of a great multitude, like the roar of many waters and like the sound of mighty peals and thunder, crying out: Hallelujah! For the Lord our God, the Almighty, reigns. Let us rejoice and exalt and give him the glory. For the marriage of the Lamb has come, and his bride has made herself ready. It was granted her to clothe herself with fine linen, bright and pure For the fine linen is the righteous deeds of the saints. So the Apostle John goes on in verses 11 to 21 here to describe how this Lord comes. Whose name is the Word of God. He is surrounded by His armies, who are clothed in His righteousness. Look down at verse 16 here with me. On his robe and on his thigh he has a name written, King of Kings and Lord of Lords. This King of Kings, this Lord of Lords, Jesus Christ is the good shepherd of Psalm 23. He is the creating and holy and reigning King of glory from Psalm 24. So we join with other followers throughout history of this King of glory in worshiping him and by saying with the Apostle John, Amen. Come, Lord Jesus. Father, we see dimly in this text a vision of your power and your might, your holiness, your justice, and your glory. Change us, O God, because of who you are. Lift our eyes to you through your spirit because of the work of Christ. Cause us to remember your work and to remember your word and to look forward to the day when you return. We believe, O God. Help our unbelief. In Jesus name, Amen