Good morning. Good morning, Chevrolet Baptist Church. It's a joy to stand before you. Thank you for your warm uh welcome to us again. Uh I have known of this church really since its beginning, and I one thing I know about this church is that you have been very well fed in the scriptures. uh from the very beginning. And so it is a great honor to me, uh a privilege to me to be invited to come and bring the word of God uh to you this morning. Uh If the Lord wills, I'll have occasion to do this some more. But for this morning, uh my hope and my desire is to not think about things that might be in the future, but to uh think with you about the word of God and to sit under his word, to be convicted, to be comforted and encouraged in the word. And so uh I hope that's how we'll come at the word this morning. And I'm going to pray to that end because we need the Lord's help to do that. So let's pray, saints. Heavenly Father, we do thank you and we praise you for this joyful time that we have to be gathered together. Thank you for these brothers and sisters of mine in Christ, these men and these women, uh, these boys and girls who have come today. And who, by your spirit dwelling in us and among us, have transformed this humble cafeteria into the very dwelling place of God. What an astonishing privilege that is. So, Father, as we come to your word this morning, we pray that you would instruct us, that you would Build us up in our most holy faith, and that you would grant us to be blessed, not merely in the hearing of your word today, but in the doing doing of it. We ask for this all in Jesus' name. Amen. Further just something you should learn about me. I will not Uh uh probably you'll never hear me say like amen, like I'm fishing for you to say amen. But if there's anything in the Bible that you hear in the next little while, which reminds me that I should just set a timer Uh if there's anything that you hear that is a help to you, that is an encouragement to you, that resonates in your soul, it will not hurt my feelings It will not distract me if you respond vocally in some way, like saying amen or hallelujah or praise God, that won't upset me at all. Earlier this summer, uh my daughters uh went to a camp and I joined uh with them a summer camp in New Hampshire. It was called Camp Impact Uh my daughters had been there the year before. They had a wonderful time. And this year I got invited to come and be a counselor there. And they were actually my daughters were eager to have me come. They were so excited about the possibility of me coming with them that I could not pass up on that opportunity even though s camping at a s at a summer youth camp was not exactly my favorite thing to do for a week, honestly. But I went because they were so eager to have me and I'm I'm glad that I did It was a joy to be with my daughters and to have time. We had lots of hugs that that uh week, and it was great to spend time with them. Uh but I also just had the chance to meet and serve alongside of some very wonderful people who impacted my faith. And I want to tell you about two of them. They were two campers that really Stood out and continue to stand out in my mind. Uh there was a sister and a brother uh named Miriam and Caleb. Miriam is 17 years old. Any 17-year-old young ladies in the room right now Just raise your hand, 17 year old young ladies. Yeah, there's one that is not raising her hand. She's my daughter, okay, but uh and and uh and her her brother was fourteen named Caleb, any fourteen-year-old young men. Okay, named Caleb. So not not talking about this particular Caleb, but Miriam and Caleb were there at this camp. And during the week. I learned uh about a very severe trial that Miriam and Caleb have been walking through. Uh they have not seen their dad in more than two years. Their dad, his name is Ryan. And he has been held without charge by the Taliban in Afghanistan since August 10th, 2022. Uh he is has been for most of that time he's been held in a basement cell without regular access to a bathroom. Uh, without regular access to sunlight or medical care. Uh Americans who've been released from this prison where Ryan is being held report that he himself is in deteriorating health Uh his family had been fighting for his release in silence for many months, but last December uh they went public uh with their concerns and advocating for him because of fears for his life. Uh you can read about his story, his last name is Corbett. C-O-R-B-E-T-T Corbett, Ryan Corbett, and you can find much information about him and his story online. But I think even just the little bit that I gave you gives you a picture for just what a heartbreaking situation that is. And it gives you a taste for what these two teenagers, Miriam and Caleb, have been walking through. And yet the joy that I saw them bearing witness to, the resilience that they had in their devotion to Jesus during that week as I observe them, it has left a significant impact on my life. It has been inspiring me. It has made me want to endure the much lighter hardships that I experience in my life with joy and with perseverance as I have reflected on their example. And that reflects a biblical principle which comes to mind as I think about the portion of scripture that we're going to be looking at this morning, as it's already been alluded to a few times in Acts chapter 16. This is not what I'm going to tell you here, is not the main idea of this passage, but it is, I believe, an important lesson that we can learn from it, and that is that God uses The godly example of other people to spur us on in the way of godliness. God uses the godly example of others to spur his people on in the way of godliness. So whether it be something like the story that I just shared of Miriam and Caleb, or whether it's through uh reading Christian biographies or uh kids through the example of your parents and seeing them live out their Christian faith or other people that you've read about in scripture or brothers and sisters, fellow church members in the church. I wonder if that's something that you've experienced That God uses the godly examples of others to spur his people on in the way of godliness. That'd be a wonderful thing for you to talk about over lunch this afternoon, whether it's at Maud Pizza or anywhere else. Who's a person? Who are some people who by their example have blessed you and encouraged you and spurred you on in the way of godliness The Apostle Paul himself, whose life we're going to be considering today, commended this principle in his letter to the Philippians. He wrote to the Philippians. In Philippians 3. 17, he said, brothers, join in imitating me and keep your eyes on those who walk according to the example that you have in us. Do you hear that right? He says this in many other places in Philippians and other points in his letter, follow me as I follow Christ. He sets himself forward as an example for others to imitate. And part of what the Philippians had seen in Paul, part of what they were being invited to imitate him and to put into practice. is found right here in Acts sixteen, which is Luke's account of how the gospel came to the city of Philippi in the first place. If you've not opened there, I would encourage you to open in your Bibles to Acts chapter sixteen. Uh if you're using one of those Bibles that are provided on one of the seats, I believe that's on page 925 of those Bibles. Uh just I know we're just swooping 924, did you say? 925? Okay. Before uh we look at the passage, let's just set this the stage in the book of Acts. The book of Acts is chronicling the first stages of Jesus' uh promised to build the church. He ready said the the gates of hell are not going to prevail against her. And we see in the book of Acts Jesus building his church. And at this particular point, we see the Apostle Paul, who in the book of Acts, we see him traveling on three missionary journeys. And this is the second of those three missionary journeys he's traveling around. And it's a strange Story. There's there's travel plans that are interrupted. There's a mysterious God saying no. They were desiring to go to this place and that place. And the Lord said no. He he shut those doors and he took them on this very Weird winding out-of-the-way route. They ended up in Philippi at a little prayer meeting, and this this wealthy woman named Lydia got saved at the prayer meeting. And that in and of itself is a great story. But we're gonna look today at a at the story of what happened after that salvation at a prayer meeting Follow along with me as I read Acts chapter 16, verses 16 through 34. Let's take this occasion to open up the bottle of water. Acts 16, verse 16. As we were going to the place of prayer, we were met by a slave girl who had a spirit of divination. And brought her owners much gain by fortune telling. She followed Paul and us, crying out, These men are servants of the Most High God who proclaim to you the way of salvation. And this she kept doing for many days. Paul, having become greatly annoyed, turned and said to the Spirit, I command you in the name of Jesus Christ to come out of her. And it came out that very hour. But when her owners saw that their hope of gain was gone, they seized Paul and Silas and dragged them into the marketplace before the rulers. And when they had brought them to the magistrates, they said, These men are Jews and they are disturbing our city. They advocate customs that are not lawful for us as Romans to accept or practice. The crowd tore the garments off them and gave orders to beat them with rods. And when they had inflicted many blows upon them, they threw them into prison, ordering the jailer to keep them safely. Having received this order, he put them into the inner prison and fastened their feet in the stocks. About midnight Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns to God, and the prisoners were Listening to them. And suddenly there was a great earthquake, so that the foundations of the prison were shaken. And immediately all the doors were opened and everyone's bonds were unfastened. When the jailer woke and saw that the prison doors were open, he drew his sword and was about to kill himself, supposing that the prisoners had escaped. But Paul cried with a loud voice, Do not harm yourself, for we are all here. And the jailer called for lights and rushed in, and trembling with fear, he fell down before Paul and Silas. And then he brought them out and said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? And they said, Believe in the Lord Jesus, and you will be saved, you and your household. And they spoke the word of the Lord to him and to all who were in his house. And he took them the same hour of the night and washed their wounds, and he was baptized at once, he and all his family. Then he brought them up into his house and set food before them, and he rejoiced along with his entire household that he had believed in God. This is God's word, brothers and sisters. probe on every detail that I might like to draw your attention to. But if I was to summarize the passage as a whole, I I think I would do it with the following sentence. My family did tell me that this was a little bit wordy, but I'm going with it anyway, and I'll have a few points to guide you along the way. But here's how I think I'd summarize this passage. In a crooked and twisted world, salvation spreads through singing sufferers who shine the light of their sufficient Savior. In a crooked and twisted world, salvation spreads through singing sufferers who shine the light of their sufficient Savior. And if you if you hear in that summary statement an echo of something else Paul wrote to the Philippian church, you heard correctly Because Paul wrote to the Philippians in chapter 2, he said, do all things without grumbling or disputing, that you may be blameless and innocent. children of God without blemish in the midst of a crooked and twisted generation among whom you shine as lights in the world. So we see right there that what Paul exhorted the Philippians to, he himself had lived and modeled for their imitation right from the birth of this church in Philippi. So let's think about that summary statement together, and I'm gonna give you three observations from it. We'll just take them one at a time as we go. Point number one: God's people live in a crooked and twisted world. God's people live in a crooked and twisted world Now, I'm not going to spend a lot of time as it was prayed, Luke prayed earlier about particularly the exorcism of this evil spirit from this woman I'm not gonna spend much time there because it seems to me that her story is recounted here primarily to show how this sh the scene shifted. From that sweet riverside prayer meeting where salvation had come to Lydia and how it moved from there to this dark prison cell where another individual and his household would be saved. But we can be sure that this young woman's plight and what followed her deliverance from oppression demonstrate the crooked and twisted world that Paul lived in. It was a world we see of spiritual and demonic oppression. This young woman, we're told, had a spirit of divination by which she could tell the future. Supernatural evil. is real and still wreaks havoc even today. And though what this woman said was actually correct Paul saw this woman as a distraction, as a hindrance. We don't know if she was perhaps mocking these men in the way that she said, these men are Servants of God and they're teaching you the way of salvation. We don't know if she was she was disrupting in some way the real work that Paul was wanting to do. And so it says he was greatly annoyed, even though what she was saying was true. But we see that this young woman had an unsound mind. She was spiritually oppressed. It was a world of spiritual darkness. It was a world of slavery. This young woman was a means of financial gain for her owners. She was to use language that we would use today, she was an object of human trafficking enslaved by people, so cruel and callous to human life that when Paul rebuked the evil spirit and set the woman free from her oppression All her owners saw in her loss of oppression was their loss of income. And that's just a disgusting thing. And they did not get the only thing they were concerned about when this woman was set free was the bottom line to their wallets. It's a world full of greed. And it's a world full of unjust and negligent civil authorities. Rather than soberly investigate this matter. The magistrates come and they join in immediately without questions. Yes, they just join in on the mob violence, stripping Paul and Silas of their garments. beating them with rods, inflicting many blows upon them, throwing them in prison with orders to the jailer to keep them safely. The jailer goes above and beyond the call of duty here, putting them in we're told the inner prison and fastening their feet in the stocks. So this would have been a deep dark cell, these stocks were used to contort the bodies in very painful positions. This is a crooked and twisted world that Paul was living in. And it's not that much different than the world that we are living in. Spiritual fascination with the demonic. Human trafficking, the love of money over basic concerns of human dignity Ungodly and immoral civil authorities, savage, ruthless persecution of Christians, Christians misunderstood and falsely accused and slandered and mistreated Governing authorities failing to uphold their rights to proclaim the good news of Jesus. That's how it was in Paul's day That's how it is in our day. That's been the way that salvation has spread over the history of the church for the last 2,000 years. And this just brings up a very important point of application. I trust you've heard this, I trust you are aware of this, but I think it is good to be reminded of this. Uh, kids and and young people, I want to particularly point this out to you. Kids, the gospel Will not always be received as gospel by everyone. Do you know, kids, do you know what the word gospel means? Yes Truth, the gospel is truth. The word gospel itself doesn't actually mean truth, but the Bible, we read about the gospel in the Bible Anyone else? Yes. The good news. That's what I was looking for. The word gospel means good news. And it might seem crazy, kids, that the good news wouldn't be received as good news. But it's a crooked and twisted world, kids. And what's that's a fancy way of saying things are messed up out there. It's a messed up world. And people don't receive the gospel as gospel. Sometimes You can serve Jesus faithfully. Do all the right things. These brothers, Paul and Silas, they were doing, they were serving the Lord, traveling the world to spread the good news of Jesus. Their plans got foiled. They couldn't get to where they went. They kept persevering. They freed this woman from oppression. And all they got was beaten and incarcerated. Thrown in jail. You can do all the right things serving Jesus, and sometimes things go horribly. At least horribly to the natural eye That's where we see Paul and Silas in this dark, filthy dungeon of a cell with their feet bound in stalks, contorting their bodies in terribly painful ways. I I I want it's har when we when you read stories like this in the Bible, it's just you know you just see ink on paper and it's by and we can we can fail sometimes to put ourselves in the moment. Just try to think about this. Imagine imagine we're out at Maud Pizza, let's say, in a couple of hours and We're there, we're enjoying some fellowship and some food, and as we as we leave, let's say there's a we see somebody who's he's he's begging. He's begging for food or money. And you have compassion, you go back into the store, you buy him a pizza, you begin to you give him some food, you begin to talk to him and engage with him, you begin to try to point him to the hope of Jesus. And let's just say, as you're doing that A group of people who sort of witness what's going on and like, hey, look at this bigot over here trying to spread hate to this guy. And a bunch of people grab you, attack you, start beating upon beating on you And the authorities come, sirens come to check out what's going on, and they just start beating you as well. They pull out their clubs, start beating you. You're left with open wounds and a concussion and broken ribs and internal injuries and you've never had opportunity to defend yourself. No trial, they drag you over, put irons around your feet, and let you down a manhole for the night. I mean think yeah think about this put yourself here in the middle of the night says about midnight verse 25 says No idea whether you're gonna be hanged or beheaded or flagged. We know what's coming, right? We know there's an earthquake and salvation. This is gonna have a happy ending. They did not know that at midnight. What do you do? I think I'd be tempted to some grumbling Some pouting, some self-pity. God, what what are you doing? Well, Luke tells us what they were doing. Verse 25. About midnight, Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns to God. I love that verse. That is so wonderful. They were praying. We could talk about prayer. Praise. I I love I think my bulletins here. I don't need to pull it out, but I love how it said on the back of that bulletin or on with announcements, prayer is one of the most important things we do as a church. Yes, and a men. They were praying, men. I want to focus a little bit on the singing this morning. They were singing hymns. Not singing psalms. We do know there's a word and the scriptures speak of singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. They were singing hymns. These were songs probably written by believers, and Paul and Silas evidently knew them by heart. They couldn't pull out a hymnal in that moment to sing some songs Which meant that they sang them a lot, I think. These these greatest of all men, they were they were singing men. Oh, that there might be singing men in the church. Men who in the church, but not just in the gathering of the church, but in the life of the church, in their homes, men who can come home from a tough day. Tough day at work. Tough day maybe relationally. Tough day with a health issue. And can come home and and how was your day? It was rough. But let's sing a hymn. Let's sing praise to God. Oh, that there would be men in the church like that. Women too, but I'm just saying we're seeing some singing men here in this passage. These greatest of all men were singing men, and that leads us to the second observation: that God's people can sing praise to God even in a crooked and twisted world. God's people can sing. Now how how in the world do you sing like this? How do you sing in this moment? Think about your own sufferings. It may be they're due to persecution, maybe there's estrangement that you know in your family or in your workplace. Because of your devotion to Jesus, maybe you go to a workplace every single day and everybody in your office hates Jesus and makes it vocally known. Maybe you've got health issues that just will not get resolved. Maybe you have financial concerns Maybe you have unwanted singleness, praying and praying for God to provide a spouse, and the Lord seems to be doing nothing. What what might those pains and sufferings look like for you? How do you sing praise to God in the midst of that? Well, Paul and Silas, we don't tell us. Luke doesn't tell us. How they sang. But I think Paul points us to his secret also in his letter to the Philippians When he exhorted them to that grumble-free life that would shine the light of Christ into a crooked and twisted world. I I quoted this passage earlier and I left off a phrase, but he talks about doing all things without grumbling and disputing. Being pure and blameless, shining as lights in the world. And then it says in verse 16 of Philippians 2, holding fast to the word of life. And I think that was Paul's secret. I think that was Silas's secret. How do you sing in these most horrible of conditions? In physical pain, in the darkness of the night, with the injustice of it all, and the uncertain tomorrow, how do you sing? Their hearts were in heaven, because they remembered the word of life. Do you I wonder if you remember again what we're just swooping into the book of Acts here on one particular Sunday morning. We've not been studying it along, but do you remember the way we're first introduced to This man who we now call the Apostle Paul. Do you remember how we were first introduced to him in the book of Acts? In chapter 7, we're told there was a man named Stephen, and he was persecuted for his devotion to Jesus. And it said that the people who got ready to stone him, they laid their garments at the feet of a young man named what? Saul, and Saul is just a Hebrew the Hebrew name for Paul. This man Paul, he was a persecutor of the church. It says in Acts chapter 8, verse 3, that Saul, that is Paul, he was ravaging the church and entering house after house. He dragged off men and and women and committed them to prison. But God had changed Paul. God had saved Paul. And he did that through Jesus. Jesus came into the world to save sinners, sinners like Paul, sinners like you, sinners like me. He came, Jesus came from heaven to earth to be mistreated. to be slandered, to be falsely accused and beaten and shamed and disgraced, bound not with stocks, but bound to a Roman cross to bring salvation from the dungeon of everlasting destruction to those who had justly earned it by our wretched rebellion against him. When we had no songs to sing at all. When we were without God and without hope in the world, it was right then that Jesus brought the glad tidings of salvation to songless souls and put a song of praise to God in their hearts. And Paul never forgot about this. I know Paul never forgot about it because we're told towards the end of his life he wrote a letter, he wrote two letters that we have in scripture to his young apprentice Timothy. And in 1 Timothy chapter 1, this is 25 or or 30 years after his conversion, he said in second in uh 1 Timothy chapter 1, I thank him who has given me strength, Christ Jesus our Lord. Because he judged me faithful, appointing me to his service, though formerly I was a blasphemer, persecutor, and an insolent opponent. But he said, I received mercy because I had acted ignorantly in unbelief and the grace of our Lord. Here's a phrase that I just love. I love this. The grace of our Lord, he says, overflowed for me with the faith and love that are in Christ Jesus Our family took a trip a couple of weeks ago to Niagara Falls. Up in Ontario, we went over the border to Canada and we were at Niagara Falls. Anybody ever been to Niagara Falls? Okay, a lot good. Whoa, a lot of them on this side of the room. Not so many over here. Uh kids, if you want to see a picture of Naya, I got a couple pictures on my phone. I would love for you to come up to me after the service. I got a little video I could show you of these falls or show you some pictures. I would love to show it to you. after the after the service is over. Well we we went up there a couple weeks ago. We were looking at the falls and and but the the day we were getting ready to go over I shared a little a a quote with uh my family from a book that I had read not too long ago and he was basically saying if you could if you could quench if if if a tiny little pebble a little rock could quench the overflowing waters of Niagara Falls. If that could happen, if a little teeny pebble could quench the waters of Niagara. So could your sin against God quench the overflowing grace that he has to repentant sinners in the Lord Jesus Christ? And I said to my family, I said, as you as you watch these waters coming down, recognize that there's no sin that you could commit, no amount of sin, that if you would come humbly and bankrupt to Jesus and confess Jesus There's no amount of sin that could that could stop that overflowing cascade of the grace of God in Christ Jesus. And Paul knew that grace. And he loved that grace and he lived by that grace. And that had Paul and Silas singing hymns in the middle of the night. Not just because it was the right thing to do, not because it was the pious thing to do, but because singing praise to God is the inevitable, inescapable fruit of tasting the grace of the Lord Jesus, tasting the forgiveness of sins. And the rescue from hell, and the crediting, the reckoning of Christ's own righteousness to be ours, and being adopted into God's family and having the hope of the glory of God for all time, for all things shining. Our faces will shine, we're told, like the sun in the kingdom of our Father. And we have this wonderful inheritance. We were once Doomed to destruction. And now we have the hope of everlasting life. And we sing praise to God because of it. God's people can sing even in a crooked and twisted world And I know there's some of you that might be sitting here saying, Pastor, I don't I don't know that you know, you know, like you just showing up on a Sunday, you don't know what I'm you don't know what I'm walking through. You don't know the pa Pain that I'm in. And that's true, I don't. I certainly, in the midst of your pain, would not come and just start yelling at you that you need to sing. I'd want to hear about that pain. I'd want to lament with you about that pain. Weep with you over that pain. As I don't know. But I do know, I do know a little bit about King David's suffering. And he chose to give praise to God. And know a little bit about Habakkuk's suffering. Read that in the Word of God. We read that this morning, right, in the call to worship. Though the fig tree should not blossom. Produce of the olive fail, no food. Yet I will rejoice in the Lord. There was a little, there's a little part of that. There's a little part of Habakkuk 3. 19 that got left off the call to worship, understandably so. But do you know how Habakkuk 319 ends? It ends to the choir master with stringed instruments. And I'm no fancy musician, but one thing I know that that means is it means Habakkuk III is a song No fruit, no figs, the olive fails, no flock, no herd in the stalls. Yet I will rejoice, the people of God sing. David sang, Habakkuk sang, Paul and Silas sang, and what so impacted me was that Miriam and Caleb they sang praise to God that week in New Hampshire. I looked at the faces of this 17-year-old young woman and this 14-year-old young man. And I like to sit in the corner. Because I like when when there's singing has happened, I like to look at the people of God as they're singing. And I was sitting and I'm looking around the room and I'm seeing Miriam and I'm seeing Caleb. And I am not looking at two people who are singing because they've been told that they're supposed to sing because it's Christian youth camp. They are singing because they are loving God. Those who look to him, Psalm 34, 6 says, those who look to him are radiant. and their faces will never be ashamed. And I was looking at two radiant faces. Have not seen their dad in as of today, 794 days. And they sang Mine are tears in times of sorrow, darkness not yet understood. Through the valley I must travel where I see no earthly good. But mine is peace That flows from heaven and strength in times of need. I know my pain will not be wasted. Christ completes his work in me and that young woman and that young man. They sang. They sang what whatever my God ordains is right. Do y'all sing that one? Whatever my God ordains is right, here shall my stand be taken. Though sorrow, need, or death be mine, yet I am not forsaken. My father's care, they sang. My father's care is round me there. He holds me that I cannot fall. And so to him I leave it all. That young man and that young woman they sang praise to God. As long as I live I don't think I'll ever forget that singing. I started tear up. We're singing Christ's mind forevermore. I knew I was gonna get up and say this, but we're singing Christ's mind forever. I started to tear up just thinking about those faces. Because God's people can sing even in a crowd crooked and twisted world. And y'all do that for each other, don't you? Do not underestimate the power of your singing when you show up here and you don't feel like you have a song to sing. Do not underestimate the power that your singing has on the souls of your brothers and sisters in the Lord. This is one way that we as the church militant, the church embattled in a crooked and twisted world, this is one way we take up the shield of faith and extinguish the fiery darts is our of our enemy is through praising God. Through praising him in song. This is one means of grace that God has appointed to keep us going as pilgrims on that narrow way which leads to life. We sing praise to God. And God uses the joyful singing of his people to sustain and empower and strengthen his struggling saints on that pilgrimage to eternal glory. I will never forget those two singing. as long as I live. And I don't think this jailer will ever forget that singing he heard in that prison cell as long as he lives Because you know he is still living today, that jailer. And that leads me to observation number three God uses his singing sufferers to spread the good news of his salvation God uses his singing sufferers to spread the good news of his salvation. That's what's happening here in this Philippian prison. Luke did not have to tell us about this singing. He could have just said, Paul and Silas were thrown in prison and their feet were fastened to the stocks, and about midnight there was a great earthquake, and all the prisoners' chains were loosed. He could have said that. He could have written that. But he chose to tell us that in the middle of the night. They were praying and singing hymns to God. And he tells us even there, did you notice that little detail? And the prisoners were listening to them Why would he tell us that? I think he's telling us that because the singing was part of the shining. We're not told specifically what effect the singing had on the prisoners. Though I think we got a pretty good indication that it made an impact on them because when when an earthquake happens and your chains fall off and you've got opportunity to escape prison, all the prisoners stay put. That's powerful. And that that seems to show they had some respect for Paul But we know that salvation came to this jailer and then to his household, right? Luke's Luke makes it plain here, since I am in a Baptist church, I should at least say this. Luke makes plain here that it was not just the jailer, but it was the entire household that heard the word of the Lord. So all those were baptized were those who heard and received the word of the Lord. We're told that the entire household rejoiced with him. Because he had believed in God, and presumably they too had believed in God. Because why would they be rejoicing that he had believed in God if they themselves had not believed in God? In God. So the whole household got saved. They heard the word of the Lord and they were saved and they were baptized. And how did it happen? Well, if if we were to ask this jailer I mean, imagine this jailer go, you know, he goes off, he goes back to work. He gets saved, he gets baptized. We know from the rest of the story that Paul and Silas are set free and they travel on their missionary journeys. Let's say two weeks later, this man's life, this jail, his life has been evidently changed. And maybe some of his coworkers or his neighbors is like, what's gotten into you? Like some you things are different with you. What's up with you? What happened? What changed? Maybe they didn't use the word saved, maybe they didn't know that word yet, but they said, how did you get saved? He said, let me tell you Okay, this isn't in the Bible. I'm just trying to envision what might have happened in this man's life. Let me tell you what happened There were these two guys singing praise to their God in the middle of the night. Who does that? Who sings praise to their God? I've seen people pray to their God in a dark prison cell. I never seen praise like this. I never saw people singing like this. They had a joy. They had a hope. I could not understand it. And then my life took a turn for the worse significantly. This earthquake happened And I knew I was a goner because in that day, if you've done some study of the culture and times, you know that the prisoner who was keeping watch of the guards, if he lost the prisoners, his life was on the line for them. That he would have been killed. That's why it says he was about to take his own life, because he knew if I lose the prisoners, I'm a goner. I might as well just take my own life. But he So he his circumstances got shaken up. I mean literally in this case, but his circ there was some there were some people, there were some saints praising God, then this guy carried on his way. No care for the Lord, no regard for the Lord, his life starts to get shaken up. And he's like, I got what what do I need? You've got something I don't have. This is 1 Peter 3, 15. Always be prepared to give a reason for the hope that is in you when anybody asks you. It's like so so he's got a crisis happening in his life. He knows these people have a hope. They got something in their lives. He doesn't know what it is. He says, what do I need? What do I need to do to be saved? And these men, they were ready with the gospel word. Not a word about something that you do, but a word about something to believe. That's so important, right? Salvation is not because of something we do, but it's about some things that we believe. And if you happen to have come in here this morning and you don't know the Lord and you're not even sure what I'm talking about when it talks about being saved, I know I talk loudly. I do talk a little bit fast at times, but if you've not been tracking with me, listen to what I'm saying right now, please, if you're here a guest with us today. Being right with the God who made you and who made all things is not about something that you do. But it is about believing some things. It is about believing that you were made by God. There is one God and ruler who is the creator and king. over all and he made you to love him and to honor him and praise him with your life but all of us the people around you here All of us have sinned against him. We have collected blessing after blessing after blessing from him, and we generally at best disregard him and ignore him. And when one bit of suffering comes into our life, we accuse him and condemn him and question whether he even exists. And this posture of rebellion and disregard of God is called sin. And because of sin, we deserve to die. We deserve to be punished eternally forever. But God, this God who made us and who could righteously condemn us, God is so filled with love that He sent His Son Jesus. Jesus Christ into the world to live a perfectly sinless life, a life fully submitted to his God and Father. And he completely Completed that sinless life by dying on the cross as a substitute. Jesus took in his body of flesh the sins for all those who would turn away from their sin and receive him. So This man wants to know, what do I do? How can I be saved? What do I do? And he says, believe upon the Lord Jesus. And that's what we would call you. to do today, to believe upon the Lord Jesus Christ, to recognize yourself as a sinner against him, to turn from your sin and to receive Jesus. And whether it's here this morning after the service or some someone that you've seen on the stage, I know that many, many people in this room would love to talk you through that much more quietly. Over time to answer your questions and to help you understand what it means to be saved like this man. But what we see here is that salvation spreads through some singing sufferers. who shine the light of their sufficient Savior. That's how this man in Philippi got saved And I'll tell you what, it's that very same dynamic as a part of why I'm standing before you today. I can't help but share this little anecdote. Because it's just a crazy thing that I'm even standing before you preaching this message About 20 years ago, there was a guy named Gino Kercarudo. Good Italian brother. Gino Kercarudo. He lived out on the West Coast. Secular eyes, totally just living life for the world and for himself, didn't have any care or regard for God. He had c a couple of friends of his, they lost a child. They had a uh they gave birth to a stillborn child And they were they were at a funeral then for this baby. And Gino shows up to the funeral, and he sees this friend of his and his wife. Testifying to God's goodness in the midst of such an extreme pain and difficulty. And this man he walked into the funeral, no interest in the Lord, no regard for the Lord He saw their suffering and he saw them testifying to a hope that they had and even a joy that they had. And it started making him ask some questions. What what do you have that I don't have? What are you living for? And as he talked with them more and more, Gino got saved And then Gino moved to the East Coast into southern New Jersey, where I live, and he started coming to our church, and he was a member of our church. And then Gino had a heart to do urban ministry, and he moved into the city of Philadelphia, and he met a guy uh at the church that he was at there in the city he met a guy named Anthony Coughlin. And because I because I knew Gino and would go visit Gino, I met this guy Anthony Coughlin. And then in the course of time Gino moved on to another church and and Anthony Coughlin moved into another church, but I stayed in touch with Anthony Coughlin. And in uh January or February, when one of your pastors was talking about the need of Chevrolet Baptist Church, Anthony Coughlin was on that call and he reached out to me and said, hey, I think you should think about this Chevrolet thing. I'm not even having that conversation. And I'm not literally standing here before you today if these two people who I will never meet and I don't even know their names. These two people were not giving praise to God in the midst of such dark suffering that it made an impact on Gino's life. I would not be standing before you today. In a crooked and twisted world, brothers and sisters, take heart that salvation spreads through singing sufferers who shine the light of their sufficient sake A few brief points of application. My time is short, but I'm going to just give you some very quick uh encouragements by way of application. Number one. Uh if if if as you look around, as you sing, or just as you look around this real gathering right now, if you know of someone here who has been an encouraged their godly example has encouraged you in the way of godliness, tell that brother or sister this. Morning. Encourage them with how you have been encouraged. Number two, pray regularly for persecuted Christians around the world. Pray regularly for persecuted Christians around the world One thing that we use as a family, this Global Christian Relief has a monthly prayer guide, and they give you very specific and simple ways to pray for persecuted Christians every day of the month. Global Christian relief. Number three, study the gospel. Study the gospel so that when you get woken up at midnight And someone asks you, how do I be saved? You know how to answer them because that gospel is so a part of who you are that you can tell people in your sleep. I have I I have um the time is short. I'm happy to give you some specific suggestions about how to do that exactly, but study the gospel. Pray for persecuted Christians, encourage someone with how their godly example has spurred you on in the way of godliness. And number four, look to the Lord Jesus, brothers and sisters. and sisters look to the Lord Jesus because if you're anything like me sermons like this Can bring some godly spurring on, but they can also bring some, I'm just saying if you're like me, can bring some feelings of guilt and shame and condemnation He's talking about this young man and young woman singing praise to God with their dad in jail. And you can, and you're just very sharply aware of how poorly you have done that, praising God in the midst of hardship. And if you're there right now, it's just so important that we look to the the example of another, but he's more than just an example. We heard about that in Sunday school class this morning. Actually, those who were here. Jesus is an example, but he's more than just an example. Because in the hours immediately before his betrayal and his arrest and his crucifixion. We are told explicitly by Matthew, and Mark says it as well, Matthew 26, 30, that Jesus gathered his disciples and they sang a hymn. Jesus Christ left his father's throne above, as we sang. God's very own Son came from heaven to die, sweating drops of blood. Because of the weighty agony that he knew he was about to endure. Jesus, knowing that he was about to be, knowing that he had been betrayed by one of his closest friends. and knowing that he was soon to be abandoned by all of his followers, knowing that he was soon to feel the full fury of God's wrath against all the sins of all of his people for all time, being spit upon, and stripped, and mocked, About to be crushed with those indescribable miseries under the undiluted wrath of God. No to bear that all, he took his disciples and he said, Let's sing a hymn. And that, brothers and sisters, that songless saint, that sulking sufferer, that is your salvation That is your righteousness. It makes me think of another song, which we're going to sing in just a few minutes. I'm not going to sing it for you right now. I want to, but we're going to sing it together in a few minutes. Come ye sinners, poor and needy, weak and wounded, sick and sore. Jesus ready stands to save you, full of pity, love, and power. If the word of God has brought conviction, if the example of Paul and Silas Or Miriam and Caleb have brought conviction to you this morning, arise and go to Jesus, and he will embrace you in his arms Oh, in the arms of our dear Savior, there are 10,000 charms. He is a Savior who is certainly worthy of a song. And may the Lord grant us. To be enabled by his own spirit, resting in Jesus, to sing many such songs together for years to come and to all eternity. It's been an honor to bring the Word of God to you, brothers and sisters. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you and we praise you for Jesus We praise you that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. And we pray, Father, that you would help us to be looking afresh to Jesus. That we would be holding fast to that word of life, that we would be amazed at the glory of the salvation that you have wrought for us in Christ. And that such recollection in our minds would be used to put songs of praise in our hearts to you that would even beckon an unbelieving world to give their praise to you as they see the hope that we have in Jesus' name. Jesus. Be honored, Father, in the rest of our worship of you this morning. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen