Good morning, brothers and sisters. Good to be with you once again to share God's word, because that's why we're here. To hear from his word, to rally around him, to be hearers and doers of his word. We need his help with that. So I'm going to pray again, and then we'll dive into Nehemiah chapter 4. Let's pray. Lord, soon we will pass from this earthly mission, and our prayers will turn to endless praise. But we are not there yet, so therefore we need your grace to live the way you call us to live, to place our hope for everything in you. To hear your word and believe it and then do it. So we ask for your help right now, Lord. Please help us to hear from your word and respond. Please use your word to convict us, Lord, to correct us and change us, Lord, that we will look like the Lord Jesus Christ more as a result. In his name we pray. Amen. Just the other day, my kids were invited to a birthday party at a trampoline park. In fact, there were two separate birthday parties. One was at Urban Air and the other one was at Sky Zone. If you've ever been to any of these trampoline parks, they're lots of fun, but they're a little nerve-wracking kids for your parents Because in order to let you go and run around and play and have the time of your lives, they have to sign a waiver. If you've seen that waiver before, you know that there are some questions in there. Now on the spot, regardless of how many times you've done it, they're kind of hard to answer. Questions like, are you really sure you want to let your child do this? Or you know you can't sue us if something happens, right? You know, questions like that. And I'm always reading those questions even like last week, and I'm like, I don't know if I want to sign my child's life away So I'll leave this question, this box unchecked, and I'll sign the bottom and try to submit it. And every time I try to do that, it does not let me submit it There's an error message. It does not go through. The only way that that will be submitted is if I check all of the boxes. You can't agree with most of it. You have to agree with all of it As you think about your life in Christ, dear brother and sister, I wonder if there's some boxes that you've tried to leave unchecked Salvation check. I want that. Eternal life, check. I want that too. The Holy Spirit, I need the Holy Spirit, check Suffering, opposition for the faith. Do I really need to check that box? Can I just sign the bottom, submit the form? You've been a Christian long enough, you know that that's not how it works. It's all of it. All of it is included. in the terms and conditions of following the Lord Jesus Christ. And where we left last left off in the book of Nehemiah, God's people had been rallied together to work together on rebuilding the walls and the gates in Jerusalem. And they worked hard and they labored side by side for the glory of God because God was trying to restore his people to right fellowship and right worship of him. So they signed up for the rebuilding project, the long hours, the hard work, the diligence that they needed. But what we'll see in Nehemiah chapter 4, Is that in obeying the Lord, they also signed up, whether they wanted to or not, to be opposed for following the Lord. Please meet me in Nehemiah chapter 4 if you haven't turned there already. If you're using one of the black Bibles provided, that's on page 400. And if you don't have a Bible of your own or a Bible that you can understand, feel free to take that Bible as a gift from us to you so you can read the word for yourself. And I encourage you to keep the Bible open as we go through our time in God's Word together because we will refer to it often. Nehemiah has been leading God's people in God's work, in this work of restoring them. And again, this work is not just to rebuild some walls. It's to rebuild God's people and to restore them. God's plan then and even now is to restore his remnant people It's right fellowship and right worship of him. That's what the Lord has done. That's what the Lord is still doing today. So God's people came together. We saw that last week with all kinds of gifts. and skills from all kinds of backgrounds working together on this restoration project. And they made progress. But they encountered struggles. And they will continue to encounter struggles. And chapters 4, 5, and 6 in the book of Nehemiah recount those struggles. Chapter 4 is about those struggles from without, so the outward opposition. Same as chapter 6, more outward opposition. We'll get to that in a few weeks, Lord willing. Chapter 5, this inward conflict, inward tension, inward ways that they needed to turn to the Lord and do what was right. But how would they respond to this opposition? How should we respond to our opposition that we face for following the Lord? If you take any notes this morning and give you the main point, and you can write this down. The Lord will restore his remnant people. That's what he's doing, that's what he's been doing, that's what he's going to do. He will restore his remnant people as they resolve to endure opposition. As they resolve to endure opposition. God's people must be resolved, which means they must be resolute. They must be determined. They must be devoted. And we'll see that God's people were resolute, they were determined, they were devoted to endure that opposition that they faced here. We'll see that in two main points. Point one, we'll see that through prayer. They prayed and they trusted in God to answer, so prayer. And two, they protected. So they protected one another and they relied on God's strength. Point one, pray. That's how we can endure. Pray and trust that God answers prayers. Pray and trust that God answers prayers. As we've discussed before, we'll see time and time again in the book of Nehemiah that Nehemiah was a man of prayer. Talks about prayer all throughout the book of Nehemiah. And if you're reading any chapter of Nehemiah, you can probably pull out that application of I need to go to the Lord in prayer. Because we see that he does that time and time again. Chapter 1, he heard about everything happening in Jerusalem and he Prayed. In chapter 2, standing right before King Artaxerxes, he prayed. The Lord heard and responded to his prayers. And in Nehemiah 4, we're going to see not just Nehemiah's own prayers, but we're going to see how God's people collectively got involved in those prayers. And Nehemiah is on a trajectory in this book, in his this leadership, which is something you also catch as you read through the book of Nehemiah. He was previously kids. Do you remember? Nehemiah was a cupbearer to the king And then he would emerge as the spiritual leader. Later on, we will see that he would also emerge as the governor. He was giving spiritual oversight over his people, which meant That Nehemiah's job was to pray for his people and also to find ways to protect them, to guard them. Quick word of application for our fellow elders, my fellow elders, to the deacons among us, to the small group leaders, to the to the parents and grandparents, to the co workers. Children's ministry volunteers, youth volunteers. The list can go on and on. A central part to your leadership. Is in your prayers and in your protection of the people in your care. Pray for them and work hard to protect them Spiritually, physically, emotionally, because they will face opposition With all that in mind, let's look at Nehemiah chapter 4. I'll start reading in verse 1. We'll go bit by bit and then talk about it, try to apply it as we go through. We'll still end point one. Again, pray and trust that God answers Let me read Nehemiah chapter 4, starting in verse 1. This is the word of the Lord. Now when Sambalat heard that we were building the wall, he was angry and greatly enraged, and he jeered at the Jews. And he said in the presence of his brothers and the army of Samaria, What are these feeble Jews doing? Will they restore it for themselves? Will they sacrifice? Will they finish it up in a day? Will they revive the stones out of the heap of rubbish? And burnt ones at that? Tobih the Ammonite was beside him, and he said, Yes, what they are building, if a fox goes up on the wall, if if a fox goes on it, he will break down their stone wall. We'll stop right there. Sambalat and Tobias should sound familiar because they came up in chapter 2. And here they are again with their opposition. They come back again in chapter 6 with more opposition. They saw progress and they wanted it stopped. They jeered and they mocked God's people. Now, lest we think that these were just words, and Nehemiah was being a little too sensitive He mentions that they were saying these things among the army of Samaria, which meant these were not just words, these were fighting words. And as we'll see in chapter 4, their threats escalate, and they eventually want to harm and kill God's people for rebuilding these walls So he's pointing out that this opposition was true and it was real. So then how would God's people respond to that? They would pray. Look at verse 4. Hear, O our God, for we are despised. Turn back their taunts on their own heads, and give them up to be plundered in a land where they are captives Do not cover their guilt, and let not their sin be blotted out from your sight, for they have provoked you to anger in the presence of the builders. Now that might not be the kind of prayer you were expecting. This is what theologians call an imprecatory prayer. Which is really a prayer for God to be just and for God to judge his enemies and for him to deliver his people And they pray this prayer specifically. Verse 4, they basically pray, do to those people what they've done to us. In verse 5, they basically pray, God, don't forgive them because they know exactly what they're doing. Again, that sounds and seems strange and a strange way to pray, doesn't it? But these kind of prayers. Come from the lips of God's people in His Word. Psalm seventy-four, for example, where it says, Arise, O God, defend your cause. Remember how the foolish scoff at you all the day. Do not forget the clamor of your foes. The uproar of those who rise against you, which goes up continually. So these kinds of prayers, they're a prayer for God's judgment and a prayer for God to deliver his people. Now, full disclosure, God will judge his enemies, and God will deliver his people. Either way. But these kind of prayers are saying, yes, Lord, I believe you will do that, and I want you to do that. I want you to judge your enemies. I want you to deliver your people. Look at verse 5, where it says, They, the enemies, have provoked you, as in God, to anger. How could Nehemiah be so sure that this was the case? That God was angry about what was happening? And I think this comes from the fact that he was certain that God, the covenant making and keeping God, would keep his promises and he would keep his people. He would restore his remnant people. He would help them. He would deliver them as he told them. He had already answered a bunch of Nehemiah's prayers to get them to that point to begin with. So they're basically saying, Lord, you've brought us this far. We trust in your will. You're going to continue to do your will. And so they prayed. Because God was clearly with them, but now these enemies are clearly against them. And again, these were not just bots, these were not just social media trolls. These people wanted blood for God's people. So as you see and hear about injustice or abuse or Christians being persecuted. You can pray like that. And you may not want to use those exact same words, but remember what Nehemiah is praying for. He's asking for God to be just And he's asking for sin to be exposed and for his people to be delivered. So you can pray in those exam same exact ways. And you can also pray that the Lord would turn the hearts of those who do evil towards good. Turn those hearts from those who are away from him, towards him, because he hears and he answers those prayers as well because if these enemies do not turn to Christ, they will be judged by him on the last day. So prayer enabled God's people to resolve, to be determined, to be resolute, to continue, even as they were continually opposed. Look at verse 6. I'll read verses 6 through 8. So we rebuilt the wall, and the wall was joined together to half its height, for the people had a mind to work But, verse 7, when Sambalat and Tobiah, the Arabs and the Ammonites and the Ashadites heard that the repairing of the walls of Jerusalem was going forward. And that the breaches were beginning to be closed, they were very angry. And they all plotted together to come fight against Jerusalem and to cause confusion in it. We'll stop right there for now. Those gaps were beginning to be closed, to be filled in. The walls that they said would not hold up, that a fox could crawl on and it would collapse were almost completed. And they were nervous about that. So these enemies of God, they plotted together against God's people, against Jerusalem And notice the they there. That includes the Arabs, the Ammonites, the Ashdites, which basically means that God's people were opposed on every side. You have Sanbalat who was from Samaria, who was in the north. You have the Arabs that were in the south. You have the Ammonites who were from the east, and the Ashadites from the west. God's people were surrounded by their enemies, and those enemies plotted together against God's people. Again, this was severe, and they knew it. But think back to Nehemiah chapter 3, where God's people were rallied together to work together side by side to restore Jerusalem, to rebuild the wall They signed up to rebuild walls and they agreed to it and they trusted in the Lord. And even though when it was hard, they endured. They believed that the Lord was with them And that he would help them. But now they have real enemies against them who want to do them harm. And they probably didn't sign up for that. They did not check that box. And maybe you're a Christian here on a college campus, but your teachers think you're foolish for following Jesus Or your former friends now think that you must be a bigot because you say that Jesus is Lord. Or your co-workers who know that you're a Christian And they do their very best to avoid you at all cost. They don't say it, but you feel it. You know it. Or your neighbors who you've lived around for years. And they're fine with you, they're cordial until you mention that Jesus stuff. And then the walls go back up. Or maybe you're the only Christian in your family, in your household. Your family still loves you. But they don't know you anymore. They don't get you. Is that what we signed up for in following Christ? Beloved, Jesus taught his followers that they must deny themselves and take up their crosses and follow him. And Jesus also said that in this world we would have trouble. He was right about that And he also said in John chapter 15, do not be surprised if the world hates you. Instead, remember that it hated me first. So we have to check that box. It's part of the terms and conditions. So again, opposition may grieve us, it may discourage us, but it should not surprise us. Whenever it comes, it should remind us once again to resolve to pray. Look at verse 9. After all that, and we prayed to our God. I'm gonna stop there. And we prayed to our God. Brothers and sisters, we need to resolve to pray to our God in every situation with every opposition that we face. And that means all of us, every single one of us, and even praying for our brothers and sisters in Christ. So if you know a brother or sister is experiencing hardship right now and specific opposition at their job or on the college campus or in their classroom or with their neighbors Or even in their family, or as we think about our brothers and sisters in Christ enduring persecution right now, pray that their resolve would be to continue to follow the Lord. Because we need that resolve. And so they prayed. And they trusted that God would answer. But they did more than pray. They also protected one another, which leads to point number two Protect and rely on God's strength. Protect and rely on God's strength Some of us, when we think of prayer, we can think of it at times like an emergency glass. Just break it in case of emergency Or we use it as our final result. Like, I've tried everything. I don't know what else to do on my own strength. And so I'll pray about it. Or I feel helpless now. What I'm doing is not working. So therefore I will pray. But notice that Nehemiah. God's people, they prayed before they acted. They prayed before they sought ways to protect and to guard themselves against their enemies. Look at verse 9. I'll read the whole verse now. And we prayed to our God, and set a guard as a protection against them, as in their enemies, day and night. Now, this should instruct us and even correct us at times with how we view prayer. Because sometimes we tend to contrast prayer with action. Like, I'm either going to do something about it or I'm going to pray about it. But we should not look at prayer that way. Listen to how Karen Ellis puts it. She says, prayer is action. Prayer precedes action. Prayer directs action. Prayer undergirds action. Prayer refines action. Prayer empowers action. Prayer is action. This all means, brothers and sisters, that as God's people, as we face opposition, we must be both passive and active. Passive meaning that we rely on the Lord. We don't know all that He's going to do, but we know He's going to keep His promises, so we trust in Him. And active. As in, he's given us work to do, and so we do it with his strength and in his grace. It's like the Mona Lisa painting. This important and valuable painting that has faced vandalism, that people have thrown things at it, that people have tried to steal. It's guarded by museum security, so active, and yet it's encased in thick bulletproof glass. Passive. And in God's work of redemption, his work is far too precious to simply leave to us in our doing and our action and our resolve So remember that while we are working, that God is still working. And He can guard His gospel, He can guard and preserve His people much better than we can. That doesn't mean that he doesn't give us work to do, but that means that we are working with him, and he will see to it that the work gets done. And so they prayed and they protected. They were needing protection and strength due to the labor that they faced And also the opposition that they face. Look back at Nehemiah 4. I'll read starting in verse 10. I'll read through verse 14. In Judah, it was said, the strength of those who bear the burdens is failing. There's too much rubble. By ourselves, we will not be able to rebuild the wall. And our enemies said, They will not know or see till we come among them and kill them and stop the work. At that time the Jews who lived near them came from all directions and said to us, ten times, you must return to us. So in the lowest parts of the space behind the wall, in open places, I stationed The people by their clans with their swords, their spears, and their bows. And I looked and arose and said to the nobles and to the officials and to the rest of the people: Do not be afraid of them. Remember the Lord who was great and awesome, and fight for your brothers, your sons, your daughters, your wives, and your homes. A few things we can pull from these verses. Few points we can pull away from those verses I just read. One, our enemies pose legitimate threats. God's people here were receiving death threats. Their lives were on the line And this kind of persecution, again, is not far-fetched for God's people. And we may not experience that here, where we live, in these United States. But our brothers and sisters experience that on the daily. And the Bible teaches that we have a real active enemy. Satan, who wants to destroy us, who's a lion who wants to devour us, and we must be aware of his schemes Our enemies pose legitimate threats. Secondly, our brothers and sisters, meaning all of us, we're on enemy territory. Think of verse 12 that we just read. They said that they lived near these enemies. So then they cried out, You must come back to us. Remember, God's people were in Samaria in the north, or they were in the south, they were in the east and in the west as well. They're like, don't leave us here to our own. So we as God's people, as we're working on God's behalf, we must remember that we are on enemy territory. So therefore we will face opposition. Thirdly, God's people need direction and they need encouragement. God's people need direction and encouragement. And Nehemiah provided that for them. He told them, Remember the Lord. He encouraged workers. They got together and labored. He organized. Us as God's people, we need that as well. That's why in the Bible we have pastors. That's why there's church leadership and church structured. It's not that we on our own we don't grow in maturity. But we need direction as God's people. And we need encouragement as God's people. So again, pray for your pastors that we would give right direction and right encouragement to all of God's people. Number four, we are responsible to protect each other. We are responsible to protect each other. Notice that Nehemiah in those verses, he placed people to fill in the gaps. Because the walls weren't completely rebuilt yet. He's like, all right, these gaps mean that enemies can seep in. So we're going to put people there to stand in the gap. And God wants us as his people to stand in the gap for one another. And guarding the church, guarding the ministry of the gospel is not just for pastors, not just for preachers, that's given to all of God's people. So members of CBC, brothers and sisters, we have a members meeting today. As you know, I hope you show up. Remember though. That we go and we have these members' meetings because we have responsibilities to each other. We're going to read our church covenant. We're going to remind each other of these responsibilities We're gonna vote on a lead pastor nominee, and that's no small thing. We're gonna vote on new deacons, that's no small thing. We're going to sadly see a couple members resign. That's no small thing We're going to vote on a church budget and how we seek to to share the gospel here and also elsewhere in the world. That's no small thing. What's the point of all that? Can't we just do that over Zoom? Can't we just send an email? No, it's about us collectively protecting one another in our mission of being and making disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ. Alright, so come to members meeting. Number five, we must remember the Lord. We must remember the Lord. Verse 14 says, remember the Lord who is great. And who's awesome? Nehemiah is basically saying that the Lord is mighty. And remembering that the Lord was mighty would help God's people to know that this mighty Lord is with us. Even though these foes are against us. Brothers and sisters, these are some of the terms and conditions for following the Lord Jesus Christ To protect and guard and look after your brothers and sisters in Christ, to fight for one another in prayer, to strive for unity amidst division, to work through challenges, to encourage each other, because that all glorifies God. So in their fight, they were never fighting alone. And that embodied them to fight for each other, not against each other. I think we have some basketball fans here. Some years ago you remember the Golden State Warriors won the NBA championship. And they beat the Boston Celtics. Sorry, Nate. They did, but the Celtics won recently, so it's all good. They made up for it. Right? But in that offseason The Warriors had a big fallout because it was filmed that there was a fight between two team members And if you've ever seen that video, it was pretty bad. One teammate knocked out the other teammate over words. That wrecked their team. Their season was a mess. They could not go through it. They could not get over it. They did not recover. They had opponents, but they were fighting each other. And oh, doesn't it apply to us? Doesn't that give the church a black eye when we fight against each other instead of for each other? And even think about this post-election season that we're now in. We protect each other by striving for unity. That's both the active and passive. We pray about it, yes, but we work towards it. We guard it. We preserve our unity with all of our might. And let me add, brothers and sisters, part of that striving for unity as it relates to this post-election world, or as it relates to any topic that you can name that divides Christians. That means that it involves at times difficult conversations. And striving for unity is work. It takes effort. It's not the same thing as avoiding the topic altogether It means we have to work to not talk past each other but talk to each other. It means we have to work to assume the best of each other's motives. And if we harm each other with our words or with our ways, it means we need to work to ask for forgiveness. To seek restor restoration, to seek restor uh reconciliation. That takes work. So we must pray for God to work, and we must resolve to do the work Because while we are passive, meaning we're relying on God's strength, we must also remember that God, He is actively at work for His people. Back to Nehemiah, look at verse 15. I'm going to read 15 to 23 now. All of this happening, all this opposition. And they continue the work. Verse 15. When our enemies heard that it was known to us and that God had frustrated their plans, we all returned to the wall, each to his work. From that day on half of my servants worked on construction, and half held the spears, the shields, the bows, the coats of mail, and the leaders stood behind the wall of the house of the whole house of Judah, who were building on the wall. Those who carried burdens were loaded in such a way that each labored on the work with one with one hand and held a weapon with the other. Verse 18. And each of the builders had his sword strapped at his side while he built. The man who surrounded the trumpet was beside me. And I said to the nobles and to the officials and to the rest of the people, the work is great and widely spread, and we are separated on the wall, far from one another. In the place where you hear the sound of the trumpet, rally to us there. Our God will fight for us. Verse twenty one. So we labored at the work, and half of them held the spears from the break of dawn until the stars came out. And I also said to the people at that time, let every man and his servant pass the night within Jerusalem, that they may be a guard for us by night and may labor by day So neither I, Nehemiah says, neither I, nor my brothers, nor my servants, nor the men of the guard who followed me, none of us took off our clothes, each kept his weapon on his right side. God's people returned to their work. Nehemiah organized them in groups. They labored with one hand and had a weapon in the other. There were people there to sound a trumpet in case enemies were approaching so that they could could know if something were popping off. They stood guard by night and by day And Nehemiah and his men kept their uniform on. That's what he means by keeping our clothes on. They kept their uniform on and they kept their weapons at their right side. They were on guard to actively protect God's people. Now many of us read and hear those verses and we think, what do we do with that? How do we apply that? I don't have a sword. Notice here that God's people did not leave their post. They did not stop the work that was before them on the walls. And they did not leave their post in protecting one another. They stayed right where they were, and their fighting was actually defending one another. This meant they had to be diligent, they had to be vigilant, and they had to be alert. And notice they didn't put down or stop the work that they were doing on the walls and say, We're gonna form an army and we're gonna charge against the Samarians. They continued with their work. And they fought for each other by protecting and defending each other. They were on guard. They were on duty. And that's what the Lord wants from us. And that's why it says in our church covenant that we will walk together in love as Christ commands. caring for each other, watching over each other, encouraging and admonishing one another as occasion requires So, brothers and sisters, are you still busy at work for the Lord? And are you still on guard for your sake? For your brothers and sisters in Christ, in their sake, and for the sake of your family. If you will say yes, I am at work and I am on guard, praise the Lord and keep at it. If not, if the work has stopped, or if you're not looking after anybody spiritually, you're not even really looking after yourselves Arm yourselves afresh with God's word, which he says, cuts like a double-edged sword. Allow his word to instruct you and correct you, and then be vigilant to show how the Lord can use that to help others Instruct them, correct them, encourage them, admonish them when necessary, because we all need that from time to time. And remember that the Lord indeed is actively and presently working. That's how all these plans went ahead. That's why we know that they ended up rebuilding the wall. They actually ended up finishing it. Not yet, but they finished the work. That's how we know that. That's how God's people were able to endure opposition and to endure the enemies that they were facing. Yes, they were active, but they were passive, meaning that they relied fully on the Lord. Look back at verse 15 Verse 15, Nehemiah chapter 4. It says, when our enemies heard that it was known to us that God had frustrated their plans. We all return to the wall, each says work. And at verse 20, look at verse 20. It says in the place where you hear the sound of the trumpet, rally us there. So that's that's active. They're working, right? But look at what they say Our God will fight for us. God's people were at work. They were looking after each other. They were protecting and willing to defend each other from their enemies. But the Lord's help is why they even prevailed in the first place. Because God's enemy has plans, but God frustrated their plans. God's people were weak and they were in disarray, but God would step in and he would fight for them. We know that's true with us, right? Isn't that the gospel? That God's enemies, Satan, sin, and death, had plans for us. And in fact, still has plans for us Our sin is why we were in rebellion against God. We put trust in ourselves and not in God We fail to believe in God's word and to follow his ways. And the Bible said the wages for our sins, what we deserve for that, is death. And that very enemy, death, was defeated by the Lord Jesus Christ. Because God frustrated all those plans. He planned to do that all along by sending the Redeemer, the Lord Jesus Christ, his Son. To crush the head of the serpent. And our mighty God would fight for us and defeat Satan, defeat sin, and defeat death, and defeat the grave, but do so By living a perfect life, by giving his life to die on the cross and rising from the grave. And Jesus today is still saving his enemies. He's still rescuing his enemies who were opposed to him and enlisting them in his service. So if you're here and you're not a Christian, you have an enemy You have an enemy that's at war for your soul. That is Satan. And the Bible teaches if you don't give your life to Christ, you stand as an enemy to Christ. And your weapons will not work. Your righteousness will not work. You will have victory in this war by submitting and giving your life to the Lord Jesus Christ. Receiving his forgiveness, his salvation, and his protection by faith, even today. We love to talk to you more about that. If you want to know what that means, to give your life to Jesus. Brothers and sisters in Christ, remember his presence is with his people as we work. His active and present protection is with us forever And that too is part of the terms and conditions of following the Lord Jesus Christ. And Jesus is resolute. He's devoted in his devotion to us. He will not give up on us. This afternoon, when you get some time, or later this week, read John chapters 20 and 21. This is after Jesus went to the cross, after he died, after he rose from the grave. We'll see that Jesus found and searched for Mary, who was faithful but discouraged, and he strengthened her. He appeared to his disciples, who, if you remember at that time, they ran away. They were scared, fearful out of their mind. They were wondering. And he restored them. He went to Thomas, even Thomas, who was the doubter, and he encouraged him: do not be faithless, but to believe. And he even went to Peter. Kids, everybody what Peter did before Jesus was crucified? What did he do? He denied him. Three times over. Jesus rose from the grave and he went looking for people like Peter. And he strengthened him. And he restored him. And he told him, Peter, get back to work, feed my sheep. Jesus is relentless in his resolve to us, beloved So keep going even when your resolve is tested. Just think of 2 Timothy, for example, that we studied earlier this year. Paul told Timothy about all the opposition that he personally faced. and warned him about the opposition that Timothy would face. He said, people are going to depart from the faith. People are going to no longer want to hear the truth from you To people were going to actively oppose you. He didn't sugarcoat it. He told them the truth. But he told Timothy over and over. But as for you Follow my conduct, guard the gospel, preach the word, fulfill your ministry. And we are called as followers of the Lord Jesus Christ to have an as-for-you kind of faith. We're called to have an as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord kind of faith. Yes, their betrayal was hurtful Yes, those people are against you. Yes, your job might be at stake. Yet your life might be at stake. But as for you, dear brothers and sisters, keep following the Lord Jesus Christ. May that be our resolve Because following Jesus is hard, it's challenging, it's difficult But the Christian life in a nutshell is basically these two things. Follow Jesus and keep following him, even when it's hard. Like that's it. Kids and teens or college students, if you're trying to figure out Christianity, there's a lot to it. There's salvation in Christ that He offers. But what do you do as a Christian? You follow Him and you keep following Him. That's it. In a nutshell. But how can we find that resolve? How can we find that strength when we're tested? Few points in closing to serve as a few application points. Look back, look around, and look ahead. Let me explain what I mean. Look back. But look to God's word. Look in the scriptures. See how God's people persevered, even in Nehemiah's day, through opposition. Look at church history. Read about people who've gone before us, who endured in the faith. See what they struggled with. See how they endured In God's word and even in church history, you're gonna not see flawless people. You're gonna see mistakes. You're gonna see struggles. Look at it, read it, learn from it. But you're also going to see faithfulness to the Lord. And we can learn from that as well. To look back. Secondly, look around. Look around to your family in Christ, your brothers and sisters, even in this church, where we Even now, we can start rehearsing stories of God's faithfulness to us where we can share that even though it was hard, we persevered and we endured. Not to puff ourselves up, but to encourage and strengthen each other. And let me say, church, this year has been hard for many of us, not just collectively as a church, but even individually. And it's okay to admit that. And it's also okay to share that the Lord has been faithful to us regardless. Back to Nehemiah chapter 4, verse 10. God's people said, Our strength is failing. Verse 12, he said, Come and help us. And we should be able to share those things with our brothers and sisters in Christ when our strength is failing and when we need help. But we also know that we are only here because God has sustained us. God has helped us. He has strengthened us. He has protected us. He has given us his grace. So let's reflect on that. We don't have to wait for Christmas to do that. We don't have to wait for the end of the year to reflect on God's faithfulness. Let's do that now and tell each other of that. And let's remember our family in Christ, far away to suffering persecution. Like in Somalia, like in northern India, where government opposition is increasing by the day. As they have to endure that, as they have opposition, pray that they would resolve to endure. And allow that to look around yourself and say, if they can do that by faith. Then certainly I can walk ahead in what's before me by faith, even when enemies oppose me. Look back, look around. Lastly, look ahead. Look ahead because God will restore his remnant people. Want to end on a quote by J. C. Rao. It's a little lengthy. But I think it will be worth your time. So let's listen. If anyone feels that he has counted the cost and taken up the cross, I bid him persevere I dare say you often feel faint of heart and are sorely tempted to give up in despair. Your enemies seem so many. Your besetting sin seems so strong. Your friend seems so few The way so steep and narrow you hardly know what to do. But I still say persevere and press on. The time is very short. A few more years of watching and praying, a few more tossings of the sea of this world, a few more deaths and changes, a few more winters and summers, and all will be over. We shall have fought our last battle and shall need to fight no more. The presence and company of Christ will make amends for all we suffer here below We will see as we have been seen, and we will look back on the journey of life. We shall wonder at our own faintness of heart. We shall marvel that we made so much of our cross and so little of our crown. We shall marvel that in counting the cost we will ever doubt on which side the balance of profit lie. Let us take courage, brothers and sisters. We are not far from home. It may cost to be a true and faithful Christian, but it pays to be a true and faithful Christian. Brothers and sisters, resolve to endure opposition however it comes, because our restoration is included with the terms and conditions of following the Lord. Let's pray. God help us to resolve to follow you amidst hardship, amid difficulties, amidst frustrations, discouragements, and even opposition Give us boldness. Give us faith. Not to rely on our own strength, not to rely on our own savvy, but to hold on to you for dear life And Lord, we thank you that while we hold on to you, you are the one that holds us fast. And you will not let us go. We thank you for your grace in Jesus' name. Amen.