How are you all doing today? Okay, good. Let's just open our Bibles then. I've been do I'm well because I've been thinking about this passage of scripture all week. It's been great. And I hope you get some of the blessing this morning. Go ahead and open in your Bibles to page 977. Well, it's not necessarily your Bible. Okay. The Bible's provided as 977. Ephesians chapter 3. We've been studying the book of Ephesians together. We're going to continue that study this morning. As you're turning to Ephesians chapter 3, a couple of Words of guidance to you that I don't know actually in my time as a pastor of this church that I've mentioned to you. So just as you're turning, two quick things. One Uh uh you you probably know this, but just to remind you that the sermon the upcoming sermon schedule, about four weeks or so of that schedule, is printed on the church's website And it'd be a wonderful thing, I know some of you, maybe many of you do this, but it'd be a wonderful thing for you as you're preparing for corporate worship to be reading the passage of scripture that's going to be preached on. prior to our gathering. I think you'll benefit from the worship gathering and even from the ministry of the word more if you are reading the passage regularly. So that's number one. Number two Uh I know I pack a lot into these sermons, and uh maybe you're trying to take notes and you just feel like I can't keep up. I just want to free you from having if you take notes and it's helpful for you to stay engaged, that's great. But if you just want to catch every detail, I'm happy to anytime send you my notes so that if you if there's stuff there that you didn't get Uh you know the sermons are posted on the website as well, but I'm happy to send you my notes so that you don't have to be concerned about getting down every note. And maybe it could just take in what hopefully the Lord is communicating, not just me a human being, but what the Lord is wanting to say to you from his word. So, I've given you time to turn in your Bibles, and I'm going to read now to you from Ephesians chapter 3. I'm going to read verses 14 through 19. Follow along as I read God's word to us. For this reason I bow my knees before the Father From whom every family in heaven and on earth is named, that according to the riches of his glory he may grant you to be strengthened with power through his spirit in your inner being. So that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith, that you, being rooted and grounded in love, may have strength to comprehend with all the saints. What is the breadth and length and height and depth, and to know the love of Christ that surpasses knowledge, that you may be filled with all the fullness of God? This is God's word. Thanks be to God. Join me in prayer before we look into this passage. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for this Sweet word about the love of Christ. And as the passage itself is a prayer, we look to you in prayer asking that you would work in us a real apprehension of this truth into our souls It is your spirit who gives life. The flesh is no help at all. And so we pray. uh that uh my flesh would not be an obstacle to us receiving the truth that our flesh and hearing would not be an obstacle To us hearing that you would work powerfully among us by your spirit for your glory. We pray for all this in Jesus' name. Amen Uh it's my conviction as I open up this particular passage of scripture that if you are here and you are breathing, you very badly want To experience what I just read to you from the Bible. If you're a Christian, and I know that's most of you here, if you're a Christian I'm assuming that you want the reality that Paul has prayed for that is described in that portion of Ephesians 3 that I just read. In fact I would say that the yearning for this is actually part of what it even means to be a Christian. Uh if you perhaps struggle sometimes to know whether you are a Christian, if you have doubts and wonder whether you are a Christian, uh the question to ask yourself is not Have I experienced what Paul is talking about here? Or how often am I experiencing it? Or how consistently am I experiencing it? Am I experiencing it right now as Pastor Larry is preaching the word? No. That would not be the question I don't think to ask, but a question to ask yourself would be, do I want, when I hear the Apostle Paul pray for what he is praying for, do I want that? Is there something resonating in my soul? Oh yes, Lord, please give me what he's asking for. That's part of what it means to be a Christian But even if you happen to be here this morning and you are not a Christian, maybe you don't consider yourself to be a follower of Jesus, I'm assuming that the reality that Paul is speaking about here is actually something that you want also. Uh if you were to go around uh town surveying uh people this coming week, and maybe this is an opportunity for you, this is a way for you to Maybe have a doorway into a good gospel conversation this week. If you were to ask them, tell me about the world that you long for What is it that you would love to see? If the world could be as it ought to be, what would that world be like? And I think you'd have a lot of people would tell you it would be a world of love They might say some other things too. They might talk about peace or justice, but I think you'd hear an awful lot about love. What the world needs now is love. Sweet love. Fear not, I am not going to sing that. Love is love, we say. Love trumps hate. All you need is love. Can't buy me love. Love is on lots of people's minds. And it's not just in the world, but even in your own heart. Don't you have a desire? And I'm speaking to someone maybe that doesn't have any concern or regard for the Lord right now. Don't you find in your soul a longing for real true love, for someone to know you down to the depths and yet still be absolutely committed to you and pursuing your greatest good, even when it's costly. We all want love. Though our culture has very wildly divergent ways of defining love, we all want love. And here, in this passage of scripture that I read a few minutes ago, we're invited into the love of a being Whose impact on the world and on human history has been so great that we divide time in half by his appearing in the world. So this is a great love. This is a love that is worthy of your attention this morning. And it's this love that we want to think about together from Ephesians chapter 3. I'm going to summarize for you the main idea of this passage in a prayer. The passage itself is a prayer, so the main idea that I want to expound upon for a few minutes is itself a prayer And the summary of the prayer would go like this. If you are a note taker, you could write this down. And if you are a note taker and you don't get it down, what did I tell you already? I'm happy to send it to you. Good listening. Here's the main idea. Oh Father. Make us more like Christ by granting us together a deeper grasp of the love of Christ. Oh Father, make us more like Christ by granting us together A deeper grasp of the love of Christ. I think that's a summary of Paul's burden in this passage, it's a summary of my burden for you. In those words, O Father. I'm trying to capture an emptiness that Paul is acknowledging. In the words, grant us a deeper grasp of the love of Christ. I'm trying to convey an experience that Paul is asking for. And in the words, make us more like Christ. I'm trying to convey an effect that Paul is anticipating. And if you didn't write all that down. I'm happy to send it to you. But let's think about that for a few minutes together. There's an emptiness, I said. This prayer is an acknowledgement of an emptiness on the part of Paul. Now to be honest with you, I was really just groping at this point for another E to round out my alliterative outline. Because I had the experience and the effect, okay? But I think it works. And I'm drawing this idea of emptiness from verse 14. Look there in your Bibles, for this reason I bow my knees before the Father. So this passage begins for this reason that is intended to remind us of what Paul's been saying to the Ephesians in chapters 2 and 3. He's been recounting for them. This great mystery that he is is a steward of. This mystery hidden for But now revealed through the apostles and prophets. And Paul is an apostle, he's a messenger, a spokesman of the risen Christ, and he's declaring this mystery that God in Christ is establishing a new humanity, that he is is uniting hated enemies and bringing them into one family through faith in the Lord Jesus. And for Paul, that stewardship that he'd received has meant great hardship and suffering. He's a prisoner of Christ on behalf of those Gentiles whom he's proclaiming the gospel to. And as Paul recounts all of that, as he thinks about that stewardship and as he's recounted all those great spiritual blessings that God has provided for Christians. And as he anticipates what he has left to tell them in the second half of this letter, Paul pauses to pray. He bows his knees before the Father. And when he bows his knees and prays, he is confessing, he is acknowledging he is empty in and of himself. He is weak. He is not able to bring about what it is that he desires to see in the lives of those whom he is ministering to. There's an emptiness there. He's bowing his knees before the Father. That was not the traditional posture of prayer in that culture. It was typically to stand. And to sort of look to the heavens, sometimes with arms raised, that's the normal posture of prayer. But this this expression of bowing the knee was sometimes used as a way of expressing reverence and submission, especially uh marking the approach of one who is keenly aware of their unworthiness before the one whom they are approaching And so Paul is bowing down before the Father on behalf of the Ephesians. He's desperate. He's reverent, he's urgent, and he's humbly coming into the presence of divine majesty. Paul says he's the Father From whom every family is named on earth. That idea of naming has to do with rule and authority. Remember in even in the garden, Adam was tasked to name all the animals. It was an expression of his authority. God is the one who names people. God is the one who is has authority. He's the one who gives people their identity. Kids, I think that's important for you to understand that who you are, what makes you you Is not something that you are in charge of. It's not something that other people are around you are in charge of, but it's actually something that God is in charge of. And you can trust that that's good because God is good. He's the one from whom every family is named. He's a benevolent king who is rich in his ability to give. He can lavishly provide for the need. And Paul is pleading for God. He's coming empty and he knows God, if something's gonna happen in the lives of these people, it's the way I have to pray when I get up here and through the week. God has to do something. He's empty as he brings this great request to God the Father And I'm eager to dig into the request. That is where I want to spend most of our time together. The actual request that he's making. But just again, let's just pause and recognize that for Paul A big part of his gospel stewardship was his life of prayer for those whom he had been sent to. Right doctrine is important. Our statement of faith, as Ryan stumbled his way through the word mediatorial, I think that's how you said, did I just get it right? Our statement of faith is robust because doctrine is important. Strong teaching of the word is vital to the health of the church. But it is insufficient. To fulfill God's purposes for his people. Brothers and sisters, I want you to know, the elders of this church, we pray for you a lot. We pray for you when we're scattered, we pray for you when we're together, we pray for you a lot. And and we take our cues from the Apostle Paul in that. He expounds on theological glories, and he did actually, if you remember, he did the same thing in chapter one. He expounds on rich, amazing Theological glories about God's salvation, but then he pauses and he prays because without the activity of God's empowering presence, he knows that all of his labors in teaching and preaching will be in vain. So if you ever sat in one of these gatherings and thought, you know, the guy gets up here and he reads the passage and then he prays, and then he I'm going to talk for a long time, and you already know that when I'm done preaching, what am I going to do? I'm gonna stop and I'm gonna pray. And that's not just some religious ritual that we do. It's something we do because we can't make anything good happen. In our souls, without God working, we are empty. And so Paul acknowledges his emptiness by bringing his knee to the Lord in prayer. What is that need? Well, that's what we want to think about. That's what we want to focus our attention on. It is, as I mentioned, an experience that Paul is asking for Now I know that can be a little bit risky to talk about an experience. Because there's a danger that we might become too focused on experiences. as the litmus test or the measuring stick of our faith or of our standing with God. And I don't want that to be the case. I don't want us to measure whether you are a Christian by the depth or length of your spiritual experiences. But I'm I'm taking the risk by speaking of an experience because it seems to me that that is what Paul is asking for Try to convey it in those words, in that summary idea. Oh Father, grant us together a deeper grasp of the love of Christ Look again at at the prayer there. In the middle of verse sixteen, picking up he's praying, he's asking that according to the riches of his glory the Father may grant you To be strengthened with power through his spirit in your inner being, so that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith That you this prayer gets a little bit wordy and there's different commentators are different different uh have different perspectives on exactly how they all fit together. Is he clarifying when he says That you know, so that is that like that is he's saying the same thing a different way, or is he saying like this thing happens, then this thing, then this thing is and there's different perspectives on that, but He's asking that, I think he means when he says the strength, the power of the Spirit strengthening you, is another way of saying that Christ may dwell in your heart through faith. That you, being rooted and grounded in love, they have been rooted, they have been grounded in love, they have received Christ, they have come to know Christ. But now he's praying that they who are rooted and grounded in love may have strength to comprehend. That word comprehend is an interesting word. to seize or to overcome or to overtake. Or I love the way this word is is translated in Philippians 3 where Paul talks about uh pressing on to make it my own. That phrase make it my own is what he's saying here to comprehend. That's why I used the word grasp earlier. Don't think this is just intellectual information. That Paul is seeking or asking for, that you would have strength to grasp, to lay hold of with all the saints. This the pinnacle of piety is not you in isolation loving Jesus. But this this love, this experience he's after is a corporate experience I don't know if you've ever found more joy singing together with other saints than singing in your basement by yourself. That you would have strength to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and length and height and depth and to know the love of Christ that surpasses knowledge. This is not a prayer for information They know about the love of Christ. He's already told he's already written to these Christians. If you look back at chapter 1, verse 13, they've believed the truth of the gospel. They have received the truth that they are loved by God in Christ. That's how they became Christians. They have the Holy Spirit living in them. So they they have Christ dwelling in their hearts through faith What he's seeking is not just that information, but he's he's praying that they would Take that information and that they would experience it, that they would feel it, that they have a relishing and a glorying in the mind-blowing, incalculable, unsearchable riches of the love of Christ. Kids, I'm gonna try to explain this better to your parents by explaining it to you. And I want response and I want it I want quick response and loud response. Because I don't have I uh I uh I don't have a lot of time for you to be shy right now, okay? And this is not a Bible question So this is going to be easy. What's what's your favorite food to eat? Pizza. A bigger kid that was thank you for being loud and quick. Anyone else, kids? Bacon? Nachos? Seafood. That's a that's a wide category. Just blurted tell me. Bananas, that's very healthy. Okay. Pancakes, alright, we're getting it. Good, good, good. We can talk more about I very is anyone getting hungry for lunch? Kids, here's another question. You don't have to answer this one out loud. Have you ever tried enjoying that favorite food of yours when you have the flu? Or a really bad head cold? No. I wonder if if you've ever tried, it's just not the same. The food is the same But there's something wrong with your your sense of taste when you're sick like that. So you're not able to really experience the delicious taste of that food in the same way as when you're healthy. I wonder if any of you, kid or adult, when that coronavirus was spreading, if you had that symptom where you lost your taste I I never had that particular symptom. But I know it was a thing, and obviously not as severe as the other severe side effects that happened, especially when the coronavirus first hit. But Ow, I can't taste. What Paul understands about us, and this is this is be encouraged. This is something I was particularly burdened for uh as I prayed for you through the week and as I studied this passage, be encouraged that what this is a Christian problem What I'm about to say. Paul's praying for Christians. You can read through the book of Ephesians, chapter 1, through this point, and you could he's talking to Christians. But Paul understands something about us Christians. And that is that we can have a kind of coronavirus of the soul. That we can be in Christ. You cannot miss in Ephesians 1 through 3 that He is addressing people who are in Christ. We can be in Christ. We can know Christ in a saving way. We can genuinely be saved and believe that we are loved by Christ and really sincerely want to live for Christ. yet not taste the enjoyment of the love of Christ. I surely have known this condition. I know this condition often. Of reading wonderful things. I know I stand up here, I'm loud, I'm waving my hands around. I know this experience almost daily of reading something spectacular in the Bible And and just and yawning. Like literally yawning. And what Paul is praying for Is that the Ephesians, and by extension all of God's people, that we would have the taste buds of our souls enlivened so that we can grasp, so that we can sees that we can make our own, that we can lay hold of together something of the awe-inspiring, inscrutable love of the Lord Jesus, that love that is beyond even our ability to fathom. It's it we can some of us can we can understand the doctrine of the love of Christ, we can maybe defend the doctrine of the love of Christ if we are talking with other Christians. Who we think have a defective understanding doctrinally of the love of Christ. We can defend what we understand to be the truth, but we don't always feel the warmth and the life-giving power of that love. And that's what Paul is praying for. He's praying. This is the great need of the hour for me, for you, for Chevrolet Baptist Church. There may be other things we can think of that we have need of as a church. The great need is that we would know the love of Christ that surpasses knowledge. That we would be overwhelmed spiritually. Not not just knowing about it, the way you might walk up to the freezer at the Chevrolet Swimming Pool if you've ever been there, or maybe kids, you go to some other swimming pool. You can go to the Chevrolet p uh swimming club and you can get this big freezer, kids, you know what I'm talking about? Big freezer And they have this all this goody you could look at it and say that that looks I know that's good. There's a difference between looking at the freezer and knowing it's good and having your face all sloppy with the ice cream on your face because you've just enjoyed the ice cream He's wanting, Paul is praying that we would know in that sloppy in-your-face kind of ice cream-filled coming down your chin way. Of knowing this vast, unmeasured, boundless, free love of Christ rolling as a mighty ocean in its fullness over me. That's not just intellectual information. But this is what Paul is praying for. And if you're a Christian and you're struggling to have that experience, There's not something wrong with you specifically. You're a Christian. And Paul's praying that we would know this experience, that we would know this more and more. Oh God, he prays, help us. Help them to know the breadth and the length and the height and the depth of the love of Christ. And some people try to talk specifically about each of those four dimensions. And maybe it's wide and the fact that it includes Jew and Gentile. And it's it's long and that it's from everlasting to everlasting, and it's high because it takes us up to heaven. That's true. But I think it misses the point. I I think the point is made by another hymn writer. There's so many songs we could have sung this morning. But here's here's another hymn writer puts it like this. Could we with ink, this hymn is called The Love of God, could we with ink the ocean fill And were the skies of parchment made, were every stalk on earth a quill, and every man a scribe by trade To write the love of God, we might substitute the love of Christ, to write the love of God above would drain the ocean dry. Nor could the scroll contain the whole, though stretched from sky to sky. And that's what Paul's wanting us to know How do we begin to even know that? How do we begin to fathom the unfathomable? Well, the clearest place in Ephesians five is in Ephesians where Paul expounds upon this love of Christ that surpasses knowledge is in chapter 5. If your Bible's open, maybe you want to look over there for a minute. Ephesians 5. 25, in the context of an exhortation to husbands particularly. Husbands, Paul says, love your wives. As Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her, that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word So that he might present the church to himself in splendor, without spot or wrinkle, or any such thing, that she might be holy and without blemish. The love of Christ is like the love, the sacrificial love of a groom for his bride. Now s some of us men gathered uh two Saturdays ago and we read a book together and then discussed the book called Leading Your Family Well. Is that what it was called? What was that book called? It was called something like that. Leading Your Family Well. Is that right? Why are you look is that he's just looking at me. Okay. It was called something like that. And there was a quote in the in the book about this this love that the groom has for a bride. And he's talking about Jesus, and he says, he said, for his bride, speaking of Jesus, for his bride, he left heaven's glory For his bride, he was willing to wiggle in Bethlehem's manger and work in Nazareth's workshop. For his bride, he was numbered with the transgressors in his baptism. For his bride, he endured near starvation and satanic temptation in the wilderness. For his bride, he absorbed years of public ministry abuse by a wicked and adulterous generation. For his bride, he had no place to lay his head. For his bride, he marched fearlessly toward the Jerusalem slaughterhouse. For his bride, he was drenched in blood-like sweat. For his bride, he prayed, Not my will, but yours be done. For his bride, he handed himself over to a kangaroo court. For his bride he was again and again spat upon and struck in the head. For his bride he stood bare backed, absorbing scourge after scourge. For his bride he was mocked while holding a reed scepter. For his bride, he carried and collapsed under the crossbeam. For his bride, he was stripped naked And he accepted the spikes into his hands and feet. For his bride, he was lifted up between heaven and earth as an accursed spectacle. For his bride he hung his head before wagging scoffers. For his bride he grasped for breath and cried out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? For his bride he finished it and died. And brothers and sisters, when we've thought in all those ways about Christ's sacrificial love for his bride, when we've when we've thought all we can about that. We've only picked up one tiny little grain of sand along the seashore that is the vast ocean of the love of Christ, which surpasses knowledge. Oh, we could pick up many other grains of sand along that seashore. The love of Christ, Paul would go on to say in chapter 5, is a nourishing love. It's a life-giving, like a vine gives nutrients to its branches so that it bears fruit. So the love of Christ, as we dwell in the love of Christ, it makes us fruitful in serving the Lord. The love of Christ is a cherishing love. Not a love with a perpetual scowl and arms crossed looking at you. merely tolerating you. No, when Jesus contemplates you, he cares for you. He cherishes you. That word cherish is used one other place in Paul's writing to speak of a nursing mother trying to take care of her own children. That's the way Christ loves. His love is a cleansing love. His embrace of us in the filth of our sin does not contaminate him the way it did Old Testament priests who might touch a leper and then themselves be defiled. But no, his touch cleanses us from all unrighteousness and pollution that has defiled us. And let's not forget that his love is an undeserved love. Oh Christ loved his bride and we we adore that. Christ loved his bride, remember, when we were his enemies When we were hating him, when we were wanting him dead. Think of a groom getting ready to unite with his wife, and the wife is out scheming to cheat on him later that night, and the groom knows it, and he goes to the altar to take. God gives us a picture in the Bible in Hosea of him being married to a prostitute to show us this is an undeserved love. And therefore, his love is an initiating love. Jesus sought us when we were strangers wandering from the fold. He came to seek and to save the lost. Oh, the love of Christ is a condescending love. He left the splendor of heaven for the squalor of a manger. It's a stable love. The same. Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today and forever. And that means his love is the same yesterday and tod and today and forever I change, he changes not, we sing sometimes. The Christ can never die. His love, not mine, the resting place. His truth, not mine, the tie. Oh, the love of Christ is a divine love. As the Father has loved me, Jesus says. Here's mind-blowing. As the Father has loved me, Jesus said, so have I loved you. The love of Christ is a redemptive love. Are you getting tired of this? I have about four more pages of this. I don't know. I don't know how the children's ministry workers are gonna feel His love is a redemptive love, a love that frees you from bondage to the guilt and the tyranny of sin, freeing us, as we sang, to love and live for him. At the cost of his own blood, he bought our freedom. His love is a restorative love. Have you known the shame and the pain of offending him, of denying him, like Peter? And Jesus comes and says, Peter, do you love me? Feed my sheep. And he restores him to ministry. It's a restorative love. His love is a patient love. Don't you love the word long suffering? Jesus is long suffering towards us in our coldness, in our weakness, in our up and downness. In all of that struggling and stumbling, he has yet to say, nor will he ever say, enough is enough. Why can't you not get your act together already? I'm out. He will not say that. He cannot. His love is a sympathetic love. Jesus wept. Jesus stood at the tomb of his friend Lazarus and he wept. And so he knows. He knows what it is to be alone. And thirsty and hungry and hated and rejected and shamed and impoverished and abandoned. And so your pain is not lost on him. His love is a sympathetic and compassionate love. It's a generous love. Jesus shares with us his throne. He says in Revelation 3, for those who overcome, those who persevere and holding fast to me, I will grant them to sit with me on my throne, as the Father has granted me to sit with him on his throne. It's a generous love. That he is willing to share with us in the the the we we're heir, we're fellow heirs with Christ. It's a humble love. The one before whom John fell down as dead sweeps up little children in his loving embrace He doesn't just dwell with it noble and impressive. His love is a welcoming and accepting love. The whole atmosphere and environment in which we live is transformed from one of scrutiny to one of embrace and welcome. His love is a joyful love. Did you know that Jesus did all this for the joy set before him? His love is a disciplining love. Not a soft, wimpy love that's afraid to displease you. But Jesus says, those whom I love, I reprove and discipline. Not to shame us, not to grieve us, but to grow us and make us stronger. His love is a wise and discerning love. He knows. It's hard for us parents to know sometimes. Do we need to put down tough love here or tender? Jesus never struggles to know how to best love you. Because he's the one in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. His love is a strengthening love, equipping us with everything good that we might do his will. His love is a glorifying love. The glory that you have given me, Jesus prayed the night before he went to the cross, the glory that you have given me, I have given to them. Jesus will one day soon make every unrepentant Hollywood star an ESPN headlining athlete. Every prime minister and every president who does not bow the knee to him, he will make them all look small and silly, as the glory of overlooked ordinary Christians erupts in beauty for the whole universe to see and marvel at. His love is a praying love. Do you know he's always lives to make intercession for us? Can you believe that the loving Lord Jesus is praying right now that as I preach this word and as you receive this word, that love would stir in your heart for him? He's praying for us. His love is a gentle love, a kind love. He will not break a bruised reed nor quench a faintly burning wick. But he invites all who are weary and heavy laden to find their rest in him. His love is an attentive love, which stands and takes notice of every insult and attack. And takes note of every tear in our eyes and is committed to wiping our tears away on that day when he comes to make all things new. His love is a f it's a ferocious love. The lamb who was slain for the sins of the world is also the lion of the tribe of Judah. He is the one who will subdue our enemies, who will Destroy the lawless one with the breath of his mouth, who will defend and protect his beloved from every hateful scheming adversary. His love is an ever-present love. He promises to be with you always to the end of the age. He says he will never leave you or forsake you. His love is an eternal love. His love is an invincible love. An unconquerable love. What shall separate us from the love of Christ, Paul says? Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword As it is written, for your sake, we are killed all the day long. No, he says, No. In all these things, we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. For I am sure, he says, that neither death nor life Nor future, nor present, nor things wait, I just messed it up. Nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor anything in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of Christ. And he can say all that because he loves us with a resurrected love. Because he's the resurrected king of the universe. Every other love would expire, but not his. And that is why I appeal to you. If you're here and you've not received the love of Christ, why would you settle for lesser loves? Why would you settle? Why would you sin against him by defining love in your own terms? That's what sin is to decide for ourselves what love is and resist his love. But Jesus came and he lived and he died and he rose so that you would turn away from your Diluted ideas of what love is and receive a love that is beyond your comprehension. Oh, come to him today. If you've not repent, turn from your sin and believe upon this loving Christ. And what you do, if you do that, you will find that his love is a transforming love. Oh, with unveiled face, beholding the glory of the Lord, we're being transformed into his image, from one degree of glory to another. Which is another way of saying we will be filled with all the fullness of God. And that leads us finally, and briefly, to our concluding point. I didn't say them all, but I got close. The effect of all this. Okay. Emptiness. Paul's really needy. He's praying. He's longing and praying that we have this experience of knowing the love of Christ that surpasses knowledge. And the effect of all this is that we would be filled with all the fullness of God. Look at look again at verse 19. And again, I'm gonna be brief here. I'm gonna cut some of what I had to say. But if you get the notes, it'll have what I didn't say. He's praying that we would know the love of Christ that surpasses knowledge, that, or in order that, or to the end that That you may be filled with all the fullness of God. I've read that phrase for years. And I've thought, that sounds really good. I have no idea what it means. But it sounds really it sounds good. And I think what it means Though not all the commentators agree, I think what it means, I think we can understand what it means when we just look a little bit farther down in the letter and we see Paul use this word fullness again. Just the just if you're reading the letter of Ephesians, it's maybe 60 seconds after you're reading those verses in Ephesians 3. In chapter 4, look at chapter 4, verse 13. Paul talks about how through the ministry of pastors and teachers, equipping the saints for ministry, how we all attain, see this in verse 13 of chapter 4, how we all attain unity in the faith. and of the knowledge of the Son of God to mature manhood to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ So to be filled with all the fullness of God is to attain to maturity in Christ. Think of what we're saying if we say that somebody is full of anger. If we say that someone is full of anger, it means they're being controlled or ruled or dominated by anger. To be full of God, to be filled with all God's fullness means to be controlled and ruled by God, so that you increasingly show by your life the fruit and character of the Lord Jesus. Which is why I said in that summary prayer, if you remember this the main idea, I said, oh Father, make us more like Christ. Help us to be mature in Christ. Help us to be filled with all the fullness of God, that is, to be filled with Christ, the one in whom the whole fullness of deity dwells bodily. That's the that's the splendor that Jesus is preparing his bride for. And even now, even now, this side of glory We are being renewed into that splendor, the splendor of Christ-likeness, as the effect of our knowing the love of Christ that surpasses knowledge. And that's that's a really big that's a really huge deal. The way we will mature in Christ is not just by ideas. It's not just by doctrines. It's not just by classes or Bible reading plans or warnings or commandments or good resolves to try hard. All of those things have their place. But what Paul's praying for here is showing us that underneath all of that, in addition to all of that, we need fire. We need the warmth of knowing the love of Christ. What my family needs from me. What the other elders of Chevrolet Baptist Church need from me, what you, as members of Chevrolet Baptist, what you need from me is to taste and see more of the love of Christ. Would I not be a better husband? Would I not be a better father? Would I not be a better pastor if I was relishing in the love of Christ for me? And so it is with you. Oh, we long to be growing up into maturity of uh in Christ. I mean, that's what we want to be about as a sh as a church. We are growing up together into Christ. I would be totally fine putting that on the front of the bulletin. What we have there is fine too. I would be totally fine. What is CBC all about? We're about growing into Christ together. And Paul says the way it happens, the way we'll be a people devoted to living for Christ and becoming like Christ is by us being animated and fueled by the enjoyment of the love of Christ. So, beloved, we need to pray. There's more to be said. There's more that could be said. But I'll just conclude with what needs to be said right now. And that is that we that we pray, beloved. I would encourage you to memorize this prayer. Memorize those six verses of Scripture and use them. Use them daily. Use them to pray for yourself. If you have a spouse, use them to pray for your spouse, for your children, for your brothers and sisters in the church, for your pastors. For other pastors and other churches, your prayers not need they need not be long or passionate or articulate. He's able to take the faintly burning wick of your prayer, and he's able to multiply it and do amazing things with it because it's not about our passion, it's about his faithfulness. Pray this the God who did not spare his own son but gave him up for us all And who promises to freely give us all things with him, he will take our broken and our feeble prayers, and he will answer them in his wise and sovereign kindness. For our part, beloved, we are to be a people praying. To keep asking, to keep seeking, to keep knocking. for each other, for ourselves, for our churches, for our city, for our nation, through all the world, that God would strengthen us together to know the love of Christ that surpasses knowledge, that we may be filled with all the fullness of God. And if God, in his kindness, would be pleased to answer that prayer just a little bit, it would be tremendously refreshing. And if he's pleased to answer it a lot, We'll call it revival. God still does that. He is doing that. And we should pray that he would. Let it be so, Lord Jesus, for your great glory, for our great good, knowing and I so want to just get into next week's passage. Knowing, let's just look, if your Bible is still open, you didn't close it yet. This immense prayer, the one we come to when we bring in the prayer, is the God who is able to do far more abundantly than all we ask or think. But that's another sermon for another time. Let us be a people who are praying. Father, we we we need your we need your help. We want to know more of the love of Christ. We thank you that you have even been pleased to tell us and to help us and prepare us in this passage to know that feeling Adrift, that feeling weak inside, the absence of this experiential relishing is a part of our lives as Christians. It's why Paul prays It's why you call us to pray. Would you help us, Father, to not grow weary in our praying? Help us to not be pessimistic Help us to not be cynical about what you would be pleased to do through a group of Christians coming together regularly to pray for more of the love of Christ. May it not be merely an intellectual doctrine that we subscribe to, but would you increasingly grant us to taste and see that you are good, immeasurably greater than we can imagine in goodness to us in Jesus Would you help us to know that love? And would you use that experience to make us more like Christ? We ask for this all in his name. Amen.