Well good morning once again, brothers and sisters. Good to see you, good to be with you in this time together in God's word. Let me pray one more time before we get started Lord, we ask for your mercy because we trust that you are merciful. So we ask you would show us mercy even right now in the hearing. Believing, loving, and doing of your word. Help us to hear and believe and love and do because we love you, because we believe in you, and because we trust you, Lord. We pray you would use our your word today in our lives, in our hearts, to convict us, to correct us, to change us, to help us to look more like your Son Jesus Christ. In his name we ask and pray. Amen A pastor at our home church, some years ago, he bought me a gift, and that gift was a compass. If I remember it, I would have brought it for you this morning, but I forgot. I left it at home. It's on my shelf. In case you're wondering, I don't actively use it. It sits on my shelf But the purpose of the gift was a reminder to me from our pastor at our home church, Pastor Russell. It was reminding me of a phrase that his dad often used with him. And the phrase was that God doesn't hand us a map, but he hands us a compass. And there's a difference between a map and a compass, right? Maps give us the play-by-play, tells us turn this way or turn that way. Or for this Apple map, she will tell you where to go. Make her right at the light. Or left at the light. But a compass doesn't tell you all of those details, but it gives you your orientation. Like continue going north. North is that way, keep walking. And if you're like me, you prefer maps. You like the Apple Maps lady to tell you exactly where to go, even if you've gone there a thousand times Or, back in the day when we had MapQuest, you liked printing it out and having it in your car so you would know step by step exactly where to go. I got I got some chuckles on that one. Right? But if you're also like me, applying that way of thinking, that sense of wanting every single step to be that clear. Can and has left you dazed and confused at times. Stuck, as if you you don't know where to go. Because you're going the right way, so to speak, you're going the right direction towards the Lord, and yet you didn't think that suffering was coming along for the ride. But yet there it is. Or you see and hear about what's happening in the lives of other people, or even in the world around us, and it seems like this sovereign Lord is asleep at the wheel. But if the Lord is indeed steering human history, then the question is: where exactly is he going? Where is he taking us? Where are we headed? In our study through Nehemiah, we'll be reminded of the fact. That the Lord's compass is aimed towards restoring his remnant people. If you haven't turned there in your Bibles, please meet me in the book of Nehemiah. You'll find that on page 398. 398 of the Pew Bibles. If you need to use your table of contents to find the book of Nehemiah, that's nothing to be ashamed of We're starting the study today in the book of Nehemiah, which is a book of history. It contains history. It's a book of prayer because Nehemiah prays a lot. And it's also a memoir of the life of a man named Nehemiah. We'll learn more about him and the historical context throughout the sermon this morning. But we'll start a little bit with Nehemiah's places in the Bible The book of Nehemiah is considered a historical book. It's part of the historical genres of the books of the Bible So kind of like Chronicles, so 1st and 2nd Chronicles, or 1st and 2nd Kings, or even the book of Ezra. In fact, Ezra and Nehemiah in the Hebrew, they were basically one book. They were combined together. And if you've read Ezra and Nehemiah, then that kind of makes sense. They're overlapping. They're contemporaries Ezra, if you haven't read it, is a historical book that covers in itself nearly a hundred years of Israel's history, that zeroes in on Ezra and his part in it, starting in chapter 7 of the book of Ezra. In Nehemiah chapter 8, for example, we have this overlap coming again of Ezra and Nehemiah because Ezra is mentioned specifically in Nehemiah chapter 8 as the priest and the scribe who opened up the book. For God's people. So both Ezra and Nehemiah belong to God. They both returned to Jerusalem to help with the physical and the spiritual restoration. Ezra got there first, and then Nehemiah got there afterwards. The book of Nehemiah itself is more of a history of God's people and Nehemiah's personal memoir during that time period between the years. 445 and 433 BC. But since Ezra and Nehemiah belonged to God Good question is, why were they outside of Jerusalem? Why were they outside of God's place? That's because they were part of the Lord's remnant people that he planned to use to restore right fellowship and to restore right worship So, Nehemiah, the book itself, is basically all about that: restoring right fellowship and restoring right worship. Chapters 1 through 7 of the book of Nehemiah are about restoring right fellowship. And the restoration of Jerusalem's walls, but also Jerusalem's society. We'll learn more about that in the coming weeks, Lord willing. And then chapters 8 through 13 are about restoring right worship. So they get back to Jerusalem, the walls are rebuilt. What are they going to do? They're going to hear from God's law, they're going to turn from their sin, and they're going to obey God's law. They're going to rightly respond. They're going to worship Him. So if you're wondering what these ancient peoples have to do with us, it's exactly that. Because in the book of Nehemiah, we see the Lord's compass, we see the direction that He is going. And that's the main point of the book of Nehemiah, and that'll be the main point of our time together in God's words this morning. So you can write this down if you're taking notes. Here's the main idea. The Lord will restore his remnant people to right fellowship with him and right worship of him. The Lord will restore his remnant people to right fellowship with him and right worship of him Follow along with me as I read the text. For this morning, we're going to focus on verses 1 through 4 of Nehemiah chapter 1. This is God's word. The words of Nehemiah, the son of Hechaliah Now it happened in the month of Chizlev, in the twentieth year, as I was in Susa the citadel, that Hananiah, one of my brothers, came with certain men from Judah. And I asked them concerning the Jews who escaped, who has survived the exile concerning Jerusalem? And they said to me The remnant there in the province who has survived the exile is in great trouble and shame. The wall of Jerusalem is broken down, and its gates are destroyed by fire As soon as I heard these words, I sat down and wept and mourned for days, and I continued fasting and praying before the God of heaven We'll stop there for this morning. Sermon will be broken down into two main parts. Verses 1 through 3 and then verse 4 In verses 1 through 3, we'll focus on this report, this report that Nehemiah receives on God's remnant people. And in that, we'll focus on God's plan to restore right fellowship. So point one, restore right fellowship. And then in verse four, we'll get a glimpse of Nehemiah's response, and that'll focus on restoring right worship. And in that we will think of how we can apply this to our lives. So point one, restoring right fellowship. We'll get the context and the history of what's going on here, see exactly what's going on. And see how restoring right fellowship is God's plan all along and how that's fulfilled in Christ. Point two, restoring right worship. We'll think of Nehemiah's response and see how we can use that to apply to our to our lives. Point one, restoring right fellowship. Restoring right fellowship. We're going to spend time this morning building a found uh laying a foundation, so to speak, for the rest of the book. of Nehemiah because that's exactly what this introduction does. And we're going to spend time on the historical and biblical context because there's a lot that we miss. There's a lot that you just missed in the reading and hearing of it. For example, Nehemiah, the name, means Yahweh has comforted. And we miss that in our English Bibles. So the mere hearing of his name, once we get later in the book of Nehemiah, that would have been a reminder of the fact to God's people that God has not left them. that he has and he will bring comfort to them. Even in the midst of their exile and trouble. We'll talk more about those that exile and their troubles soon. Nehemiah, it says there in the beginning in verse 1, it says that he was the son of Hakaliah, and that just distinguished him from others who would have been named Nehemiah. So it's a pretty common name But what we also have in verse 1 is a timestamp. Look there, in which it says, in the month of Chiselev, in the 20th year. So again, what does that mean? The month of Chislev would have meant November or December And that marker is important because you have these different part uh time markers all throughout the book of Nehemiah. So if you just glance over the book of Nehemiah this afternoon, you'll see it. Nehemiah chapter 2 verse 1, you have a timestamp. It says, in the month of Nisan, in the 20th year of King Arlazerxes. Or in chapter 2, verse 11, you have another timestamp. In chapter 6, verse 15, another timestamp. Chapter 7, verse 73, another timestamp. And so on This would have oriented the first readers of Nehemiah to know exactly where this is happening. When is this happening? When in the Lord's story of redemption is this taking place? But for us, many, many, many years removed from that, this at the very least should give us confidence in God's word. Because we have in the scriptures not just a bunch of random characters doing a bunch of random things and a bunch of abstract stories Our God works in and through time and space. And we can even trace it all the way back to the month that he was using it. We can even trace it all the way back to the rulers that he decided to use in that time period. Again, in verse 1, look at it there. It says, in the 20th year. 20th year of what? That would have been another timestamp. That's the 20th year of the rule of King Artaxerxes, who was mentioned in chapter 2, verse 1, which I just read. Arta Xerxes was this Persian ruler who ruled between 464 and 424 BC. And we'll find out through the rest of the study in Nehemiah that Nehemiah was a governor, that he was a spiritual leader for God's remnant people. But right now, he's in Persia And he's the king's cupbearer. That's chapter 1, verse 11. He says, now I was a cupbearer to the king. So Nehemiah has a trusted position in the palace near the king. Question. Nehemiah was a Jew, right? So why was he in Persia? Kids, teens. Why was Nehemiah there to begin with? One word starts with an E. Cooper. Because of exile. Exactly. Because of the exile. God's people were exiled And this was not a new position for God's people. God's people had been exiled by this point for nearly 200 years. But why? The exile was God's punishment on God's people for rebelling against his rule. Because God made the world and his people and all people to follow his rule. And God's people were supposed to follow him as their king. And he placed prophets and different leaders in their lives for their leadership, people like Abraham, Moses, etc. But eventually, God's people wanted other people to lead them. They wanted a king like the other nations had kings. And so God gave them what they asked for. So then you have Saul. And then you had King David. And then after King David, you have Solomon who established the temple. And after the death of Solomon, you have Rehoboam, who became the king of Israel. But under Rehoboam, The twelve tribes of Israel were split into two. Two kingdoms. What were they called? Anyone? Anyone can play? Israel and Judah, northern kingdom and southern kingdom. Right? Now, if you remember from several months ago when we studied the book of Habakkuk, Right? Remember we studied Habakkuk? And that's that took place before the invasion of Judah by the Babylonians in 586. This was a prediction. The Lord told Habakkuk what exactly was going to happen. And during that invasion, 586, that led to the destruction of the temple in Jerusalem. And if you remember in the book of Habakkuk, it happened just as the Lord said it would happen. The Lord told Habakkuk that they would be invaded And then he told them that those invaders, the Babylonians, would eventually be taken over by a more powerful empire. And that happened. And that was the Persians. And that happened in 539 BC. The Persian sick over Babylon and all that Babylon ruled over, which included the people of Judah In 538, there was an edict of Cyrus where God's people were allowed to go back to Jerusalem and rebuild. They started rebuilding, but then that building stopped because God's people were opposed. God's people certainly would have been concerned at this point and confused. We're in exile, we're allowed to go back, but now we have all these enemies. God, what are you doing? Where are you taking us? Sometimes we feel that way too, don't we? God, I know what you promised, but what are you doing? Where are you taking us? These circumstances don't seem to fit in line of where you're supposed to be taking us. Just think about ship for a minute. A ship does not need much seer off course, does it? Even one degree of deviation from the intended course at the start of the journey can result in hundreds of miles away from the intended destination. It's one degree difference. You're going that way over and over again, you're gonna get far off from where you intended to go. But our Lord never ever deviates from his plan. Our Lord always stays the course, and nothing and no one can move the Lord from where he's trying to go, not even a degree to the left or to the right. How do we know that? Because we have evidence of it in God's word. Because even when the temple stopped being rebuilt, the Lord sent prophets like Haggai. Who you can read about in your Bible, or Zachariah, who you also can read about in your Bible, for the rebuilding of the temple to restart. And they did. And the temple was completed around 515 BC. And throughout all of those processes, the Lord used various leaders while God's people were in exile to help carry out his purposes, to continue on with his plan. So under the rule of Xerxes I, for example, or as our Bibles refer to him as Ahashuerus In the book of Esther, you can also read about that. And even after Ahashuraris, you have Artaxerxes I, this Artaxerxes that Nehemiah is working for. Now in case you didn't know, I'm a former history teacher. I really like history. I kind of geek out over this stuff. This context helps me to get my bearings, but if you're not a history nerd like me, I probably lost you as soon as I said BC What's the point of all this? A couple quick points of application. This should remind us and encourage us that our God is the God that rules all of history. All of it, from start to finish, it belongs to him. Our times are in his hands because all of time is in God's hands And secondly, this should remind us that the Lord can and will use any ruler, any leader to accomplish his purposes, to keep the ship going in the same direction of restoring his remnant people. And that could be Cyrus or Darius or Hashuarus or Artaxerxes or Biden. Or Trump or Harris. The Lord's plan to restore his remnant people will not be thwarted by any nation or any ruler At any point in history. Not now, not ever. So as you think about the upcoming election, I'm sure you've been seeing a lot more commercials lately. I'm sure you've been getting text messages lately to your phone. Like, how did they get my number? As you think about that, remember that our God is the ruler of the nations. Think about what the prophet Isaiah says, that God says, that the nations are like a drop bucket to him. They are like dust on a scale. Or think of David in Psalm 2 that the nations are raging and the rulers are plotting in vain. Or even Paul, the Apostle Paul, who says in Philippians that Jesus will one day place everything under his feet and transform our lowly bodies into glorified bodies. And beloved, no candidate, past, present, or future, can put that on their campaign website. Nobody. So we should set our hope on the Lord alone. Because he will indeed restore his remnant people to right fellowship and right worship with him. And he'll even put his people in place just to do so. Like Nehemiah, Persia was the king. We can think of other people in the Bible who the Lord used, who put right in place, so he could use them to accomplish his overall purposes, right? Just think of Joseph, who was used by God to save his people from famine. Or Moses, who was used by God to bring his people out of slavery in Egypt. Or Joshua, who was able to lead his people to the promised land. Or Ruth, who was used by God to preserve the lineage of the true kinsman redeemer. Or David, who protected and led God's people, or Esther, who was used by God's people to save the Jews from genocide. Or even prophets like Isaiah or Jeremiah who spoke the truth to God's people and to God's enemies. Or Nehemiah, who just happens to be sitting in the palace At Sousa, the citadel. It's like, all right, well, what does that mean? This was the king's vacation home. Remember, it's November, December, it's starting to get cold. He wants to go somewhere else. He takes his trusty advisor, his cupbearer, Nehemiah, with him. And Ananiah, Nehemiah's brother, knew where he was, and they went with a few others there to pay Nehemiah a visit. To give him an update about what was going on in Judah. Nehemiah inquired about what was going on with the people. In Judah and in Jerusalem itself. That's what it says there in verse 2. I asked them concerning the Jews who escaped and who have survived the exile and concerning Jerusalem Nehemiah was concerned about what happened. But the report was not a good one. Look at verse 3. Where it says the remnant there in the province who has survived the exile is in great trouble and shame. The wall of Jerusalem is broken down, and its gates are destroyed by fire. Great trouble and shame. The walls are destroyed. Gates are destroyed by fire. Now, the walls themselves may have never been finished Nezarah chapter 4, for example, the enemies of God sent letters to the king and he ordered God's people to stop the rebuilding process. So maybe they were just unfinished walls that over time came allowed them to become more and more vulnerable. But these unfinished walls or destroyed gates would have had made God's people defenseless against their enemies. And the lack of walls also threatened the entire structural integrity. So this was a big deal. But even more important than that. is the fact that God's people were meant to be in right fellowship with him and with one another. And without walls, without a temple, they could not accomplish that. And I think we can safely say that because in Nehemiah chapter 8, Ezra opens the book for them, the book of the law, which they had not heard or read in years. So something needed to be done about that. Now I should note right here that God's people have existed up to this point and still exist even today, apart from one specific geographical city. So God's people are not just in one place. They're all over the map. Because God's plan from the very beginning to dwell with his people in perfect harmony and perfect unity. And that started in the garden, didn't it? But that harmony and that unity was interrupted by sin. The sin in the garden. The sin that led to their banishment But God did something about it. He knew that something needs to be done about it. So God has worked all throughout human history since then to preserve his remnant people. Throughout the history of God's people, he's made a way for his people to dwell with him in the wilderness, in the tabernacle, in the temple During exile on Mount Zion in Jerusalem. The whether it was enemies from without or enemies from within because of their sin, something kept getting in the way over and over and over again. But notice that this remnant that's referred to here in Ezra chapter 1, they still remain to be God's people, even without the city being rebuilt at this point. Even though their cities were in was in ruins. Why is that? Because God's people are not defined by a place. They are defined by God's presence. And God was with his people, even in their trouble and shame. And he was sending a ruler to restore them to right fellowship and worship. And yes, I'm talking about Nehemiah, but not just Nehemiah. Because there's a ruler that would come eventually, the one that would come after Nehemiah, the one that stands before Nehemiah, the ruler who came humbly to this world as God in the flesh, and that's the Lord Jesus Christ. And he came, John 1 says, to tabernacle with us, to dwell with us, to live the perfect life in this world, to die on the cross. Because of the sins that keep getting in the way of our fellowship with a holy and righteous God. To defeat the enemies from without and the enemies from within. And he did that when he rose from the grave so that all who turned to Jesus by faith can have the promise of forgiveness, eternal life, and God's never-ending presence with him in right fellowship and worship forever and ever. And if you're here and you're not a Christian, God is still redeeming people. He is still restoring his remnant people. And you can be part of that number today by placing your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. And we would love to talk to you after service about what that means for you to give your life to Jesus. And brothers and sisters in Christ, remember that our restoration to right fellowship and right worship with the Lord is not about our nation. It's not about our country and the freedoms that we enjoy. It's not about our country of origin. It's not about our bloodline because the Lord is redeeming those from every nation, tribe, and tongue to gather around his throne one day. And that's why in Romans 11, from our scripture reading, he's referring to this remnant, this group of people who are redeemed, who are restored by grace. Not by merit, not by family, not by bloodline, not by nation. So we should continue to pray for the spread of the gospel throughout all nations. And as you watch the news and as you see wars and conflicts, pray for the spread of the gospel there too. That the Lord will preserve his remnant people and use them to bring more into right fellowship and worship with him. And pray how you can be part of that in sharing the gospel here yourself, supporting the work of the gospel as missionaries go out, or even pray about whether the Lord would send you out to the nations. To minister and to share the gospel in countries like that. But what would Nehemiah do with this news? What would he do with this report? And what can we learn from it? And that brings us to point two Restoring right worship. Restoring right worship We'll spend time next week going through Nehemiah's prayer. I encourage you to read ahead if you want to this week. That'll encourage you and help you for next week's sermon, Lord willing. But we're gonna focus today on verse 4. We're gonna focus on his immediate response. And let's think about this. Remember the trouble of the people in Judah that we heard about in verse 3. That trouble and their trouble did not have to change a thing about what Nehemiah was going through. He was in the palace. He was with the king, who was wealthy enough to have a vacation home. He was good. He had everything that he could have asked for. I mean, he was a cupbearer, so it was a little risky, right? Like he had a risky job. We'll talk more about that next week. But He was well taken care of. He did not have to worry about their burdens and griefs. But Nehemiah did not respond with apathy He can say, I'm sorry to hear that. I'm doing my own thing. And Nehemiah also did not reach for his cape to swoop in and save the day. And I think we can learn from both of those because it's easy for us to be apathetic to what's going on around us if it doesn't concern us. And for many of us who are doers in the room, it's easy for us to want to reach for our cape and swoop into action. And Nehemiah was indeed a man of action. We're going to read and learn all about that. But Nehemiah's immediate response, I think, could be summarized in one word, and that word was worship. Look at verse four. As soon as I heard these words, I sat down and wept And mourned for days. I continued fasting and praying before the God of heaven That phrase, before, as in before the God of heaven. That's a positioning. He was prostrate. He was on his face before the Lord. And it was customary for Jews as they mourned to sit down. Remember, this prestigious and noble man was reduced to sitting down and mourning and grieving once he heard the news. And he wept for days. And he also fasted, which is only required by the Jews once a year during Yom Kippur, the Day of Atonement But he did so for several days. And as we'll focus on next week, he prayed. Can you picture this trusted official? In the king's palace, around all this authority, weeping, mourning, fasting, and praying. What does that look like to you? I think it looks like worship. Many of our sisters just came back from the retreat where they focus on a worshipful life. And several of them did the teaching, and I heard it went really well. And I read what they were going to say, so I'm pretty sure it went really well. Continue to pray for fruit. Ask them about it Be encouraged by what they were sharing with our sisters. But worship, as it says in Romans 12, is our reasonable response for all that the Lord has done. And it should be evident in every aspect of our lives. And our women learned about that through singing and through the word and through prayer and through work and through service. In seasons of lack and in seasons of plenty, with answered prayers and seasons when it feels like the Lord is not even listening to you. We can still worship in those seasons. All of them. Our circumstances, nor our seasons, should determine whether or not we worship the Lord But our circumstances and our seasons might determine what our worship of the Lord looks like If you did a Google search right now of the word worship, I can guarantee you what you will find. You will see faceless people. Standing on a mountain in this beautiful day with this picturesque view, the sun is rising or setting, their arms are raised, and they're probably singing, How great is our God! And yes, that is what worship can look like. But then picture Nehemiah. He's not raised up. He's bowed down. He's prostrate. He's mourning. He's weeping. He's fasting. He's praying before the Lord. That too is worship, beloved. Just think of others in the scriptures who responded to terrible news with worship, like Job, for example. Job chapter 1, verse 20 says, Then Job arose and tore his robe and shaved his head and fell on the ground and worshipped Beloved, the Lord is worthy of our worship on the mountaintops and even in the valleys of our lives. When there's reason to rejoice, and when we have every reason to mourn. Our worship of him should include both, and it should include all of it. And as these and as a let's exiles as we are, if we are God's people this morning, longing for home, we will face devastating news over and over and over again. About our nation, about our community, about our world, or about our personal lives, about our brothers and sisters across the world. So then how should we respond to that? Because that will happen. We should respond with worship even then. So here's a few application points of what that worship can and should look like Few points here in closing. What should we do? How should we respond? First of all, pay attention. Pay attention Because again, it's tempting, especially now, in this election season, in this intense season if in our world, in our country specifically, getting towards the ending part of the year It's tempting to tune everything out, to block everything out. To say we've already decided what we're gonna do. So we're gonna close our eyes, we're gonna shut our ears, we're not gonna focus on what's going on. But that's kind of like playing peekaboo with a kid, isn't it? And paying playing peekaboo with a kid is fun Because they don't know what's going on. Because when their eyes are covered, they think that you've disappeared. They don't see it, you're gone. You can hide behind a pole and come back, and they're like, oh, there's a price each and every time We can't do that in real life. Because as you get older, you realize, oh, they're still there. They're still standing. We can hide ourselves from the world. We can shut our eyes and close our ears if we want to. That doesn't make it go away. We should instead lean in and pay attention to what's going on in the world around us. Why? Because world news is impacting our brothers and sisters in Christ, many of them who are here. Many of our brothers and sisters in Christ here have family members and loved ones in other nations. Nations that might be in turmoil or conflict Knowing what's going on there helps us to better love them here. But also, whether you know it or not, you have siblings, family in Christ, in those other nations. In those other places who are trying to make it, who are trying to endure, who are part of God's remnant people, like those in India, like those in Colombia. To pray for your brothers and sisters in Christ as they face persecution. As you see the world news, don't just think about a worldly response. Think about the people that are there. Think about God's people that are there. Pray for our missionaries that we support as a church, including the countries that they serve in. So pay attention. Secondly, mourn and grieve. Mourn and grieve. When's the last time you grieved and mourned over the sin and suffering in our world Now it's easy to get frustrated. It's easy to get angry about stuff. And some of that anger is justified. Some of that anger is warranted. We should be upset about injustice. We should be upset about the things that go on in our world day in and day out. Nehemiah could have been angry too. And as we'll see later in Nehemiah, he does have a bit of a temper himself. That's Nehemiah 13. But Nehemiah saw through the smoke and through the rubble and focused squarely on the suffering of the people. And that's why I think he grieved and he mourned. So as you read, as you scroll, as you scroll, as you hear about wars, or you see things going on in other countries, or you hear about political turmoil, whether that's here or in the Middle East or in Asia or Latin America or whatever country. Look past the fog, listen past the rhetoric. Don't look for the political spin or jousting and find where the people are because those people are in mourning and mourn with them And grieve with them. Remember the words of our Lord Jesus Christ who said, Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. Remember Nezmaiah's name, what it means? It means Yahweh has comforted. Pray and ask for the Lord through his Holy Spirit to comfort even those people in their affliction. Pay attention. Mourn and grieve. Thirdly, fast and pray. Fast and pray As we consider how to respond to a number of situations with prayer, they relate to our lives or loved ones or spread of the gospel or the church Or even what's going on in the world around us. Consider not only praying about it, consider fasting as well A few weeks ago in James 5, we referred to that section where he's talking about the prayer of faith and he's talking about the anointing of oil. You can go back and hear that sermon if you haven't listened to it But the oil served as this outward consecration, this outward setting apart. And I think we might consider fasting as an inward consecration Or an inward setting apart of ourselves, setting apart time for focused prayer, setting apart time to mourn or to grieve or to lament. Setting aside time to confess sin, setting aside time to pray for God's guidance and his wisdom. And I think based on the context and based on Nehemiah's prayer, he's doing all of that in his fasting. And then it's prayer. So consider adding fasting to your prayer life from time to time. Allow your hunger and thirst to remind you That you should hunger and thirst for the Lord. Allow missing a meal or two to remind you that the Lord is the one who provides for all of our needs, including the need that you're bringing to Him in prayer And yes, we can fast more things than food, social media, TV, whatever. But Nehemiah is talking about going without food or drink here. That's the kind of fast that he's taking place in. But just like James 5 wasn't about the oil, fasting is not the point here. The point is to go to the God of the heavens. In prayer and beg him to intervene and beg him to do something about it. Because God is more concerned with his glory than we are concerned with his glory We can pray to him and trust that he will respond according to his glory at the right time. Which leads to our final point of application. Remember God's glory and our witness. Remember God's glory and our witness. God's people were exiled. They were allowed to return back. That meant that they were eventually go back to re-establish the city and re-establish the temples where God's people could fellowship with him and they could rightly worship him. And that city was meant to be a light to the nations around them. But if this city is right now in ruins, then that interrupts that fellowship and that worship. Teams, we we we talked about John chapter 2 a few weeks ago, right? Remember when Jesus was flipping over tables? Like what's going on there? What was he doing? Remember the money changers, they were in this area of the temple. That's where they were selling. What was that area called? Any teens who were there, do you remember? The court of the Gentiles, the court of the Gentiles. Jesus said that my father's house will be a house of prayer The Gentiles would go to the court of the Gentiles and they would pray. They would hear the truth about Yahweh and they would turn to the one true God. Jesus was mad because their selling in the temple interrupted that worship. It interrupted them hearing and responding. But without walls in Jerusalem, without a completed temple, that also interrupted God's people worshiping, and it also interrupted other people from the nations responding to God in worship as well. Commentators suspect this is why Nehemiah refers to the Lord here, not as the God of Israel, which he is, or the God of Judah, which he is. He says the God of heaven The one who rules over all nations, the one who wants people from all nations to turn to him So Nehemiah would go back and he would help to rebuild and they would restore right fellowship and right worship. But this is not just Nehemiah concerned about a place And concerned about a city, Nehemiah was concerned with the glory of God and with the witness of God's people. And so should we He wanted God to be glorified and he wanted the nations to turn to God as a result. Nehemiah knew the promises of God. He knew that the Lord would keep his promises that he made to Abraham. And yet in the middle of it, you have these broken walls, you have cities that are destroyed, gates that are destroyed by fire. What did Nehemiah do? He went to the Lord as a result. And remember that Nehemiah only had part of the story. Nehemiah is different from us because we stand on this side of the cross. Because we know how the story ends. We know that Jesus will build his church, and no gates will prevail against it We know that the Lord will preserve his remnant people until the very end, and we will be gathered with them in that eternal city where there will be trees for the healing of the nations. Where there will be no temple, but just the glory and the beauty of God and His presence with us forevermore. And those gates will not be threatened at all by fire. By enemies, or by anything that could separate us from the Lord. Because the Lord will restore his remnant people to right fellowship and worship of him continually forever and ever. That is where we're headed. And in the meantime, beloved, go before the Lord and worship as you grieve, as you mourn. As you fast, as you pray, because in doing all of that, you are rightly responding to the Lord. Remember, we have no enduring city here Not Jerusalem, not DC. But we long for the city that is to come. So press on. Because his compass is still oriented towards that eternal city. He's not going off course. Let's pray. Father, help us to fix our eyes on you. Come what may help us to be oriented towards your direction. To trust you when we don't know step by step, when we don't know the play by play, when we don't know the turning left or turning right, we know where you are headed. God, give us grace to trust in you. Give us grace to respond to you in faith, trusting that you will complete your purposes and you will get us safely home. In Jesus' name. Amen.