Welcome you to open up in your Bibles to Ephesians chapter 5. If you are using one of the Bibles provided on a seat around you, you could find that on page 978 of those Bibles. We'll get there, be a few minutes before we get to Ephesians 5, but that is where we'll be this morning as we continue our study of the book of Ephesians. Uh around this time of year, uh twenty-six years ago, fall of nineteen ninety-nine If I did my math correctly. I was just beginning as a 22-year-old senior at Penn State University to think seriously about Christianity. I grew up, as a lot of you know, I grew up in a Jewish family. I didn't know anything about Jesus growing up in that Jewish family other than that Jews don't believe in Jesus. And I was actually wrong about that. But through uh a religious studies class that I was taking that semester at Penn State and through the gentle But probing questions of a Christian friend, I began to be curious about the life and teaching of Jesus and what it was about Jesus that made him so uh objectionable to the Jewish faith. So uh when I began reading the New Testament, this is probably now moving from late 99 into early part of 2000. I was intrigued by the very first verse of Matthew's gospel, which connected the life of Jesus and the story that I was about to read to the stories of the Hebrew Bible that I was acquainted with, stories like David and Abraham, Jesus as the son of David and the son of Abraham. And I was I was intrigued by that because I was acquainted with those stories, but I didn't really know anything about Jesus. I didn't realize this was a continuation of the story. And as I began reading those early chapters of Matthew's gospel, I found myself fascinated uh with what I was reading the life of uh that Jesus commended the way of life that he taught for instance in in the Beatitudes Matthew five verses three through twelve That way of life sounded attractive to me. But it was just a little bit after that passage that I read something that confronted me. Uh something that unsettled me. Something that showed me that if this curiosity about Christianity was going to give way to an actual commitment to Jesus. Some significant things were going to need to change in my life. I'll read it to you. And I brought this, I got a little nostalgic. This is the Bible that I was reading from. Bought at the Penn State student bookstore in the fall of 1999 for that religious studies class. It's the new revised standard version. I think you we can read it in church and it'll be okay. But it allow me to engage in a little bit of nostalgia reading the very words that I reckon I'm thinking it was early 2000 that really arrested me. In thinking about the life and the claims and the lordship of Jesus, he said, this is in Matthew 5, verse 27. You have heard that it was said, you shall not commit adultery. But I say to you that everyone who looks at a woman with lust has already committed adultery with her in his heart If your right eye causes you to sin, tear it out and throw it away. It is better for you to lose one of your members than that your whole body be thrown into hell. And if your right hand causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away. It is better for you to lose one of your members than for your whole body to go into hell. To that point in my life, uh I had been catechized You will, as a young person, catechized by MTV and Sports Illustrated and I'll just say women's clothing catalogs and innumerable advertisements all around me I was trained to talk about and look at women in ways that I'll just say were quite contrary to the vision of life that Jesus was calling his followers to. And so it was that text in Matthew chapter 5 and that reality in my life that became ground zero of Christ's call to discipleship. Would I continue to live my way for my own gratification Or would I submit myself to Jesus and follow him on the narrow way that leads to life? I was interesting. I was looking through that old Bible of mine just yesterday, and that the very first part of the New Testament that I underlined was that phrase: the gate is narrow and the way is hard. That leads to life. Would I take up that way? Or would I keep living for myself? Well praise God I'm living for Jesus and not me And I know that's true for so many of you here in this room. That kind of confrontation that I experienced in the early parts of 2000, that's not a new thing in the 21st century There may be new ways for people to access the kind of degrading and corrupt content that I was accustomed to. But the culture of even first century Greco-Roman life where uh the Ephesians lived their lives, it was a culture just like today's youth live in, it was filled with sexual decadence, with the idea that nothing is more essential to our identity as human beings than the freedom to express ourselves and gratify ourselves sexually and to use our bodies as we see fit That's the prevailing sentiment of our day, but it was that same sentiment in the first century. That's not a progressive idea And I know that because almost every book of the New Testament warns of the dangers of sexual immorality and urges followers of Christ to flee from it. And we have arrived this morning at one of those passages in our study of the book of Ephesians. Praise the Lord for a ministry committed to expositional preaching of God's word. Some preachers shy away from a passage like I'm about to read for you because it's such a cultural hot-button issue. Others maybe are too eager to talk about these kinds of sins and this kind of immorality all the time. But if you're here visiting with us today, we just happen to be. We've been studying the book of Ephesians since January, and we just happen to be at this passage today. Next week we'll take up the next verses. As we've been studying Ephesians, we've been thinking about this call that the apostle gave to the Christians in Ephesus to live a new life, a life that was befitting, that was appropriate, suitable to the gracious salvation that God had provided for his people in Christ. And we've we've seen language in Ephesians 4 of putting off the old self and being renewed in the spirit of our minds and putting on the new self created after God's own likeness In the righteousness and holiness that comes from, that springs from the truth of Jesus. And that new way of life Necessarily involves a new way of acting and talking and thinking with regard to sexuality In being transferred from the kingdom of darkness to the kingdom of light, in being moved from being a child of wrath, To a child of God, from being dead in sin to alive to God in Christ. One of the first things that God's new people needed to reckon with was a radically different sexual ethic. So follow along now As I read from Ephesians chapter 5, verses 3 through 6, I was in such a hurry to take this nostalgic Bible that I left my actual Bible at home today. So I'm using one of these that we have provided as well, Ephesians 5, verses 3 through 6. But sexual immorality and all impurity or covetousness must not even be named among you, as is proper among saints Let there be no filthiness, nor foolish talk, nor crude joking, which are out of place, but instead let there be thanksgiving. For you may be sure of this, that everyone who is sexually immoral or impure, or who is covetous, that is an idolater Has no inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God. Let no one deceive you with empty words For because of these things, the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience. This is God's word, brothers and sisters. Thanks be to God. I hope and pray that you mean that. Thanks be to God. This is the call of God on our lives, brothers and sisters. And I just want to stand here before we even get into the passage and tell you, it's totally possible. What Paul has written here, it's possible for us to live in harmony with his words. It's expected. It's commanded. I hope you believe that. I'm going to pray now that we believe that Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. It is indeed good and right and true and profitable for us That we as your people might be trained and equipped for every good work. So, Father, we pray that as we consider these words, that you would help us To probably that you would help us to be challenged where we're in need of being challenged, and help us to be comforted where we're in need of comfort. Help us to see Jesus freshly, to be moved with love for him in a way that would change our lives for good. We ask this in his name. Amen. It's possible, beloved. It's gonna be a process. It's gonna be a struggle. It's gonna be a fight But it's possible. And this exhortation in Ephesians 5 is intended to be a help to us in the battle. So to help us think about this passage, I want us to consider three observations from the passage. I'll mention them up front and I'll if you're taking notes and you don't get it all down, I'll be mentioning them again. You're always welcome to email me and I'm happy to send you my notes. Uh but uh three observations that I want to draw your attention to from this passage. First, we see there is a strong call. Secondly, there is a sober warning. And then third, there is at least what I found to be a surprising motivation. A strong call out of sexual immorality, a sober warning about persisting in sexual immorality And a surprising motivation for overcoming sexual immorality. That's what we want to think about together this morning. Oh, I've messed up and my timer didn't start timing That's a problem. But I'll try to be helpful to you all. Look again at verse three. And notice the word but our passage begins with the word but, which is telling us that what he's about to say here regarding sexual immorality, that's a contrast from what's come before it, which is this call to walk in Christ-like sacrificial love. We're called to walk in love, to give of ourselves in love to others as Christ has loved us. But these things now that he's about to spell out are contrary to that way of love. But sexual immorality and all impurity or covetousness must not even be named among you. Literally, it says and filthiness. There's that phrase let there be no is is in included there to help us in our reading and it its flow. But literally it just says sexual immorality and all impurity or covetousness must not even be named among you, and filthiness or foolish talk or crude joking. So this is a a strong call. It's a pervasive and all-encompassing call. in our conduct, even in the cravings and desires of the heart Just why Paul mentions covetousness here. You might think this is all about sexual immorality. Why did he start talking about money all of a sudden? Well no, this This reference to covetousness is not a reference to money in this particular context, but to the greedy, lustful desire for immoral gratification. He commands our will and our behavior, our desires, and the speech that would come forth from our mouths. No filthiness. Or flippancy about such sacred things. He wants nothing to come out of our mouths, even Let alone the conduct itself or the desires, but nothing to come out of our mouth that would minimize or trivialize or glamorize that which the Lord says is condemnable. So we have here a strong call. Now Christians often talk so much about what we're against in the sphere of sexuality. that sometimes we can give the impression, I think, that sex and sexual desire in and of itself is something that God disapproves of. And I just want to make sure that we don't understand the Bible that way. God created sexual intimacy. The Bible speaks of the delights of marital sexual intimacy in many ways. If we had continued reading that passage in Proverbs five, you'd have seen that. Or you could read the Book of Song of Solomon, which is a whole celebration of those marital joys. Paul himself speaks about that in First Corinthians chapter. Seven. The Lord created our bodies. He created all the good things that we enjoy legitimately with our bodies, but he created this particular gift of sexual intimacy. for his appointed context, which is the lifelong committed relationship of marriage between one man and one woman We see that all the way back in the very beginning of the Bible in Genesis chapter 2, and we see Jesus in his earthly ministry affirm that understanding. That one man and one woman being joined together as one flesh, that is God's design for humanity. God designed marriage to be A lifelong commitment of exclusivity between a man and a woman. A relationship, as we'll see as we continue to study Ephesians chapter 5, a relationship that is meant to reflect Christ's own sacrificial love and commitment to his bride, the church. And God created sex as a deeply powerful way to express and intensify that commitment in the context of marriage and in the context of marriage alone. When human beings take this good gift and use it in disregard of God and his design to gratify our own desires for pleasure. rather than as an expression of wholehearted, whole life commitment to that person, when we take this good gift that God has given and say, I'm going to use your body for my own selfish pleasure But I don't want to give myself to you as a whole person. That is essentially worshiping yourself. That's why Paul calls it in verse 5, idolatry. It is a dishonoring of people made in God's image. It's a dishonoring of the goodness and wisdom of God in determining how this precious gift is to be used. And I understand that in most respects here, I trust I'm preaching to the choir about all this, but you know, when we step out of this gymnasium, all of what I just said sounds absolutely moronic in a culture like ours. And if you do happen to be with us visiting today, and you maybe don't consider yourself to be a follower of Jesus, I want to make clear That this call to holiness in our sexuality is good news. It is, in fact, a call to your deepest joy, where the commandments of God don't feel joyful to us The problem is not with him. The problem is with us. We can be like foolish fish. I know I've shared this illustration before. But it's one that I come back to often. We can be like foolish fish. A foolish fish swimming around, let's say, in the water, but then that foolish fish decides, you know. I'm tired of these narrow confines of water. I'm tired of all the water all the time. I'm gonna go out on land. I want to make a life for myself out on the land. That's gonna make me feel free. I'm glad that some of you kids are laughing at that. That's a foolish fish, right? Because fish were made to live in the environment of water. If they try to get free by living on the land, they're gonna die. And human beings were made for the environment of the loving, wise rule of God. So, if you're considering Christianity and the Christian's sexual ethic, or brothers and sisters, as you would go out and be speaking about these things in a crooked and twisted generation, commend to others. Or consider yourself this morning that your ideas about sex, or for that work, uh for that uh something uh for that matter is what I was trying to say. Your ideas about money or work or happiness or really everything, your ideas about that are not going to be wiser than the one who created you. And and the history of the Christian faith would give us two thousand years of evidence for how this conviction that the ways of God and the commandments of God, whether that has to do with The way we think today about human freedom or human justice or compassion or science or equality, all those things have roots in Christian faith and doctrine. And we would commend that to you for your consideration. Now I haven't we're talking about the call, I haven't really gotten to the call yet. I've just basically defined what sexual morality is, and then we're told get rid of anything that is not in accord with that. The call there in verse three is that these vices, all these ways That would be contrary to God's design for sexuality, that all of that not even be named among you. Do you see that there in your Bible, verse 3? Sexual immorality and all impurity or covetousness must not even be named among you. Sometimes when it when it comes to thinking about these sins, maybe you've been in this situation or you've had maybe like a young couple, for instance, they're dating and they want to know like Where's the line exactly? Like how close can we get to the line of sin without crossing into sexual immorality And maybe we think about that not only in the in the dating relationship, but in your own behavior, in your speech, in your entertainment choices What is the line where we start to be engaging in sin? And I would just commend to you that if you're thinking along those lines, this passage teaches us that that's the wrong question to be asking. We should not be clamoring to get near a line, but just not cross over the line. Paul's saying it shouldn't even be named among you. It should be unheard of that the people of God should even be associated or identified with such sins in any way whatsoever. Paul would say to the Corinthian church, 1 Corinthians 6, to flee from immorality Not reason with it, but run from it. Don't dabble or peruse or experiment. Don't test your resolve or mess around. God is not calling his people to get familiar with sexual immorality on the big screen or the TV screen or the smartphone screen so that you can be relevant with and engage our culture. No, he says get away. Like Joseph ran away from Potiphar's enticement, uh the wife of Potiphar, her enticement. Like Job said, I have made a covenant with my eyes that I will not look with lust upon another woman. He says, get away, gouge out an eye, cut off a hand, move from a smartphone to a dumb phone. Throw the television out. Or put it on eBay or whatever if you want to get some money for it, that's fine. But take whatever measures you need to take to rid yourself of anything that would be sexually immoral. I think we can be very desensitized to this. And even what does come near those lines because of the culture that we live in Uh I remember turning on an episode of the TV show Seinfeld as a newlywed. Michelle and I were on our Honeymoon actually. And I hadn't had a television probably at that point in two or three years. There was a TV in the room and and I I really enjoyed Seinfeld when I was uh uh in high school and college and She said she'd never seen an episode. I said, Oh, that's crazy. I can't believe that. You've never seen an episode. Let's let's watch an episode. And I, because I was very familiar with the show, I knew the especially raunchy episodes and the fine Episodes. Fine episodes. So we turned we turned on an episode of Seinfeld, and it was one of the fine episodes. But within a couple of minutes, I was pierced. I was disgusted. I felt embarrassed that I'd even introduced this to my wife. It was the very epitome of Ephesians 5. 4. Bullish talk and crude joking. It was just all so normal Because I hadn't seen it in two or three years. It it it occurred to me now, this is this is filthy. Now if you're thinking, oh, he's about to go through a list of here's the TV shows and the movies and all the stuff that you shouldn't do, I'm not gonna do that. Because not every Christian is going to struggle in the same way with the same things. And I'm not here. That's not helpful, I don't think, for me standing up here to make a long list of things that you can and cannot do. But I can, I believe, on the warrant of this or on the grounds of this passage, ask you, are you being ruthless in light of a call like this? In the Word of God, are you being ruthless with what you're taking in, with what you are tolerating as normal? Is it possible that you've become comfortable with things that God says aren't even to be named among you? I'm asking you to consider that Is it possible that you've given yourself to being amused by things that God says condemns people to eternal misery and torment? It's everywhere. I can't watch a football game without being assaulted By cheerleaders wearing next to nothing or by commercials that are showing me things that I do not want to see. And and you know, we I do watch football. We do watch football. And maybe I should turn it off. Completely altogether. Let each person be convinced in his own mind But I can say one thing that I have committed myself to doing and these they they can attest to this. If something comes on that is not if there's if there's something flashes on that screen, we look away. We look at each other. We don't want to see that trash. And I want to train, I want to teach them it's not normal to see a woman wearing clothes that like nothing. That's not okay. That's not normal. That's not the way things should be I don't want that name. Now you're gonna say, well what just turn on turn off the game? Maybe I should. I'm praying about it, sincerely. Dads, especially men, I just want you to consider how your entertainment choices are training your children in what's attractive and what's normal to view or listen to or talk about. But young ladies, young men, if if you're if you're shaped by And you are listening to and admiring and imitating immodest seductresses who sing about their sexual escapades. You're feeding yourself a bunch of stuff that is out of place. For God's saints. Be careful. Oh, I well, what I won't be cool if I don't know this person or this thing or this song. It's okay to miss out. FOMO don't be FOMO'd. It's okay to miss out. I can tell you as one who walked through the teenage years into college years and watched everything, I wouldn't have missed a thing if I had stayed off of that trash. We're all, whenever we enter into this world, we are we are flirting with trouble. Because observation number two, sexual immorality destroys. There's a strong call that sexual immorality in all its forms not even be named among us. Secondly, we're given a sober warning about where persistence in sexual immorality takes us You may be sure of this. Paul says. This is verse five. That I'm gonna use it literally because I think it's helpful. I'm gonna translate this literally for you. You may be sure of this that every sexually immoral one or every impure one Or coveter, that is an idolater, has no inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God. Let no one deceive you with empty words, for because of these things, the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience. Paul is saying very plainly and very forcefully that if you are living in habitual willful, unrepentant sexual immorality. That's why I wanted you to hear the the the way that he Speaks of these words, the same words that were mentioned there in verse 3, he mentions them now, and he's talking, he uses nouns to show identifying characteristics. These sins that he's referring to in verse 5 have come to typify, to define this person's identity And if you are habitually, willfully, unrepentantly giving yourself to sexual immorality, you will go to hell. No inheritance, he says here, no inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God. That that joyful eternal perfectly pure and delightful new heavens and new earth in which righteousness dwells and all things are made new. No, only a fury of fire that will consume the adversaries. Hebrews 1029. And it is my solemn duty and responsibility to tell you that plainly. I would not be loving you if I did not tell you that plainly. And if you're wondering, and I've gotta think some of you are wondering. How much indulgment in these sins moves me from just sort of an accidental occasional thing to a characteristic defining thing It's a very good question. If you're concerned about that, praise God. Your heart hasn't become so hardened to your sin that you've been handed over to it Can't say everything that there is to be said, but here's a couple things. First of all, be careful about that question, as if you're you want to get a line. You want to find a line that's okay. Once a week, once a month, once every three months. We're not talking about lines. Don't let it be named. Make no provision for the flesh to gratify its desires. Be killing sin, as John Owen put it, or it will be killing you. So be careful about that way of thinking. Beyond that, if you are concerned about that, I cannot give you one sentence that's going to across the board apply. You should come out into the light and you should be talking to somebody about that today. If you are concerned about that, it is better for you to be unsettled about that now and grappling and talking and praying and asking questions. and and and grappling with what the word of God says. Better for you to be unsettled for a little bit now, but through your striving and your fighting and your killing to make your calling and election sure Better that than to be presumptuous and think, well, you know what, everybody sins, nobody's perfect, it's not that big of a deal, and find yourself on that broad road to destruction. Take it seriously. Step into the light. Talk to somebody about that. Don't leave here. If you're concerned about that, do not leave this building without bringing that to somebody's attention. I'm not gonna yell at you. I know I yell a lot. I'm not gonna yell at you if you come to me. We are here to help. We need allies in this battle, and we are here to help and encourage and hold accountable because that's good, because it's the way to life that we're going to. There are many, many horrible consequences of sexual immorality. I can't unfold them all I have to say something to those who may be here whose husband or whose wife has given themselves to sexual immorality and you have been victimized by that. Can't address every situation, obviously. But I want you to hear, if you are a spouse and you've been hurt by your spouse's sexual sin, I want you to understand that it is not your fault. If your husband or your wife has sinned, it is not disrespectful for you to insist on change and accountability and appropriate safeguards. And I want you to hear that you're not meant to carry this burden alone. You should not feel ashamed. You should not feel guilty or dirty yourself if your spouse has committed sin. But allow others to help carry that burden with you. If you're a woman, you may feel uh Like it's impossible to come and speak to that uh uh to one of your pastors. It's too personal, it's too intimate. I need to speak to a woman that is totally understandable. Find a trusted woman who you can speak with Find a biblical counselor who can guide you, but don't don't carry that burden alone. There are many tragic consequences of sexual immorality But the most serious one is the realization that a man's ways are before the eyes of the Lord. you you may be able to to get away with self-indulgent sexual immorality for a whole lifetime For every pastor whose sin is exposed and it makes the news, I trust there's a whole bunch that it never gets exposed. But it will be one day. You might be able to talk yourself out of the fact that it's you know a bit not a big deal, that everybody sins and that nobody's perfect. Don't let anyone deceive you, is what Paul says, including yourself. You cannot escape the presence of God and his exhaustive knowledge of everything you say and think and do. He says that he is an avenger of those who disregard his commandments. So if if you today churchgoer, church member Contributing money into the offering plate when it is passed, reading your Bible regularly. If you're at peace with sexual sin, you are playing with fire. And God has in his kindness brought you here today and ordained that this passage of scripture would be presented to you for your consideration. You be a good Berean and you see if I'm teaching the peak the teaching of the passage. But he's brought you here and he's ordained this passage of scripture to shake you from your sin induced slumber with the dreadfulness of the path that you are on so that you would repent and get on the path of holiness, which is the only way to heaven. Now I wonder if this sounds like I'm trying to scare you into sexual purity That's what you're doing, like what like, whoa, Larry. What about the gospel? Well, am I trying to scare you into sexual purity? Uh in a sense, yes. And in a sense, no, I know I can't Yes, because this passage and there's many others It's very clearly warning readers of the deadly danger of sexual immorality, and it's be it's there as a way of moving you To purity and holiness. The point of this warning in the life of a Christian is to shock you, sober you, remind you of the deadly course that it sets you on when you begin to dabble in this way. so that you would stay far from it. And that's a good thing. But in another sense, no, there's no way that I can scare you into purity I'm well aware of that. Warnings and threats have a part to play in the pursuit of holiness But they're only one motivation, and I don't think it's the primary motivation, and it's not even the only motivation in this passage. So when I say point number three, there is a surprising motivation in this passage. It's not you're gonna go to hell if you keep on persisting in sexual sin. You need to hear that. That is God's word to you. But there's another motivation here, and it surprised me. It's the motivation of, it's going to sound very unremarkable when I say it, propriety. Propriety? Yes? Propriety. The definition of propriety, totally unhelpful, when it says the quality or state of being proper. Why do they do that? Or suitable. Appropriateness. The motivation that Paul gives here, that he really wants lively in your hearts, Christians, is the appropriateness. the propriety of living a holy life. It's mentioned twice in these verses. Did you catch it? Look again at verse 3. But sexual immorality and all impurity or covetousness must not even be named among you here it is as is proper among saints and no filthiness, nor foolish talk, nor crude joking, which are out of place. Not appropriate, not fitting, but instead, he says, let there be thanksgiving Uh we were living in the Philadelphia area, obviously just until just recently. So I remember back in February of 2019 when uh Washington Nationals superstar Bryce Harper left the Nationals to go to the Philadelphia Phillies and he signed a 13-year $330 million contract with the Phillies He is one of the most beloved uh sports figures, I think, in Philadelphia sports history because of how committed he's been to the city, even though they've come up short in the postseason for a number of years in a row now. But it would be unfitting, don't you think? Having signed a 13-year, $330 million contract to change his team from the Nationals to the Phillies, it would be unfitting. It would be improper, out of place If Bryce Harper was to show up at spring training that spring for the Phillies wearing a nationals ball cap I think he probably would have gotten some criticism or pushback. Hey, what that's not, what are you doing? That's out of place. You've changed teams. You've got a new allegiance now. And that's what Paul is saying here to the Ephesians and to every Christian who has experienced this dead-to-life transformation that we call the new birth, being born again. Once we were sons of disobedience. Chapter 2 says, We were dead in our sins, living in sinful desire, and walking in the ways of this world, and following the prince of the air, the devil. We were like children of wrath, sons of disobedience. But that's all changed for the Christian. Now in Christ Jesus, that old self, that former manner of life that was a son of disobedience, that one's dead now. And we now have become saints. We have become holy ones, those devoted to God and His pleasure and His service. We've been chosen before the foundation of the world for such a destiny. That's Ephesians 1:4. God shows us in Christ before the foundation of the world that we should be holy and blameless and above reproach before Him. When you hear that, just a little Greek language. When you hear the word holy or the word saint or the word sanctify, you're hearing the same basic Greek word. It's just a noun and an adjective and a verb, but it's the same word. God chose a people before the foundation of the world that they should be holy and blameless before him. And in time, Jesus Christ loved us and died for us. He took our sins upon himself to sanctify us, Paul will say in Ephesians chapter 5, to make us saints And we have been sealed with the Holy Spirit, who is the guarantee of our inheritance, until we acquire possession of it. So Paul has for chapters here recounted for the Ephesians and grounded them in their new identity as beloved children of God. as those sanctified by the Lord Jesus, as those indwelt by the Holy Spirit. And yes, in two verses he gives them a strong warning. You better not have this kind of life associated with you or you're going to go to hell But he has drenched this whole letter in. Think of the generous God who has lavished you with spiritual blessing. Now live like that. Live like that, people 2,000 years ago, Jesus Christ came into the world. He left the eternal ecstasies of Trinitarian bliss. That the greatest pleasures of this life are only a dim reflection of he left the pleasures of heaven to offer up his own life as a sacrifice for all of our sins, all of our sexual sins and every other sin. And all of us who receive Christ's mercy, who see him hanging there upon that cross and see, this is my only way To peace with God. I'm turning away from my old life and I'm receiving Jesus to all who receive Him. He transfers us from being a child of wrath to being children of God. Hell-deserving sinners that we were, condemned and unclean, now made saints, now made holy ones, sealed for the day of redemption. And so thanksgiving is what is proper among the saints. That's another layer of this surprising motivation. He says, I mean, who thinks in the battle against sin, I uh in the battle against sexual sin, gratitude is a key weapon in my armory. We got accountability groups and we got covenant eyes and we got all kinds and that's important stuff. Don't disparage in that stuff. Gratitude The heart response to God when we have come to believe that He is not against us, but He's for us. He is faithful, He is generous, He is wise, He is a loving provider, He withholds nothing good. He who did not spare his own son but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things And so there's thankfulness born in the heart instead of covetousness as we linger upon God and all that He's done for us in Christ. And it's through that gratitude that that Sexual sin and the covetousness that arouses sexual sin is defeated, is broken. He breaks the power of canceled sin It's very hard. Test yourselves in this. Very hard to sing. His mercy is more. He welcomes the weakest, the vilest, and the poor. Our sins, they are many. His mercy is more. To sing that meaningfully. to have gratitude in our hearts for that reality and then go home and pull up something illicit on your device to gratify yourself. That doesn't fit. So you cultivate gratitude by looking steadily to Jesus and all that he's done to make you a saint. That's what's proper. That's the source. and motivation of our sexual wholeness. In Christ, there is freedom right now, today, for all those who have trusted in Jesus, there is freedom from the guilt of sin. There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. There is freedom from the tyranny of sin. We are no longer slaves to sin. We can, as those brought from death to life, we can present our members to God as instruments of righteousness. And one day, on the last day, we will be free altogether from the very presence of sin. I was in the crying room before the serv uh during Sunday school because I I was just I needed to feel like I needed to look over my notes for a few minutes. I'd never been in that room before. And there's this little frame on the wall. Have you seen this, ladies? It says, the good old days. Are still to come. I thought that's very profound. The good old days. I don't know what is meant by it, but I'm thinking in my head, the good old days, the days in of Eden. Before sin came into the world, when we were whole and righteous and walking with God in the cool of the day. Those good old days, they're still to come. A new heavens and a new earth in which righteousness dwells. In Christ Sexually broken people and every other kind of broken people are free indeed. If the sun sets you free, you are free indeed And and all of us, all of us, regardless of our what's today called our sexual, our orientation or our gender identity, all of us are sexually broken. We have all been sexually broken because of the fall of mankind. We all have thoughts and desires that we don't choose, that seem to just arise out of nowhere, that are perverse and that are dishonoring to God and others Of which, if we have the Holy Spirit, we feel disgusted by and we long to have removed from us entirely. We hunger and thirst for righteousness. But in Christ, Those struggles no longer define who we are. If the sun has set you free, you are free indeed. Not free to live any way you want. That's the way our culture understands freedom, which is really no freedom at all, but free to live in accord with your creator and redeemer's wise and good and loving design. We still must, in this life, we still must deny ourselves and take up our cross to follow Jesus, though the way is hard that leads to life. It is still true that though the way is hard, and though we still struggle to deny ourselves and crucify the flesh, which wars against our spirit, the weary and burdened can always come to Jesus and find rest for their souls. If you are a Christian, and you could become one today if you're not. Please feel free to speak to me afterwards if you would like to become a Christian, but you're not sure what that would mean or how to do that. If you're a Christian, you are a beloved child of God. You are a part of the pure, beautiful bride of Christ, and you are the dwelling place of God's own Holy Spirit. That's what we are as a church. We are cleansed, washed, justified objects of wrath who've now become dearly loved, spirit-empowered saints. battling together to walk in purity with all of our genetically, hormonally, environmentally disorder desires that still entice each of us, but who are struggling with all of his energy that he powerfully works within us. to glorify him in all that we do. That is what it means for us to be a congregation committed to one another, joined to one another, accountable together, committed to, teaching and encouraging and admonish one another every day. As long as it is called today that we would not be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin. That's the manner of life that is proper among God's saints. So, brothers and sisters of Chevrolet Baptist Church, let's remember who we are And let's devote ourselves anew to living like it. Heavenly Father, we thank you for the newness of life that Jesus gives. We thank you that those whom the Sun sets free are free indeed. We pray that you would help us to believe that And that you would help us to live consistently, appropriately, fittingly in light of it. We ask for all of this in Jesus' name. Amen