Good morning again. Uh you can go ahead and open up in your Bibles to Ephesians chapter four. Ephesians chapter 4, if you're using one of the Bibles we have provided around you, that's on page 977 of those Bibles. We sang an extra song. It is my aspiration to make up that time. With a three to four minutes shorter sermon. Not that any of you are timing it, except me maybe. Ephesians 4 Uh we're continuing our study of Paul's letter to the Ephesians. Last week we reached a big turning point in the letter. As Paul moved from the indicative, the statements of what God has done for us in Christ, into the imperatives, what God calls us to do, how he calls us to live in response to the salvation that God has given. And we're going to continue. Thinking about that life that God has called us to as we continue in Ephesians 4 this morning. I'm going to read verses 1 through 3 of Ephesians chapter 4. I, therefore, a prisoner for the Lord, urge you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you have been called With all humility and gentleness, with patience, bearing with one another in love, eager to maintain the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace This is God's word, brothers and sisters. Thanks be to God. Let's pray and ask for His help. Heavenly Father, we pray in words that have been prayed by Christians and churches for centuries what we know not. We pray that you would teach us what we have not, give us. What we are not, make us. For the sake of your Son and our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. I could be proven wrong. I'm willing to be proven wrong if you want to address me after the service, not in the middle of the service. But It's my guess that I know something about all of you in this room. Even though I haven't actually met all of you in this room, I think I know something about you all. You're all hungry for glory. Nobody in this room, this is my contention, this is my guess. We can talk about it afterwards if you would like. Nobody in this room is hoping. that their life would in the end accomplish nothing of value at all. Nobody here, I don't think, wants to be a zero When it's all said and done. We may be desirous of glory in a whole bunch of different ways. Uh we maybe want to write the next big hit that's going to blow up Spotify or have a place on the Holly Hollywood Walk of Fame. Or have our name in the Guinness Book of World Records, or maybe be the uh MVP of the Super Bowl. Well, whatever it might be, you could maybe fill in your own blank. I'm sure I didn't cover everybody there, but I think you want some kind of glory. And while that longing for glory certainly can be, and in our sinful nature, it is a self-centered and thus destructive desire I think it's important that we remember that the yearning for glory is actually a yearning that is given by God. It is from God. The Apostle Peter, in writing to suffering Christians in the first century, reminded them that after they had suffered for a little while, the eternal God would call them into his own glory. Paul, whose letters we're or whose writings we're studying in the book of Ephesians, Paul wrote in his letter to the Corinthian church. That God's secret and hidden wisdom, by which he meant that that mystery that had been hidden, the good news of our Lord Jesus, he said, God's secret and hidden wisdom was decreed before the ages For our glory. Like, is that a misprint in the Bible? 1 Corinthians 2. 7. You can look it up. I'm pretty sure in your Bible, just like mine, it says, for our glory. The culmination of God's work in his people's lives, as it is reported in Romans 8, great uh golden chain of salvation. From predestination before the foundation of the world, and it culminates in those whom he justified, he also glorified. God is not out to make his people mediocre. He's out to make us Spectacularly glorious, radiant as the sun shining in full strength. Jesus Himself said that in Matthew 13, verse 43. Or to say this another way, God is eager to make his people into the image of his son, Jesus. We all with unveiled face, the Apostle Paul writes to the Corinthians, we all with unveiled face, beholding the glory of the Lord. Are being transformed into the same image from one degree of glory to another. This comes from the Lord, who is the Spirit. This is the glory that we were created for and that we were redeemed for. A glory greater than we could conceive or imagine. That's why, right after you're talking about that secret wisdom hidden and decreed for our glory, Paul says, What no eye has seen, no ear has heard, the heart of man has not imagined what God has prepared for those who love him. God is after your glory. That is, your conformity to the image of his son. And I'm beginning here because I I want to hopefully drill into our hearts as we move Through the rest of Ephesians. I can't drill it into your heart, but I can pray that the Holy Spirit would do it, and I am praying that He will. I want you to be clear that as we move from Ephesians 1 through 3 into Ephesians 4 through 6. We're not moving from glory to drudgery. We're not moving from grace to works. I think that would be a simplistic way of thinking about this transition that happens. We're moving from the glory and the grace of what God has done for his people in Christ. And we're moving into the glory and the grace of what he is continuing to do in the lives of his people through Christ by his empowering presence in our lives. In his letter to Titus, Paul says that the grace of God that brings salvation has appeared to all, training us. That grace is training us. To renounce ungodliness and worldly passions and to live self-controlled, upright, and godly lives in the present age That's what all this worthy walk stuff is about. And I want to make sure that we're clear. I'm sure this is not the last time I'm going to tell you that in this series through Ephesians. As we start talking about all the imperatives, all the commandments, the exhortations, this is not to be viewed. as God cracking a whip and telling you, all right, I've done a lot of great things for you. Now it's time for you to do your part and get to work. No, no. He is leading you in Ephesians four and five and six to glory. So in this short passage that I just read a few minutes ago, I want us to observe the character of a worthy walk. And then I want to draw two conclusions from that character sketch about the worthy walk. And then lastly, I want to consider the calling, which empowers That worthy walk. If you didn't catch all that note takers, that's okay. I'll try to say those again as we're moving, but you can remember them in the carefully alliterated words, character, conclusions, and calling. I urge you, Paul says, to walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you've been called, and then Paul goes on to begin to sketch out the characteristics, the mark, the marks of that worthy walk. And really thinking about these virtues that are listed there in verse 2 and 3, it's really not like studying astrophysics, though I know that wouldn't be a big deal to some of you here. This is not astrophysics. You know, these words are somewhat self-evident and you can understand them, but it's worth thinking about a little bit. What is this worthy walk? It is a walk with all humility and gentleness Apparently that's a package deal, all humility and gentleness. That that little word with there is attaching itself to both of those virtues, and then it's followed again by the word with before the word patience. I think that's intending to communicate to us that that the humility and the gentleness go together. And it's not just a little bit of that that we're called to, but all humility and gentleness. We're not just looking to scrape by here with just a little bit of humility and gentleness. Just maybe barely get a touch of it. Now a touch will not suffice to walk worthily of the calling to which we've been called. It's to be carried out with all. humility and gentleness. I personally can't hear the word gentle without thinking that this was uh the de facto name of our second daughter during the first year of her life. Hallie, I forgot to ask you if I could mention this. I did ask Felicity this morning. Sorry. Can I ask can I mention this how Yeah, she's she's excited. Um When Felicity was born, we told Halley so often during that first year, Hallie, be gentle, be gentle, be gentle We said that so much that she began to think that Felicity's name actually was gentle. So she would she would just want to see Felicity. She said, Jedja? Jedja? Judja? That was the way she called. That was her name But I think that little anecdote teaches us something about the meaning of the word. Gentleness is a mildness in dealing with other people, a tender carefulness that uses its strength. Moderately, knowing that the human soul, not just that little delicate newborn, but the human soul is valuable and delicate And that posture of gentleness towards others roots itself in humility. What has been said, one Bible dictionary calls it the quality of not being overly impressed by a sense of one's self-importance. So if we're feeling really self-important and like we're a really big deal, it's gonna be hard for us to walk in gentleness towards others. But we're to walk this walk with all humility and gentleness. We're to do it with patience, Paul says, bearing with one another in love If you like that old King James Bible, it says there for the word patient or patience, it says long-suffering Making allowance, in other words, for the shortcomings of others, and enduring wrong rather than flying into a rage. In impatience, we're called to bear with one another. Or that word where it says bearing with one another, that word could be translated enduring one another. or tolerating one another. Paul uses this same word in his letter, his second letter to the Thessalonians. He's commending them for their perseverance and their steadfastness in the midst of suffering. He says, We boast about you in the churches of God for your steadfastness and faith in all your persecutions. And in the afflictions that you are enduring. Except here in his letter to the Ephesians, it's not persecutions and afflictions. But it's each other that we're called to endure. And it's all being carried out, Paul says they're in love. Love is what binds everything together, according to Colossians 3. 15, in perfect harmony That disposition of the heart and all the outward expressions that flow from it that is eager and desirous of the best interests of another person, even when it's costly to ourselves. And this gentleness and this humility and this patience and this enduring of one another in love, it all serves the goal that Paul depicts there in verse 3. Eager to maintain, or I we could say being eager to maintain. This word eager is actually a verb, it's an action word. Being eager to maintain the unity of the spirit in the bond of peace. The characteristics described there in verse two show us what the vision of verse three looks like in daily practice. And we'll talk a little bit more about that unity of the Spirit as we continue on in these verses, Lord willing, next week But for now, I just want you to notice that word. I mentioned it, eager, being eager. It means to take pains or to make every effort. To strive to be diligent. It's often used in Paul's writings, and it's translated this way: do your best. So it's hard work. And it's deeply urgent work. That's what the word eager is communicating. Walk worthily of the calling to which you've been called with all humility and gentleness, with patience. Bearing with one another in love, eager, being eager, being diligent to maintain the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. Now that's a very brief sketch. Certainly we could think about it more. But I think just what I've said leads me, at least, as I studied this, as I thought about these verses, it leads me to two conclusions It's not the conclusion of the sermon. Okay, we're not there yet. I'm sorry. But two conclusions about this worthy walk and how it impacts our life together as a church. Conclusion number one would be this. A worthy walk is deeply relational. Walking worthily of the Lord Is deeply relational. What what do we learn from the fact that after tracing out all those riches of God's glorious work of salvation in chapters one through three that when Paul begins to sketch what it looks like to live in light of, to live worthily of such a great salvation, the bullseye of his focus Is how we relate to each other in the body of Christ. He doesn't turn his. I wonder what you would think when you think. What does it mean to walk worthy of the Lord? I wonder if we might first think about It's about loving the scriptures and maybe memorizing God's Word or having really long extended hours of prayer in the prayer closet or Seeing signs and wonders or having really good doctrine or strong emotions during uh corporate worship Maybe it's about winning the culture war or having the courage to tell other people about Jesus Well those are all fine things. I mean I'd maybe wanna we should probably talk about winning the culture war and maybe sketch that out. But they're those are all fine things But what Paul presses on immediately when he begins to think about this worthy walk is that it's about our relationships with our brothers and sisters. It's the one-anothering there That it describes in verse 3. I used to work, when I was a young Christian, I used to work at a Christian bookstore And uh in that bookstore, there there was a very large section. It was by far the biggest section in the bookstore that was labeled just generally Christian living. And then farther down in the store, there was like one half a shelf that was titled Church slash ministry. And I didn't really think anything of that at the time, but it I do wonder about it now, like why were those sections separated? Ephesians 4, 1, walk worthily of the calling to which you've been called, is followed immediately by verses 2 and 3. With all humility and gentleness and patience and bearing with one another, and eagerly maintaining the unity of the spirit in the bond of peace. It seems to be that from Ephesians four, one through three, that really Christian living and church life is not to be separated. It really can't be separated. When we're saved Or maybe to say it better in accord with this passage of Scripture, when we're called, we're called into a family. And love for that family is an inevitable evidence of having received that calling So the Apostle John writes in his, you know, he was the apostle of love. So titled. Not sure how he got that name exactly. I don't think he titled himself that way. John writes in his first letter, we know that we have passed out of death into life because we love the brothers Not because of how much doctrine was stored up. Not because someone could stand up here and recite the book of Ephesians from memory. We know we've passed from death to life because we love the brothers. It's this new desire to walk in the affectionate accountability of a local assembly of spirit-filled saints. This summertime here as this as the summer is wrapping up and we're getting into the new school year, it's a good time to just maybe evaluate your own priorities. I understand that uh we all have Different capacities in terms of our temperament or the time that we have available, geographical considerations play into this, seasons of life play into this. But this is a part of our family DNA. This is a part of the calling to which we've been called. If you're indifferent to These characteristics being expressed in community. I mean, you really can't practice gentleness or patience or forbearance with others without others I mean I'm super gentle and humble and patient and forgiving when I'm by myself in doing devotions. It's just like the rest of the time. That I have a need for these virtues. And so if you're indifferent to these virtues, being expressed in community, in fellowship with others. Well, I think Paul would say that you're not walking worthily of the calling to which you've been called. I think John might wonder if you've even passed out of death into life So it would be worth your considering this summer as we prepare for a new school year. How's your fellowship with God's people? Because the worthy walk is a relational walk. Does that mean recommitting to pray regularly for the members of this church through our member directory? gathering with us on Sunday afternoons once a month for prayer. Or maybe it means making sure that you're staying along. Not rushing out after the service is over, but sticking around and talking to people. Maybe it's uh joining a small group this fall. I'm sure Pastor Tony will be glad to talk with you about that. But this is part of what it means to walk worthily of the Lord. It's deeply, deeply relational. But let's be honest with each other. Conclusion number two, this worthy walk stuff is gonna be hard. That's a conclusion. That's the second conclusion I draw from thinking about these verses. Walking worthily of the Lord Looks like humility and gentleness and patiently bearing with others. And if I could slide, are your Bibles open? Yeah, Bibles open? Yeah, okay. Look at the end of the chapter. If we're to slide down to the end of chapter four, I think this is maybe a way that Paul is teasing out a little bit of what this enduring one another in love looks like. He says there in verse 31, getting rid of all bitterness and anger and malice that you might have towards one another, and instead of that putting on kindness and tender-hearted forgiveness. That's the life that's being commended. And we're to work hard at it. We're to make every effort to be striving, to be diligent, to walk this out. Which gives me the impression that you might not always feel these virtues spontaneously in you. They might not feel as though they're coming naturally to you. And the cost might sometimes feel like it's outweighing the benefits, but Paul says strive to live this out. And so the conclusion that I draw from that, it seems to suggest that church life, walking worthily of the calling to which we've been called, is going to be hard. The need for humility means that you're likely to bump into some people that you're tempted to look down upon Or maybe people who aren't as impressed with you as you are of yourself. The need for forbearance, for enduring each other. I mean, this is just such a word. We're called to endure each other. I have to be endured. That seems to imply, right, that you're going to be amongst people Christians. Who who irritate you, who rub you the wrong way, who've disappointed you or let you down, who aren't maybe progressing on the timetable that you've marked out for them. Imagine my my friend Valter Harrivan, who's a pastor up in Philadelphia, he he imagined this this way. I thought this was was thoughtful. He said, imagine talking to a friend who's not a part of this church and they're like, hey, how's how's things going at church? And you're like It's tough, man. It's been a slog. Like it's it's been a grind. Oh my goodness, what's going on? Like are you know everything okay? Is there some persecution or opposition? Like, oh no, no, nothing like that. It's like it's just the members I wonder if that friend would would say like, well, it sounds like maybe you should find another church. But Paul's saying this is where the worthy walk starts. This is like worthy walking num 101. It's hard. People need to be endured. Things are tough. People are sinning against you. This is how we walk worthily, saints. That seems to be communicating to me that this worthy walk is going to be hard And yet, God means for this messy experience of trying to live with each other and love hard and frustrating people, that's God's workroom where he's fashioning us for the glory of imaging Jesus. If walking in a manner worthy of the calling to which you've been called is humility and gentleness and patience, How are you gonna grow in those traits? How will you even see your need for those traits exposed without difficult people who step on your toes and sometimes fail to meet your expectations? See, sometimes what I've found happens though, is that when things do start to get messy Just at the point where we're getting in our relationships to the need for some of these virtues, I've seen this happen in marriages, sadly. I've seen it happen in uh roommate relationships, seen it happen with small groups, seen it happen with churches Where just where we're having some difficulties and the need for these kind of virtues that Paul says are worthy of the walk to which we've been called, just at that point, people tend to drop the relationship. They move on. Rather than eagerly maintain unity, people quietly learn to manage disunity. And I wonder how much spiritual growth is lost, how much glory is lost. For the individual who is being conformed to the likeness of Jesus, and for the body itself that needs all the members of the body working to build each other up in love, how much glory, how much imaging of Jesus is lost when Instead of checking out, that person says, hey, there's some things that are not going well. There's some things that need to change. There's some things that you did that I I think I need to bring to your attention. Instead of that, we just check out. But what if we actually persevere? What if we said this needs to change and I'm not going anywhere, let's see this through. When we fail to do that, we're actually stunting our own glory In the best sense of the word. Do you understand what I'm saying at this point? This is not about glory to me, but the glory that God has for you of making you like Jesus, we miss out when difficulties lead us to check out. Are there good reasons to move on from a small group? Even there may be at times good reasons to move on from a marriage if there's abuse, there's adultery. Does that mean that there's never any good reason to move away from a marriage or a small group of church? No, I'm not. Please don't misunderstand me saying that. Sometimes there are good and needed reasons for those kinds of things But there's also bad reasons that flow from a lack of character and a lack of desire for this worthy walk that Paul says is just part of what it means to follow Christ. So, how are you doing this morning, brother and sister Christian? Where are you at with this worthy walk? This is important for us to reflect on. I've been reflecting on it all week. And it's interesting how, as I've been reflecting on these words all week, God has provided opportunities for me either to lean into these characteristics of a worthy walk or push back against them. And I'm pretty confident, though I don't think anybody really wants to raise their hand on this matter right now. I'm pretty confident that I've given others some occasion to either lean into these virtues or push away from them. That's life in the church. It's not all that's not all there is. We know wonderfully that I don't want to be overly pessimistic and negative. There's wonderful things that we experience and enjoy together, but this is part of what it means to be the church together until the day of Christ. So how is your walk going? How is your walk, beloved? Do people find you merciless and fault-finding and critical and self-important and condemning and short-fused Don't just evaluate yourself. I would encourage you to ask someone that question. Use some of those words or others that you might think of. Ask someone this week. Men, particularly those here who are husbands and fathers. You should ask your wife that this week. Wives, if you in any way would be fearful of answering such a question for fear of what might what you might get, that's not okay So please, if you're concerned about what might happen if you were to pose that question to your husband, please come speak with an elder. That's not normal. And we would like to help you if that's how you're feeling. These are some virtues to be praying for. Lord, give me humility. Give me gentleness. Give me patience. Tell me to endure others in love. Help me to be eager and zealous and diligent in maintaining unity. But I do want you to understand something. And I said this last week. I'm preaching this sermon, and I'm preaching Ephesians 4, 5, and 6 with the conviction that many of you are walking worthily of the calling to which you've been called. Even as we still have need, and we'll get to this later in Ephesians 4, even as we still have need to be putting off some of the old self and putting on some of the new self We are not finished products, but real change and a worthy walk really is possible. That was like one of the big points of the sermon last week. The point of these chapters, Ephesians 4, 5, and 6, is not just to continually be showing us how rotten we are It's to commend to us a way that we can live in joyful and grateful response to what God has done in our lives in Christ. And that leads us to our third observation from this passage. Let's consider the calling which empowers this worthy walk. Something that we need to remember as we work our way through these chapters is that while we gave attention to what Paul had written in chapters one through three, that was like some months ago for us. To the original readers who were receiving this letter, what Paul had written in Ephesians 1, 2, and 3 had been communicated to them just minutes earlier. It's most likely that this letter as it came from Paul would have just been read in the gathering of the church from beginning to end So when they heard Paul talk of walking worthily of a calling and of a love and of a bond of peace. They would not have had to try hard to remember what the preacher said a few months ago about any of those things. They would have remembered that Paul had prayed. That their eyes would be enlightened so that they might know the hope of his calling. And they would have remembered what he had said before that prayer about how all the spiritual blessings that they had in Christ had been lavished upon them Going back to their being chosen before the foundation of the world so that they might be holy and blameless before him. They would have remembered that about their calling. They would have remembered when they heard the words there, in love, enduring one another, in love. They would have remembered the prayer that Paul had just prayed for them, that they, chapter 3, verse 17, would be rooted and grounded in love. That love of Christ that surpasses knowledge in its breadth and length and height and depth, vast, unmeasured, boundless, free. They would have remembered that this calling came to them when they were dead in their trespasses and sins. Chapter 2, verse 1. Following after the course of this world and even Satan himself, and we're by nature children of wrath But it was at that time, when they were dead in their trespasses, that God called them, that God being rich in mercy, and because of the love with which he had loved them, even when they were dead, he made them alive. Such was their calling. Don't ever tire of hearing about how you were dead in sin and God made you alive. I cannot imagine that that young man, I'm just gonna use this one because you probably get tired of me mentioning Lazarus sometimes. That young man in Luke chapter 7 in the town of Nain, who was who was who was dead at the funeral, and the widow was crying. Because now she's lost her husband and she's lost her son too. And Jesus raised up that young man and restored him to it. I can't imagine that that young man or that mom ever got tired of thinking about that day when Jesus raised him up. Don't ever tire of hearing about how you were dead in your trespasses and sins and your guilt and condemnation, and God made you alive because of his great love. They would have remembered Paul mentioned the unity of the spirit. When he said the unity of the spirit in the bond of peace, they would have remembered that he had told them in chapter 2, verse 13. Now in Christ Jesus, you who once were far off, you've been brought near by the blood of Christ, for He Himself is our peace. They would have remembered That he made peace between them and God and between them Jews and them Gentiles. He made peace through the cross And that humbles when you when you remember all that, that humbles thou who wast rich Beyond all splendor, all for love's sake became poor. Thrones for a manger didst surrender. Sapphire paved courts For stable floor. That is, I believe, as the young people say it, that is fire. Do they still say that? Somebody say that? Well it's fire. I'm telling you that is fire. And it is biblical fire because Dave quoted this earlier in his prayer of praise. Jesus Though he was in the form of God, he did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped, but he emptied himself by taking the form of a servant Being born in the likeness of men and being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. Jesus humbled himself by bearing, by coming and suffering the agony of God's wrath against sin to save us. Not because of anything lovely that he saw in us or anything commendable or anything attractive. We were his enemies. We were dead in sin and following after the devil. But because of his own purpose and grace, when we were dead in our sins, Jesus came and he sought us and he bought us with the price of his blood and he made us his own. If you're here today and you've not become a Christian, you're not a Christian, this is the message of first importance that we have to give to you, to present to you. that you, though you have rebelled against God by seeking your own glory, and you deserve to be punished for that because of your pursuit of glory without him, that God is rich in love and sent Jesus to die on a cross So that whoever would turn from sin and rest and believe upon him would be saved and would be brought into his family forever. And we bid you, we urge you and invite you to come and believe upon him even today. Brothers and sisters, most of you, you've received this message, but you still need to be reminded of this calling. Because it is very hard to be self-important. Very hard to be harsh, very hard to be vindictive and demanding and impatient and aggressive when your hearts are dwelling richly in the gentleness of Jesus The gentleness that he showed you and continues to show us in our sinful pride, in our ways that we fall short of that worthy walk. We need to take we need to be a people take such long looks at who we were, at what we once were, and what Sin even still clings so closely to us, as the writer of Hebrews said it. Sin clings so closely. We need to remember long, steady gazes at what we were and what we still in some ways are. And how that mars our walking in this holy calling. And we need to take long, steady looks at the grace of Jesus and what he's done for us and continues to do for us. and how he continues to uphold us and bear with us patiently until we see humility and gentleness and patience and endurance in love and diligence to maintain the unity of the spirit It's then, it's as we're dwelling on the calling to which we've been called, all bought by the blood of Jesus. It's then that we find that his yoke is easy and his burden is light. It's then, when we're dwelling on the love of Christ, that we're most apt to sing: Thou who art love beyond all telling, make us what thou wouldst have us be. And he does make us what he would have us be. And he is making us what he would have us to be from one degree of glory to another as we look at Jesus, who is himself, gentle and lowly. And we look forward, even as we strain forward from one degree of glory to another, we look to that day when we are fully and forever like him because we will see him as he is. Kids. Glory is a big word. It's a fancy word. It's a word that's hard to explain what it means But you want glory. When you when you've ever anytime you've ever seen something beautiful like a beautiful sunset or a beautiful waterfall or maybe heard a really beautiful piece of music. Or even watch a sporting event and you saw some really great players doing some really amazing things. Anytime you see something great that sort of makes your heart sing. What you're seeing is glory. And I want you to know, kids, there's no glory like the glory of Jesus Because all those other beautiful things, they come and go. Sunset's beautiful for a few seconds and it's gone. Can't stay at the waterfall forever. But Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today and forever. His is the glory that you were made for Brothers and sisters, let's remember the calling to which we've been called. And in remembering, let us walk worthily of such a high and holy and blood-bought calling And you have but you have, okay. I'm gonna I I'm gonna try to be true to my promise here and I'm gonna move us towards the Lord's Supper. But please come back for next week's sermon because there's some things that I wanted to say here, particularly by way of commendation and encouragement to you. about the ways that I believe you have excelled in these virtues, but I'll say more about that. That's a little preview of commendation. Cliffhanger of commendation coming. But we gotta wrap this up now. I was introduced not long ago to an artist by the name of Tom Yendel. Did anybody know the know Tom Yendel's artwork? Hand raise? Anyone? Tom Yendel? Okay, that's helpful. Good. He's a painter and he's known for flower canvas paintings. And you know, I'm not really much of an art lover. I don't think anyone's ever accused me of being an art connoisseur So when I first saw some of his works, I was like, okay, I mean that's you know nice, fine. Something you would maybe see like, I don't know, in a hotel room that you were staying in or something. Didn't really have much appreciation for the details, the intricacy. But my thinking, my perspective on Tom Yandel's paintings changed dramatically. When I was told that Tom Yendel was born without arms and that he painted those paintings with his feet and his mouth What a depth of marveling and appreciation was evoked in me And whatever deficiencies I might have noticed with my not trained artistic eye would be just overwhelmed by the wonder and awe that such a work of art could be composed in such an amazing way. My brothers and sisters, God's word says Ephesians chapter 2 that we are God's workmanship. We are his masterpiece. And he wrote all that he wrote in the book of Ephesians so that we would grasp more, that we'd have a changed perspective of the glory and wonder of what he has given birth to in creating the church. A group of once alienated and estranged and hostile rebels, whom he has pardoned through the blood of his own divine son. and consecrated for the display of his glory as we love each other before the whole host of heaven that is watching It's that beauty of God's handiwork in Christ that He has called us as a church to protect and to proclaim. And even it's that glory that he is causing us to share in. As we learn to walk in humility and gentleness and patience, enduring one another in love, being eager to maintain the unity of the Spirit Would God help us to grant us to know that blessing more and more that He has commanded for those who dwell together in unity? Father, we pray that you would indeed help us to walk in love toward one another. We pray that you would help us to reflect on the great calling with which you have called us. Help us to never grow tired of being reminded of what you've done to save us. And would you help us to relate to each other in a way that is befitting of such a great and gracious calling to which you've called us? We ask this all in Jesus' name. Amen.