Show of hands here as we get started, a little audience participation right from the start. If you on a mobile device of yours have a playlist Would you just raise your hand? I think that's that's a good majority of you. You know what playlists are. If you don't have a playlist on your phone, maybe I hope you know what they are. Back in my day we called them a mixtape. You had to like, that's right, I'm I'm getting I'm I'm one of the older saints here of Chevrolet Baptist Church Uh you had to like record a song from the radio and kind of line them up on a cassette tape. That's how I rolled back in the day. Uh you're familiar with this concept of whether maybe it's for a road trip as our family was just on. We made a playlist for our drive up to Ocean City, New Jersey last week, or maybe for a workout Uh you want some songs that will spur you on, kind of fire you up as you are going through that activity, a long car ride or maybe an intense workout Certainly it can be done without songs to keep you going, but I know that I have found, and I think many others have found That there's strength and power to help pass the time or push through to the end in a set of songs that we've set aside to help us. And it's uh uh a kind of a heavenly playlist that we're going to pay a visit to this morning as we consider Psalm 134 together. You can open up in your Bibles to page 519. Well, actually that might not be your Bible, but if it's one of the Bibles that's around here provided for you, you'll find Psalm 134. on page 519. I was away most of this week, so we're not going to move through in our next portion of Ephesians 4. Hopefully we'll do that next Sunday, Lord willing. But uh Psalm 134 was on my heart and mind a lot as I was away. At the top of that psalm, you'll see an inscription there And that inscription is part of the psalm. It's not just put in by the editors of the English Standard Version of the Bible. It was there in the original. It says, you'll see there, a song of ascent. And it's generally agreed by upon by commentators that this term, which is on all 15 of the Psalms, beginning in Psalm 120 and ending with this one, Psalm 134, that they refer to uh the songs that pilgrims would sing on their way from the various parts of Israel as they would ascend up to Jerusalem. Jerusalem sat atop a mountain Known as Mount Zion. So no matter where you were in Israel, even if you happen to be traveling south, you would go up to Mount. And so these songs were sung by the pilgrims who would be traveling along the way to Jerusalem. Typically for one of the three great festivals that marked Israel's life together, the Passover, and then Pentecost, and then the Feast of Tabernacles or Booths. And so uh the journey from where people were traveling from, it could be long, it could be strenuous, it was often filled with uh dangers and troubles. And so these were songs that were given by God to the people of Israel to praise God for his faithfulness and his goodness to them. and to quiet the anxious fears that they might have had as they were on their journey, giving them hope and encouragement and stability that as they made this long journey, they would, with God's help, arrive safely at their destination. You could think of Psalms 120 to 134 as the pilgrim's playlist. Come on, come on to that, come on. I'll say more about that later. And we need that kind of a playlist, beloved. Uh not for our pilgrimage to the earthly city of Jerusalem. I know some people like to visit there, but for our pilgrimage to our true and eternal heavenly home, the city of Zion. The New Jerusalem. I've been thinking a lot about Jesus' Sermon on the Mount lately, Matthew 5, 6, and 7. And it's interesting that when Jesus gives the what we might call the invitation, Or the altar call in his most famous sermon, again, we call it the Sermon on the Mount. Jesus basically, his invitation was, uh, come through me. The gate is narrow and the way is hard. His invitation is like, hey, come follow me, it's gonna be hard. And yet, as long and as hard as the way is, Jesus encouraged his disciples to follow him on that way because it is the way that leads to life. So the Word of God speaks of us, and this is true in both Old Testament and New Testament, it speaks of his people as sojourners. as exiles, longing for our heavenly homeland where our true citizenship lies. And the Lord, in his kindness, knowing the longing that we would experience, knowing the weariness that we would experience, weariness perhaps again that many of us have known even this past week in light of current events. The Lord knew that He we'd need some songs to sing as we made that journey to the New Jerusalem. And Psalm 134, he said, why are you starting at the end? I don't know, that's just the one that was on my heart, beloved. I hope you'll see why. I almost preached this sermon, not in my notes, but I almost preached this sermon last October when I came down here to give my uh candidating sermon. I've been thinking about this psalm and you for about a year now And so I hope it's an encouragement to you. It's the last of the Psalms of Ascent. And in this last psalm, it's a unique one because we see here that the pilgrimage to Jerusalem is complete, actually. And the pilgrims have arrived in Jerusalem, and they've been dwelling in the house of the Lord, so to speak, on Mount Zion. Yet their time in Zion needs to come to an end. They don't live there, and so they must go back to their homes until uh the next festival bids them to make their journey once again. And so we see in this psalm, I'm gonna read it here in a minute, but what we're gonna see in this psalm is we see the pilgrims as they're leaving Jerusalem getting ready to go back to their homes, they're addressing the servants of the Lord, who are in that context the priests and the attendants. Serving in the worship in the temple, they address the servants, and then in turn, they're sent on their way with a blessing, a benediction from the Lord's servants. And the key note of this psalm is blessing. It's a short psalm, three verses, and in all three verses we see this language of blessing. As the pilgrims have been in the holy city of God, Mount Zion, and as they now prepare to return to the challenges of their daily lives, the impression that's been left on their souls is one of blessing. So let's consider this psalm together. I'm going to read it, then I'm going to pray for the Lord's help, and we will uh consider its instruction for us together. Here Psalm 134, a song of ascent Come, bless the Lord, all you servants of the Lord, who stand by night in the house of the Lord. Lift up your hands to the holy place and bless the Lord. May the Lord bless you from Zion, he who made heaven and earth. This is God's word, brothers and sisters. Thanks be to God. Let's pray and ask for his help. Heavenly Father, we thank you for the opportunity that we have to gather together to open up your word. Not every person on this planet, not every Christian on this planet right now can just open up the Bible and read your word. We thank you that we can do that. We thank you that we can think about it together. Pray that you would instruct us, that you would encourage us. That you would help us to know the blessings that are ours in Christ, and that you would help us to be a blessing to others in the name of Christ. We ask for all of this in His great and mighty name. Amen. To help us think about this song of blessing, I want to draw your attention to two observations. We see in this passage in verses 1 and 2 that the servants of the Lord are called to bless the Lord Servants of the Lord are called to bless the Lord. And then we see in verse 3, the Lord blesses each of his servants from Zion. The Lord blesses each of his servants from Zion. So, observation number one: the servants of the Lord are called to bless the Lord. Come is the first word of the psalm. Or behold. It's a call to attention. And it's a call particularly here to the servants of the Lord. I alluded to this earlier, but in the first context, that was a reference to the guards and the attendants and priests who were engaged in ministry within the temple, even by night, it says there in verse 1, who stand by night. So even before Israel's temple was completed We're told in Deuteronomy that the Lord set apart, this is Deuteronomy 10, verse 8, the Lord set apart the tribe of Levi. to carry the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord, to stand before the Lord, to minister to Him and to bless in His name to this day. And that's what these Levites were doing in the temple of the Lord as the pilgrims would journey there to Mount Zion. They were standing every morning. This is 1 Chronicles chapter 23, standing every morning thanking and praising the Lord, and likewise at evening, and whenever burnt offerings were offered to the Lord on feast days. So the reference here in Psalm 134 to the servants of the Lord is what we might refer to today as the clergy, those quote unquote in the ministry. The pilgrims who've made their journey to Zion have benefited from the labor of those ministering in the house of the Lord, and now upon their return home. They see the night attendants continuing in their labors, and they're compelled to urge and exhort and encourage them to carry on the good work that they are engaged in. Look, you servants of the Lord, bless the Lord. Do it with with humble holy hearts. Lift your hands up It's not a sin to lift your hands up in the Lord and give praise to the Lord. Just want to make that clear. I'm not going to command that you all raise your hands when we praise the Lord, but let nobody in this building ever look sideways at somebody for raising up their hands and blessing the Lord. It's okay to do that, Saints. More than okay. You don't have to do it But it says here, raise your hands in holiness, in reverence, in humility, in submission. Lift up your hands. Don't lose sight. Servants of the Lord, of what you're doing. Don't just go through the motions. Don't fall asleep on the job. What you're doing is important. It's of eternal importance. So put your heart into it and bless the Lord. Give him the praise that he is due. That's what it means to bless. The Lord. It means to acknowledge Him, to give thanks to Him and praise to Him as the benevolent blesser of all that we have. We bless him by recognizing his blessings and praising him as the fountain of every blessing. And that's what the people of God, that's what these departing pilgrims are summoning the ministers of God. To do who will continue to stand in attendance to God's word and worship, even as these pilgrims return to their daily lives. Come, you servants of the Lord, bless the Lord. Don't allow being in ministry to become a merely professional perfunctory thing Not just punching out tasks on a to-do list, but let your service to the Lord be of pure and sincere worship. And there is something for us here to learn from that. Perhaps you're wondering at this point, this is all well and good for the people of Israel 3,000 years ago, but what in the world does that have to do with my life? We're not Israelites. We don't have Levites engaging in temple service. We're not making pilgrimage to Jerusalem. But even though there are not priests engaged in the same kind of work that was happening back then, praise God, we know that Jesus is the final, the great, perfect high priest. Who has once for all made a sacrifice for sins by which we can all freely draw near to God, we know Knowing Jesus, we know that Jesus has himself authorized that some would give themselves wholly to the work of upbuilding God's temple, that is his church. Specifically, they're called in the New Testament pastors or elders. In God's providence, next Sunday, Lord willing, when we return to Ephesians 4, we'll talk about Jesus giving the church pastors and teachers. And it is possible to be in ministry, to be serving regularly in the house of the Lord, as it were. But to lose the glow and the passion of praise in your own heart, even as you're busy serving other people. Here's how one pastor that I know of uh put it to his congregation a few years back in announcing his resignation from ministry. This brother did not disqualify himself from ministry in any way. He still remained as a member of this church, but he just was not going to continue. As a minister, as a pastor, here's what he said to his congregation. He was speaking about 1 Peter chapter 5, which speaks of shepherding the flock of God willingly and eagerly. Not under compulsion. He said, This verse has resonated in my soul for quite some time now, for while I certainly love the church dearly and enjoy serving with the other elders. The last two and a half years has taken a considerable toll on me and my family. In the midst of it, I found myself wrestling with my own low affections for the Lord. And an increasing lack of delight in much of the work of pastoral ministry. And it can be that way, beloved, for a lot of pastors. I can certainly say that in my time as a pastor, and I'm not talking about just as a pastor of Chevrolet Baptist Church, but for the decade and a half that I've been in pastoral ministry, I know I've experienced some of that myself. And so I hope you can see what a valuable ministry it is to the ministers when the people of God who have benefited from the labors of the ministers exhort and encourage their ministers to keep on blessing the Lord. To tell them, God is worthy, Pastor, and your labors matter, Pastor, so keep on blessing his great and holy name. It can sound like this. This is a text message that I received randomly from a member of this church on Friday morning. Good morning, brother. Praying that the Lord would give you wisdom about how to lead our church toward more of a spirit-filled heavenly life in the here now. And how to help us move beyond petty quarrels, but instead embody and give witness to Christ's coming reign such that that becomes the thing everyone wants to talk about. I'm grateful for you. It can come in the form of a message that I received this morning from another member of this church who had clearly spent some time reflecting on the sermon passage, Psalm 134. And encouraged me that they were praying that the Lord would use me to bless the Lord and that He would, that we all would be encouraged to bless the Lord in response to his blessing of us. And such exhortations and such encouragements, they do put wind in the sails of a pastor's soul. I think they express the posture that Christians ought to have uh towards their leaders that is commended in 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, when uh the Apostle Paul says that we're to respect those who labor among us and are over us in the Lord, and to esteem them very highly in love because of their work. I think that's an application. I think this is an application of the principle here that the people of the Lord urge and exhorts the servants of the Lord to keep on blessing the Lord. I I frankly I decided not to preach this a year ago because I thought that would be awkward if I was to say all that, coming into candidate for to be a pastor here. But I can just say to you now after Uh the last nine months, y'all have been a delight in this regard. You have been super encouraging. I this is not an admonishing word at all This is an opportunity, though, for us as we, as it says in 1 Thessalonians 4, as you've excelled, as you've given God glory, and as you please God with your life, do so more and more. Because that ministry matters. But this is a ministry that matters far more than just to pastors. We can do it for all kinds of other ministry that takes place in this church, right? Because there's a whole lot of ministry that takes place, not by the ministers, the pastors of the church. The the ensemble that comes up here and leads us in song. They do it with such skill week in and week out that we may forget, and I don't want you to forget. That it's not easy to come up here and publicly praise the Lord. Because the people who come up here, I mean, I don't want to speak for the team that was up here this morning, but it Because it's your turn to serve does not mean that your heart is brimming with joy in the Lord that morning or that weekend. But when you stand up there, you feel like you've got to be praising the Lord. I mean you are praising the Lord, but if there's a temptation to sort of put on a show. And so these music ministers who have served us even this morning, they too can benefit from that encouragement Whether it's before this the gathering to encourage them or after the gathering to remind them that their ministry matters. That's true for those who uh lead the service and those who participate in various prayers or or who teach Sunday school or who care for our children in the nurseries and in the Sunday school classes for them or those who help with sound, the greeters, all the deacons and all their ministry. All of them need this encouragement. Keep blessing the Lord Your ministry matters, brothers and sisters. Your labors before the King of glory matter. So keep up the good work in the strength that he supplies And that's true even more broadly for every single saint. And when I say saint, you understand I mean Christian. Every single Christian who has been called to ministry by virtue of being rescued from our sins and brought into Christ's service. That's what we heard from our scripture reading in 1 Peter 2. Right? As you come to him, Peter said, as you come to Jesus, you yourselves, and he's just writing to quote-unquote ordinary Christians. As we come to him, we're being built up as a spiritual house to be a holy priesthood, to offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. I mean, this may be of all the 10,000 plus reasons we have to bless the Lord. I think this is reason number one that when you and I had the audacity to think that we could be our own God. When we were committed above all else to our own praise, when he had every right to kill us all eternally. Instead, when we were sinners, God sent his son Jesus to die on our behalf. He lived the perfect life of joyful praise and obedience to God that we've not lived And he completed that life of obedience by dying on the cross, so that we, though we deserved to be punished for our sins forever, so that we could have life in his name, that we could be reunited with our Maker through Faith through faith alone, trusting in Jesus, and so that he would indwell us with his own spirit, so that we could be his servants, that we could have the joyful status of servants of the risen Christ. Devoted to strengthening and upbuilding and protecting his holy temple on earth, which is the church So that is true if you're here this morning and you're a Christian, this call, this exhortation is to you. Come, you servants of the Lord, and bless the Lord. All of us need to be exhorted in such a way. And as we serve and as we labor for him, we really do need those encouragements because we can grow weary along the way, can we not? We can grow cold and we can lose heart in our service to the Lord Moms, can you do you find that that can happen sometimes in all the diapers? And all the discipline and all the laundry and all the meals. It just gets wearying and tiring. And you need someone, maybe your husband. Husbands, this is a part of your work of caring for your wives, but we need the encouragement of others. Keep on blessing the Lord. The ministry of moms is a joyful ministry. It's a ministry. It's a service to the Lord. We need that in our homes. We need that in our workplaces. We need that kind of encouragement all the time. And so it's good. I mean, this is why we gather for worship. This is why we come together each Lord's day. Kids, kids, do you, I mean, do you know why it is that we do this every week? Why do we come to church? Now we come to church to worship God. We come to worship Him, but that's not the only thing that the Bible says about why we do this thing that we call church every week. So in Hebrews chapter 10, kids, I'm still talking to you kids, if there's one passage in the Bible that is a really important passage for you to know that is why we go to church every Sunday, it may be Hebrews 10, verses 24 and 25. Hebrews 10 24 says, let us consider how to stir up one another to love and good works, not neglecting to meet together as is the habit of some. but encouraging one another and all the more as you see the day drawing near. What we're intended to do when we gather, yes, we are we are here to praise God. We have every reason in every season to praise the Lord. But we're also here to have one big encouragement party Every single Sunday remembering the risen Christ. That's why we do it on Sunday morning, right? Because Christ is risen Okay, we could do better than that. I heard you loud and clear, brother. Christ is risen. He's risen indeed. We can we that's encouraging. In this world that's subjected to futility and that's in bondage to corruption, where the news headlines just make us want to scream, how long, oh Lord, we have arisen Christ. He's the first fruits of a new creation. And because he got up and defeated death on the third day, he will come again and he will make all things new. That's encouraging. And we need to come together week in, week out, and specifically to give careful thought, Hebrews 10 says. about who and how we can encourage someone in the Lord to keep on going. That gate is narrow, that way is hard, it leads to life, but it's worth keep going because we're on the way to life. So something that you could pray about this afternoon or talk about this coming week is how how can I? How can I, as a Christian, in coming to these gatherings regularly, how can I provoke That's part one of the ways you could translate that word, stirring up. This is a good kind of provoking. Kids, sometimes you provoke each other, and it's usually not a good thing when we say that. But this is a good provoking. How can we provoke? How can we stir up our pastors, our other ministry leaders, and all of our brothers and sisters in Christ? How can we stir them up by God's grace? To know Christ more deeply, and to love Christ more dearly, and to praise Christ more sincerely, and to obey Christ more joyfully, to serve Christ more earnestly, to Trust him more steadfastly, to be satisfied in Christ more contentedly, to share the good news of Christ more boldly, to cling to him more dependently, to wait upon Christ more eagerly. How can I stir up someone to love Christ That's why we gather to urge and exhort each other through our greeting of one another, through our praying together and our singing and our reading and our preaching of the word to bless the Lord from this time forth and forever. It's what we pilgrims journey every Lord's day to this elementary school to do. And that's just that was just renewed in my time being away for just one week. It's like, I just want to be an encouraging member of the body of Christ. I just want to encourage you to keep on going along that hard road that leads to life. And as we labor to that end, God's word encourages his pilgrim people That as we go on our way, we go in the assurance of the Lord's rich and bountiful blessing on us. Now we're at point number two. The Lord blesses each of his servants from Zion. So the pilgrims, I just did a whole lot of what I think is called application. I hope it was useful to you in some way. But remember the the first point is that the pilgrims are departing and they're encouraging the ministers to praise the Lord. The pilgrims have done their exhorting work to the night attendants, and now the priests call back to the departing pilgrims. May the Lord bless you, verse 3 says. May the Lord bless you from Zion. He who made heaven and earth. It's a good time for a sip of water Not a dramatic pause. I just lost my voice in Ocean City. Perhaps you've had uh at some point in your Christian lives, maybe at a conference or a retreat or on a Sunday morning. What is sometimes called a mountaintop experience with the Lord. We we just had that as a family, I think, in in I don't want to say I'm saying I think I did. I don't want to speak for Everybody in in Ocean City at the Ocean City Bible Conference. It's such a sweet time and so many old friends. It's kind of like part conference, part family reunion. It's a wonderful time. It's not just the singing and the preaching, but this Okay, I'm otherwise I'm gonna give a billboard for this conference. It was a wonderful time. It was a sweet time. Your heart is full. Have you had an experience like this? Conference Retreat, something. Your heart is just so full. The Lord's presence and his glory has been so tangible and evident in your lives. And you just couldn't bear to see it end. But then it did end. Those things do end. That's what these pilgrims would have experienced like literally on Mount Zion. They were literally on a mountaintop. But now as they prepare to depart from Jerusalem back to their homes, it's back to reality. Back to the real world We were driving over, so we had this wonderful time in Ocean City, and it was like 10 months of excitement and anticipation. And then it's like it was just, I was like, I can't believe it's over. And we're driving over the 9th Street Bridge out of Ocean City and we had our playlist on. But it's like, okay, it's back to reality. It's back to the real world. And this is a very lovely piece of the real world, by the way. But it's not the mountaintop of Mount Zion. And so the Lord's servants here having been themselves exhorted to bless the Lord by the departing pilgrims, now bless the pilgrims in the Lord's name. As these pilgrims leave behind the glory of Zion and return to the cares and concerns of their world, they may be departing from the locale of God's favor and blessing, the mountain of Zion, but his blessing would remain on them. May the Lord bless you from Zion. May the Lord grant you pilgrims. From Zion, that same fellowship and favor that you've come to Zion for, may you know that as you now depart, that same blessing of the God who is unchanging remains upon you from Zion. Each and every one of you. May the Lord bless you. I make much of when we come, especially in Ephesians, I'm saying that you. When you see in Ephesians 4 or Ephesians, you is often a y'all, right? It's a you all, it's a corporate reality. All the commentators point this out about Psalm 134, verse 3, that the you here is an individual you. May the Lord bless you, David Ebling. May the Lord bless you, Jordan Neal. May the Lord bless you, Kessid Brogi. May the Lord bless you, each and every one of you. He who made the heavens and the earth, may he bless you. What a boundless blessing it is to be blessed by the one who made heaven and earth. I mean, why do you think that is, why would it say that he who made heaven and earth? I think it's to demonstrate this is almighty blessing This is invincible, unthwartable blessing. If this is blessing coming to you from the one who spoke a universe into existence out of nothing, Then nothing can separate you from this blessing. May the Lord bless you from Zion The word blessing or blessed is a very watered-down word in our culture. Sometimes it's cherry-picked by prosperity teachers who say that if we just have enough faith or give enough money to their ministry will be blessed by the Lord with must material prosperity. If you just I just did this yesterday, I just went on to uh x slash twitter and I just type in hashtag blessed and this is the very first thing that came up. I did not want to do any doom scrolling. I just the first thing that popped up Was a high school football player, nine receptions for 254 yards, three receptions, three receiving touchdowns, one passing touchdown, hashtag blessed. I think people maybe call that today a humble brag, but I'm not entirely sure. Hashtag bless. Now maybe he really genuinely was experiencing blessing. I'm not-I can't know that that young man's heart. But to be blessed by God is is much, much greater than having material prosperity, much, much greater than having success on a sports field It's to know the joy and the contentment that is the birthright of all who have come to know and enjoy God's gracious favor. Not a blanket promise that all of your circumstances and personal desires will be fulfilled, but a promise That the rich favor of God's presence, of his face, would be with you everywhere you go and in everything that you do. Even when you're suffering on that afflicted way that leads to life. And this is something that really moved me in my thinking about this psalm, that we have a kind of God Who is eager for his people to know that he is an enthusiastic blesser of his people? I wonder if Psalm 134, verse 3, reminds you of another great priestly blessing in the Bible, Numbers chapter 6. Where the Lord exhorts Israel's priests. He says, put my name upon the people of Israel, and I will bless them. And then, of course, you're familiar with this blessing. The Lord bless you and keep you. The Lord make his face to shine upon you and be gracious to you. The Lord lift up his countenance upon you and give you peace. That's the blessing that God wanted his priests to put upon the people. Priests, I want my people to know I'm a God who loves to bless them. Each and every one of them. I want them to know that. Put my name upon them. The eyes of the Lord, 2 Chronicles 16, 9 says, the eyes of the Lord roam throughout the earth, seeking to give strong support to those whose hearts are whole towards Him. And we know today, for these thousand years later, or 3,000 years at this point, from the time that Psalm 134 was written, roughly. We know that none of us have had hearts that have been whole towards him, but that it is because of the grace that is found in the Lord Jesus Christ that we can know the blessing of God. It's in Christ, Ephesians 1. 3. It's in Christ that we have every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. And if if God has brought you here this morning, and you maybe don't consider yourself to be a Christian, or you wonder in crazy times like we are living in, what is it that Christians actually believe? Well, we believe that God is a rich and bountiful blesser. He has blessed all mankind, we're told in the Bible, with life and breath and everything. And he has done that. He has lavished blessing on the whole world such that human beings should bless God, should give him the praise and the honor that he is do, but all human beings have sinned by turning away from God, by preferring to exalt ourselves rather than exalting the God who made us and who sustains our every breath. And the wages of that rebellion against him, the wages of that sin, is that we should perish, that we should be eternally separated from the good and bountiful God and his favor and blessing. We should be cut off from that forever. But God, in his extraordinary love, whereas the priests in Israel's day were offering sacrifice after sacrifice after sacrifice, animal sacrifices. Those just pointed towards a perfect sacrifice that God would send in the person of his own son. God the Son, Jesus Christ, took on flesh, came, and presented himself and his perfect life to God. as an atoning sacrifice so that we who have deserved God's wrath could be a people of his blessing. God sent his servant Jesus, as the Apostle Peter said in the first century to a gathering of Jews who were present, and this is true not only for Jews, but for peoples from every tribe and nation and tongue and language. God sent his servant to bless you by turning each of you from your wicked ways. And so our message to you in this crazy world that we are living in is turn away from your own wickedness. Yes, there is profound wickedness in the world But there is hope for you if you will turn from your own wickedness and receive the mercy of God found in Jesus Christ. Turn to Him, receive Him, and He will save you from this crooked and twisted world. today and he will give you the hope of eternal life with him. And if you wonder, how can I know, how can I believe that that's true, he rose from the dead on the third day to prove it. Jesus Christ, having been raised from the grave, victorious over sin and death and hell for all who have trusted in him, departed from his disciples by blessing them. This is an easy to overlook part of Luke's gospel after Luke records Jesus' great commission and his sending out his disciples to Preach the gospel to the whole of creation. It says in Luke 24, 50 that Jesus led them out as far as Bethany and lifting up his hands, the perfect servant of the Lord. Lifted hands, lifting up his hands, he blessed them. And while he blessed them, he parted from them. and was carried up into heaven, and they worshiped him and returned to Jerusalem with great joy, and they were continually in the temple blessing God. Redeemed by Jesus, relying upon Jesus, we are sent out from this holy place. This is a holy place when the people of God gather at the Bladensburg Elementary School. We're sent out from this holy place into the dark wilderness of this world, commissioned by Jesus to go and preach and put his name upon them. When we baptize in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit to preach the gospel, to make disciples, until that day when Jesus returns. And as we go, as we journey into the darkness of this world, we go with a confident assurance of all the gracious blessing that is ours in Christ, the blessing of the God of Zion resting on each and every one of you his servants. As you depart, as you go, Tammy The Lord bless you, you, and and and may he make his face to shine upon you and be gracious to you Oh Matt, as the as you go out into this world as you go to campus ministry this week, may the God of peace himself Sanctify you completely, you Matt Koh. May he sanctify you completely and guard your whole spirit and soul and body so that you're kept blameless at the coming of the Lord Jesus. I could do this. I mean, I could take 20 minutes here and do this with every single saint. But you understand, each and every one of you trusting in Christ is the recipient of God's blessing. His love and grace and his benediction of us in Christ is that personal. It's that specific. It's that particular. That blessing, I think I've been very clear about this, but let me say it one more time because of all the blessed confusion that there is in the world about blessedness. That blessing does not insulate you from the deep pains and troubles of this broken world, but it does assure you that the sufferings of this life are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be. Revealed to us. We may move on from the mountaintop back into the wilderness, but the blessing of God remains now and forevermore, from this day till that blessed day. And in there's a sense in which actually, even as we go, we're actually not leaving the mountaintop. The world really cannot understand what is happening here. It looks like there's a far greater glory happening a couple uh what is it, an hour or so north of here this afternoon. When the Ravens and is it the Browns gather together at M<unk>T Bank Stadium, the world recognizes that as a glory. But it can't hold a candle to what is happening here. Because we're not just worshiping at the Bladensburg Elementary School this morning. There is a sense in which we are together participating something right now that is a heavenly glory. The writer of Hebrews Spoke this word to pilgrims in the first century who were wearied by the cost of following Jesus. And he wrote to encourage them to keep on blessing the Lord. He said, You have come, not one day you'll get there. But you have come. Even like we've seen in Ephesians 2, where we're not in heavenly places right now, but he but Paul could say, you have already been seated with Christ in the heavenly places spiritually. You have come to Mount Zion and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to innumerable angels in festal gathering. This is what we're I'm gonna go back and read this verses again. This is wild. Maybe it would help you to just shut your eyes for a moment, or maybe it would help you to look around this room so that you can see what a stark contrast it feels like in this room to what is being described here. But listen to this writer again. You have come to Mount Zion. and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to innumerable angels in festal gathering And to the assembly of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven, and you've come, he's still, you've come to God, the judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous made perfect. And to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant, and to the sprinkled blood that speaks a better word than the blood of Abel. That's where we are now. That's where we go when we are given a benediction and we go out on our way. We're still there We do not need to make a pilgrimage to Jerusalem to taste the glory of salvation because in Jesus we've already come to the true Mount Zion. We're seated there even now with Christ in the heavenly places. Our Savior has gone before us and one day, soon and very soon. Jesus will come back and the new Jerusalem will descend from heaven like a bride prepared for her husband And he will make all things new, and he will wipe away every tear from your eyes, and all of God's people From all time we'll be together, and our faith will become sight, and our prayers will become praise. We will never have a need to ask God for anything ever again. We will never cry out again, how long, O Lord, because we will live in the endless eternal eternal day of God's joy. Don't you long for that day, beloved. Don't you long for that day. We're not there yet, but by his grace, one day we will And all the way on our journey till that day, I want you to know you are saturated, believer in Christ. You are saturated with God's blessing The Lord, the maker of heaven and earth, bless you in Christ, each and every one of you from Zion Heavenly Father, we marvel at what it means to be your blessed people. We thank you for Jesus. We thank you for the salvation that we have in Jesus. We pray that you would help us to freshly be amazed. At your goodness and your kindness to us, and that you would give us fresh resolve to encourage each other as we get weary and tired along the way to keep on blessing you To keep on going, to keep on going, because we know that Jesus is coming back. Help us even now as we partake of the bread and cup together to be reminded Of the blessings that you've shown us in Christ and the great blessing that is awaiting us when Jesus comes again. We ask for all this in his name. Amen.