Good morning. It's great to be back at CBC. I bring greetings from Bangkok City Baptist Church. A new gospel preaching church in downtown Bangkok that your church has been instrumental in supporting since day one. So thank you for your partnership in the gospel. Now as a missionary, I tend to travel and move around a lot. It's just kind of part of the job description. So I was struck this past week when I was driving, and my seven-year-old son Jonathan, sitting in the backseat, said, Daddy, I'm homesick. He's never said those words to me before. I asked him what made him homesick and he answered, I miss my bed. We can all relate to that, can't we? Whether you're seven years old or forty-seven years old, there's nothing quite like the feeling of going home. And sleeping in your own bed. Well, Jonathan's statement led me to think about home. For me, the concept of home is a strange thing. Since being born, I have had twenty-seven different physical addresses. Twenty-seven homes. 27 homes in eight different countries. That means, on average, I've moved once every 1. 65 years of my life. And when people ask me where home is, it's a difficult question to answer. And I'm sure many of you in this room can relate to this. Many of us in this room are living in a city that although it's home, often still feels far from home. When we feel under pressure, when we feel at the end of ourselves, when we feel tired and weary Don't we all just want to go to that mystical place called home? A place where we belong, where we're known. Where we feel safe. I wonder if this morning you just want to go home. But isn't it all just a mirage? Does our longing for home not actually reveal a deeper longing, a more spiritual one? A longing that can never actually be fully realized in this world. Can we ever feel settled here? Are we meant to make this world our home? Or are we meant for another home? Another country. A better country. Well, our short passage this morning speaks of the fact that this world is not our home. For all of us are merely exiles in a foreign land. But even though we are exiles, we can know true and abiding security. Not in a place called home. But in an identity that is secure and unchanging. In a person called Jesus Christ. So if you have your Bible, would you turn with me if you would to the letter of 1 Peter? And this morning I'm going to be considering just the first two verses of 1 Peter. 1 Peter chapter 1 verses 1 and 2. It's page 1014 of the Pew Bibles. Let's read 1 Peter 1, verses 1 and 2. I'm in the NIV. Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ To God's elect, exiles, scattered, through the provinces of Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithhnia We have been chosen according to the foreknowledge of God the Father through the sanctifying work of the Spirit To be obedient to Jesus Christ and sprinkled with his blood Grace and peace be yours in abundance. Amen This is a short text. But it is one that is packed with deep truths for the Christian faith For as Christians, we are all exiles in this world. We will never be home here. And this world offers us no lasting security. But we who believe, who are exiles, but we are eternally safe. But the message of this text is not stay home and stay safe, it is be exiled and stay safe. So the main point of our text this morning is simply this. To be a Christian is to be in exile in this world. But because of the love of God the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, We are eternally secure. To be a Christian is to be an exile in this world But because of the love of God the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, we are eternally secure. And to help us unpack this, these verses, we're going to break it down into three points. Our first point is a Christian is secure because he's been chosen by God the Father. He's been chosen by God the Father. Second, a Christian is secure because he is being sanctified by the Holy Spirit. Sanctified by the Holy Spirit. And third, a Christian is secure because he's been saved by Jesus Christ. Saved by Jesus Christ Before we dive into these three points, we ought first to consider the background of this letter. Who actually wrote it? Well, verse one lets us know who this is writing this letter. It's Peter. It's from Peter, the apostle of Jesus. Jesus Christ, and therefore an authorized representative of Jesus, Peter writes as one with authority, for he is an apostle. He's not the apostle of some dead teacher from long ago. No, Peter is writing on behalf of a ruling, reigning, living king. And who's he writing to? Well, he tells us. He says, to God's elect. Exiles scattered or the dispersion throughout the provinces of Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia. And Bethnia. Peter deliberately uses three adjectives to describe who he's writing to. First, he says, elect. Second, he says, exiles. Third, he says, of the dispersion or scattered. Elect Exiled, scattered. Peter's writing to a specific group of Christians and churches, those scattered in specific places in modern-day Turkey. And these churches were established in regions and places hostile to the gospel, and for many of them, they were far away from their homes. They were churches largely made up of immigrants and the slave class, migrant workers, exiles, some of the most marginalized in society, disenfranchised, vulnerable. Peter wrote specifically to them, specific churches and specific places at a specific time, but he's also writing to us. So this may have described them, but also describes us. Elect Exiled. Scattered. Chevrolet Baptist Church. This is you But this world is not your home. To be a Christian is to be elect, to be exiled, to be scattered But we are eternally secure. So let's consider our first reason for security that we see in these verses, and it is that a Christian is secure because he has been chosen. by God the Father. Peter says he's writing to elect exiles. He says Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to God's elect. Exiles scattered by the promises of Pontus, Galatia, Capdocia, Asia, Bethne, who have been chosen according to the foreknowledge of God the Father. Humanly speaking, to be in exile, to be far from home, is an incredibly insecure experience Many of us can resonate with this feeling, can't we? Maybe not to the same extent as an immigrant, but we can all relate to sometimes feeling far from home. Maybe Some of you kids can remember a time when you went on a camp or stayed with a grandparent and when the fun and the noise dies down and you lay asleep at night, there's this deep longing just to be back home. When we feel like we're far from home, we can often feel unknown, unseen, insecure. I remember when I first moved to America back when I was 24. I felt incredibly far away from home. Studied in my grad school in Alabama and Scotland, and Alabama felt like different planets. And everything was fine until Labor Day. The Labor Day was the first day of the semester where there were no classes. And I remember driving around the strange city, listening to strange accents. Yes, they had the accents. And having nowhere to go and no one to see. Everyone else on campus had left to go to the beach or to do something fun, but I was left alone, no invitation. And I felt unknown, unseen, insecure, and I longed to go back home I was homesick. But I had attached my identity completely to a place I was no longer in and to a people I was no longer with. I longed for someone simply to choose me, to invite me, to know me. Well my day ended very differently than how it began. when a sweet, gracious, smiling girl, with a thick southern accent invited me to sit down with her on the step outside her dorm. And she started asking me questions, lots of questions. She started to get to know me. She chose to spend time with me, a stranger from a foreign land. And she noticed me. And it felt good. And I ended up marrying her. Peter begins his letter to these seemingly insecure Christians by reminding them of the fact that they may feel insecure in this world, but they are much more secure than they can ever realize, for they are known. And they have been chosen. He does so by reminding them of their election. He reminds them of the fact that this world may reject them, but God has chosen them. The world may hate them, but God has richly loved them. He's reminding them right off the bat of God's sovereign electing love. That word elect, it simply means chosen, to choose. And to choose something means to love something We don't tend to choose the things we hate. My kids think I'm weird because I hate peanut butter. So instinctively I never choose anything that contains peanut butter. We choose the things we love, not the things we hate. I chose Brandy to be my wife. She chose me to be her husband. And love was the foundation of that choice. It's the same for God. The doctrine of elections is at its very foundation a doctrine of love. Sovereign, electing love. And this truth runs through the entire Bible. Look closely enough, and you will see it everywhere God set his electing love upon Abraham by choosing him from among the nations. Isaac was chosen and Ishmael was not. Jacob was chosen and Esau was not. God will have mercy on whom he chooses to have mercy. See the doctrine of election is not one we ought to feel uncomfortable with or shy away from, for it is ultimately a doctrine of love, unmerited. Unwarranted, unearned love. And if you find yourself in Christ this morning And friends, God has chosen to set his electing love upon you. A love you did not earn. A love you do not deserve. A love that is not merited. But a love that is eternally secure He has said his look electing love upon you because he has chosen to love you. He has chosen you And what's amazing is that he chose you even though he knew every sin you would ever commit, even before any of them came to pass, he chose you before the foundation of the world. Verse 2 says that we are elect according to God's foreknowledge according to the foreknowledge of God the Father. What does that phrase foreknowledge mean Well, to understand what Peter means by this phrase, let's see if he uses it anywhere else in this letter. And he does in verse 20 of chapter 1. Chapter 1, verse 20 says, But with the precious blood of Christ, like that of a lamb where blemish or spot, he was foreknown. Before the foundation of the world, but was made manifest in the last times for the sake of ye He, Christ, was foreknown before the foundation of the world, but was made manifest, which means he appeared, he was revealed in the last times. But he was known by the Father before he was revealed to any of us. He was foreknown. Before Christ came to be revealed in this world, he was known intimately by God the Father. See, foreknowledge indicates that God freely chose to set his electing love on certain individuals before they ever came into being in this world. Before they were manifested and revealed in this world. Do you know what that means? It means that you were intimately known by God the Father before you even existed. You were known before you even came into being. God was the first to ever know you. And God was the first to ever love you. And that is a staggering truth. I did not know my son Timothy before he was born. I did not love him before he existed. But God's love is so amazing. His knowledge is so great. That he knew me before I even entered my mother's womb. He foreknew me and he ordained all the events of my life, the good and the bad, the hard and the easy, until the day would come when my love for God would be made manifest through faith See, we are elect according to the foreknowledge of God the Father. You love God today because He first loved you. Because before you loved Him. He knew you And he loved you. And he chose you 1 Corinthians 8:3 says, but if anyone loves God, he is known by God Your love for God is evidence of the fact that you were known and you were chosen before you even came into being. So to be a Christian is to be chosen by God the Father. And this is great reason to feel secure But to be elect is to be known, is to be loved, and our election should be a great source of encouragement to us today. And this is where Peter chooses to begin this letter. He reminds the scattered, the vulnerable, the suffering church of their election and God's steadfast love for them. Friends, in your moments of greatest insecurity, would you dwell in deep truths of your election as God's child? In those moments when you feel unknown, unnoticed, unseen. And your sinful self is tempted to give in to self-pity and fear instead of going to that place. Go to the place of the deep truth of God's electing love of you. When you feel unheard and unseen by those around you, maybe co-workers or even loved ones, a spouse, even a child. And your heart is prone to respond by sinfully drawing attention to yourself by shouting or pouting or even punishing. Would you choose to instead remind yourself of the fact? That you have been seen and heard by your Father in heaven before you even came into being A moment of being unnoticed in this world does not negate an eternity of being noticed by the God who sees all things. The momentary rejection of man, painful as that may be, does not negate the eternal election of God, your Father in heaven. So may the eternal electing love of your father be a bomb to your soul as you deal with the daily realities of living in a fallen and broken world and all of the rejection that that entails. So to be a Christian is to be elect. A Christian has been chosen by God the Father And as a result of that election, we are now exiles in this world These Christians, Peter was writing to were literally exiles. They were living under Roman rule. Many were far away from their homes, Jews and Gentiles alike, but Peter's not just speaking about a physical exile here Experienced by some Christians. Now he's speaking about a spiritual exile that is true for all Christians You see, to be a Christian is to be an exile, a stranger in this world. Peter's deliberately using Old Testament language here of scattering and dispersion and exile, and later in chapter 5, he even mentions Babylon. Why? Well, because he wants his readers and he wants us to see that like Israel and the Babylonian exile, Christians now live in this world that we once called home, but now not as citizens. But as aliens. As strangers. But friends, we don't belong here. We will never belong here And that, what is it that makes us exiles? Well, Adam and Eve, when they were exiled out of the Garden of Eden, it was because of their rebellion and sin The Jews were exiled to Babylon as a result of their rebellion and sin. But our exile as Christians is different. Our exile is not a result of our rebellion and sin. But our sanctification. And our identification with Jesus. And so that takes us to our second point A Christian is secure because he's being sanctified by the Spirit. We see this in verse 2. Who have been chosen according to the foreknowledge of God the Father through the sanctifying work of the Spirit to be obedient to Jesus Christ. It's our obedience that makes us exiles in this world. Jesus himself told Peter In John chapter 15, if the world hates you, know that it has hated me before it hated you. I chose you out of this world, therefore the world hates you We've been chosen by God the Father, elect. We've been set apart to be holy, chosen out of this world, exiled. And our sanctification in the Spirit and our obedience to Jesus Christ, that is what makes us exiles in this world. It's what makes us strangers. Is what makes us different. So what does this word sanctified mean? Well, to sanctify means to be set apart for some holy purpose, to be sanctified, is to be made holy. So for us to be sanctified means that we're no longer conformed to the pattern of this world, but we're being conformed to a different pattern. Conformed to a different image. Not a worldly one, but a holy one. And this can only be done through the work of the Holy Spirit. The purpose of election is salvation. Those who elect are saved. However, our election is manifested, is revealed through sanctification. Obedience. The sanctifying work of the Holy Spirit. We are being made holy. And what is holiness? It is obedience to Jesus Christ. To be a Christian is to be sanctified. And to be sanctified is to obey Jesus. Some of you may be wrestling with this truth. You may be thinking, well, if to be a Christian is to be holy, I can't be a Christian because I don't feel all that holy this morning. My battle with sin is still real. And I say to you, that's right, it's true. You are not holy, and neither am I. The moment in which we are saved, we don't at that moment become holy, untainted by sin. Well sanctification is not an event. It's a process. It's not about perfection. It's about direction Our life now takes on a new direction. Through the Spirit, the direction of our life is one that moves away from this world of sin and towards a life of obedience. And this is sanctification. We used to be given over to our passions and our flesh. When the world was our home, we too were found to embrace the things of this world. Our desires were shaped by this world. Our joy was bound in this world. No one was surprised. No one maligned us. No one slandered us. But there was no difference. We were not exiles. We were fellow citizens. The citizens of this world saw in us what they saw in themselves. There was no dividing line, no setting apart. Their home was our home. But no more. For those who are being sanctified through the work of the Holy Spirit cannot cohabit with the ways of this world and be at peace. Those who are obeying Jesus Christ cannot at the same time conform to the standards of this world. But this world is not our home. And we do not belong here And therefore, we will be hated and slandered and misunderstood by this world, and we should not fight this reality. We should actually embrace it. You see, the more like strangers and exiles we feel in this world, the more like Jesus we have become Friends, don't miss what Peter's saying here. His intent is not just to make us feel bad for the fact that we still love the world too much, although we ought to feel bad. No, his intent here is to encourage you that if you are in Christ, you are being sanctified through the Spirit You are being alienated from this world, and this is the work of the spirit. Friends, are you weary this morning Are you tired of your battle with sin? Battling in your own strength? Do you feel the pull of the world is too strong and you come here feeling like you're failing? You've been trying to fight your sin, but you failed even this past week. You can recollect ways in which you failed to live up to your exilic sanctified state. Your temper is out of control. You've lost it with your kids yet again. You have no patience. Your pride continues to blind you. Your love for the things of this world is too strong. Are you weary? You want to obey Jesus. But you just can't seem to do it. Well, the fact that for you to be saved depended on your being chosen before you were even born points to the fact that there was no good inside of you in the first place. You can never have saved yourself. Your depravity was too great. God had to do it. So if He if you had no ability to save yourself, Then why do you think you have the ability to sanctify yourself? You don't. The exilic sanctified life of obedience to Jesus Christ. is not about pulling up your bootstraps and doing it all in your own strength. Your sin is too great. The allure of this world is too strong. Your flesh is too persistent. No, sanctification is not about your ability. Your sanctification is a work of the Holy Spirit. And if you are truly saved, then friends, your heart has been changed. Your desires have been redirected So the question I have for you is this. Do you desire to obey Jesus Christ this morning Do you desire to turn from the things of this world and to submit yourself to Jesus Christ as Lord? Do you hate your sin more today than you did yesterday? Friends, if the answer to those questions is yes, ability did not cause that. For it is the supernatural work of the Holy Spirit. Sanctification is not about your ability. It is a work of the Holy Spirit. And He will complete it. So, in those moments when you are weary and the pull of the world seems too strong, lean in faith on the sanctifying work of the Holy Spirit and use the means of grace that God has given you to resist the devil. And flee from sin. Listen to the Spirit and do what He says. And so we fight sin with Holy Spirit, empowered means of grace that God has given us. There are three spirit-empowered means of grace I want to give you this morning to take away. First, the means of grace found in prayer. Friends, pray prayers of faith to God who knows you and sees you. Pray specific prayers when the world pulls you away from Christ. When you But sense yourself desiring the things of this world. In that moment, pray. Pray prayers of faith. Father, I desire the things of this world. I desire wealth. and riches, I desire popularity and worldly success. Father, help me to put to death these desires and through the Holy Spirit to desire the things of Christ. For this world and all of its desires are passing away. But though abide and those who obey the will of God abide forever, oh Father, help me to abide. Pray prayers like this. Pray them again and again. Admit your worldly desires and ask for the Spirit's help to help you abide in who you are in Christ. Second means of grace is found in His Word. Meditate on the enduring truth of Scripture that fuels your faith when the world assaults you with its lies. Identify the lies that you're most prone to believe. Maybe it's the lie that says money will provide you lasting security A lie that causes you to feel too at home in this world. Instead of trusting in God's promises, you work far too many hours. To maintain a level of prosperity defined by the standards of this world and not in conformity to God's word. And repel those, replace those lies. That fuel your world-oriented disobedience with God-centered promises that fuel spirit-enabled obedience. Such as Matthew 6. Do not lay out for yourself treasures on earth where moth and rust destroy. But lay out for yourselves treasures in heaven Write it down. Meditate on it. Live it. And finally, the means of grace found in the church. Friends, we are not exiles left alone in enemy territory Look around. We have each other. We may be far away from home, exiles in a foreign land, but God has provided us outposts Of our heavenly home right here on earth. The church is a spirit-filled, spirit-ordained, spirit-empowered means of grace in our lives. Chevroly Baptist Church would not exist unless it was a work of the Holy Spirit And he has gifted you each other to spur you on in your sanctification. So lean in on this body. Lean in on each other. You need each other, and don't underestimate what goes on in this gathering. This is a spirit-empowered gathering of the children of Jesus Christ. And I pray that Chevrolet Baptist Church will always be a safe place for people to struggle with their sins, to bring them into the light, to not fear condemnation or rejection. But to find a band of grace-filled brothers and sisters, Holy Spirit indwelt, pressing on in their fight for holiness together. Prayer. The word. The church. The reality is we are all exiles in this world Our sanctification in the spirit and obedience to Jesus is what makes us exiles. But we're not exiles alone. We have the Spirit. We have His Word. And we have each other. And sin will not overcome us. The world will not defeat us. For God is at work. He is sanctifying us. And so, depending on the work of the Holy Spirit, we press on. To live lives of obedience to Jesus Christ. Or Peter makes one final point about our identity, a third and final reason for security A Christian is secure because he's been saved by Jesus Christ. This is at the end of verse 2. To be obedient to Jesus Christ and sprinkled with his blood. Grace and peace be yours in abundance. And sprinkled with his blood. What does this phrase, sprinkled with his blood, have to do with our identity and security? Friends, it has everything to do with our identity and security. The Holy Spirit has set us apart to be sprinkled with the blood of Jesus Christ. This is not language that we're used to, but the original audience would have immediately understood what Peter meant. It's actually incredibly powerful language. This this phrase sprinkled with his blood. Would have taken them all the way back to Mount Sinai and the establishment of the Mosaic covenant with the people of Israel. You can read about Exodus 19 to 24. What happened at Mount Sinai? Well, it was there that Moses, who had led the people of Israel out of captivity in Egypt, met with God, and God told Moses to sprinkle the people with the blood of a sacrificed animal. So Moses literally sacrificed an animal and he sprinkled the people with his blood, sealing the covenant, setting them apart. Israel were being set apart as God's covenant people through the sprinkling of blood. Exodus 24:8 says Moses took the blood and he threw it on the people. And said, behold the blood of the covenant that the Lord has made with you in accordance with all these words. And so here Peter is encouraging these Christians. In their exilic state to take comfort from the fact that they too are a covenant people and that they too have been sprinkled with blood. For they are children of a greater promise. They are children of a greater covenant. A covenant not sealed by the blood of an animal, but by the blood of Jesus Christ Himself. A new covenant, a new and better covenant of his blood A covenant and a promise that we have been forgiven and are eternally saved through the shed blood of Jesus Christ. The triune God, three and one, all involved. The Father electing a people for salvation, the Son accomplishing that salvation through the shedding of his blood, and the Spirit applying that salvation. To all who believe. God, three in one, Father, Spirit, Son, all working together to save us and to keep us friends, we are triply secure. So what great reason we have for security. What great reason we have for hope. We are a blood-brought covenanted people, exiled, yes. Scattered, sure. Safe? Absolutely. And therefore, we and we alone can know true grace and eternal peace and know it in abundance. Friends, we live in a world hostile to us. We live in a world that will hate us and slander us. We live in a world in which churches will be raided and Christians will be scattered. We live in a world of viruses and wars and evil regimes. We live in a world where things are always uncertain. But we do so as elect exiles, secure in the knowledge that God will keep us and He will bring us all the way home. We're not there yet. But we will get there. Not by our might, or our strength, or our ability, but by his When our new church in Bangkok gathers each week, right in the heart of Bangkok, in some nondescript office building, you're reminded that this world is not our home. This very gathering this morning in this elementary school reminds us this world is not a home. We don't belong here. The world does not do what we do here. The world does not want to do what we do here. The world doesn't sing the songs that we sing here. The world doesn't love the way we love here. The world doesn't desire the things that we desire here, what we do, and who we worship Sets us apart. What we do and who we are is incredibly strange and alien and weird to the rest of the world They feast on the banquet of this world. But those who tether their identity and joy and security to that which corrupts And merely filling their stomachs with poison and their endless destruction. For all who do not repent of their sins and trust in Jesus Christ alone for salvation will be given over to the desires of their flesh. So friends, if you are not have not trusted in Jesus for salvation, you may feel secure and safe. But it's all just a mirage. All you're doing is delaying a certain death. The wages of sin is death. But because God so loved the world, he sent his one and only Son Jesus as an exile from heaven, scattering him into our world. Jesus lived the perfect life of obedience that you and I could never live. And he willingly went to the cross where he was crucified and died and shedding his blood for our sins. And he rose from the tomb three days later, defeating death, and now he's ascended to heaven from where he will return to judge the living and the dead, and he will return not to scatter, but to gather. all of his scattered children and to take us home. And the question is, will you be amongst that gathering? He became the final and ultimate sacrifice, sealing our covenant, accomplishing our salvation, and therefore we have been set apart. Set apart by the shed blood of Christ, we are a blood-brought and a blood-secured people. And it's because of the cross that we can endure alienation from this world. Knowing that his grace is sufficient and he will guard our minds with the very peace of Christ. Grace and peace, Peter says, is yours if you believe this. In abundance. Friends, we're not home yet. But we will be soon. C. S. Lewis puts it this way. Are present. Well on the outside. The wrong side of the door. We discern the freshness and the purity of the morning But we cannot mingle with the splendors we see. All the leaves of the New Testament are rustling with the rumor that it will not always be so Someday, God willing, we shall get in. We're not home yet Someday we will be. Friends, our exile will soon be over. A day has been ordained in which the exile of the elect will come to an end. The day has been set aside for our great homecoming. Our scattering will be no more. But Jesus is coming back And when he does, he will gather together all of the elect. A scattered people. Becoming a gathered people. One gathering, one people, from every tongue and tribe and nation, never to be scattered again And then we will be home. Let's pray Well Heavenly Father, we thank you for your election. We thank you for our sanctification. We thank you that we are a blood-brought people. We thank you that you are working all things together for our good and your glory. And you are preparing us even now, even today, even in this gathering, for our eternal home. Oh Jesus, come. Come Lord Jesus quickly. And until that day, help us to live lives worthy of that home. And in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.