During my senior year of high school, one of our assigned readings was actually a play that was called Waiting for Godot, or however you actually pronounce that word. This play was done in two acts and it had two main characters, Vladimir and Estragon. They're homeless and they're hopeless, but they're waiting for Godot to show up to help them. And after some time of waiting, a messenger from Godot shows up to these two men and tells them: Godot will not be arriving today, but surely he'll come tomorrow. End of Act 1. In the second act, more of the same thing. A lot of dialogue, a lot of talking, back and forth about lots of different subjects, and a lot of waiting. And then the same messenger from Godot comes back and says to them, Godot will not be coming today, but surely he'll come tomorrow. And so the play ends, the story ends with these two characters still waiting for help, still waiting for hope. But the implications are that they are waiting in vain. Now, the reason why this was part of our assigned reading was because I think our teacher had an agenda that he wanted to share with us. That nobody's coming to save. We are on our own. And if there really is a God out there who can't save, He's either unwilling to help or unable to really do anything. Or maybe he's just forgotten all of us Question. Are you waiting for help and for hope today? If so, when will it come? Is that assessment of waiting for Godot accurate? Do you this morning, maybe even as a Christian, do you wonder Will anyone ever even show up? Will my help come? Or maybe due to your suffering or your seasons of waiting, do you feel like the Lord has actually forgotten about you We began the book of Exodus this morning. We'll meet a people who are waiting for deliverance and likely feeling forgotten as well. But we will learn with God's help that God was working the entire time. So in your copy of God's word, please meet me in the book of Exodus. You're using one of the Bibles that are provided around you. That's going to be on page 45. If you don't have a Bible of your own, we encourage you to take that Bible home as a gift from us to you. And this morning we're going to be covering chapters 1 and 2 of this epic story in God's Word. Many of us know about this story for a lot of different reasons. The Exodus appears in pop culture, maybe Bob Marley songs, or Disney movies, or lots of different ways. And there's important and really spectacular things that happen throughout the book of Exodus too, right? Like you have the burning bush, or you have the different plagues or the Passover and the parting of the Red Sea, and then the giving of the law. In certain commandments movie. Or the golden calf and even the tabernacle. The story of Exodus is all about God keeping his promises and delivering his people into a place of rest with him. But that's not where we start. It begins with God's people as slaves and sojourners, weary, seemingly forgotten by God. So will God remember his promises? Here's the main idea for our time together in God's Word if you are taking notes. God remembers his promises to his weary people. God remembers his promises to his weary people. This is chapter one, starting in verse one. This is God's Word. These are the names of the sons of Israel who came to Egypt with Jacob, each with his household. Reuben, Simeon, Levi and Judah, Issachar, Zebulun and Benjamin, Dan and Nephtali, Gad and Asher, all descendants of Jacob were seventy persons. Joseph was already in Egypt Then Joseph died, and all his brothers, and all that generation. For the people of Israel were fruitful and increased greatly. They multiplied and grew exceedingly strong So that the land was filled with them. We'll stop right there for now. So God rescued his people from their famine, and they settled in Egypt. They were able to settle there because Joseph had become the right-hand man of the Pharaoh. But Joseph was only in Egypt because he was sold into slavery, kids. Who sold Joseph into slavery? His brothers sold him into slavery. But Joseph, remarkably, forgave his brothers. And he was used by God to deliver God's people from famine. And so they resided in Egypt. And in doing so, God was keeping his promises that he made long ago to Joseph's great-grandfather, Abram, who later became known as Abraham. God came to Abram, eventually Abraham in Genesis 12 and made a covenant with him to make him a great nation He reiterated this promise in Genesis 2 17, adding the fact that he will give this people the land of Canaan, a land of blessing and a land of rest. So God established two promises to make them his people and to bring them to his place of blessing and rest. And this promise was passed on from Abraham to his son Isaac. Then Isaac passed it on to Jacob, also known as Israel. Jacob had 12 sons who were named in these verses. One of them was Joseph. But then by verse 6, we see that Joseph died. And so did his generation. And yet. The people of God continue to be fruitful and multiplied. Do those two words sound familiar That's an echo of Genesis chapter 1, where the Lord says, be fruitful and multiply. Fill the earth and subdue it. This shows that God was still playing to keep his promises. He was still bringing his promises to pass, and they were still his people. But then that soon became a problem because there was a new king. Look at verse 8. There arose a new king over Egypt who did not know Joseph. And he said to his people, Behold, the people of Israel are too many and too mighty for us. Come, let us deal truly with them, lest they multiply, and if war breaks out, they join our enemies and fight against us. and escaped from the land. Therefore they set taskmasters over them to afflict them with heavy burdens. They built for Pharaoh store cities, Pitham and Ramses But the more they were oppressed, the more they multiplied, and the more they spread abroad. And the Egyptians were in dread of the people of Israel So they ruthlessly made the people of Israel work as slaves and made their lives bitter with hard service and mortar and brick and all kinds of work in the fields In all their work, they were, they ruthlessly made them work as slaves. Stop there. So again, God's people were previously allowed to enter into Egypt. But now instead of being welcomed, they were now feared. And with this new king, there was a new policy of sorts in Egypt, and these Israelites were forced into slavery. Unless we think that these were some benevolent slave masters, God's word makes it clear that they weren't. Says that they were ruthless. They were harsh in that they made the lives of God's people bitter. Even today There are still slaves in this world. International Justice Mission estimates that there are nearly 50 million people in some form of modern slavery and human trafficking. So one point of application is that we can pray for the work of the International Justice Mission as they seek to do something about slavery in our world today. But this Pharaoh could not get rid of God's people that easily, could he? The text says there again that God's people continue to multiply. And so the Pharaoh took it up a notch. He went further to try to end God's people. He decided to go after their children. Look at verse 15. Says then the king of Egypt said to the Hebrew midwives, one of whom was named Sapphira, and the other one Pua When you serve as midwife to the Hebrew women and see them on a birth stool, if it is a son, you shall kill him. But if it's a daughter, she shall live But the midwives feared God and did not do as the king of Egypt commanded them, but let the children live, the male children live Verse 18, so the king of Egypt called the midwives and said to them, Why have you done this and let the male children live? The midwives said to Pharaoh, Because the Hebrew women are not like the Egyptian women, for they are vigorous and give birth before the midwife comes to them. So God dealt well with the midwives. And the people multiplied and grew very strong. And because the midwives feared God, he gave them families. Then Pharaoh commanded all of his people, every son that is born to the Hebrews you shall cast into the Nile, but you shall let every daughter live. Let's stop there. So Pharaoh's plans weren't working, and then he tried new plans. That's a theme in the book of Exodus, as we'll see over and over again. Says these Hebrew midwives, murder the baby boys. In doing so, the Pharaoh attempted to end the family line of God's people. And if that happened, God's people and God's promises would have died off in Egypt. But God's people were already there. God's fearing people were already there, and they lived in fear of him and not in fear of the Pharaoh. The text says these midwives feared God And at the risk of their own lives, they spared the lives of these precious babies. And the text says that God dealt well with them. The brothers and sisters, we are called to obey the Lord and his word, even if that means in doing so we are disobeying leaders and laws that oppose him. If we have to make that choice, we need to choose the Lord and his word every single time. Despite Pharaoh's plans, God's people continued to multiply. We saw that already in verse 12. We saw that again in verse. 20 God's people were still his people. They were still a nation of people. God was keeping that promise even now. But by the end of chapter 1, God's people are still his displaced people. They were still in Egypt, still strangers and sojourners in a strange land. Had God forgotten about the other promise? We'll see in chapter 2 that he was intent to keep his promise to bring his people to his place of blessing and rest as well. Let's look at Exodus chapter 2. Verse 1. Now a man from the house of Levi went and took as his wife a Levite woman. The woman conceived and bore a son, and when she saw that he was a fine child, she hid him for three months. And when she could hide him no longer, she she took for him a basket and made bush bushels and dabbed him with pitchum and pitch. She put the tow in it and placed it among the reeds by the riverbank. And his sister stood at a distance to know what would be done to him. Now the daughter of Pharaoh came down to bathe at the river, while her young woman walked beside the whip the river. She saw the basket among the reefs and sent her servant woman, and she took it. And when she opened it, she saw the child, and behold, the baby was crying. And she took pity on him and said, This is one of the Hebrew's children. Then his sister said to Pharaoh's daughter, Shall I go and call you a nurse from the Hebrew women to nurse the child for you? And Pharaoh's daughter said to her, Go. So the girl went and called the child's mother. And Pharaoh's daughter said to her, Take this child away and nurse him for me, and I will give you your wages. So the woman took the child and nursed him. And when the child grew older, she brought him to Pharaoh's daughter, and he became her son. She named him Moses because she said, I drew him out of the water. Stop there. Along with these Hebrew midwives in chapter 1 who feared the Lord, you also have this couple from Levi who feared the Lord And they showed that they feared the Lord by not putting their child in the Nile River to die, but by hiding their child for three months And then giving him away so that he could live. Parents, could you imagine that kind of decision? They cried out likely for the Lord to rescue that child and to save them. For someone to have mercy on them and bring them into their family. It should remind us to pray for that word to continue. So pray for the ministry of safe families. As they provide respite care to families who are in need. We can also pray for Wellspring Life Ministries as they encourage mothers with crisis pregnancies to choose life for their children. This couple chose life. And they placed the baby in an arc The Hebrew word for basket and word in verse 3 is the same word used to describe Noah's Ark. Where all who entered into the ark were saved through the waters of God's judgment. So through saving this child, God's people would be rescued through the waters of judgment. In fact, the word Hebrew, as in the Hebrews, God's people, can be loosely translated as through the waters or brought through the waters. And then look at this name this child will receive. Said he will be called Moses. Why? Because I drew him out from the waters. Which is what that translates to. Moses was delivered through the waters and would eventually lead God's people to out of Egypt through the waters of the Red Sea. Now many of us know that because we've heard the story of Exodus. But that all happens much later. Right now, Moses, this baby. is in Egypt. In the Pharaoh's house. As we heard in our scripture reading this morning from Acts chapter 7 in Stephen's speech. Moses was instructed in all the wisdom of the Egyptians. So he grew up as a musician, as an Egyptian. And the text says that he was mighty in his words and in his deeds. And at the age of 40, Stephen says, he went out to see the troubles of his people. And here's what he found. Look at verse 11. One day, when Moses had grown up, again 40 years later, he went out to his people and looked on their burdens, and he saw an Egyptian beating a Hebrew, one of his people. He looked this way, that way, and seeing no one, he struck down the Egyptian and hid him in the sand And when he went out the next day, behold, two Hebrews were struggling together. And he said to the man in the wrong, Why do you strike your companion? He answered, Who made you a prince and a judge over us? Do you mean to kill me as you killed the Egyptian? Then Moses was afraid and thought, surely the thing is known. And when Pharaoh heard of it, he sought to kill Moses. But Moses fled from Pharaoh and stayed in the land of Midian. And he sat down by a well. Now, though Moses was a Hebrew, and the text says that he identified with his people, he went to go see his people, the Hebrews, he still had a lot of the ways of Egypt in him. Which is why he took vengeance into his own hands and he killed a man. He sinned greatly, and this sin was exposed. The thing was known about, Moses says. Now, this murder of the Egyptian was sinful. Let's be clear about that. And at the same time, as many of us can attest to, the Lord can redeem even the worst things about us. For his ultimate glory. Moses fleeing to Midian would eventually become redemptive. Now the priest of Midian, verse 16, has seven daughters. And they came and they drew water and they filled the trolls of water of their flout to their father's flock. The shepherds came and drove them away, but Moses stood up and saved them and watered their flocks. When they came home to their father Ruel, he said, How is it that you have come home so soon? And they said, An Egyptian delivered us out of the hands of the shepherds, and even drew water for us and watered the flock He said to his daughters, Then where is he? Or why have you left the man? Call him, that he may eat bread. And Moses was content to dwell with the man, and he gave Moses his daughter Sephorah. She gave birth to a son, and he called his name Gershem, for he said, I have been a sojourner in a foreign land So Midian eventually became home for Moses. He was welcomed in, he even found a wife, started a family, had a son named Mgershem. Why? Because I have been, Moses says, a sojourner in a foreign land. What was Moses saying there? I have been, as in past times. In other words, he's saying, I'm home. I've arrived. He's a Midian. Now, the Midianites were people who were known as nomads, but they wandered all throughout the Sinai Peninsula and also in the land of Canaan. These were the same areas, the same lands that were that the Lord promised to Abraham back in Genesis 17. And now. Moses, when he fled, after he sinned greatly, he fled and he settled in all places of Midian. This same place of promise and of rest Now that's good news for Moses, isn't it? But what about the rest of Egypt? What about the rest of the Hebrews? Excuse me. They were still in Egypt. They were still very far from home. They were still groaning. Seems like everything's working out for Moses, but what about the rest of God's people? Had God forgotten about them, were they waiting in vain? Now our trials have a way of reminding us that we're far from home too, don't they? When the unexplained pain that you feel is still there in the morning and the doctors don't have answers When you as a parent try as you might, can't figure out what to do with your kids? Or when you're faced with the death of a loved one Or when your newsfeed, as you scroll over and over again, gives you nothing but bad news. Or when you're trying to figure out as a child how to care for and love your aging and ailing parents. Or when the pregnancy test is still negative, even though you've been praying for years. Or when you just feel out like there's a cloud of sadness that hangs over you, it doesn't matter what happens or what you do about it, that depression won't really lift. Or in various ways that you've been asking the Lord to answer very specific prayers, but to your knowledge, they've gone unanswered. Now again, many of us know what already happens in the rest of the book of Exodus. God's people would be delivered out of Egypt through the waters. But these slaves didn't know that yet. And there's a long way between Exodus chapter 2 and Exodus chapter 14. How would God respond to these lowly Hebrew slaves? How does God respond to us and our groaning? I think we'll find help and encouragement in these last few verses of chapter 2. These are some of the sweetest words in all of Scripture. During those days the king of Egypt died. The people of Israel groaned because of their slavery, and they cried out for help. And their cry for rescue from slavery came up to God. And God heard their groaning. And God remembered his covenant with Abraham, with Isaac, and with Jacob. God saw the people of Israel, and God knew. God responds to our groaning, dear brothers and sisters, by hearing and by remembering his covenant promises. The text says that their cry for rescue came up to God, signifying that he is the one that is sovereign and ruling over all things. And in fact, the Lord shows up in Exodus chapter 3. We'll hear more of that next week, Lord willing. He speaks to Moses, and he says the very same thing: I have heard the cries of my people. No one is too low to get the ear of our God. He is the God that bends his ear to hear the cries of his lowly people. These weary slaves and sojourners, which we don't know a whole lot about them yet, they knew enough about God to cry out to him Maybe they must have heard about the God of Abraham making and keeping his promises. Maybe they heard about the God of Isaac putting a ram in the thicket. Maybe they heard about the God of Jacob wrestling with him, but then blessing him. Maybe they heard about the God of Joseph, who used what his brothers intended for evil for good. They didn't know what God would do, but they knew enough to know that the Lord of all heavens and earth would hear them. And here he did, because verse 24 says, he heard and he remembered That word there remember is a covenantal term. Not like God for God and like, oh yeah, the Israelites That's not what it means. It means that he was going to act in keeping his covenant promises that he had already made The same covenant he made with Abraham, with Isaac, and with Jacob, and demonstrated through Joseph that he would make a people for himself, and that he would bring his people to a place of blessing and to a place of rest. Verse 24 and 25 goes on to say that the Lord saw the Israelites, and the Lord knew. Which means even though they felt forgotten, likely, they were not forgotten by the Lord. And they would soon find out that they weren't The God who sits on high looked low and saw them. And the fact that God sees shows us that God is not confused about the facts. He wasn't confused about what was happening in Egypt. He didn't need to gather data. He didn't need a team to help him sort through the evidence. He saw clearly, and he would judge rightly. All of that is what it means when the text says that God remembered. And again, this is not just like, oh, he remembered in an instant. I think it's also a statement of what's been happening already in Exodus chapters 1 and 2. The fact that God remembers and keeps his covenant promises is why the Israelites just so happened to be in Egypt in the first place. It's why God's people continued to multiply even though they were oppressed. It's why the midwives just happened to be there, and why those midwives specifically chose to fear God and not Pharaoh. It's why God's people multiplied over and over and over again. It's why this couple from Levi decided to fear God and place their son in the ark. It's why Pharaoh's daughter just happened to be there bathing to see the basket rolling down the river. It's why Moses was brought into Pharaoh's house and grew up there. That's why Moses, even when he fled after his sin, he ended up in Midian, where the Lord would soon meet him in a burning bush. All of that happened because God remembers his covenant, he remembers his people. The Lord heard, the Lord remembered, the Lord saw his people, and the Lord knew But again, at this point, they didn't know all of that, did they? In fact, Moses didn't know that. He was living his best life in Midian with this new family. And even today, while we may know all of this, we may know how this particular story ends, we might even know how the Bible ends. We don't always feel that that's true. We don't always see it. May you believe that yes, God remembered his covenant to those people back then But how does that affect me today? Maybe you look at our nation and our world and it feels like you're waiting for a Godot. Hope's gonna come eventually, but not today, surely, tomorrow. Maybe even as a Christian, during your suffering You feel like, yeah, he's gonna show up eventually. But you don't even really believe that this morning. You're honest. Maybe you feel left out, looked over, forgotten, forsaken. How can any of us know that God remembers We can know that because thousands of years later, another baby will be born. The covenant making and keeping God would send his son to the world to deliver his people out of slavery to sin. He too was a sojourner and a stranger in a strange land. He was born of a woman, but God in the flesh And if you read Matthew chapter 2, you'll see that that king there also wanted this baby dead. But by the end of Matthew chapter 2, that king had died, and Jesus would continue to live. And the Bible says Jesus grew in wisdom and stature and favor with God and man. He lived a perfect life. He had no sin to flee away from But he, the Lord Jesus, would eventually go to the cross and die for our sins. And on the cross, Jesus was swallowed up by the waters of God's judgment for us. And Jesus rose victoriously from the grave on the third day so that all who turn from their sin and put their faith in him will be brought safely through the waters of God's judgment. So that all who cry out to God will know that we are never forsaken, never forgotten, because on the cross Christ was forsaken for us. So that in the midst of our suffering, in the midst of our grief, in the midst of our pain, we would know that we have a God who hears us, who sees us, who remembers his covenants, and who knows us In the Lord Jesus Christ, we have a God who didn't just stand at a distance, who didn't stand untouched by our suffering, but through the Lord Jesus Christ, He entered into our suffering. Here's how Pastor John Stott put it. Many people visualize a God who sits comfortably on a distant throne, remote, aloof, and uninterested and indifferent to the needs of mortals. Until It may be that they can badger him into taking action on their behalf. Such a view is wholly false. The Bible reveals a God who Long before it ever occurs to man to turn to him, while man is still lost in darkness and sunk in sin, takes the initiative, rises from his throne, lays us down his glory, and stoops to seek until he finds him. That is our God. And if you're here this morning and you're not a Christian You can know that God has not forgotten about us and he hasn't forgotten about you because before you asked him, before you even know you needed him, he sent his son to die on the cross for you. You can turn to Christ today and be saved. And brothers and sisters in Christ, dear weary and grieving brothers and sisters in Christ, in the midst of your suffering, remember who God is. He's the God that remembers and never forgets. And he remembers not because you were good this week. He remembers not because of your righteous works. He remembers because he is faithful Again, what do we do with that? How can we apply this more directly? Since God hears, we can pray honestly. We can pray honestly. Text there says that God's people were groaning. Doesn't say what words they used. But I think we can go to the Psalms and we can find God's people crying out to him and actually have words and language for it If you want to so if you need to groan and you need to lament to the Lord, you're like, I don't know what to say. Find a psalm and pray that to the Lord. He understands. We don't have to fake it with the Lord. We can be honest and sincere in our prayers. And in fact, According to Romans 8, the Holy Spirit interprets and intercedes for us with groanings that are not even understood. Then if you don't know what to say, go before the Lord. He still hears and understands. Secondly, since God remembers, persevere faithfully Persevere faithfully. That means keep going even as you have trials. Because we don't understand everything that's happening. We don't understand why everything that's happening. As John Piper once said, God is doing 10,000 things in your life and you may be aware of three of them So don't let your limited view stop you from pursuing faithfulness to God. Keep going He has made us his people and will one day deliver us from this sojourning into this in this world and bring us into his place of peace and his place of rest. So we got to press on until that day. Thirdly, since God sees, trust Jesus. Kids, what was I doing when I did that? Does that remind you of VBS? Does anybody remember our main theme from BBS? When we need hope, we can. Say it with your chest kids. Come on. When we need hope, we can trust Jesus. Amen. Now the picture of that Shows us holding on to a rope for dear life. So like imagine that you go to the pool this week and you see someone who starts struggling in the waters. The lifeguard is probably gonna throw something at them. And what is that person gonna do? They're gonna grab on for dear life. Right? That's a picture for us, kids, and even bigger kids with grown-up trials. We're called to hold on to the rope. And as we learned in John 16, 33 through our week at VBS, Jesus said that in this world we will have trouble, but we can take heart because he has overcome the world. What does it look like to take heart? I think we can have the same picture in mind. Hold on to the rope. And don't let go. Remember, he is the one that sees it all, he's the one that knows it all, he's the one that understands, and he's the one that is acquainted with our grief. Since God sees us, we can trust in Jesus. And lastly, since God knows, we can wait eagerly Wait eagerly. Those words together don't really make sense. Nobody likes waiting. On anything. Especially deliverance. Especially deliverance out of slavery But we as God's people can wait eagerly because we know how the story ends. We know that God would show up to Moses in Exodus chapter 3. We know that God would use Moses, even though Moses didn't want to be used to deliver his people out of Egypt. And even though the Pharaoh tried to get in the way, nothing would stop the plans of the Lord. But even we today know how this story ends, how God's story ends, where he will preserve his people. And he will bring his people into his presence, that place of rest, eternally, forever and ever. So we can wait eagerly because we know that he keeps his word, he keeps his promises, and he keeps his people. So beloved, as you cry out to the Lord and are waiting for Him to respond and to answer, don't just wait, watch. Remain active and attentive. Be on the lookout for how the Lord may already be working, because I can almost guarantee that He is working. So are you waiting for help and hope today? If so, dear brothers and sisters, you're waiting. Not in vain. It's never in vain. Wait eagerly in faith, even as you suffer and sojourn in this world. Because God remembers his promises to his weary people. Lord, we're so glad that you remember because we are so forgetful. We forget how good you are. We forget how faithful you are. We forget what you've said. We forget that what you say comes to pass. Lord, please help us to trust in you. Today a little bit more than we did yesterday. Help us to hold on to that rope a little bit tighter Help us to love you all the more, knowing that you have delivered us and our deliverance is still coming. Help us to praise you as we wait. In Jesus' name. Amen.