At one point in my life, I was pretty good at chess. That point in my life was back in fifth grade when I was in our school chess club in our elementary school. The problem is that the theory of me being good at chess remained virtually untested until around the age of 19 when I was humbled by a 10-year-old who beat me in two or three moves. That's called a fool's mate. And apparently, on that day, I was made to be the fool. Chess is a game of skill and also a game of strategy So you need to know the rules of the game, but you also need to think way ahead of your opponent. That's why, if you've ever played chess, there's people always huddling around and they're standing pensively over you, which is kind of intimidating, right? Because everyone thinks that they know what the next move should be. My problem when playing chess is that my strategy is not really a strategy at all, it's just responding to the moves of my opponent. That doesn't work It's not a real strategy. But I wonder if you've ever thought that that's the way that God works. That he simply responds to our moves. He simply responds to the moves of even the rulers and the kings of this world. Maybe you look at the world around you or you look in your own life and you think, I know God has a plan, but does his plan really have any strategy? Or is he puzzled and unsure about what the next move should be? Well, if you have a copy of God's word, I'd invite you to meet me in the book of Exodus. You have one of those black Bibles, kids. George told you what page it would be on. He mentioned it a few times. What page is it? What pages did it start on? Exodus chapter 7. 49. Great job. Turn to page 49. Today we are going to answer those questions about God and his plan. And his strategy as we cover the first nine of the ten plagues in this chess match of sorts between Yahweh, the God and King of Israel, and Pharaoh. The God and King of Egypt. So Yahweh, the Lord of glory, had already promised to remember his covenant and to remember his people and to deliver them out of slavery in Egypt. And that meant delivering out of the hands of the mightiest king that the world had seen at that point, in the mightiest nation that the world had seen at that point. But the Lord had already explained earlier in Exodus chapter 7 just how this chess match would go. Exodus 7, verse 3: But I will harden Pharaoh's heart And though I multiply my signs and wanders in the land of Egypt, Pharaoh will not listen to you. Then I will lay my hand on Egypt and bring my host, my people, the children of Israel, out of the land of Egypt by great acts of judgment The Egyptians will know that I am the Lord when I stretch out my hand against Egypt and bring out my people of Israel from among them. So apparently here, God did have a plan. God did have a strategy. But we'll see that his plan wasn't a two to three move foolsmate. That he could get Pharaoh in. Instead, this would be God playing the long way in his defeat of Pharaoh and of Egypt. But why does it seem like that God likes to play chess the long way? Meaning he knows exactly what he's gonna do. He's way ahead of everything else, he's going to win. But he's playing the long game. I think the short answer to that question is that because it gives him glory. So if you're taking notes, here's the main idea for our time together in God's Word. Feel free to write this down God's glory prevails over the mightiest of kings and the hardest of hearts. God's glory prevails over the mightiest of kings and the hardest of hearts We'll unpack this main idea by separating our time together in four main parts. Part number one, we'll talk about the plagues In part two, we'll talk about Pharaoh's heart. Part three, we'll talk about God's glory. And then part four, we'll talk about our response. The part one, the plagues, starting in Exodus chapter 7. What we'll do is we'll survey these plagues, these first nine plagues. And what we'll focus on in this survey is their pattern, and then we'll talk about their purpose. So I'll start reading Exodus chapter 7. I'll read verses 14 through 25 for right now. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God indeed. And it reads: Then the Lord said to Moses, Pharaoh's heart is hardened. He refuses to let the people go. Go to Pharaoh in the morning, as he is going out to the water, and stand on the bank of the Nile to meet him. Take in your hand the staff that turned into a serpent And you shall say to him, The Lord, the God of the Hebrews, sent me to you, saying, Let my people go, as they may serve me in the wilderness. But you have not obeyed so far. Thus says the Lord. By this you will know that I am the Lord Behold, with the staff that is in my hand I will strike the water that is in the now, and it shall turn into blood. The fish in the now shall die, and the now will stink, and the Egyptians will grow weary of drinking water from the now. And the Lord said to Moses, Say to Aaron, Take your staff and stretch out your hand over the waters of Egypt. over their rivers, their canals, and their ponds, and all the pools of water, so that they may become blood, and there shall be blood throughout all the land of Egypt, even in vessels of wood and in vessels of stone. Moses and Aaron did as the Lord commanded. In the sight of Pharaoh and in the sight of his servants, he lifted up the staff and struck the water in the now, and all the water in the now turned into blood And the fish in the Nile died, and the Nile stank, so that the Egyptians could not drink the water from the Nile. There was blood throughout all the land of Egypt. But the magicians of Egypt did the same by their secret arts. So Pharaoh's heart remained hardened, and he would not listen to them, as the Lord has said. Pharaoh turned and went into his house, and he did not even take to his heart. And all the Egyptians dug along the Nile for water to drink, for they could not drink the water of the Nile Seven full days pass after the Lord struck the now. We'll stop right there for right now. And in this first plague, we see that there's a pattern that's established, which we'll see throughout pretty much all of the plagues. And here's the pattern. The Lord warns Pharaoh. So here he sends Moses and Aaron to declare his words, which he says over and over again: let my people go that they may worship me But he warns them and says, if not, there will be a plague. So firstly, the Lord warns Pharaoh. Secondly, the Lord strikes Egypt. Which is what that word for plague in the Hebrew actually translates to. It means to strike. Pharaoh refuses And then the Lord strikes Egypt, this time by turning the now water or the water of the now river into blood. And then part three of the pattern is that the Lord exposes Pharaoh's heart. As we see there, the magicians were able to mimic this miracle of God, and so therefore Pharaoh's heart remained hard. Again, so the pattern. The Lord warns Pharaoh, the Lord strikes Egypt, the Lord exposes Pharaoh's heart. That basically happens throughout most of these plagues. So that pattern continues even as we go to the second plague, that's the swarming of frogs. That's Exodus 8 verses 1 through 15. So let's talk about the pattern. In verses 1 through 4, the Lord warns Pharaoh. Verses 5 and 6, the Lord strikes Egypt. In verses 7 through 15, the Lord exposes Pharaoh's heart. Because the magicians were able, in this case, to mimic the plague again. And Pharaoh pleaded with Moses and Aaron for this disaster to stop. Moses interceded for Pharaoh. The disaster stopped. And then Pharaoh's hard heart was exposed again. Plague number three, the swarming of the gnats. Let's read Exodus 8, verse 16 through 19. Then the Lord said to Moses, Say to Aaron, Stretch out your staff and strike the dust of the earth, so that it may become gnats in all the land of Egypt. And they did so. Aaron stretched out his hand with his staff and struck the dust of the earth, and so there were gnats on man and beast. All of the dust of the earth became gnats in all the land of Egypt. The magicians tried by their secret arts to produce gnats, but they could not. So there was gnats on man and on beast. Then the magician said to Pharaoh, This is the finger of God. But Pharaoh's hard heart Pharaoh's heart was hardened, and he would not listen to them, as the Lord has said. So this time there was no warning, but the Lord did strike Egypt. The magician said, This is the finger of God. And even then, Pharaoh's hard heart was exposed. Plague number four, the swarming of the flags. Exodus 8, verses 20 through 32. The Lord warns Pharaoh this time, verses 20 through 23. The Lord strikes Egypt in verse 24. And Pharaoh here, his response seems remorseful. He seems to be understanding now. He says, sacrifice, but don't go very far away. Plead to the Lord for me. And Moses prayed. The plague ceased, and Pharaoh's hard heart was exposed again. Verses 25 through 32. Chapter 9, the fifth plague, the striking of the livestock. Here, the Lord warns Pharaoh, the Lord struck Egypt, and then the Lord exposes Pharaoh's hard heart And even with the intensing severity of these plagues as they come about, now bringing about death, death of livestock even. Pharaoh's hard heart remained. And even as the plagues would soon start to strike the people themselves, Pharaoh's people. His heart would still remain hard. And we see that with the sixth plague, with the spread of the boils. Exodus 9, verse 8. I'll read those verses for us. Exodus 9, verse 8. And the Lord said to Moses and Aaron, Take handfuls, handfuls of soot from the kinlan, and let Moses throw them in the air in the sight of Pharaoh. It shall become fine dust over all the land of Egypt, and become boils breaking out in sores over man and beasts throughout all the land of Egypt. And so they took the soot from the kinling and stood before Pharaoh, and Moses threw it in the air, and it became boils, breaking out in sores on man and beast. Now maybe it's just me, but I kind of picture LeBron doing his chalk toss at this point, just grabbing it and tossing it in the air These boils went everywhere. And then look at verse 11. The magicians could not stand before Moses because of these boils, for the boils came upon the magicians and upon all the Egyptians. But the Lord hardened the heart of Pharaoh, and he did not listen to them as the Lord has spoken to Moses So this Pharaoh came, this plague came without warning. Egypt was plagued, and Pharaoh's hard heart was exposed again. Pattern continues with plague number seven, descending of hail. Exodus 9, verses 13 through 35. God warns Pharaoh in verses 13 through 21. God plagued or struck Egypt in verses 22 through 26, and then Pharaoh's hard heart was exposed once again, verses 27 through 35 of Exodus chapter 9. All of Egypt was struck by this hail, all except for God's people. Pharaoh pleaded with Moses again. And the Lord showed mercy to Pharaoh and to Egypt once again by relenting from a disaster. And yet Pharaoh's heart remained hard. He did not let God's people go. Plague number eight, the swarming of the locusts. We see that in Exodus chapter 10, verses 1 through 20. Kids, have you been keeping up with the pattern? What do you think is going to happen? What's the pattern? God warns. Who does he warn? Pharaoh God strikes. Where does he strike? Egypt. And what do you think about Pharaoh's heart Going to be hardened once again. So God warns Pharaoh, verses 1 through 20. This is Exodus chapter 10. And then here we see in this chapter that Pharaoh's servants even try to reason with him. They plead with Pharaoh. Let them go already. So Pharaoh caused in Moses and Aaron to try to negotiate again. Moses and Aaron did not agree to those terms, so Pharaoh sent them away, and then therefore Egypt was struck again. God played or struck Egypt. And then Pharaoh calls him back, seeming remorseful this time. He even acknowledged that his hard heart was sinful He asked for this death to be removed from him and from his people. Moses prayed, the Lord relented, and then You guessed it, Pharaoh's heart remained hard. His hard heart was exposed. Plague number nine, the next plague, the spread of darkness. Exodus 10, 21 to 29. No warning this time. The Lord struck Egypt with darkness, and darkness was everywhere, except for where God's people lived. Pharaoh called Moses and Aaron. He told them to go, but he also wanted to negotiate with them. He said, Leave your flocks behind this time. Now remember, the livestock in Egypt was already struck. So Pharaoh says to Moses, you guys can go, but leave your livestock behind. Moses said, no, we must take our livestock with us. All of them. Moses refuses. His hard heart is exposed. He would not let them go. He sent Moses and Aaron away. Excuse me, Pharaoh refuses. He sent Moses and Aaron away. All these plays were like watching God and Pharaoh playing chess God playing not in foolsmates to defeat him in two or three moves, but actually playing the long way The match is in his hands. He knows exactly what he's going to do. But he's actually delaying victory and prolonging the match. How do we know that? Because the first nine plagues, as vicious as they were, would all pale in comparison to the tenth plague, which is previewed in Exodus chapter 11. I'll read that chapter for us. Exodus chapter 11. Where the Lord says to Moses, Yet one more plague I will bring upon Pharaoh and upon Egypt. Afterwards he will let you go from here. When he lets you go, he will drive you away completely. Speak now in the hearing of the people, that they ask every man of his neighbor, and every woman of her neighbor, for silver and gold jury And the Lord gave the people favor in the sight of the Egyptians. Moreover, the man Moses was very great in the land of Egypt, in the sight of Pharaoh, of Pharaoh's servants, and in the sight of the people. So Moses says, Thus says the Lord, About midnight I will go out in the midst of Egypt, and every firstborn in the land of Egypt shall die. From the firstborn of Pharaoh who sits on his throne, even to the firstborn of the slave girl who is behind the handmill, and the firstborn of the cattle. There shall be a great cry throughout all of Egypt, such as has never been heard, nor will ever be heard again. But not a dog shall growl against any of the people of Israel. either man or beast, that you may know that the Lord makes a distinction between Egypt and Israel. And all of these your servant shall come down to me and bow down to me, saying, Get out, all of you All of you who follow you, and after that I will go out. And he went out from Pharaoh in hot anger Then the Lord said to Moses, Pharaoh will not listen to you, that my wonders may be multiplied in the land of Egypt. Moses and Aaron did all these wonders before Pharaoh. And the Lord hardened Pharaoh's heart, and he did not let the people of Israel go out of the land So if those first nine plagues were all leading up to this final plague, which we'll learn about when we're back in Exodus, Exodus chapter 12. The Passover, the death of the firstborn. Why doesn't God just put Pharaoh in checkmate in a few moves? Why the long way? What's the purpose of these plagues? I think two purposes, which leads to our next two parts. The first purpose is to expose Pharaoh's heart And second purpose is to reveal God's glory. So part two is about Pharaoh's heart. Pharaoh's heart. And you may have noticed that Pharaoh's hard heart dominates the narrative of the first nine plagues, and even the tenth plagues. In fact, between Exodus chapter 4 and Exodus chapter 11, there are 16 mentions of Pharaoh's hard heart. And here they are. Exodus 4:21. The Lord said to Moses, When you go back to Egypt, see what see that you do before Pharaoh all the miracles that I have put in your your power, but I will harden his heart so that he will not let the people go. Exodus 7 verse 3. But I will fare will harden Pharaoh's heart, the Lord says. Exodus 7. 13. Still Pharaoh's heart was hardened, and he would not listen to them, as the Lord had said. Verse 14: Then the Lord says to Moses, Pharaoh's heart is hardened, he refuses to let the people go. Verse 22, same chapter. But the magicians of Egypt did the same by their secret arts. So Pharaoh's heart remained hardened, and he would not listen to them as the Lord had said. Chapter 8, verse 15. But when Pharaoh saw that there was respite or relief, he hardened his heart, and he would not listen to them as the Lord had said. Verse 19 of Exodus chapter 8. Then the magician said to Pharaoh, This is the finger of God. But Pharaoh's heart was hardened, and he would not listen to them as the Lord had said. Verse 32, same chapter. But Pharaoh hardened his heart this time also, and he did not let the people go. Chapter 9, verse 7. And Pharaoh sent, and behold, not one of the livestock of Israel was dead. But the heart of Pharaoh was hardened, and he did not let the people go. Verse 12: But the Lord hardened the heart of Pharaoh, and he did not listen to them as the Lord had spoken to Moses. Verse 34. But when Pharaoh saw that the rain and the hail and the thunder had ceased, he sinned yet again and hardened his heart, he and his servants. Verse 35. So the heart of Pharaoh was hardened. He did not let the people of Israel go, just as the Lord has spoken to Moses. Chapter 10, verse 1. Then the Lord said to Moses, Go into Pharaoh, for I have hardened his heart and the heart of his servants, that I may show these signs of mine among them. Verse 20, same chapter. But the Lord hardened Pharaoh's heart and he did not let the people of Israel go. Verse 27, the Lord hardened Pharaoh's heart and he would not let them go. Chapter 11, verse 10. Moses and Aaron did all of these wonders before Pharaoh, and the Lord hardened Pharaoh's heart, and he did not let the people of Israel go out of the land. And there are four more references to Pharaoh's hard heart in chapters 13 and 14 to come. So if you're keeping up. 16 plus 4 equals 20. And there are 20 references to Pharaoh's hard heart in the book of Exodus. And by now, I'm sure you're wondering who's responsible for Pharaoh's hard heart? Is God responsible or is Pharaoh responsible And maybe you looked at the passage ahead of time and you are excited because you were hoping that you would come to church and I would solve this mystery for you. You might be disappointed. Of the 20 references to Pharaoh's heart, 10 of them are referring to God's doing, that God hardened his heart That leaves ten, meaning that Pharaoh hardened his own heart. It's almost like God saying to us, you're not quite gonna, you're not gonna figure me out just yet. I might let you in to see what I'm doing in Pharaoh's heart, but I'm not going to let you know all of my ways. So the Bible's answer is that yes, God hardened Pharaoh's heart. And Pharaoh hardened his own heart. Now you might think, if God is involved somehow in our hearts, wouldn't that make God wrong? We heard in our scripture reading from the Apostle Paul. Absolutely not. Romans 9, verse 17. The scripture says to Pharaoh. For this very purpose I have raised you up, that I might show my power in you, and that my name might be proclaimed in all the earth. So then he has mercy on whomever he wills, and he hardens whomever he wills. But wouldn't God having any kind of involvement in Pharaoh's hard heart, wouldn't that absolve Pharaoh's responsibility? I don't think so. I don't think the Bible teaches that. And in fact, I don't even think Pharaoh believed that. Look at Exodus 9, verse 27. Exodus 9, verse 27. Then Pharaoh sent and called Moses and Aaron and said to them, This time I have sinned. The Lord is right, and I and my people are in the wrong. Same chapter, verse 34. But when Pharaoh saw that the rain and the hail and the thunder ceased, he sinned yet again. and hardened his heart, he and his servants. So the Bible and Pharaoh describe his hard heart as sinful The Lord was wielding Pharaoh's heart for his own purposes. And Pharaoh was hardening his own heart in disobedience to God. And we even see in this passage that Pharaoh's hard heart is on display, is exposed in every way imaginable. When the magicians mimicked God's work, his heart was hard. And even when they couldn't, his heart was hard. When God inflicted judgment on Egypt, his heart was still hard. And when God gave Egypt relief, the result was the same. His heart was hardened So, debating about Pharaoh's heart is interesting. There's scores of commentaries and books for that, and there is a good place for that. But I think the Lord gives us a glimpse into Pharaoh's heart so that we could examine our own hearts. So question: Is your heart hard towards God? Maybe like Pharaoh, you have a hard heart because you think you've seen others do what God can do Or, like Pharaoh, your heart is hard, even despite seeing the things that God can do. Or, maybe your heart is hard because God has heard and answered your prayers. And so therefore you feel no need of him Or maybe you feel the consequences of your sin, and so therefore you feel no use of him Is your heart hard towards God? Now some of us might be wondering, how will we even know if our hearts of are hard? How will we know that? I think that the answer that we get from Exodus, this Exodus passage, is that hard hearts are disobedient. Soft hearts towards God are obedient. So back in Exodus chapter 5, which we went over last time, when Moses and Aaron first appeared before Pharaoh. Pharaoh scoffed and he said, who is the Lord that I should listen to him? That I should obey his voice And then in Exodus 7 through 11, you have these various instructions that were given to Moses and Aaron, and there's no debate, there's no dialogue, there's no discussion. They obey the word of the Lord. And the obedience of Modus and Aaron comes in strike contrast to the disobedience of Pharaoh. So, as we have open ears to hear God's word and obedient wills to follow God's word, we have soft hearts towards God. But that also means that the reverse is true. This will remind us of a few things that the Bible teaches about the heart. A few things. First, a word of warmth From Proverbs 21, verse 1, the king's heart is a stream of water in the hands of the Lord. He turns it wherever he wills. This should warm our hearts and encourage us when we look at the world, and it seems like wicked rulers and wicked kings are winning. God is not out of moves. He's still working. He's playing the long game. But secondly, a word of warning. From Jeremiah chapter 17, verse 9, which says, the heart is deceitful above all things, and desperately sick. Who can understand it? Which means that we can't just follow our hearts. We are called to guard our hearts. Which is, third thing, a word of wisdom from Proverbs 423, which says, keep or guard your heart with all vigilance. For from it flows the springs of life. So Pharaoh's hard heart was exposed. That's part of what the Lord was doing here in this chess match. But why else was he doing it? What was his other purpose? So he was exposing Pharaoh's heart? Next part, part three, to reveal his glory. Part three, God wanted to reveal his glory And God makes it clear in this passage, all throughout the passage, that his purpose is to reveal his glory. He wants his name to be known. This is why none of Pharaoh's negotiation tactics would work. It was not enough for God's people to remain in Egypt to worship. And then it was not enough for them to sit close by but don't go very far. It was not enough for them to be released, but only for the men to be released. It was not enough for them to go but leave their cattle behind. No, God will get his glory through a full and complete deliverance. And he wanted everyone to see his victory. So it's like when sports teams win a championship of some kind, right? They celebrate the day of the game after the game or after the match. And then there's a victory parade. And then they get championship rings. And then, if you're inside of a stadium, they lift up these banners in the rafters. For everyone to be able to see. Or when countries have a military victory, how do they show it at times? They do so by raising their flags. So that all can see their victory. And the victory that the Lord will win for his people was so mighty and so great that the banner of his name was to be exalted above all people. He wanted Pharaoh to see it. He wanted Egypt to see it. He wanted the Israelites to see it. And all of the nations. He wanted them to see his name exalted so that he would get glory. Exodus chapter 7, verse 17. Thus says the Lord, by this you shall know that I am the Lord. Chapter 8, verse 22. But on that day I will set apart the land of Goshen where my people dwell. Why? That you may know that I am the Lord in the midst of the earth And then even in Exodus 9, maybe you want to look there in your Bibles. This is the longest dialogue that, the longest message that the Lord sends to Pharaoh. Starting in verse 13. He's making it clear to Pharaoh, this will not end in a stalemate. The Lord alone will prevail. Chapter 9, verse 13, Thus says the Lord, the God of the Hebrews, let my people go that they may serve me. For this time I will send all my plagues on you yourself. and on your servants and your people, so that you may know that there is none like me in all the earth. For by now I could have put my hand out and struck you and your people with pestilence, and you would have been cut off from the earth But for this purpose I have raised you up to show you my power that my name might be proclaimed in all of the earth God wanted his glory to be shown off. He wanted his glory to be revealed and also revealed and extended to all generations. Exodus chapter 10, verses 1 and 2. The Lord says to Moses, Go into Pharaoh, for I have hardened his heart and the heart of his servants that I may show these signs of mine among them, and that you may tell in the hearing of your son and of your grandson how I have dealt harshly with the Egyptians. And what signs I have done among them, that you may know that I am the Lord. Exodus chapter eleven, verse nine. Then the Lord said to Moses, Pharaoh will not listen to you Why? That my wonders may be multiplied in the land of Egypt. And God was right in wanting his glory to be revealed to all. Why? Because he reveals himself in this passage as the mighty sovereign. Just think about the plagues themselves. All of the plagues demonstrate God's power over all creation. And his ability to crush idols and all rivals. That's what the plagues show us. So the Nile River, for example, due to his due to its vast benefits, was actually also considered as a god. But then the true God, Yahweh, made its water undrinkable. Or think about Ra, the Egyptian sun god, who was also known as the creator God. But what did Yahweh do in Egypt? He made it dark for three days. And Ra could not do a thing about it Or Pharaoh, this king, who was also considered as a God, was made to look foolish in front of his servants by Yahweh, the true king, and the true God. God alone was worthy of worship. Not the Nile River, not any king or anything else in all creation. He was showing that he alone is the mighty sovereign And also the mighty Savior who would save his marked-out and ransomed people. In several passages in Exodus, God explains, and you heard some examples already, that he is making a distinction between his people and the Egyptians. Chapter 8, verse 22 again. But on that day I will make a pala, the Hebrew, which means mark out, I will mark out the land of Goshen where the Israelites were. Chapter 9, verse 4. Yahweh will pala, as in mark out or distinct, or separate the livestock of Israel and the livestock of Egypt. Chapter 11, verse 7, but not a dog shall growl growl against any of the people of Israel, either man or beast, that you may know that the Lord, Pala. Or distincts or separates or marks out between Egypt and Israel. And then back to Exodus chapter 8, verse 23. I will make a, not a pala, a padut, which actually means ransom. I will make a ransom between my people and your people. The mighty sovereign, therefore, would save by ransoming his marked-out people. I think that's a decent summary of the book of Exodus. And I think that's a decent summary of the Bible Because that was God's plan all along. That's what He would be doing all along. That's what He does from cover to cover. He is saving, and He's showing as the mighty sovereign, He's the only one that can save And who's he saving? He's saving his marked out people. How is he saving them? By ransoming them And the Lord will save his people by sending his son Jesus to become a ransom for his marked-out people. That's what Jesus says about his coming He's come not to be served, but to serve. Matthew chapter 20, verse 28. And to give his life as a ransom for many. Jesus, the Son of God, was sent to this world and he lives a perfect life in perfection and in obedience to God. He always listened to God's voice. And he lived And then he eventually would go to the cross. Why? Not because of his sin, he had no sin, but it was to give his life as a ransom. For those of us, all of us, who have sinned against God. And he was lifted up on the cross, and that that crucification looks like it was defeat. But actually, that was the Lord declaring and displaying his victory for all to see. Because Jesus will prevail against sin, Satan, death, hell, and the grave when he rose on the third day. And Jesus now is still calling people. Out of slavery from sin, out of darkness, out of slavery from Satan, and he is proclaiming right now: let my people go that they may worship me. So if you are here this morning and you recognize that you have not recognized the Lord Christ as the one that can save you, if your heart is hard towards Him If you hear his voice, the Bible says, do not harden your heart. You can give your heart to the Lord Jesus even today by faith And we would love to talk to you about what that means if you've recognized that your heart is hard against God. But he has given you a way of escape, a salvation through his Son Jesus Christ. You can give him your heart even today. And brothers and sisters in Christ, the Lord has glorified himself by ransoming his marked-out people. And so we are called to glorify him in response. And there's a beautiful picture of this in Exodus chapter 10. George Fleason, when we were talking about the sermon, he pointed this out to me a few days ago. Exodus 10, verse 21: The Lord says to Moses, Stretch out your hand towards heaven, that there may be darkness over the land of Egypt, and darkness to be felt. So not just seen, but felt. Verse 22, Moses stretched out his hand towards heaven, and there was pitched darkness over all the land of Egypt for three days. They did not see one another, nor did anyone rise from his place for three days. But all the people of Israel had light where they lived. Isn't that beautiful? That means, brothers and sisters, even in the midst of the darkness in this world that we see and that sometimes we acutely feel, don't be mistaken. The Lord has a plan. The Lord is still on the move, and he will get his glory. And in the meantime, we are called to live as children of the light, even in the darkest of places. And that's part of our mission as a church. We exist to glorify God. By being disciples and making disciples of Jesus. That's what Jesus teaches in Matthew chapter 5. Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good deeds and glorify your Father who is in heaven. So, beloved, since God's glory prevails over the mightiest of kings and the hardest of hearts, we respond to that by faith, by living lives that bring glory to Him. Which brings us to part four. In closing, a few points of application, our response. Part four, our response. First of all, since God's glory prevails, obey his voice and live for his glory. Since God's glory prevails, obey his voice and live for his glory. We are called, brothers and sisters, to encourage one another. Today, so that none of our hearts are hardened by the deceitfulness of sin. As it says in Hebrews chapter 3. So maybe as a believer, as a follower of in the Lord Jesus Christ, you feel that your heart is hard in some way, in some area. I encourage you to share that with a brother or sister in Christ today. Maybe Sharon later this week in your small group. Pull someone aside and say, hey, we need to talk, but we need to really talk. Sit down. Let's talk some more. And as we obey the Lord, as we hear from his word and obey his voice, we give glory to him with our lives. And as we heard from the text, there will be light even where there's darkness. So, even where and when it's dark, beloved, live for the Lord. Even where and when it's dark, beloved, share the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ with others so that they too can be set free from slavery. Us even seeing it into Pharaoh's heart is a good picture for us, is a good depiction. Because Pharaoh is not just mighty who's just making his decision. He's not a boss. The Bible shows us that his heart is hard And that even he, with all of his might, will be defeated. So even if there's someone who thinks or they think they have it all together, or you think that they think they have it all together. The Lord is the one that exposes hearts. Share the gospel with them and allow the Lord to do his work. None of us can peer into anyone's heart. But our job is to be light, and we do so by sharing how they can be set free by Jesus, the light of the world. Secondly, Since God's glory prevails, pray that he would be glorified and trust that he will be glorified Pray that he would be glorified and trust that he will be. So as you see sin abound in our world, as you see suffering around us, as you experience hardship and trials in your own life. As wicked rulers and kings seem to be having their way and doing whatever they please, as evil continues to look like it's winning? When it seems like God is out of moves, one thing you can do in response is pray, Lord, be glorified, even through this. Lord be glorified in my life, even right now, and trust that eventually he will be and all will see it. Revelation chapter 1, verse 7. Behold, he, as in the Lord Jesus Christ, is coming with the clouds, and every eye will see him. Even those who pierced him, and all the tribes of the earth will well on account of him. Even so. Amen. Because the Lord does have a plan. He is not out of moves. He will be glorified, and ultimately he will prevail over all, and every eye will see it. Let's pray. Lord, we praise you once again this morning that you are not out of moves. You are not unsure of what to do. You are not perplexed. You are not confused. You are on the throne. You are in control We admit, Lord, we would want you to move in various different ways a lot faster than you seem to. But Lord, we want to commit our hearts to you and we want to trust you. That you will be glorified. We thank you for the example that you give us in your word to show us that even through what seemed like the darkest and hardest of matters, you still would get your glory. Lord, thank you for the cross of your Son Jesus Christ, which proves to all of us that even in the darkest of matters, even when it seems that evil is winning, you will be glorified. And Lord, help us remember that you will be glorified and want to be glorified even through our lives. So help us to live as your people to bring glory to you. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen.