I have a membership at a gym called Planet Fitness. And it's only $10 a month, which frankly is ideal because you can avoid going and say to yourself, oh, it's only $10. That's basically like what two lattes? Not even. I remember getting an advertisement in the mail from Planet Fitness. It said it read, Judgment Free Zone. Okay, so a room full of treadmills and swinging dudden bills, nobody's judging each other, really? Up on the wall, there's this like 10-foot long sign that says Planet Fitness Equals No Criticism On the weight bench is is a sign that says you belong. So a weight bench is telling me that I belong. What exactly is that supposed to do for me? Well, when I see this kind of messaging, my mind goes to the folks. in suits, sitting in boardrooms, thinking through their marketing and their messaging They recognize rightly that people desire a sense of belonging, apart from judgment Or criticism. We want a judgment-free zone. So they offer this gospel message. We'll make you a more beautiful version of yourself But according to your own standards. No judgment here. And that's what we want, isn't it? We want planets, fitnesses, marketing, message. It it taps into some of our deepest human belongings or longings belonging without judgment. It's for its part, it's clever marketing, right? Now, God too has established his version of Planet's Fitness, a program for making the planet fit, or at least spiritually fit. It's a place to help you grow in spiritual vitality and health, but to do so as you enjoy a deep sense of belonging. God's program is called Marriage. Now you might be thinking, Jonathan, that's one of the weirdest analogies you started with. Okay, maybe. Just hang in there for a bit. Listen to what Paul David Tripp says about marriage. Marriage is not a container for your happiness, but a workroom of God's grace. He also remarks, your marriage will never be the paradise you longed for. You were created for paradise. But now is not paradise. Now is preparation, not destination. We're in a three-part topical series on marriage. We've covered marriage in creation in the fall. Today we think about marriage in Redemption. And I pray that you find the applications helpful whether you're married or not married this morning. As you can see in your bulletins, I have seven points to make I'll spend the most times on points one and two, and we'll be drawing mostly from Ephesians 2 and 5. Go ahead and turn to Ephesians 5. Point 1 Marriage exists to display the gospel of grace. Now this lesson actually starts in Louisville, Kentucky, at Southern Seminary. just signed up for the doctrine of the church class. Notice I didn't say doctrine of marriage, I said doctrine of the church class. And in one of the first minutes of the first class, the professor asked us to open to this text and read it and look at verse 31, where Paul quotes Genesis 2 and he says, Therefore a man shall leave his father and mother, and hold fast to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. Okay, there's marriage, right? This mystery is profound, and I am saying that it refers to Christ and the church. And the professor went on to explain that it's backward to think that salvation points to marriage. Really, it's marriage. That points to salvation and Christ's love for the church. Turn back to Ephesians 1. Keep your finger in 5. Turn back to 1. Look at verse 4. He chose us in him before the foundation of the world. In other words, before Genesis 1 and 2 Before the creation of the world, God had a plan for Christ to go and win his bride And unite her to himself. And then he creates marriage to point toward this greater eternal reality. Marriage is a sign, a symbol, a shadow of the substance of the greater thing. Now back in chapter 5, verse 32. Chapter 5, verse 232, what does Paul say? He says this mystery is profound. Have you spent a lot of time thinking about this profound mystery? If you haven't spent time thinking about this connection between marriage And salvation, you're missing something profound. You're missing the profundity of it. What do we see when we when we meditate on this? connection between marriage and the gospel and salvation and Christ's love for his bride. That's what we want to do if if we want to know that which is profound, this mystery which is profound. Profound. Point one, I said, is that marriage exists to display this gospel of grace. What is the gospel of grace? Well, flip back to chapter 2. How does Paul talk about it in this very letter? Well, it's the fact that God has united a sinful people to himself. And to one another, not because of what we done, but as a gift of his grace. Look at verses 8 and 9, chapter 2, 8. For by grace you have been saved through faith And this is not your own doing, it is a gift of God, not a result of works, so that no one may boast Okay, so we're we're united to him, but that's not all. Keep keep looking. Look down at verse fifteen. But now in Christ Jesus, you who are once far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ, for he himself Jew and Gentile is our peace, who made us both, formerly at war, made us both one. And has broken down in his flesh the dividing wall of hostility. Look at verse 15. Christ created in himself one new man in the place of two. So making peace. He reconciles us to him, and then it says he reconciled us both to God in one body through the cross, thereby killing the hostility. What is the gospel? It's nothing that Planet Fitness can offer. It's the message that a judgment-free zone exists, but it exists at the foot of the cross Where judgment has been poured not on us, but on Christ, if only you will repent and believe It's the message that you can belong to God and God's people. It's the message that all of this is a gift of grace. Not because you're beautiful or righteous. Now, friend, if you're here this morning and you don't understand yourself to be a Christian, you're thinking to yourself, okay, so this is a a sermon on on marriage? Well, yes. But even more than that, I'm saying to you, this is a sermon that uses marriage to point to the gospel, the good news of Christianity. Okay, how exactly does marriage do that Well, you'll remember if you were here two weeks ago when you talked about marriage and the fall. What happens in marriage? Well, two unrelated people come together by choice. And by covenantal commitment. And that choice, that covenantal commitment, is even stronger than blood, biology Because God does it. Through our covenantal commitment, God declares us one. And then the act of Physical intimacy simply illustrates and seals that oneness. The two become one flesh. A man leaves his father and mother, cleaves to his wife. And the two become one flesh. And this covenantal commitment becomes the basis for a judgment-free zone. Where the two are naked and unashamed, not because they're beautiful, but because they're covenantally, by God, committed to one another. Again, how does this point to salvation? Well, because Christ, a perfect bridegroom, comes to a people who are not spotless, who are not perfect. In fact, who are rebellious and repellent, unattractive and unfaithful And he covenantly commits himself to us. He says, my beloved. And he says, I do. While we were yet sinners, Christ died for us, Paul says elsewhere in the New Testament And what this means, friends, is that in order for our marriages to do their work in pointing to the gospel, they must be places of abundant grace. Giving. So amidst the disappointment, the frustrations, the distractions. Realize that a much bigger game is going on here. Your marriage finally is a workshop to point toward this greater salvation. So I remember when Shannon and I first got married and she left Louisville and joined me in Washington, D. C. And the first two or three Sundays there, this brand new bride felt overwhelmed by the church that we were a part of. And I remember first couple of Sundays she walked out with Tears in her eyes. And I was annoyed. What is wrong with you that you would not simply love this church that I love? Can't you see how great this church is? What character deficiencies is showing in you? Well, gratefully, I'd been taught to counter those truths, those lies with truth. Jonathan, your marriage exists to point to the gospel. The very frustrations that you feel are God intended So that you can learn to put your hope in the gospel and encourage others to do the same through your marriage That brings us to point two. Look at point two in your handout. Marriage exists not just to display, but to train us in gospel grace. Go back to Ephesians 5. Look at verse 22. Wives, submit to your husbands as to the Lord. And look at verse 25. Husbands love your wives as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her Right now, I don't want to think about what distinguishes husbands and wives, but what they share in common. We'll get to the distinctions a little later. We're both in common. We're both oriented toward the Lord Jesus Christ. were both to submit to him so as to point to him. The point is him, not us. It's all about him. Marriage trains us in gospel grace in at least two ways. First, we're to give grace, like our Lord did. A second, we're to fight for holiness to which our Lord calls us. First, we give grace so that we can live inside of this unshakable embrace of acceptance and love, this workroom of God's grace and built-in belonging, second inside of that workroom Of belonging is a fight for holiness and devotion to one another in all kinds of ways. So, first, marriage trains us for gospel grace by teaching us to give grace. So why why was I upset when Shannon and I walked out of the church and she didn't love the church immediately as much as I did? Well, in that moment, she wasn't living up to my standards. She wasn't meeting my expectations. She wasn't loving exactly what I love in the way that I love it. And that failure to meet one another's expectations is a huge cause, in my experience and my what I've seen, a huge cause of marital angst and unhappiness and frustration. You're not quite the person who I expected you to be. You don't love me exactly as I expected you to love me. You don't like my hobbies the way I expected you to like my hobbies. You're not always in a good mood like I expected you to be. You say insensitive things I didn't expect. You're not romantic like you were, and like I expected. And on and on Now, some of those expectations are unreasonable. You're not anticipating my every thought and desire like I expected you to. But some of those expectations are quite reasonable. I expected you to be kind, to pray with me. In John 13, Jesus was referring to the church, but I think his words apply equally well to a Christian marriage. He says, Just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another. By this all people will know that you are my disciples if you have love for one another. How will people know that we're his disciples if we love one another? But typically, you know somebody's a disciple because you love the teacher. You follow the teacher. But he says, no, no, as you love one another, they'll know you're my disciples. How does that work? Well, it's the sentence before it. Just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another. How is he loved us? Forgivingly. Graciously. In other words, we too have failed to meet expectations. We fail to meet Christ's expectations And we fail to keep our word to him, to be kind to him, to wake up in the morning and seek him. And yet, in spite of all of that, he has loved us faithfully and unconditionally and graciously. Likewise, husbands and wives, so you are to love one another, graciously, forgivingly, forbearingly. And as you do, you point to The gospel. So, married brothers and sisters in the room this morning, how are you doing at showing grace to your spouse? You keep a record of wrongs. Have you let your heart get embittered? Have you stopped giving the benefit of the doubt because I know what she's gonna say? Have you stopped being delighted in your spouse? Like you were delighted when you were dating. And if so, could it be that you're missing the very point for which God has you married? Could it be that the very point for which he has you married is to receive those things and to forgive and still show delight? Unmarried folk, God means for you to practice these very same things in the church. Marriage just turns the volume up a little bit, it speeds up the treadmill. On that exercise, but we are all called to exercise that same kind of forgiving, forbearing, patience, showing, delighting in my fellow church members, delighting in my friends kind of love. As I have loved you, so you also are to love one another. Consider this. The number one problem in my marriage is any guesses The number one problem in my marriage is my own self-righteousness. It's hard to give grace when you are self-righteous It's hard to forgive when you don't remember that you too need to be forgiven When you are self-righteous, you impose standards. Your standards of how you should be greeted when you arrive home I was expecting a little more delight when I walked through the door and not for you to keep staring at the computer. Self-pity shows up Your delights of your standards of what to do with a bathroom towel. Your standards of intimacy. Your standards of how to celebrate your birthday. Your standards for what helping around the house looks like. And of course, there's no way another person can live up to all of your standards, so they disappoint you and you let them know that, perhaps loudly. I can't believe you didn't. Perhaps quietly and passively. One way or another we let them know. Now, what does Romans 2 say? His kindness, not his standards, his kindness leads us to repentance. Let me ask you: who would you rather spend time with? The person who is continually correcting you for failing to meet their standards, whether aggressively or passively? Or? The person who delights to be with you, even with all of your frustrating points and warts and disappointing points and your sin. Who do you want to be with I think there's a good word for parents here too. Do our children mostly feel correction from us or do they mostly feel delight from us? Giving grace and delight go together They're fixed to one another. We we give grace when somebody does wrong and yet we love them anyway. We delight in them. That's all right. I forgive you. I just love being with you. You're great. What husband doesn't want to be delighted in. What wife doesn't want to be delighted in. Like God saying at the creation of the world, this is very good Is that your heart towards your spouse? Does she feel it? Does he feel it? You are very good. And how do you think someone becomes a better spouse? By being delighted in or by being ignored, dismissed, corrected, continually, pushed down And who do you think is the better spouse? The delighted in one or the not delighted one in? So married folk in here this morning, if I were to ask your spouse. Would they say, yes, my husband, my wife, delights in me And I think the answer to that question reveals, what is point two? How you're doing in giving grace. A number of years ago, when my girls were still very little, I noticed a certain defensiveness showing up in my wife. Where in the first year or two of marriage, she had always been quick to confess failure when uh something went wrong. I noticed that she was getting increasingly defensive. I I I noticed a certain severity. In her tone, with the children creeping in, a defensiveness with me, and my first thought was, well, I need to correct that. I need to instruct here. But then something clicked in my head, and I remember stopping and thinking, what's it like to be my wife What kind of environment and home is she living in and swimming in and feeling all day? Does she feel like she lives in an environment of grace, couragement, forgiveness, delight in her Or an environment of instruction and correction. It was immediately clear to me it's probably more of the latter. On a couple of occasions, she had even used the word diminished with me, that she felt diminished by me What are you talking about? How? I'm patient. I don't shout. I don't raise my voice. I'm not verbally abusive. Well, behind the instruction and correction was some measure of disappointment. And she could feel my disappointment. Disappointment that she wasn't keeping the house like I wanted. Disappointment that we didn't do more hospitality. Disappointed that she couldn't keep track with my pace and my ambitions, and so what's going on? Well, on the outside, I'm living like a man who is above reproach. Paul talks about when he's describing the characteristics of elders, respectable, patient, managing his household well. But at the same time, I'm living like Moses, continually coming down the mountain with law in hand, except not his law, with my law. The subtle message was: you need to live up to my law, my standards, or I'll be disappointed. Living in that environment, of course, she would grow. In defensiveness toward me, severity toward children That was the rules of the home. That was the game on the field that I had established in my self-righteous ways. Now, friends, your self-righteousness may not look like mine. It actually might look like laziness instead of work. It might look like rule breaking instead of rule keeping. But would you believe me if I told you the number one problem in your marriage is your self-righteousness. In some form or fashion, your pride. Which insists on a certain book of rules. And through all of this, it occurred to me: Christ is so much more gracious with me than I am with my wife. How he embraces me all day, every day. Even at the end of the day, in which I've kind of spent it mindless of him I've ignored him all day, and then I turn him and I say, Oh Jesus. And he says, Yep, here I am. I love you. How he continually makes me feel like a favored one. And we take such good care of me. There's no doubt in my mind that Jesus is for me. That I deserve it When I stop and reflect on my Lord Jesus Christ, I know I live in an environment of grace and mercy and affirmation and support and encouragement and belonging, and I want to keep his law. Feel strong? So am I loving and embracing and forgiving Shannon in a way so that she feels strong and empowered and encouraged by me able to quickly and easily give to others because I've given to her. Again, what do you think truly transforms people? Is it the law Or is it the kindness of God? What enables us to keep the law? Is it pushing the law again and again, or is it the grace of God and kindness of God? Now I said practicing gospel grace involves two things, giving grace and fighting for holiness. And I hope you can see now how the two things really are One, as we fight to be like Jesus by giving grace and recognize our own need for grace, we simultaneously are fighting for holiness. We're fighting to be consecrated to Him and like Him or the non-married folks in the room. I trust you can see how all of these lessons utterly apply to you in the life of the church. Again, is your posture towards others one fundamentally of criticism? Or charity? Grace. Is your posture pointing toward what you demand or to what he has given? Gift of grace? Number three. Marriage's gospel purpose serves everyone, the married and unmarried, the Christian and the non-Christian. That's why it's so easy to keep applying this to the non-married in the room. As I said a moment ago, God wove this institution into the very fabric of creation so that all humanity Whether Christians have traveled to that island or not, so that all humanity would have this symbol, this shadow of Christ's love for the church Even non-Christians, that is to say, can benefit from this glorious lesson that God hardwires into the design of creation itself. Think about how people love rom-coms. Romantic comedies. People love a good romantic ending because that impulse is common to humanity. Even the artsy film that revels in darkness and Bad endings, tragic endings, are doing what they do in deliberate contrast to the paradigm for which we were all designed. A happy ending, a happy romance. What's unhealthy then is to build your picture of marriage and relationships based on the rom-coms. So think about it. You watch a romantic movie, you have two people, they come together, there's originally or initially some kind of attraction. But then some misunderstanding shows up, some case of confused identity shows up, there's a fight, there's a split. But then the confusion, the mistaken identity is resolved and they come together and happily ever after. That's basically the formula for all of them. And so you're watching those movies as a single and you think to yourself, yeah, okay, that that's that's what I'm waiting for, that's what I want And sometimes when you're married, maybe on the worst days, you're watching that movie and you think, it doesn't quite always feel that way, does it? My marriage doesn't feel like that right now. Why not? Well, there's several things going on here worth mentioning first it's God's grace to the non-Christians that they can see and experience and participate in those good gifts of God, because those good gifts of God are pointing to an even greater gift of God, which they need. So how good of it is to him to give it to them and to all of us. Right? Non-Christians really do forgive one another, overlook one another's faults, and enjoy romance. Gives them a whiff for the real thing. The trouble is we know that in this world such romance almost never, never lasts. Why not? Well, because romance is merely the sign or the shadow. To put it another way, that romance is the gift packaging. It's not the gift inside. It's just a it's just a pretty wrapper and the bow. Inside the gift Is this covenantal commitment between us two sinners involving the sacrifice of self and pointing to Christ? That's the gift. So, what happens when you pick up the gift package, you shake it, nothing's inside? Well, you'll enjoy the wrapper and the ribbing for uh ribbons for a little bit. But eventually you're going to put it down and you're going to throw it away. And so the marriage, the relationship doesn't last. What are rom-coms? They're stories about the gift packaging. They're delightful, but the point of the packaging is to open it up and see what's inside. And that brings us to an implication of Paul's lesson in point four. Look at point four. Knowing marriage's gospel purpose keeps us from making too much of marriage When I was 13, I watched Princess Bride. I trust you guys have heard of not seen, at least heard of The Princess Bride. I I loved it. I I loved the romance. When I turned 29, I met a woman who made me feel romantic, like the Princess Bride, Shannon. And so I married her. And then as I said to you a moment ago, things didn't quite go in the first weeks and months like I expected. It didn't feel like the princess bride in those early days of marriage. Selfish 31 s single me got married but was still, as I've told you before, a single guy. I just happened to be in a marriage I had my agenda. I had a high opinion of myself and my agenda. But now I'm living with another sinner. Whom I thought, if I'm being totally honest, was maybe a little bit more of a sinner than I was. And so feelings of romance which formerly flowed now ebbed and flowed I remember in that first year picking up a book on marriage in which the author, an older man, was ooing and eyeing, gooing and gawing over his wife in rhapsodic delight. And I just thought, ah, I'm not feeling that right now. I don't think I want to finish this book. Put it down. And there was some self-pity there. Why don't I feel this romance? Well, at this moment I had a wrong view of marriage. In my mind, marriage was supposed to be paradise, not a pointer to paradise. Oh, what's the re- what's the title of George Clooney and um What's her names? Movie. Julia Roberts. Ticket to Paradise. That's what I was. Is it marriage a ticket to. . . Paradise. I was putting too much or the wrong kind of weight on marriage. That was the princess bride legacy in my life. Marriage had become kind of an idol. you might say, and so of course idols, no matter how good they are, disappoint, because they're filling the space that God alone is meant to Feel. God alone is supposed to be standing in. They can't do that job. They can't lift that weight. Understanding, therefore, that marriage is not paradise, but a pointer to paradise, a pointer to Christ's love for the church Allows marriage to be restored to its proper place. It allows marriage to breathe. and be what marriage is supposed to be, a pointer, a wonderful pointer pointing to something even more wonderful, exciting, rhapsodic The symbol should be good. You don't get a bad thing pointing to a good thing. No, it should be a good thing pointing to a great thing. That's the point. Well, so how do we do this? How do we restore marriage to its rightful place? Look at point five. Physical beauty and romance point to the supernatural Beauty and romance. Flowers and gifts point to forgiveness and grace. The glory of marital love does not fundamentally depend on flowers or poetry in bed and breakfast or restaurants with $40 entrees. The glory of marriage is found in the fact, not that we say I do, but there were two sinners saying I do, and then we do. I do forgive you. I do, amidst all of that, completely and totally love you and delight in you. And even as I get to know all that, deeper and deeper, all that ugliness of your heart and mine, deeper and deeper, I still delight in you. I do embrace you I do want you to know that you're safe here and that I'm with you. I support you. I'm an advocate for you. I do want you to put away. All those laws by which you're measuring yourself and guilting yourself because they don't make you more valuable in Jesus' eyes or in my eyes. So friends, do you want romance? I think start here. Start at the gospel. Start with a forgiving, not proud, not rude, not easily angered, keeping no record of wrongs, love. Start with a love that cherishes the sinner because you know how much God cherishes you and cherishes the one to whom you're married. Now, I'm not saying you should neglect date night or romance. I'm saying those aren't the engines that make the car move. A vision of the gospel. And you and your spouse's place in the gospel is the engine that makes the car move. Romance Is the road on which we travel, but it doesn't make us go By God's grace, what we've discovered, Shannon and I have discovered, is that in the early years of marriage were spent figuring out some of these frustrations and disappointments and foiled expectations The latter years have been spent very much enjoying a deeper and more profound forms of union and intimacy. Both the packaging and the gift inside. The packaging. The engine and the road. I'm I'm I'm mixing metaphors quite a bit, but I think you're with me. Honestly, it's hard for me to describe to you how natively self-sufficient, self-righteous, selfish I am. God really had to pick an amazing woman to be the tool which goes up against that. Poor woman. Yet God has used her to help me depend on another person. Trust another person, open myself up to another person, to need another person in a right and healthy way To focus my mind and heart so forgetfully on another person. And each of these movements, this depending, this trusting, this needing, this focusing, requires grace And in that, God has made the unity and love and affection and intimacy only stronger between the two of us. Again, both the gift packaging and the gift. At the same time, he's used marriage to fit me more for relationship and love and unity, not just with her. But with you, other Christians, unity with him. So the treadmill, the dumbbells are doing. Far more than Planet Fitness. I recognize, friends, I'm talking about me a lot, I'm sorry. I guess that's because it's the illustration I know best. And I trust you, see, I'm saying the same is true for you. You want real romance? How do you get there? Building a healthy marriage is not finally a matter of mastering certain communication techniques, though those are useful for their part. You build it through the gospel. Your besetting sins and selfishnesses and self-righteousnesses will look, as I said, different than mine. Your pathway through the gospel, however, is the same Step one, recognize you're a sinner who needs to go to the foot of the cross. Step two, recognize that at the foot of the cross there's no room for self-righteousness. Step three, receive the grace of Christ's payment, burial, resurrection. Step four The new resurrected you, walking in newness of life, accepting his healing and wholeness of Christ's work in your life, you become then a conduit of grace. And grace giving and delight sharing. I delight in you I once received an email from her when I was out of town relating how she heard a a song on the radio by by some artist about the different Kinds of men, and she was thanking me for loving and leading her and the girls and shepherding her heart and their hearts, and how I fought hard for all of their sakes, and how at the conclusion of just thinking on these things, my self-sacrifice is what elicited feelings of romance. And I thought, well, that's that's a different approach to romance. That's not quite chocolates and flowers. Self-sacrifice, huh? Is that that does it? Dumb guy. A feeling of romance grew up in her in response to see this self-sacrifice and embrace and commitment to her and her good. More broadly, what does forgiving Christ's exalting marriage look like? Points six and seven. Point six. Wives, with your eyes on Christ, your job is to submit to your life, to your husband's lead, to his good, and the fulfillment of your redemption Ephesians 5, so let's let's look at that text one more time. Ephesians 5, verses 22 and 3. Wives, submit to your husbands is to the Lord. The husband is the head of the wife, he is in his Christ as the head of the church, his body, and is himself its savior. Now, as the church submits to Christ, so also wives should submit to husmit in everything to their husbands. Two things to observe in this text. First, Paul's addressed wives, wives submit to your husbands as to the Lord. You submit to someone offering obedience, not finally to him, but to him. He doesn't deserve your obedience as such. He's not perfect. He will fail you, but he does deserve your obedience. And what you're giving to him is fundamentally for him, who never fails. That's exactly what he's doing. Believe in your use your husband's failures for your good. Therefore you don't need to fear. As 1 Peter 3 puts it. And that said, single women Make sure you submit to a man who's worth submitting to. The second thing I want you to notice in this text is that your submission to your husband is to be, as it says verse 24, in everything. This does not mean into sin, of course. Nor does this mean you slavishly ask his permission for every single thing you do. The point here is there's not some area of your life that you cordon off. Okay, this area is mine, not yours. That works against the very oneness. To which husbands and wives are to be in everything, and that he is to lead you toward. He bears responsibility for the relationship as a whole. Just as a Christian submits to Christ in everything. What about those areas in which you are more clearly competent than he is. Well in those areas, bring your competencies, your resumes of skills and gifts to the task and submit them to his leadership, be the expert consultant, as it were. In my family, Shannon is far more administrative and detailed oriented to you than I am. I I bring leadership, but then she brings all of those glorious gifts to bear and how we both benefit from them. Now, wives, how how does loving your husband with this kind of submissive love then point to romance? How does it lead to romance? Well, I think it means that you Prize your husband and you prize who God made him. It means you are your husband's biggest fan It means you are eager to learn what he is like and to affirm his uniquenesses and strengths as good. It means that when he sets the trajectory of your lives together with your help, he feels your hand on his back saying, come on, let's go. And I think that kind of love produces something very beautiful. Strangely, by entrusting yourself to him, your husband. You're demonstrating your ultimate trust in Christ, to him. That means you let your husband bear the burden of worry and stress For Christ has called the church to yield her anxieties to him. Submit to your skills to him, work hard, then let him carry the burden. It's your problem. You figure it out. That means you look to your husband as your rest. You don't look elsewhere, whether to people or activities or substances to be your emotional comfort. Let him be your comforter. And encourage him daily to seek Christ so that he learns to give comfort like his master to Christ. For the church finds her rest in Christ Sisters, this means that you prize his ideas and words more than anyone else's, more than your parents, more than your girlfriends, more than finally your own. Again, think of how the church is called to love the word of Christ. This means, sisters, that his glory, your husband's glory, is your glory. You don't have individual things to boast about. You're not competing or trying to prove yourselves to one another. And just as Christ's glory is a Christian's glory, so you seek to increase his reputation among outsiders and among your children by honoring him with your words always Sisters, this means that you will equip, honor, strengthen, and love Christ by seeing your husband Increase as a leader in your marriage. Your goal is to empower him, make him strong, let him know that you're not afraid of his strength. But that you value his strength in all things. And you want him to grow in leadership and grow in strength, but a strength of gentleness and meekness Point seven, finally, husbands. With your eyes on Christ, your job is to lead your wife toward the fulfillment of her redemption. What does the text say to us, brothers? Look at verse 25. Husbands, love your wives, as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her Look at verse 27. So that he might present the church to himself in splendor, without spot or wrinkle, or any such thing, that she might be holy and without blemish. Brothers, why are you married? Well, the point of this text is to love her redemptively. To help lead her toward The fulfillment of her redemption, her being made perfect before God. No, you are not her redeemer, but you are to mimic and follow in the footsteps of her redeemer so that she can learn what her redeemer is like. So that when he shows up, she thinks, I kind of recognize you. But my my husband's been acting like you Ah this is what he's been pointing me to all along. The Christ died to save the church and to make the church holy before the Father. That was his aim and ambition. Brother husbands, helping your wife to become holy must also be your uppermost aim and ambition in Marriage. God has given you her, so that she can what learn what, as I said, he looks like as she watches You. I think the natural tendency of us guys in marriage is to say I should be able to be completely myself with my wife. Say whatever I want to say, think, and feel. Well, if she exists to validate you in your natural and selfish state, sure Yet what if she exists to teach you how to sacrifice yourself and point her to Christ, even as Christ did for you You're gonna say whatever you think? What this means, brothers, is that when we wake up in a funk or we get to the end of a long day and we're exhausted or we Sit and watch her do that thing that annoys us, or she fails to meet our expectations about something, or she spends too much money. Or when the wells of romantic feeling run a little dry, or when she fails us in more dramatic ways. We do not sit back and sulk and say, I'm not satisfied, I'm not happy, not fulfilled. No, no, these are the very things we expect. Because we understand that this marriage is a workroom for God's grace In which we're giving such grace. God intends us for us to be husbands right there with her in those moments Showing her grace and the working out then therefore of her redemption. That is our job. That is our purpose in her life. That's why we were given wives. That's why we were given marriage. When we said I do, we were saying I do to that job. to all of that, to actively preparing her for the coming of her Savior by showing her what he will look like Which means, brothers, we're to put all that other stuff, all that youthful stuff, that immature stuff, out of our heads What does this look like? Very concretely, it means, brothers, we are called to take initiative and ending arguments by choosing gracious, if need be, apologetic words. It means we have nothing left to prove because we are done with self-justification, self-righteousness, because we've been justified in Christ. It means we take the initiative and spiritual leadership in the home, primarily as Ephesians says, by cleansing her with the washing with water through the Word. The word of the gospel, which is quick on our lips. It means we don't have to require perfection of her today. We're playing the long game. The question is not how do I get her to be the wife I want right now? The question is how do I help her look more like Jesus over the next 50 years? Brothers, it means even when she is behaving toward us in a way that is sometimes frustrating or perhaps even sinful, we take the initiative in exemplifying the patience and forgiveness of Christ. That's how Christ has loved and forgiven us. It means she is our number one priority, more than friends, more than work, more than parents, more than career aspirations, more than hobbies, more even finally than our children. Christ did not lay down his life for anyone else, for the church. Well, there it is. Seven steps to romance. Sacrificial, obedient. Submissive, Christ exalting, self-sacrificial love And it's marriages like these which display the gospel of the glory of God by showing them in our own homes and how we love one another. As I have loved you, so you must love one another. By this all men will know you are my disciples by your love for one another. Husbands and wives. That is our program. Church, that is our program. It begins with his love for us. Isn't that amazing? Let's pray Lord Jesus, we give you thanks and praise for the way that while we were yet sinners, you died for us. Forgive us for the way we are so quick to judge others. Criticize others, including the ones that you've given to us as our spouses, including our fellow church members. We pray that in your mercy and grace you would teach us your mercy and grace again and again and deeper and deeper so that we might, as we participate and partake of your mercy and grace, we might extend that same mercy and grace to others. Especially our spouses. We pray this in the Son's name. Amen