Well, good morning. If uh you have your Bibles with you, please join me in the book of Psalms. We'll be in chapter 33 today. If you don't have a Bible, there's probably a hardcover uh black Bible somewhere in the row near you that you can uh take and look. Um I think the page number for the Black Bibles is 463. Uh while you're turning there, I always like to give some music recommendations uh that augment the themes or the passages. That we're talking about. So if you're looking for some good music later in the week, I would recommend the songs Altar of Love by Down Here. The song Sparrow and the Seed by John Van Dusen. And then the song The Love of Jesus by Andrew Osenga. So, okay, today we will be examining Psalm 33. I'll begin this morning by reading our scripture text. And then I'll lead us in a word of prayer. So let's go ahead and read the chapter, picking up in Psalm 33, verse 1. Shout for joy in the Lord, O you righteous. Praise befits the upright. Give thanks to the Lord with the lyre. Make melody to him with the harp of ten strings. Sing to him a new song. Play skillfully on the strings with loud shouts. For the word of the Lord is upright, and all his work is done in faithfulness. He loves righteousness and justice. The earth is full of the steadfast love of the Lord. By the word of the Lord the heavens were made, and by the breath of his mouth all their host. He gathers the waters of the sea as a heap. He puts the deeps in storehouses. Let all the earth fear the Lord. Let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him For he spoke, and it came to be. He commanded, and it stood firm. The Lord brings the counsel of the nations to nothing. He frustrates the plans of the peoples The counsel of the Lord stands forever, the plans of his heart to all generations. Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord, the people whom he has chosen as his heritage The Lord looks down from heaven. He sees all the children of man. From where he sits enthroned, he looks out on all the inhabitants of the earth. He who fashions the hearts of them all and observes all their deeds. The king is not saved by his great army. A warrior is not delivered by his great strength. The war horse is a false hope for salvation, and by its great might it cannot rescue Behold, the eye of the Lord is on those who fear him, on those who hope in his steadfast love, that he may deliver their soul from death and keep them alive in famine. Our soul waits for the Lord. He is our help and our shield. For our heart is glad in him because we trust in his holy name. Let your steadfast love, O Lord, be upon us, even as we hope in you. Please join me in prayer. Heavenly Father, we have sung uh today about your goodness, and now we have read your truth. We know that your word says that it will never return void, but your word will accomplish the purpose for which it is sent out. So Lord, I pray now that the message of this psalm would be used by your Spirit to convict us and encourage us. That we would be built up in our faith and that our hearts would be open to correction. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen So we sang a few minutes ago a song, one of the phrases was it talked about love beyond all measure. And in addition to that just being a beautiful phrase. A love beyond measure is something that everyone would like to find. It's baked into our desires, it's even told in many of the stories that we tell ourselves and tell others. I've seen it recently in the fairy tales that I've been reading to my daughter at home. Stories about Snow White or Sleeping Beauty who have to be woken from their sleep and how this can only be done by a true love's kiss. Then after that, the happy couple rides into the sunset, where they live happily ever after. Staying in each other's arms, they found a love that will be with them forever, at least according to the story. Yet in a fallen world we know that this actually isn't always the case. That what people call love often isn't forever. And it might even be selfish. Sometimes what we call love just turns out to be nice words that are hollow. Speaking of another story, I was recently listening to an audio version of The Hunchback of Notre Dame by Victor Hugo. And this particular story takes place in Paris in the 1400s And in the middle of the story, it mentions a character by the name of Phoebus. Phoebus is described as being very handsome, very brave, but also a drunk and a womanizer. But then there's this scene in the middle of the book where Phoebus is trying to woo the main female character, her name's Esmeralda, and at one point in the conversation, uh, she stops him and asks. Do you actually love me? And Phoebus immediately responds with this torrent of words. about the strength of his love, that of course he loves her. He's never loved anyone else but her. She's the one he's cared about and waited for all of his life, you know, etc. All these things And then the author says this about Phoebus' description of his love. He said: the reason why those words came out so smoothly and quickly, and so they sounded so passionate and convincing was because he had given that speech a hundred times to a hundred different girls before her. It sounded so good because it was so well practiced, but clearly did not mean anything. Unfortunately, this is often what love looks like in our world. It sounds good, but there's nothing really to back it up. And it doesn't last. Like the sand castle when the start the tide starts to come in, it quickly begins falling apart. As we've read in Psalm 33 already, this text of scripture we're looking about looking at also talks about love But speaks about it much differently. The phrase used several times by the psalmist is not just love, but steadfast love. And I think that's a wonderful adjective to help us understand the love of God to us. So if you're taking notes today, here's kind of the main idea for our time together. The steadfast love of the Lord leads us to praise him. Because his love never ends, and it always seeks our good. The steadfast love of the Lord leads us to praise him Because his love never ends, and it always seeks our good. So there'll be four points for the message today. Each one will describe a different aspect of God's steadfast love. So let's begin with number one. The steadfast love of the Lord causes the righteous to praise and give thanks to God. The steadfast love of the Lord causes the righteous to praise and give thanks to God. The structure of this psalm is a little different than what we're kind of used to seeing. We're kind of used to an epistle like Romans where We kind of get all the theology at the beginning in the first couple of chapters, and then there's kind of a shift where we're told how these theological the theological truths are meant to be lived out. practically, but that doesn't happen here in Psalm 33. In fact, right out the gate, we see a series of commands, a series of application points at the very beginning. The command we see in verse 1, shout for joy in the Lord. Verse 2, give thanks, make melody to him with the harp. Verse 3, sing a new song, play skillfully, go and do these things. And it's there's kind of the temptation, it's like, okay, let's let's skip over those and just get to the why. But I think it's helpful for us first to humble ourselves under this the beginning of this passage because there's a reason why this section is first. You know, maybe there are times when we're commanded things without being given the reason first. Or maybe there are things that are just very foundational to the lives of a Christian that we should just do. And as we look at the structure of Psalm 33, I think it's helpful to point out that the psalmist is talking to a group of people, not just to an individual, it's to God's people collectively. Verse one is addressed to the righteous, and as you go through the Psalm, you see other indicators that it's directed to a group of people. For example, verse twenty and twenty through twenty-two talks about our soul waits and our heart is glad in him. This is a song for God's chosen people, rejoicing in their relationship with God, and then reminding themselves of God's goodness to them. When we see God's goodness, or when we experience a fresh reminder of His love, it should lead us to praise. We should sing a new song according to verse 3. We should thank Him. Praising God is something that is right for us. Verse 1 even says that praise befits the upright. It is fitting for God's people to be people of song, to be people of praise. When I think of something that's not fitting, I think of something that when you see it, just kind of like raises an eyebrow. You're like, ugh, that looks a little out of place. I once heard a story of a of a British queen who would remind her children, you know, like before they left the palace for events and things, she would always tell them, royal children have royal manners. Royal children have royal manners. And her point was that, hey, if you're a member of the royal family, there are just certain things that are expected of you. There are certain things that you can and can't do. You can't act any way you want. You can't act foolishly out in public. People expect you to be proper. They expect you to be dignified. And so if you saw a royal not acting with royal manners, people would kind of raise the eyebrow and be like, oh, that's not right. It's not fitting for a royal to behave like that In the same way, it's not fitting when God's people aren't people of praise. Because praise befits the upright. That is what we should be. Ryan Payne preached a few weeks ago and mentioned the importance of singing in the life of a Christian, especially for men in the church. And he was absolutely right. It's good. It's right. It's fitting to be people of praise who give thanks to God. And for thanksgiving to be a regular part of our lives. People of God who don't praise the Lord, both in song and with their lives, are out of sync with the way God says that we should honor Him. Christians are praising people. We are singing people. Look back through the history. You know, we see Moses singing after the Exodus. Jesus singing a hymn before Gethsemane. Even our text today is a song, right? It's a psalm. The righteous should praise and give thanks to God, and their lives should be marked by praise and by song as well. Now, let's look at the why. Why should that be the case? Well, the psalmist is going to give us a couple reasons for why the righteous should praise God. So let's move now to point number two. The steadfast love of the Lord is seen in God's word and his works. The steadfast love of the Lord is seen in God's word and his works. And we'll see this in verses four through nine. The commands to praise, as we saw in this, are are provided the anchor. We get the why behind it. First, he says, because of God's word. So look at verses four and five. For the word of the Lord is upright, and all his work is done in faithfulness. He loves righteousness and justice. The earth is full of the steadfast love of the Lord. And here we see the first use in Psalm 33 of this phrase. steadfast love, and connected to it are these concepts of God's word and God's works. It says his word is upright. It's not deceptive. It's not misleading. We see here in verse 5, he loves righteousness and justice. We can trust his word because of the character of the person. Who gives it, right? His heart is aligned to what is good because he himself is the definition of goodness. He wants to see the righteous rewarded. He wants to see the wicked punished. He loves justice His word is upright. And when we hear the phrase the word of God, we we normally think of the Bible, we think of the written word. But it also refers to the word that goes forth from his mouth in decrees and in the things that God causes to come about. You look at verses six and seven, it says, By the word of the Lord the heavens were made. And by the breath of his mouth all their host. He gathers the waters of the sea as a heap. He puts the deep in storehouses So his word creates. That's the evidence of his word is seen. We see it also in the works around us. His word creates the things that we see. We can see how the seasons change. We see beautiful sunrises and sunsets. We can look at mountains and seas. We can see beauty. We can hear music. Everything around us speaks to the wonder of God's power and to his creativity. His steadfast love is seen in the intricate order of the created world. Ancient philosophers used to talk about this concept called the music of the spheres. It's this idea that as the planets moved in their perfect orbits, it's almost like they were dancing to music. Perfectly in sync, perfectly choreographed. The universe's precision was filled with things that make the heart want to praise the creator of the beauty. And that's not just like the macro level of planets. Like, have you ever just stopped and seen a hummingbird fly or like hover in front of you? Have you ever watched a line of ants move back and forth without any direction, yet like moving all the food in perfect precision? Or have you ever just stopped and looked at a budding leaf on a tree? Springs right around the corner. Have plenty of opportunities for that. God's goodness is all around us. If we'll take the time to look. The beauty we see is an example of God's steadfast love to us. We're surrounded by it for a reason. This week my family uh took advantage of the holiday crowds being kind of low and we went down to the Smithsonian's Museum of Natural History for the first time and uh you know we got to see all the cool so we got to all the Hope Diamond and um saw the dinosaur bones. It's it's hard to beat like the Tyrannosaurus Rex. It's like eating the the stegosaurus or whatever it is in there. Um I think my daughter Reagan's favorite point, uh she got super excited to go into the butterfly habitat, see all the butterflies like flying around her. There's a lot of cool stuff in the museum. Um there's a mammal exhibit, a sea creature exhibit, there's an exhibit about the wonder of the stars and the wonder of the planets, uh exhibit about precious gemstones But it seemed to me that the conclusion of the museum was that despite all of this evidence, it just happens to be the result of a cosmic accident, the blind results of chance and variation. And yet, as I went through the exhibits, I actually came to an opposite conclusion. I couldn't help thinking how each exhibit presented a new demonstration of the diversity of God's majesty in creation. Of his works being wonderful, just echoing Psalm 19, how the heavens declare the glory of God. The right response to seeing these things According to Psalm 33, is praise. And that doesn't just apply to Christians, but to everybody. You look at verse 8 of our text, it says, Let all the earth fear the Lord, let all the inhabitants of the world fear Stand in awe of him. And yet, despite this wonder, so many people turn their backs on this God. We're told in Romans 1 that humans often suppress the truth about God. We press it down. We can look at creation, we can see evidences of his eternal power and see his divine nature, and it's plain to us. It's clearly perceived in the things that have been made, Paul says, and yet we still don't honor him as God, and we still don't give thanks. And it's an interesting connection, right? Because Paul ties that concept of thankfulness back to the concept of seeing God's glory and creation, just like the psalmist does in Psalm 33. But then Paul says, so they are without excuse. All who reject God will receive a just judgment from God, because for our their entire lives they've lived a lie. Living as if God doesn't exist when everything around us says and testifies to the opposite. Choosing to reject the Creator, choosing sin. And an answer to this condition is seen back in verse 8. The psalmist says that we should fear the Lord. We should have reverence for him and walk in his ways. This is what it means to be his people. We talk about receiving the blessing that we see in verse 12. The way this happens is by confessing and acknowledging at the front that we have rejected God. We have lived without regard for his commands. And the good news is that when we do confess that, God stands ready to forgive us. That's why God's, the Father, sent his Son, Jesus, into the world. That's what we've been observing and singing about for the last month during this Christmas season. It's why Jesus died and was raised to life again, so that people like us who have rejected him could now find life in his name. Now, if you're a Christian sitting here listening, and if all this talk about praising and giving thanks leaves you feeling like uh emotionally kind of stagnant, like your heart really isn't in it. If you don't feel like praising God, I would encourage you with this quote by G. K. Chesterton that's been on my mind recently. He once said that there are no uninteresting things Only uninterested people. It's not because creation is any less wonderful. It's that I have become uninterested. I'm the one that has become complacent. It's not that God's word isn't powerful. It's not that it's not living and active while I'm reading the Bible. It's not that it's uninteresting. It is that I am uninterested. My heart has grown cold. So if that's you, I would encourage you, pray that God would reawaken your sense of wonder. as you read his word. Pray that he would reawaken your sense of wonder as you see his creation around you. And then spend some time in quiet reflecting on his word Reflecting on the beauty of something in nature and praising him for it, taking the time to praise him for it. Even the leaf on the tree was made by the God who has filled this world with his steadfast love. What he has put in place and what he commands for us. His commandments, those are filled with his steadfast love. The beauty before us is beauty that is for us. It is for our good to point us back to the Creator And this brings us to point number three. The steadfast love of the Lord includes his plan for all peoples. The steadfast love of the Lord includes his plan for all peoples. We're going to see this in verses 10 through 19. But look at verse 10. The Lord brings the counsel of the nations to nothing. He frustrates the plans of the peoples. Like frustrating people's plans, at first this doesn't sound very loving, right? But it is loving if what people are doing is bad. If a wicked nation is trying to attack a righteous nation, then it's good for God to frustrate those efforts Or if my son starts reaching up to grab the hot stove and I yank his hand away so that he doesn't burn himself, have I frustrated his plans? Yes. Was it done out of love? Also, yes. Verse 11 tells us that it's not the plans of man that will stand forever, but it's the counsel of the Lord that will stand forever. In our arrogance as humans, we think that we can plan the future, that we know what's going to happen next. If we just work a little work harder, then obviously we'll get that promotion. At the national level, kings think, well, if I just attack with more troops, or if I just put this economic policy into effect, then the nation will succeed. But if the Lord doesn't build the house, the laborers build in vain. All of our scheming about the future, all of our bids for success or the thoughts of what will happen, like these are all meaningless If those plans aren't committed to the Lord, and if we aren't dependent on his grace, in a few days we're going to begin a brand new year, right, 2025. And it's kind of a common time in the year for people to put together a list of goals or New Year's resolutions, things they would like to do in the year to come. And those are good to do. But just make sure as you're making those plans that you don't forget, it's not your plans that are gonna last forever. It's not your plans that are gonna come into fruition. It's God's plans. We are not the ones in control of our future. We aren't the masters of our fate. We aren't the captains of our soul. And that's actually a good thing. The fact that God upends the plans of man is actually an example of his steadfast love to us. It may not feel like it at the time. But I think we can all look back on times in our lives when we're glad that God frustrated our plans because he knew what we needed better than we did. Sometimes it's painful when God does this, but it is always good in the long run. Having just come through uh Christmas, I'm I'm reminded of the um the book or the play, The Christmas Carol by Charles Dickens There's a scene with Ebenezer Scrooge where he goes to meet the third third ghost, the ghost of Christmas yet to come. You know, it's the darkly clothed figure, looks like death, and um Scrooge sees him and just kind of recognizes that this is not going to be an enjoyable experience. But he still says this to the ghost. He said, I fear you more than any spectre I have seen. But as I know your purpose is to do me good, I am prepared to go with you and to do it with a thankful heart Sometimes the good thing hurts. Sometimes the loving thing is painful. And by nature, we don't want to subject ourselves to God and His plans. We would rather look anywhere else, and really everywhere else, to find help. And we see that in verses 16 through 18. We kind of see three instances, right? A warrior is not delivered by his great strength. I want to trust in my own ability. The war horse is a false hope for salvation. By its great might it cannot rescue. I want to use the things that I have and the resources I'm given. To cause deliverance, to not have to rely on God. It's natural to do that. Our natural tendency is to use our strength or to look to our friends, to trust in our money, our own intellect, or even our resume So we put all these things up and say, surely these things will protect me. Surely having this degree or this certification will mean that I don't have to worry about a job in the future. But the war horse is a false hope for salvation. The king is not delivered by his mighty army. None of these things are even for certain. But one thing is for certain The steadfast love of the Lord. We may not be able to provide for ourselves, and in ultimate sense, we can't even save ourselves. Everything we have, everything we do is derivative, right? Christ tells us that he is the vine and we are the branch. Without him, we can do nothing And the challenge for many of us is it's not about acknowledging that with our head, but believing that with our heart The fact that we can't save ourselves is a blessing. It's an example of God's steadfast love to us because when we try to build the house on the sand, it's God that knows that it's going to crumble beneath us. God's steadfast love is on his people, but what his love means practically might look different than what we think it's going to mean There's a passage in Romans eight verses twenty-eight through twenty-nine where it tells us that you know God is working all things all circumstances for the good of his people, for those who love him and are called according to his purpose. And that sounds pretty good, right? But then it the verse goes on and it says Those he has predestined, or those who are predestined to be conformed to the image of his son, which tells me that the main good that God has for us is to make us more like Jesus. Like that is the ultimate goal of what he's working in our lives. And that's why sometimes things feel painful, because there's a lot of sin and there's a lot of selfishness that has to be uprooted for us to grow in the image of Christ. But thankfully, God doesn't give up on us. Thankfully, his love is steadfast. One of the recent areas of tension in the Hefley household is that uh my son just turned four. And uh is objectively, I think, the most stubborn member of the family. Um, but he will pick a fight at dinner over like any type of food. Like even if we think he's going to like it. And I get it, like, hey, like no one's a fan of like Brussels sprouts or peas, right? So like if that's what's going on for dinner, I kind of side with him. But Alison will cook a delicious dinner, a terrific meal. Sometimes it's a new recipe, you know, something that I know for a fact, objectively, he has never had in his life. And before he even tries it, you set down the plate, go, ah, I don't like it. And then there's just this period of like stubborn disobedience. And all I can think of is, bro, you haven't even tried it yet, right? You don't even know if you don't like it. And then there's a period of several minutes of weeping and gnashing of teeth, coupled with some loving correction, and he finally takes a bite. And then his eyes light up and he says, Dad, I like it. And then he clears off the entire plate. And as a parent, you just sit there like emotionally exhausted, like, yeah. I know you like it because everything on that plate are things you like in other circumstances. I know you like it because it's delicious. And if you would have just tried it at the beginning, like this whole this whole event could have been avoided And yet I'm also kind of convicted because like that's kind of what I do with God's plans too. Right? I kick and I scream, and yet God's looking down saying, like, you haven't even tried this yet. Like, but if you did, you would like it. You would if you would trust me, you would see that this thing is good. Taste and see that the Lord is good. So I would just ask you, as you're looking into the future of 2025, are there any areas of your life where you are holding back something from God, where you were not subjecting yourself to his will? Where you're resisting him. And I would encourage you with the fact that if it's God's will, it is for your good. And then ask him for help to walk in obedience Maybe maybe there's a job that you shouldn't take. Maybe there's a guy or a girl that you shouldn't date. Maybe your plans need to be frustrated. Are we willing to do the things that God is calling us to do as a people, knowing that it is his plans and his purposes that are ultimately the ones that are going to stand? Because if you trust him, he will provide. I think we see that in verse 19, he delivers his people from in the famine. And this brings us to the final point for today. Point number four. The steadfast love of the Lord rests on those who wait for him. The steadfast love of the Lord rests on those who wait for him. Take a look back at verse 19. It says that he may deliver their soul from death and keep them alive in famine. Our soul waits for the Lord. He is our help and our shield, for our heart is glad in him, because we trust in his holy name. Let your steadfast love, O Lord, be upon us, even as we hope in you. Our soul waits for the Lord, and he delivers us. But waiting is not something that any of us enjoy. No one likes being in any type of waiting room. None of us like waiting for God's timing to bring something about. It's not pleasant, but yet a life lived by faith will frequently take us to places where we have to wait Jesus was in the wilderness 40 days while fasting and being tempted by the devil. The entire nation of Israel waited for centuries for the promised Messiah to come. And now we even as Christians are waiting for his second coming. God's people have always been a waiting people And the Bible is full of examples of how destructive things can be when God's people don't wait for his provision and when they take things into their own hands instead. And that's the temptation for all of us, to not wait. When things need to happen in life, we want to act. I'm reminded of King Saul. who was required had to wait for the sacrifice, wait wait for the prophet Samuel to come before the sacrifice could be made before the battle. And what does he do when Samuel doesn't come? Takes it into his own hands. He makes the sacrifice, even though he wasn't supposed to do it. He fears the circumstances. He fears man. Or think of the three temptations of Jesus when he was in the desert. I once heard someone say that each of those three temptations was an opportunity for Jesus to meet a legitimate need in his life, but in an irresponsible way. Like the first temptation, it it wasn't sinful for Jesus to make bread. He's gonna eat multiple other times going to make bread to feed thousands. But it was sinful to turn those stones into bread because it would be as if he was saying I don't know if the Father is going to provide this time. I don't know if he's going to do it in the time that I need it to happen. So if I want something to happen, I've got to do it myself It's an attitude of self-sufficiency, of refusing to wait for God's way and refusing to wait for God's timing. So I would ask you, are there areas in your life where you are being tempted to meet a legitimate need in your life in an irresponsible way? Are there areas where it would be just easier for you to act on your own rather than to do what Psalm 3320 says and wait for the Lord? The author Francis Schaeffer once said that we must do the Lord's work, but we also must do it in the Lord's way. The ends don't justify the means. Our motives matter, and the means by which we accomplish our desires also matter. Waiting is something that none of us want to do, but there's a reason that one of the great Christian virtues is hope Unfortunately, hope has been watered down in our society. We use it just to express our preferences, like, I hope they have good food at the party tonight, I hope I can find a parking spot at work. But biblical hope is a confident assurance based on evidence, right? We see the past help that God has provided. We see the reliability of God's character. We see how he's provided, and we say we can be confident that he will do so in the future. Biblical hope helps to preserve us in waiting. Because biblical hope is grounded in the God who shows steadfast love to his people. It's grounded in a love that doesn't fail And that's why the psalmist can say in verse 21 that our heart is glad, because we trust in his holy name He is the God whose love is steadfast. It's not a love that is fleeting. He has a love that is lasting. And we should pray, like the psalmist does in verse 22, that the steadfast love of the Lord would continue to be upon us. Especially as we enter a new year. We should trust in his goodness and trust in his steadfast love that extends across time and across circumstances. We started our time together this morning by mentioning a character named Phoebus from the Hunchback of Notre Dame. And there's another point in the story where we see him, and Phoebus again sees the girl that he was expressing his love to, yet this time she's about to be put to death unjustly. And not wanting to inconvenience himself, and because there was also another girl he was interested in, uh he literally just turns his back and walks away before she's put to death, just leaving her to her fate. Phoebus's love was not a kind of steadfast love. But sometimes that's all the world has to offer. In contrast to that, I want to share with you another story. But this one is not fiction. This one is true. It's about a man whose love was not about what he could gain, but about what he could give. It's about a friend of mine named Al. Al has been a friend and a mentor to me for probably more than 20 years at this point. Al celebrated his 93rd birthday earlier this year, and in a few months, God willing, uh will celebrate his 94th. But you would not know he's that old if You if you met him. I mean he is still mentally sharp, still drives himself. I mean, if you're looking for him, you can usually find him at the local fitness center where he still swims half a mile three times a week. This is who I want to be when I grow up in a lot of ways. But the things that I find most impressive about Al are his faith in God and his deep awareness of God's love. And then how that love, how I saw that love overflow into his relationship with his wife. Al met his wife Jean in the early 1960s Uh when he was enlisted in the Army. Uh at the time the United Services Organization, what we call the the USO, uh would host local dances near military bases, and military members could go there on a Friday night or a weekend And uh it was a great place to go if you were a young single lady looking for a date because there are a bunch of you know guys in the army who are there who are also looking for dates And uh Al goes to this dance and he sees uh this this woman named Jean across the room, and she he just thinks she's the most beautiful woman in the world. Uh and if I if I remember the story correctly, he like musters up the courage to go ask her to dance. And she's like there with her friends, which is super intimidating for a guy. Like you want to ask like the one girl that won't talk to the other girl. You muster up the courage and he goes up and she just says no. Like no, I'm not I'm not dancing with you. So he comes back like a week later to another one of the dances and sees her again. He's like, Finds the courage in himself again, goes and asks her to dance. Again she says no. Um but this time he asks one of her friends to dance. And that girl says yes. So he's like, okay, that's great. And then the third week, he comes back, he's like, all right, final time. I'm not going to embarrass myself anymore. If this doesn't work, I'm just going to give up. So he musters up his courage, asks her to dance. And she says yes. And that decision to dance would eventually lead to a wonderful life together, marked by sixty-four years of marriage, uh three children, dozens of grandchildren and great grandchildren. Unfortunately, uh Jean went home to be with the Lord two years ago. And in the final years of her life, uh Jean would face just constant, often debilitating pain uh due to several different medical conditions. When I would travel back home to see family, I would always try to make it a point to go see Al, get coffee, and just catch up and see how he was doing, because he's still one of my closest friends. And we'd talk about life. I would ask how how he was doing, how Gene was doing. And Al would would tell me about all of the care uh that he had to provide for Gene around the house, all the medical appointments. you know, the the sleepless nights and watching her in pain. And in all of the years that he took care of her I actually never heard him complain once. In fact, just the opposite. He would tell me how he wished there was a way that he could take her pain upon himself so that she didn't have to experience it. And I think Al was this way for at least two reasons. One, he knew that he had made a promise, right? For richer or poor, sickness or in health, he had told her 65 years 64 years ago that he would be there for her. And secondly, I think this one is more important. Al showed his love to his wife this love to his wife because he had experienced himself a greater love from Jesus. in his own life. He had been shown a true love by Christ, and he was going to show that to his bride just like Jesus showed it to his bride. Al knew that despite himself being one of the reasons why Christ had to die, despite being wayward and straying himself earlier in life as a young man, the love of Christ had never run out on him. It had only ever been steadfast throughout his years, and he wanted to love in the same way To this day, Al still journals through sections of the Bible, and he'll often like email a copy of his journal to some friends and family. And he sent one out to us in October of this year. And he was talking about the need to love one another as Christ loved us. Christ, the one who laid down his own life for our sakes. And then he ended that journal by doing what any Christian would do when you reflect upon the wonder of God's steadfast love. He gave a reminder to us to give thanks to God. Like my friend Al, I pray that we too today would be people who experience the steadfast love of the Lord and what's left of this year And going into next year. And that we would be people who wait for it in hope. And then who praise God in response Please pray with me. Heavenly Father, we thank you that you don't love us like we often love. That you aren't temperamental, you're not half invested. But instead, your love is steadfast. It's enduring. It doesn't end. It doesn't run out We thank you that greater love has no one than this, that a man lays down his life for his friends. Lord, thank you for laying down your life for us and for showing us what true love looks like. Lord, help us now to see and experience your love in a new way and to sing a new song in our hearts as we praise you for your goodness. In Jesus' name. Amen