This past weekend was my fourth time camping, but it felt like the very first time. And somewhere along the way, each time that I've gone camping I've wondered to myself, why in the world did I sign up for this? Several of us men and boys from the church spent some time in the wilderness of Cunningham Falls this past weekend. As many of you know, the fellowship was encouraging and we pray it was fruitful. The heights and the sights were beautiful. The time with my boys there was fun. But overnight, as I struggled to keep warm, I asked myself, why did I sign up for this? Camping is the wilderness that you get to choose. Right? You can choose to sleep in tents or you can choose to get an RV. You can decide when you'll go and what time of year that you'll go, when how long you'll stay there. You can map out your agenda and set out your plans. Or you can decide, like many of us do, I ain't doing that. I'm good. I will stay at home. But we would love to approach our wilderness seasons like we do our camping. But it's not that way. It's not that way with the Lord. As Charles Spurgeon once put it, the wilderness as in the trials that the Lord sins our way and these periods of testing that we experience in our lives, they're like the Cambridge and the Oxford of the Christian life. And as followers in the Lord Jesus Christ, we don't get to just opt out or drop the class, do we? But I wonder if you've ever wondered why the Lord signs us up for trials. For wilderness seasons. Why would the Lord, as we've been learning in Exodus, deliver his people from death and then lead them, guide them towards and into the wilderness? With God's help, we'll answer that question this morning. And your copies of God's word, please meet me in the book of Exodus. We'll be starting in Exodus chapter 15, which in the Bible is provided around you. That'll be on page 57 Today is part three of this series within the series where we're focusing on yet another picture of God's deliverance Next to this chapter 12, a few weeks ago, where we focus on the Passover, we saw God's mighty hand deliver God's people out of Egypt by the blood of the Passover Lamb. And then last week, Exodus 13 through most of 15, we saw God upend his own creation to deliver God's people through the waters and into new life. But today we'll get a picture of the Christian life of deliverance that is much less triumphant This picture today is less about God's power to save and more about God's power to strengthen and to sanctify his people, even in the midst of the wilderness. So if you're taking notes this morning, here's the main point. God delivers from death and tests his people in the wilderness. God delivers from death and tests his people in the wilderness. We'll cover this main idea today in two parts. Part one, our questions, and part two, God's questions. Our questions and God's questions. By our questions, I mean the questions that we often ask ourselves while we're going through seasons in the wilderness. And by God's questions, I mean the questions that He's asking of us. Question number one of our questions. Will God provide? Will God provide? It's Exodus 15. We'll look at that from starting from verse 22 all the way through Exodus chapter 16. The easy answer to that question should be yes. God will provide. These Israelites, for example, they walked through the Red Sea on dry ground There should have been no question that God would provide for them. He had already provided for them. God's enemies were defeated. God's presence was leading and guiding them the entire time. They remembered the plagues. They remembered that they were enslaved and now they were free. But just in a matter of days, after singing praises to God because of his goodness, because of his deliverance. They called God's faithfulness into question. Look at Exodus chapter 15, starting at verse 22. Then Moses made Israel set out from the Red Sea, and they went into the wilderness of Shore. They went three days in the wilderness and found no water. When they came to Marah, they could not drink the water of Marah because it was bitter. Therefore they named it Marah. And the people grumbled against Moses, saying, What shall we drink? So Moses, this former shepherd in Midian, is now shepherding God's people through the wilderness. And these 600,000 sheep would prove to be harder to lead than cattle for Moses They forgot very quickly about God's goodness to them and God's provision for them, and they began to grumble. They grumbled or they complained, as it says there in the passage, against Moses. So grumbling is a complaint that is about God, but that often goes towards people. Right? It's like what happens here. And this is different from lamenting, which the Bible speaks about, or crying out to the Lord. Lamenting is when we have the same trials in front of us, but instead of grumbling, we take our cares directly to the Lord. We wait for his response and we trust in him as we wait. And that's what Moses does here in verse 25. Look there. And he, Moses, cried out to the Lord. And the Lord showed him a log, and he threw it into the water. And the water became sweet. There the Lord made for them a statue and a rule, and there he tested them, saying, If you will diligently listen to the voice of the Lord your God. and do that which is right in his eyes, and give ear to his commandments, and keep all his statues. I will put none of the diseases on you that I put on the Egyptians. For I am the Lord, your healer. We'll stop here for a moment. The Lord here reveals another aspect of his character to God's people. He's been their savior, he's been their deliverer and their rescuer. And now he's saying that he is their healer. And since he's provided for them to gain, the text says he makes a statue for them or a rule, and he tests them. And here's the test. Keep my word. So far, they failed to believe that the God who controlled all nature The God who gave them salvation would be able to provide for them in the desert. But little did these people know that God was leading them towards the waters the entire time. Look at verse 27. Where it says, then they came to Elam, where there were twelve springs of water and seventy palm trees, and they encamped there by the water. I wonder how the story would have read if they would have held out a little bit longer. I think the question for them and for us is this: Is the presence of God enough for us, even in the wilderness? And will we wait on him to provide for us? Or will we fill that waiting season with grumbling? As God's people set out from Elam, so they were there for a little bit, we'll see that they'll soon start questioning God's provision and his goodness again. Look at Exodus 16. They set out from Elam, and all the congregation of the people of Israel came to the wilderness of sin. Which is a terrible name for a wilderness, by the way. Which is between Elam and Sinai on the fifteenth day of the second month, after they had departed from the land of Egypt. And the whole congregation of the people of Israel grumbled against Moses and Aaron in the wilderness And the people of Israel said to them, Would that we had died by the hand of the Lord in the land of Egypt when we sat by the meatpots? And ate bread to the full, for you have brought us out into this wilderness to kill this whole assembly with hunger. We'll see that their grumbling here intensifies. And now they even desire to go back to Egypt. And even their view of Egypt was tainted by their hunger in the wilderness. Kids. Easy question for you. The Israelites, before the Lord showed up, what were they doing in Egypt? What were they? Shout out. They were slaves. They were groaning and crying out to God for mercy. That's what it says in Exodus chapter 2. And now, slavery in Egypt didn't look so bad. They even go as far as accusing Moses, and then therefore God, God's representative, Moses was God's representative Accusing them of wanting them dead. And think about what they just said. Because of their hunger, they said it would have been better for them if the blood had not covered their doors. Or if, oh, during that Passover night, they stepped outside and didn't listen. Or if they were swallowed up in the Red Sea like their enemies were. Why would they say that? We'll talk about this a little bit later, but grumbling is not only foolish, it's it's serious. God takes it seriously. And yet, the Lord will still faithfully provide for his people. And then offer them another test, a redo, a retake, a makeup test, as it were. Look at verse 4 Then the Lord said to Moses, Behold, I'm about to rain bread down from heaven for you, and the people shall go out and gather a day's portion every day. That I may test them, whether they will walk in my law or not. On the sixth day, when they prepare what they bring in, it will be twice as much as they gather daily. So Moses and Aaron said to all the people of Israel, At evening you shall know that it was the Lord who brought you out of the land of Egypt. And in the morning you shall see the glory of the Lord, because he has heard your grumbling against the Lord. For what are we that you grumble against us? And Moses said, When the Lord gives you in the morning, in the evening meat to eat, and in the morning bread to the full, because the Lord has heard your grumbling, that you grumble against him. What are we? Your grumbling is not against us, but against the Lord. Then Moses said to Aaron, say to the whole congregation of the people of Israel, Come near before the Lord, for he has heard your grumbling. And as soon as Aaron spoke to the whole congregation of the people of Israel, they looked towards the wilderness, and behold, the glory of the Lord appeared in the cloud. And the Lord said to Moses, I have heard the grumbling of the people of Israel. Say to them, At twilight you shall eat meat And in the morning you shall be filled with bread. Then you shall know that I am the Lord your God. Quick reminders for us about grumbling. Grumbling is both foolish and it's serious It's as foolish as these people needing to be reminded that just weeks before it was the Lord that brought them out of Egypt, that brought them through the Red Sea But it's also serious because secondly, the Lord hears our grumbling. They were grumbling against Moses. They didn't know that the Lord was listening the entire time. Thirdly, all grumbling is, is what this shows us here, is ultimately against the Lord. All grumblings ultimately against the Lord. The Lord clearly heard their grumbling. He showed up to them in the wilderness, but he doesn't show up to smite them. He shows up and he provides for them. He tells them that another test is coming and he tells them what's going to be on the test As a former teacher, I would give two different kinds of tests to my students. One was a pop quiz where I really wanted to get them. Like, were you actually listening? Let's see if you were listening. The other kinds of tests, what I would usually do though, were assessments where they would know what would be on it I would teach them what will be on it. I would tell them what will be on the test. We would even do review activities and review games, tell them when the test is going to be, give them the test, and they always passed it, right? No, they did not. And sometimes it was the same students that would fail over and over and over again And here we see the Israelites, they fail yet another test. Look at verse 13. In the evening, quail came up and covered the camp, and in the morning dew lay around the camp. And when the dew had gone up, there was on the face of the wilderness a fine flake-like thing, fine as frost on the ground. And when the people of Israel saw it, they said to one another, What is it? For they did not know what it was. And Moses said to them, It is the bread of that the Lord has given you to eat. This is what the Lord has commanded. Gather of it, each of you, as much as he can eat. You shall each take an omer according to the number of persons that each of you has in his tent. The people of Israel did so. They gathered, some more, some less. But when they measured it with an omer, whoever gathered much had nothing left over, and whoever gathered little had no lack. Each of them gathered as much as they could eat. And Moses said to them, let not one leave any of it over to the morning. But they did not listen to Moses. Some left part of it till the morning, and it bred worms and stank. And Moses was angry with them. Morning by morning they gathered it each as much as he could eat, but when the sun grew hot, it melted. On the sixth day, verse 22, they gathered twice as much bread, two omers each And when all the leaders of the congregation came and told Moses, he said to them, This is what the Lord has commanded. Tomorrow is a day of solemn rest, a holy Sabbath to the Lord. Bake what you will bake, and boil what you will boil. And all that is left over lay aside to be kept till the morning. So they laid it aside till the morning, as Moses commanded them, and it did not sink, and there were no worms in it Moses says, Eat it today, for today is a Sabbath to the Lord. Today you will not find it in the field. Six days you shall gather it, but on the seventh day, which is a Sabbath, there will be none On the Sabbath day, some of the people went out to gather, but they found none. And the Lord said to Moses, How long will you refuse to keep my commandments and my laws? See, the Lord has given you the Sabbath. Therefore, on the sixth day he gives you bread for two days. Remain each of you in his place. Let no one go out of his place on the seventh day. So the people rested on the seventh day. Now the house of Israel called its name manna. It was coriander seed, white, and the taste of it like wafers made with honey. Moses said, This is what the Lord has commanded. Let an omer of it be kept throughout your generations. So that they may see the bread with which I fed you in the wilderness when I brought you out of the land of Egypt. And Moses said to Aaron, Take a jar and put an omer of manna in it And place it before the Lord to be kept throughout your generations. As the Lord commanded Moses, so Aaron placed it before the testimony to be kept. The people of Israel ate the manna for 40 years. Till they came to a habitable land. They ate the manna till they came to the border of the land of Cana. An omer, in case you were wondering, is the tenth part of an ephah. So what was God doing in all of that? God was pointing back to his work in creation, the fact that he created the world in six days and then rested on the Sabbath. You should know that God did not rest because he needed to take a break. He rested to institute the Sabbath for his people. And he's also pointing forward to the law that he would soon give his people, in part. To keep the Sabbath holy. The Lord gave the Sabbath as a gift, as a gift of rest to his people. He wanted them to trust that he was still working when they rested and that he will provide for them. And they were called now to trust in the God who brought them quail and manna from heaven for their hunger And they were clearly instructed, don't leave any leftovers. The Lord will provide for you And then they were told, do not go out on the Sabbath. You won't need to. The Lord will provide for you. And they failed, at least some of them failed the test. But despite their failing, the text says that the Lord faithfully provided for his people for 40 years. Deuteronomy and numbers, we count much of this the season of this wilderness wanderings for over 40 for 40 years. But throughout that period of time, over and over again, as you can read in those books, God's people struggled to pass the test in the wilderness. Numbers 11:5, for example, God's people say another complaint, more grumbling. We remember, they said, the fish we ate in Egypt that costs nothing. The cucumbers, the melons, the leeks, the onions, and the garlic. But now our shrimp is dried up, and there's nothing at all but this manna to eat. And before we think, those ungrateful, ungodly people, I wonder how we may hear our own voices there. Are we grateful for how the Lord has delivered us and how he has provided for us? Or do we only look around at our lives and at other people's lives and see where we lack? In the wilderness, it was clear that God provided for his people. But his people often failed to believe that. They failed that test. Which leads to a second test question in the wilderness. Question number two. Will God keep his word? Will God keep his word? Look at Exodus chapter seventeen. All the congregation of the people of Israel moved on from the wilderness of sin by sages, according to the commandment of the Lord, and camped at Rephedon. But there was no water for the people to drink. Now, this should have been a reminder for them, a clue, like this happened before. Verse 2. Therefore the people quarreled with Moses and said, Give us water to drink. And Moses said, Why do you quarrel with me? Why do you test the Lord? But the people thirsted there for water, and the people grumbled against Moses and said, Why did you bring us up out of Egypt to kill us and our children and our livestock with thirst? So Moses cried to the Lord, What shall I do with this people? They are almost ready to stone me And the Lord said to Moses, Pass on before the people, take in with you some of the elders of Israel, and take in your hand the staff with which you struck the Nile, and go. Behold, I will stand before you there on the rock at Horeb, and you shall strike the rock, and water shall come out of it, and the people will drink. And Moses did so, in the sight of the elders of Israel. And he called the name of this place Masa and Meribah because of the quarreling of the people of Israel. And because they test the Lord by saying, Is the Lord among us or not? Let's stop there. So the people followed the Lord by going with him where he led them. And when they got there, they found something on repeat, a trial that was on repeat for them. They found that there was no water. Same test was being brought up again. But there they grumbled. They quarreled with Moses, and they demanded water. And then Moses asked them, Why do you test the Lord? And then in his narration there in verse 7, he says, They tested the Lord by saying, Is the Lord among us or not? I wonder if you've wondered that in your trials, in your wilderness seasons. Is the Lord even still with me? But God made it clear that he was with his people and that he would be the one to keep his word. He told Moses to get the staff and said that he would stand before Moses on the rock. And then he says that Moses should strike the rock, and then water will come out. And it did Water enough for these thousands of people and their cattle. So the Lord's answer here is a resounding yes. I will keep my word. He was with his people and he provided for his people yet again We see that even in the rest of the chapter as you have a war that comes up with Amalek in verses 8 through 13. These Israelites were not battle-tested, and yet the Lord provided for them. He was on their side and he protected them. He kept his word. In those verses, it says there that the that Moses told his protege Joshua to choose men to go out and fight, and they did. Stand on the hill with the staff of God, which Moses did. And Moses held up his arms. And when he held up his arms, Israel prevailed. They won. When he put them down, Amalek prevailed. And we see even in that section that it wasn't Moses and his arms that were strong enough. Because Moses would need help. Aaron and Her came up and they held up his arms. And remember what was in his hand. The staff of God was in his hand. So it was the Lord that was making about this deliverance for his people, that was helping his people to fight. And they held up his arms. So the Lord was with his people there. And he was keeping his promises to his people. He was keeping their word. And he did. And he wanted his people to remember for generations to come. Look at verse 14. Where it says, Then the Lord said to Moses after this, Write this as a memorial in a book and recite it in the ears of Joshua, that I will utterly blot out the memory of Amalek from under heaven. And Moses built an altar. And call the name of it, the Lord is my banner, saying, a hand upon the throne of the Lord. The Lord will have war with Amalek from generation to generation. Yet another aspect of God's character revealed in the wilderness. Not only is he the healer of his people, it says there that he is their banner. Excuse me. The word banner means standard. And it's a picture of an army staking a flag in the air for everyone to see when they won the victory. So God's people were meant to remember that He was their victor. And he even told Moses: write this down, because later on my people will forget that I am their victor. He wrote it down for Joshua. And if you read the book of Joshua, Joshua referred to what was written down for him. God wanted his people to remember his deliverance and remember it by writing it down and keeping his word. To remember what God had done for them. So the question that we are often faced with, does God keep his word? The answer is a resounding yes. He does keep his word. In chapter 18, we see some more examples of God keeping his word. Let's look there quickly. Where we see other ways that the Lord is reminding Moses about how faithful he has been to keep his word. Chapter 18, verses 1 through 4. You have Moses there. His father-in-law, Jethro, comes, this priest of Midian. He comes there with Zephorah and their two sons. The names of those two sons were specific reminders of the Lord keeping his word. You had Gershem Whose name means I have been a sojourner in a foreign land. And then you have Eliezer, whose names mean the God of my father was my help and delivered me from the sword of Pharaoh. In the name of those two sons, Moses was reminded that God does keep his word. So Moses met with Jethro and tells him all that the Lord had done for them in verses 5 through 9. And then Jethro, this priest of Midian, this non-Jew, this Gentile, became a believer in the one true God. Look at Exodus 18, verse 10. Where after he heard all of this, Jethro said, Blessed be the Lord who has delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians and out of the hand of Pharaoh, and has delivered the people from under the hand of the Egyptians. Now I know that the Lord is greater than all gods, because in this affair they dealt arrogantly with the people. And Jethro, Moses' father-in-law, brought a burnt offering and sacrifices to God. And Aaron came with all the elders of Israel to eat bread with Moses' father-in-law before God. Remember we talked before about celebrating the feast and celebrating in the wilderness and the unleavened bread, and you shall not eat anything that is leavened and all of that. This is a fulfillment of it. Because as we talked about last week, when someone becomes a believer, they were supposed to eat the bread, signifying that they were true believers. And it happened here with Jethro, Moses' father-in-law. He and all the elders of Israel ate bread before God. So there at that table you have Jews and Gentiles eating together before the Lord What was God doing in that? He was fulfilling the promise that he made generations before to Abram, who would eventually be named Abraham in Genesis chapter 12, where he said, through you, all of the nations. Will be blessed. So, how do we know that God is with us even in the midst of the wilderness? Short answer is because he says so in his word. And he gives constant reminders for his people. Last year, when I was back and forth to Miami visiting my dad who had been diagnosed with cancer. In what felt to me like very much a wilderness season, not knowing what the doctors would say, not even knowing what I should say to my family or how should I be helpful to them, not knowing if the treatments would even work. I remember clearly one verse for me one day being an anchor. Psalm 119:64. The earth is filled with your steadfast love. Teach me your statues. The Lord uses used that verse today or that day to remind me, even in that hospital room, that he was still there. That he was still faithful, that he was still good, and even the entire earth was still filled with his steadfast love In other words, beloved, we must know God's word if we want to know that he's really with us. Because he says it all over the place. So meditate on God's word, memorize scripture, and hold on to it with all that you have as truth, because his word is truth. And see and be reminded of the fact that God's word has been fulfilled by God's Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. And seeing that God is faithful and that his presence is among his people throughout his word reminds us as his people that he is still with us even in the wilderness. He has not left us. And there's several beautiful, wonderful examples of this in this passage that we're going to talk about now. There's some examples. First of all, think about the wilderness itself. This wilderness, which is a picture of barrenness, it's a picture of loneliness. It's also the place where the Lord constantly showed up to speak to his people and to guide his people. In fact, the word wilderness in the Hebrew, midbar, means mouth. And sometimes God will get our attention only in the wilderness. And even there, he chooses to speak to us because he wants us to follow and obey the word of his mouth. And while God's people failed to rely on his words over and over again, rely on his mouth in the wilderness, God's son passed every single one of those tests. We heard that in our scripture reading from Matthew chapter 4, where Jesus did not stumble into the wilderness, he was led into the wilderness by the Spirit of God. He fasted, he went without food or water for 40 days. Remember, they were in the wilderness for 40 years, right? Jesus was tempted by Satan to turn stone into bread. His answer was. It is written, man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God. He was tempted again. Cast yourself off the mountain, Satan said. The Lord will catch you. And he even quoted scripture to him. But Jesus said, again, it is written, you shall not put the Lord your God to the test. And then again, Jesus was tempted by Satan with all the kingdoms of the world. This can all be yours, Satan said. If you will just bow down and worship me. And Jesus said, Get behind me, Satan. It is written, you shall worship the Lord your God, and him only shall you serve. In case you're interested later, read Deuteronomy chapter 6 and Deuteronomy chapter 8. Jesus fulfilled those words. When God's people were in the wilderness where they failed to test, Jesus passed those tests. And what did Jesus do after he passed the test in the wilderness? He started his ministry. He began to do miracles. What was his first miracle? Anybody? What do you do? Micah? The wedding at Cana, he turned water into wine? Jesus turned water into wine, so he made bitter water become sweet. Sounds like we heard that in Exodus chapter 15, didn't we? Or Exodus 16, the manna that came down from heaven. Well, Jesus shows up in John chapter 6 and he says, I don't know if you knew this, but the manna was me. In John chapter 6, during the Passover period where they were remembering this Exodus, Jesus fed the 5,000 in the wilderness, and the next day they show up, like, show us a miracle. They forgot what he had already done for them. They asked for a sign. And they even said, our fathers saw the sign of the manna. They ate manna in the wilderness. Jesus said to them, My Father gives the true bread that is from heaven. He said, Give us this bread always. And Jesus told them in John chapter 6, 35, I am the bread of life. Whoever comes to me shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall never thirst. And then the people started grumbling. Just as their fathers did against Moses. Who does this Jesus think that he is? Don't we know his father? Don't we know his mother? How can he say that he's the bread from heaven? Jesus reminded them that though their fathers ate manna in the wilderness, they still later on died. And they did And Jesus said, whoever eats of his flesh and drinks of his blood has eternal life. They will live forever and they will be raised on the last day. And what about the rock that was struck in Exodus chapter 17? Well, in John chapter 7, at the end of this feast, at the end of the feast of unleavened bread, the feast of booths. God's people were supposed to remember his provision in the wilderness. Jesus stood up on the last day and says, Whoever believes in me, as the scripture has said, out of his heart will flow rivers of living water. Jesus was the rock that was struck when he was crucified on the cross He hung there and he bled, dying for our sins. He was pierced, and even when he was pierced, the gospel recounts in John chapter 19 that blood and water flowed out of him. Jesus, though he always kept God's word, though he always passed every single test, he passed the test in the wilderness. His body was broken, his blood was shed for us because of our sins. So we can be forgiven even of our grumbling against God. So that we can have his presence with us this day and each and every day as we pass through our wilderness seasons, knowing that he will keep us until the very end, and when we see his face, we will be like him, because we will see him for who he is. If you're here this morning and you're wondering about all these miracles and Exodus and all of this stuff and what does this have to do with me? Here's the point. Turn from your sin and put your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. He's already done the hard part for you. You and your sin deserve judgment because of your sin towards God, all of your grumbling, all of your wayward ways, all of us have sinned and fallen short of God's glory. But he's already made the way through his son Jesus Christ. You can turn to him today by faith. And that's good news. But it's also a hard saying. That's what the people said in John chapter 6 That's why after this whole back and forth with Jesus, they said, this is a hard saying. Who can follow it? And then after that, the Bible says many of those followers no longer walked with Jesus. And then Peter spoke up because Jesus said, Okay, well, what are you guys gonna do? Peter spoke up in the words we heard from our call to worship. He says, To whom else shall we go? You have the words of eternal life. Those are beautiful, wonderful words, brothers and sisters, but I will ask, to whom else are you going as you struggle in the wilderness? Who has your ear as you're struggling in the wilderness? Are you listening to the words into the voice and to the mouth of the Lord, or are you listening to others? Remember that only the Lord Jesus Christ has words of eternal life. And that's true in seasons of plenty, that's true in seasons of lack. That's true in seasons of joy, and that's true in seasons of dis Pointment As you struggle to believe that, brothers and sisters, go to God and His Word. Listen to His word being preached and believe it. And hold on to it. And go to him with your questions as you have questions. But remember that he is faithful to keep his words. See in his word that the Lord is our healer, he is our victor, and he is our banner. Remember that as we wrestle with questions in the wilderness. The Lord has some questions for us as well, which leads to point two or part two. These are God's questions. So we had our questions. Now we have God's questions. What does God ask of us while we're in the wilderness? I think this is the first question. Will you trust and obey me? Will you trust and obey me? Now this doesn't mean that asking questions of God is wrong. We talked about that already. That's called lament. But at the end of our questioning must be a resolve to trust God and to obey Him. Kids, teens in the room, yes, your parents are listening, but be honest. You may have already learned that you don't always agree with them or understand what they do or why they do it, especially as those decisions directly impact your life And sometimes it's okay to ask your parents questions, but after you've exhausted your questions, your parents just need you to trust them. And you trust them, not because you know how everything's going to work out, but because you can look back and see their proven track record And isn't that the way for us and the Lord with our Heavenly Father? We can go to Him with our questions. We won't wear Him out. Go to Him even now if you need to cry out to Him and lament to Him. But know that some of your questions will not be answered on this side of heaven. And some of the answers that you get on this side of heaven might not suffice for you. In the end, what is going to be enough? The answer to our questions or the God overall? The Lord is asking, do you trust me? Even in the wilderness? God wants us to trust Him And he often sends us to the school of the wilderness so that we can put our faith into practice. But let's remember that he does not send us there alone. I think that's what we see in the latter half of chapter 18 and verses 13 through 27, where Moses was very hard at work trying to shepherd these stubborn people. Making judgments between them. His father-in-law was there. He said, What are you doing? He watched them. Moses explained, and he said, This is a very bad idea. This is too much for you. The burden is too heavy. So Jethro, this new convert, told Moses, you need to teach the people God's word, and you need to look for able and faithful men to help in leading God's people. And Moses listened, and he went better. And in the church, the Lord uses leaders to teach God's word and to provide clarity for how we as God's people should apply and obey God's word. So that we are reminded that we are not alone in trusting and obeying the Lord. So church, pray for us because we have two elder nominees on the docket right now, Luke Murray and John Malone. Pray that we would have wisdom as a church as we vote on that decision next month. Pray that the Lord will provide more faithful and capable men, God-fearing men, from among us to help in leading God's people. But this shows us that we need leaders, all of us do, and we also need one another if we're going to trust and obey God. So we don't need to wander in the wilderness alone, brothers and sisters. If you feel like you're there right now, reach out to one of your pastors. Reach out to one of your brothers and sisters in Christ, and what you will find is that the path that you are on is a path that they've probably been on as well. Second question. First question was, will we trust and obey? The second question, will we grumble or will we be grateful? This whole section of Exodus 15, the latter part of 15 through 18, has a very different ring to it from that song that we ended with at the end of last week in Exodus 15. Where they were singing praises to God about his provision, where they were thankful for him, where they called out specifically what he had done. Three days later, they were like, Who are you, Lord? Why are we here? When will you feed us? They receive manna from heaven and quail from heaven. And as you know, in in Deuteronomy and Numbers, they eventually got tired of the quail. They got tired of the manna. The Lord, though He pr clearly provided for them and was faithful in keeping his word every single step of the way, every single year. For 40 years. And yet, there's not an outburst of praise when they receive the manna or when they receive the water. Yet they take it in and then eventually when it starts to run out they start to grumble. Again, grumbling is foolish, beloved It's also serious. The Lord takes it personally. Despite our trials, let's remember that we have so much to be grateful for in Christ, don't we? So if you're experiencing trials right now, or if you just naturally are more prone to to grumble, prone to complain, spend some time today before you go to bed writing down things that you're thankful for. You don't have to wait for Thanksgiving to do that. If you don't know where to start, start with the fact that if you are in Christ, and since you are in Christ, you woke up this morning, not under his wrath, but under his mercy. And then fill in the list after that. And as you acknowledge your own grumbling, ask the Lord for forgiveness. And turn your grumbling into prayers of lament that he would love to hear. If you don't know how to lament, you can start with Psalm chapter 13. Or Psalm chapter 69 as a guide to help you in praying prayers of lament. Brothers and sisters, the Lord delivers us and he allows us to be tested in the wilderness. But let's remember that his son, his faithful son, passed every single test. The Lord will continue to provide for us. The Lord will keep his word and all of his promises. And while we may have not signed up for the wilderness, the Lord has signed up to be faithful to his people through it all. Let's pray. Lord, though we wander, though we waver, though we forget your faithfulness, though we forget your deliverance We are thankful even right now that you don't forget us. You don't give us tests, Lord, to flunk us out. Lord, you want to grow us. You want to strengthen us So we ask once again this morning that you would strengthen us in the midst of the trials that we're facing right now, or even the trials that are right around the corner. Lord, help us to know that you have been faithful, that you are faithful, that you have delivered us, and that you are delivering your people. And Lord, whatever you allow to come our way, you want us to grow in Christ because of it. So, Lord, we as your people want to say once again, have your way in our lives and in our hearts. Help us to trust in you, Lord. In Jesus name, Amen.