Please open in your Bibles to the Book of Acts, chapter six. If you're using a Bible that has been provided around you, you'll find our Sermon passage this morning on page 914 of those Bibles provided, Acts chapter 6. The Nazis, it turns out, did not like deacons. Were you wondering if I was gonna mention that, Jonathan, the beginning of a sermon on deacons? Uh some of you maybe have heard that line before. It's how uh pastor and author Matt Smethurst provocatively begins his little creatively titled book, Deacons. Uh the context is that after the Netherlands fell to Germany in nineteen forty, Deacons in the Dutch Reform Church rose up to care for the politically oppressed, supplying food and providing secret refuge. And realizing what was happening The Germans decreed that the office of deacon should be eliminated. Responding in a general assembly Uh on July seventeenth, nineteen forty-one, the Dutch believers resolved, quote, whoever touches the diaconate Interferes with what Christ has ordained as the task of the church. Whoever lays hands on diakonia, the Greek word for deacon. Whoever lays hands on Diakonia lays hands on worship. Apparently, Smethurst notes in his book, The Germans backed down. Now that's an interesting uh attention-getting historical anecdote to introduce a book, or maybe I hope, somewhat interesting way to introduce a sermon on the subject of deacons, but I I don't mention it. primarily to get your attention, but actually to probe your thinking for a moment. Why did the Dutch Christians defend the office of deacon? Uh with such fierce devotion. Are deacons really that big of a deal Do you understand why they are? Do you share this burden that to tamper with the work of deacons is to tamper with the very worship of Christ? Do you see that as like a matter of life and death? Is that a concern to you this morning and to your experience in this church? I think in the life of a church, uh the elders of the church tend to receive a little bit more attention and recognition and honor And certainly it's a good thing that elders be recognized and highly esteemed in love, as we considered from God's Word last Sunday. And as I said then, I will say it again, you all have done that so well for the elders in this church. Deacons, however, might be a little bit more like the plumbing in your house Sorry, Deacons, if I just offended you by that comparison. Not saying it's so, I'm saying sometimes it could be regarded as such that, you know, the plumbing in your house generally goes unnoticed and unrecognized until something goes wrong. And sadly the work of deacons can be like that Why are the pizzas late? What's that popping in the speakers You understand what I'm saying? You when it's happening well, you don't notice it. But when something goes wrong, what's going on? Well we don't want it to be like that at Chevrolet Baptist Church as it relates to the work of our deacons. We want to honor And recognize the work of deacons and celebrate our Lord Jesus, who in his wisdom and kindness has given to us brothers and sisters who, by their ministry to us, reflect his own self-sacrificing love for his church. And that's lots of you over the years. So I did ask the current deacons earlier to stand. I'm actually going to now ask if you in the almost eight year history of Chevrolet Baptist Church, if you have ever served as a deacon And when I maybe I can say this later, but deacon, deaconess, that's I just I'm just saying deacon to make it easier, but men and women, deacons, if you've served in that capacity during Chevrolet Baptist Church's history, would you stand? Don't be shy now, because there's a lot of you. A whole lot of you. Just want to make sure that you see there's a lot of these brothers and sisters. Now that now now that that included the current ones But who's uh I still I see you still sitting there, but okay. I I was talking about ever, but it's okay. There's a lot of you. And originally, this sermon was planned today to be part of the installation of the public recognition and prayer for a new deacon, Maria Campbell I mentioned earlier in the prayer that it turns out Maria is away. She's in, I think it's Indiana, at a funeral for a loved one. So we, Lord willing, will do that installation of her uh probably in our members meeting next week, but uh w that's what the original occasion for this sermon was. But my own heart, as I have studied God's Word this morning, my own heart has been stirred with fresh appreciation for all of our deacons. And I hope and pray that through our time together this morning, yours will be too. So, to that end, we want to consider this passage of scripture that I asked you to turn to in Acts 6, which does not speak formally of the diaconal office. But most Bible teachers and commentators do understand it to be a sort of prototype, the the foundational formation of what in time came to be called the office of deacon. That's why we're looking at this passage. I think it gives us better than any other passage a picture of what it is that deacons do and how important the work that they do is to the life of the church. So follow along now As I read Acts chapter 6, verses 1 through 7. Now in these days when the disciples were increasing in number, A complaint by the Hellenists arose against the Hebrews because their widows were being neglected in the daily distribution. And the twelve summoned the full number of the disciples and said, It is not right that we should give up preaching the Word of God to serve tables. Therefore, brothers, pick out from among you seven men of good repute, full of the Spirit and of wisdom, whom we will appoint to this duty But we will devote ourselves to prayer and to the ministry of the word. And what they said pleased the whole gathering And they chose Stephen, a man full of faith and of the Holy Spirit, and Philip and Prochorus and Nikiner, and Tymon and Parmenus, and Nicholas, a proselyte of Antioch. These they set before the apostles, and they prayed and laid their hands on them. And the word of God continued to increase. And the number of the disciples multiplied greatly in Jerusalem, and a great many of the priests became obedient to the faith. This is God's word, brothers and sisters. Thanks be to God. It's a good word. Let's pray for God to help us as we consider it together. Heavenly Father, we do in fact need your help this morning to be able to understand and appreciate and apply your word to our lives and to our life together as a church. So we ask for your help. It is the Spirit who gives life. Oh, we thank you for that, Father. It is your Spirit who gives life. The flesh is no help at all. And so we beg you, Father, for a fresh experience of your Spirit's power in our midst. Giving and renewing life in our church to the glory of your name. We pray for this all in Jesus' name. Amen. To help us understand what's going on in this passage, I want you to just trace out the narrative in four steps. Complaint, danger, solution, and result. I'm trying to make this easy for the note takers. I'm gonna have some longer statements later in this sermon, and you should not try to take the time to scribble it all out. I'm happy to send you my notes if you want it. But this part's easy if you're a note taker. Complaint, danger, solution, result We're told, before we get to the complaint exactly, we are told, remember, if you're new to the Bible, we've just jump in here for one week to the book of Acts, but The book of Acts is chronicling the remarkable growth of the church and the multiplication of disciples of Jesus in the days and months and years uh following his death and resurrection and ascension to heaven. So there's there's remarkable growth that is happening. Luke mentions that growth a number of times. He speaks of it as the word multiplying, the word growing. And our passage is taking place in one of those seasons of growth. Verse 1, now in these days when the disciples were increasing in number, so there's increase, there's growth, this is an encouraging time, and yet trouble is lurking. There was, we're told, a complaint. In these days, when the disciples were increasing in number, a complaint. by the Hellenists arose against the Hebrews because their widows were being neglected in the daily distribution. Now I told you earlier that the the word deacon, at least the word deacon as an office of the church, is not mentioned in this Acts 6 passage. But this word here, distribution, I don't like to play with Greek words with you often, but it is the Greek word Diaconia. So the widows, these Hellenist widows, were being neglected in the daily distribution, the daily ministry of food, food distribution. There was no government assistance. There was no SNAP program in these days. And so for a widow with no family around and no government assistance, uh daily food was an urgent need. The Hellenist widows, we're told, were not receiving their share. The Hellenists, you might have a note in your Bible that just mentions that the Hellenists were Greek-speaking Jews. So both the Hellenists and the Hebrews being referred to here were Jewish people who were followers of Christ now. The Hellenists were those who were more assimilated into Greek culture. And there was some historical record of animosity between those Greek speakers. You could see how oh they might be there seen as compromisers, assimilating into Greek culture more than the more pure Hebrews. And so There was some historical animosity, and so to have them worshiping together in the same church would have been a powerful display of Christ's power to reconcile those who were formerly enemies. Colossians 3:11, here in the church, there's not Greek and Jew, circumcised and uncircumcised, barbarian, Scythian, slave-free. We might add to that list in light of this passage. There's no Hellenist or Hebrew, but Christ is all and in all. But something was amiss here It's not active hostility, it doesn't seem, it's simply neglect No less concerning if it wasn't active and malicious. I bet many of you Maybe all of you have experienced this in a church, maybe our church Certain individuals or groups of individuals in the congregation, perhaps it's widows. Maybe it's young singles, maybe it's those who are empty nesters or single moms or Visitors to the church or college students, they're being neglected. There's a certain crowd that's in, and then there's a certain group that's not. And people tend to gravitate toward their kind. And so the largest kind that there is in a particular church could become a little clickish Not even trying to, but it it just can happen through neglect. It can be hurtful to those who are neglected And damaging to the reputation of him who is our peace, him who has made us one by his sacrifice So the complaint arises. There's neglect happening of a certain group of people. And that complaint posed a danger Point number two, danger to the church's mission. Actually, I think it posed at least two dangers that I can think of. There was certainly the danger that this ethnic partiality that was taking place in neglecting the Hellenist widows Would bring disrepute on the name of Christ. It would bring strife and conflict in the church. It was seems like it was maybe starting to do that, but it would bring disrepute on the name of Christ. Is our peace who by his death reconciled Jew and Gentile, Hellenist and Hebrew together, who prayed before his death for the unity of the church? Who tells us that our love for each other, even the least of these, is meant to demonstrate to the world that we are Christ's disciples? So that's a serious danger in the church. But there was another danger, I think, that we can discern here based on what the apostles say and do in response to the report of this complaint. And I'm sort of bleeding into the solution here, but I want to focus a little bit longer on the actual danger Verse 2, so there's a complaint that is made. And then verse 2, the 12, the apostles, summoned the full number of the disciples. There's a little nudge in the direction of church membership. We've got to know who the full number of the disciples are in a particular place to deal with a serious complaint and recognize people to tend to it. More about that next Sunday. I know that's exciting. A whole week to wait for a sermon on church membership. Okay, the 12 summoned the full number of the disciples and said, it's not right that we should give up preaching the word of God to serve Greek insertion, to diakonane, to deacon tables. Not right that we should give up preaching the Word of God to serve tables Now what's the danger here that they're concerned about? It seems to me that it is the danger of distraction In light of the consistent refrain throughout the book of Acts of the Word multiplying and growing. This is a danger to the church's growth, that the apostles would be diverted away from their attention to prayer and to the word. To serve tables. They needed to stay on their primary task of prayerfully feeding the flock with God's word Now we know there are no longer apostles in the church, but the task of feeding the flock with God's word now falls to the church's elders. We talked about that last week The danger here is that of keeping the main thing, the main thing, as they say. And this danger, realized, has destroyed. I probably don't need to tell you this, it has destroyed churches. It has destroyed entire denominations, the inability to keep this focus Churches, well-meaning, seeing physical needs and social needs, whether in their church or the community becoming so concerned rightly about tending to physical needs that they just begin to lose focus on the primacy of the word They take the word for granted, and then you end up with biblical chaos in churches. With no word, with no gospel, and churches, churches gathering people coming together today in buildings, celebrating who knows what, pastors who say they don't even believe in God. But they're pastoring churches. And it doesn't start with a church just waking up one day and says, Let's deny the word. It starts oftentimes with legitimate concern to care for need. To be an agent of social change in our communities. Oh, distraction is a serious danger. It was then and it is today. I wonder though if this response of the apostles sounds dismissive. Like they're like they're disparaging the legitimacy of this complaint and the plight of the widows by saying that this ministry is beneath their dignity. You can hear a tone of voice, uh which I don't think you should really hear, but you could hear like We can't neglect the word and prayer to serve tables. I'm pretty confident that's not the spirit of these words or of this solution. We're at part three now. Solution. We know that their solution is not dismissive or disparaging of the importance of serving tables because they worked quickly and decisively to address this important need by proposing a solution. Therefore, verse 3, therefore, brothers, okay, remember they've called the whole church to address this. That's one indication. They're not taking this lightly. This is not a small matter. They're calling the full number of disciples together. That's thousands of people in Jerusalem. And pick out, they say, pick out from among you seven men of good repute. Godly character. What is that godly character? Well it's spelled out in Paul's first letter to Timothy, where he spells out the qualifications for deacons. Pick out from among you seven men of good repute, full of the spirit and of wisdom, whom we will appoint to this duty. But we will devote ourselves to prayer and to the diakonia of the word. Very interesting. Everybody's serving Some are called to serve in the word and in prayer, and others are called to serve tables, serve the physical, material needs of the church. See, the apostles perceived that the only way for the church to be built up and strengthened was for the whole congregation to deploy a task force spirit-filled. godly men to give support to the apostles by ensuring that this very serious and very potentially overwhelming administrative need was met so that unity would be preserved, the reputation of Christ would be lifted up, and the needs of all the widows would be met as the mission of the church carried on. That might raise a question for some of you. I just felt like I should probably say something here because I said that they selected, I didn't say, actually Luke says, that they selected seven spirit-filled men. And if you looked around when I asked the deacons current and former to stand, there were men and women. If this passage here is sort of the prototype for the office of deacon Um shouldn't it be only men? Well, thanks for asking Good churches, faithful churches, Bible-grounded churches, survey the different texts that touch on this issue, and the text would be this one that we're studying right now. 1 Timothy 3, which I mentioned that has the qualifications, and then Romans 16, 1, which speaks of a woman named Phoebe who was a deacon of the church. But that word deacon can just be translated servant. So those are the texts, and good faithful churches disagree. And there are good arguments to be made on both sides of this uh debate. We don't think this is an issue where we should break fellowship from each other or charge other churches with being either liberal and woke or uptight and chauvinistic. There's good arguments that can be made. We believe That this passage in Acts 6 is descriptive. That it's telling us what happened without requiring or prescribing what we need to do moving forward. We look to the Bible and we see no prohibition against women serving as deacons, the way we very clearly do see a prohibition about women serving in the office of elder We also recognize that there's not any kind of spiritual authority that is being exercised over people in the administration of these various physical needs. And we look to creation, where we see that Eve was given to Adam specifically to help and serve and support his leadership, which is the very thing that deacons do. And so we have concluded, as you can tell by the fact that eight of our eleven currently serving deacons are women, we have concluded that the office of deacon is open to both qualified men and women. But again, I want to urge you to be charitable towards those churches that don't practice that, that only allow men to serve as deacons. Don't conclude that they all hate women That would be disparaging and unfaithful even to the difficulty of these passages. Let's also recognize here, if I could say more things to provoke. Uh let's also recognize that in this particular moment, uh in what we would think of as a very womanly need, I mean, these were widows who were being neglected, that in the midst of this womanly need The spirit saw to it that actually seven men be appointed. So we shouldn't think it's a disparaging thing or a bad thing for women to be served by male leadership. That's what we see happening in Acts. Happy to talk to you after the service about that. But I'm moving away from the main point here, which is the solution was the selection of godly men, in this context, godly men To serve the practical needs so that the apostles could stay true to their task of prayerful ministry of the word So that the need, the complaint, would be addressed, and the mission of the church would carry on. And this recommendation, we're told, leads to a result. The recommendation we're told pleased the whole gathering. Sometimes I think in church men, I've said this I'm sure to some of you, can't please everybody. Here's a recommend I mean he it pleased everybody. The whole gathering was pleased. This is great. We don't want to sacrifice the word. That's a good that would be bad if we had the word compromise So that you are busying yourselves caring for this need. This is great. Let's find godly people who can serve these uh widows, Hellenists and Hebrews, no inequity. Let's make sure they're all served. And then we still getting the word. This is great And so they select these seven and they formally recognize them through prayer and the laying on of hands. And then Luke records this result in verse 7. And the word of God continued to increase, and the number of the disciples multiplied greatly in Jerusalem, and a great many of the priests. This is great because earlier in Acts these priests were the most outspoken and vicious in their opposition to the apostles and their message of salvation in Christ. A great many of the priests became obedient to the faith. Do not lose heart in your prayerful evangelism, brothers and sisters. A great number of the priests became obedient to the faith I believe a great number of important people in and around the DMV will be coming to faith as we persevere in prayerful spreading of the gospel. Don't lose heart in that good work. That's a sermon for like three or four Sundays from now, so I should slow I should chill out a little bit, I guess, now. The point now is that in a crisis Amidst the complaint, amidst discontentment that was brewing in the church, the Word of God and the mission of the church continued to advance. The church experienced overwhelming and potentially damaging administrative danger, but they overcame it in such a way that both the needs of widow care and prayerful word ministry were upheld. And God honored that congregational concern for both word and deed ministry with new power and evangelistic fruit. That's what happened in Acts 6. And maybe you were thinking I'd close in prayer because I just hit the four points. But let me draw out from those four. Points that walk through the narrative, let me just draw out this conclusion about the work and the role and the function and the importance of deacons in the church. Do not try to write it down. That sounded scolding. I didn't mean it to sound that way. I'm sorry. I would just lovingly encourage you. Don't try to write this down. You're just gonna get lost. But if you want it afterwards, if you want it, I'll send it to you Here's the upshot. Here's the takeaway. Deacons, again, they're not called deacons in the passage, but they seem to have blazed the trail for what we now know today as the office of deacon. Deacons are Christ's gift to the church of exemplary servants, men and women of godly repute. set apart by a local church to support the pastors in protecting and prioritizing the church's word center ministry uh by meeting tangible administrative needs in the congregation, especially those needs that touch on the care and well-being of its most vulnerable members. And in doing so They also help to preserve and promote the church's unity. You understand why I told you you should not try to write it down I'll say it again though, because I do want it to be clear. Deacons are Christ's gift to the church of exemplary servants set apart by a local church to support the pastors in protecting and prioritizing the church's word-centered ministry by meeting tangible administrative needs in the congregation, especially those needs That touch on the physical well-being and care of its vulnerable members. In doing so, they also help to preserve and promote the church's unity. And all that, it's a really big deal. And that's why the Dutch Reformed Church was so insistent that if you mess with the office of deacon, you mess with the very worship of Christ. That's why the Dutch Reformed Christians would say to the Nazis, do not mess with the deacons. Don't minimize their work Don't take for granted the work of deacons among us like we might take for granted the plumbing in our house But honor them and recognize them for their indispensable work of reflecting Christ and strengthening Christ's church to fulfill our urgent mission in the world. Deacons Godly deacons are an immense blessing and gift to the church And in closing, I want to just mention four specific ways that deacons are I've already touched on them, I've already said them in my walkthrough of the passage, but I want to make sure that you see them and that we can recognize this and value this for a few more minutes. Four specific ways that deacons are a blessing and gift to the church. Number one, deacons are a gift to the church for how they show us Jesus' heart. for the needy among us. Deacons show us Jesus' heart for the needy among us. We've been thinking about God's heart for the needy. really from the beginning of the service, since we were called to worship from Psalm ten and in the scripture reading that we heard from Proverbs 31. What a rich study it would be to just consider the heart of God as it's throughout the Bible shown for the downtrodden and the lowly and the afflicted. We see that so vividly in the life of our Lord Jesus, how his heart we just see over and over and over again, whether it's be the the the widow at Nain who was grieving over her son who had died, or the notoriously sinful woman in Luke 7, or at the tomb of Lazarus where he where he wept tears over the grief of his friends or in the in at the well with that Samaritan woman who was on her sixth man drawing water in the scorching heat because of the shame of coming at the time that it would be normal for them to be coming. His his uh heart for the leper and the mute and the paralytic and the deaf and the blind You just see all over the gospels Jesus' heart surging for the the ones who are in need Who were downtrodden. This is how Jesus confirmed his ministry to the to John the Baptist. You remember John the Baptist is in jail. He's like, I didn't think when the Messiah would come and I would be in jail. And he sends word to Jesus, hey, are you the one who is to come, or should we look for another? And Jesus said, Go and tell John what you hear and see. The blind receive their sight, and the lame walk, lepers are cleansed, and the deaf hear, and the dead are raised up, and the poor have good news preached to them. What they saw in that day, and what we see today, is a man, the God man, who is high and lifted up, yet is concerned to tend to every need of the people whom he loves. So when a problem arises in the church and there are certain needy ones being neglected, this is an urgent crisis. And so Jesus Institutes, right, the apostles under Jesus' lordship institute an entire office of the church To be occupied by godly men and women who would be tested and of proven character to ensure that none of his needy, vulnerable vulnerable ones would be neglected. And we know that we're all called. All of us are called to be Christ's servants. We're all called to be servants of others. In fact, Jesus said, the greatest among you Matthew 23. Not a word to deacon specifically, but to all of his disciples, the greatest among you shall be your deacon. I'm showing you the broadness of this word in the New Testament. That's the same word, servant. The greatest among you shall be your servant. And praise the Lord that He seemed fit to give us in this church exemplary servants Who model and mobilize the saints to serve the needy among us. When deacons help with Or facilitate help with rental payments, or give financial counsel, or give car rides to doctor's appointments Or bring meals or supply gift cards or organize work days or or do moves. Help helping somebody move They are a lived-out embodiment of the merciful heart of our Lord Jesus for his needy ones. And we should praise God for that. It's an immense blessing. Number two. Deacons are a gift to the church for how they show us the great value that Christ puts on the ministry of God's Word Deacons are a gift for how they show us the great value that Christ puts on the ministry of the Word. Now I remember you're like, hey, I thought you got your time of patting yourself on the back last week, Larry. Well, we don't that's not why I'm saying this right now. We don't want to put the word of God on a pedestal as if it's the only important thing in the church. We want All the parts, going back to that song we sang, why did we introduce that song today? Because of that line that said, may all the parts be affirmed in their right relation. We want all the parts of the body of Christ to be affirmed in their right relation. We all need one another. We want to treasure all the gifts that Jesus gives to his church. But there is a foundational role that the Word of God plays in the creation of and in the ongoing sustaining of the church It is through the word that God creates life in his people. Ezekiel 37. God speaks to a valley of dry bones, and those dry bones come to life and live. We are born again, 1 Peter 1, through the living and abiding word of God. It is not in vain. I hope it's not in vain. It's it's I have it here. You hear me say it a lot. It is the spirit who gives life. The flesh is no help at all. The words that I've spoken to you, they're spirit and life. It's how we get actually godly men and women who would have the qualifications to serve as deacons, is that God's word sanctifies the people of God so that they might be consecrated and devoted to good works. So the the Word of God does have a primacy in the life of the church. And when Jesus establishes the office of deacon, he's showing one of the things that he's doing, it's not the only thing, but one of the things that he's doing. Is showing how central the word ministry must be in the life of the church He does not want us to forget. He does not want us to forget how important the word is. He doesn't want the ministers of the word to be occupied with waiting tables. It doesn't mean that waiting tables is a is a bad thing, that it's beneath the dignity of someone who preaches the word. It doesn't mean that there's not ways that I can and the other elders are engaged in serving the needs of others. But He does not want the word of God to be compromised, and so praise God for the supportive work of faithful deacons. By which I believe you get much better preaching and spiritual care and oversight than you would if the pastors had to organize and mobilize every aspect of need meeting in this congregation. I did not just say you got good preaching. Did you hear me carefully? I did not say that. What I said is you get better preaching. And you have been very encouraging. You've been very encouraging to me about the ministry of God's Word here since I've been here, and I trust and hope that Tony gets that same affirmation and encouragement from you. He has served us well. Other elders who've gone up here and preached. Have served us well, but I'm just very aware, and I want to make sure we're all aware that I I it is the spirit who gives life, the flesh is no help at all. We need God's help, and I cannot do my work well without Ben and Katie Jones Or Devon Anderson. I'm not sure where you all are, there you are. Or Adrian Heindel. Or Aaron Murray. Or Maria Campbell, or Dave Orme, or Missy Kifitu, or Kristen Lehman Or Stephanie Robson. And we should not forget, though she does not have the office of Deacon Abby Sanders, uh Mm brings together so much administrative need. And I mean the first time I met it, I I don't think she's here. Is she not here today? So I could brag on her for a minute. The very first call I had on Zoom with Tony and Abby when I was thinking about moving down here was just getting to know Abby. And she just was, I mean, she was so zealous about her work in guarding the elders. She has said that line so many times, has she not, Tony? So many times she is so committed to guarding the pastors from administrative stuff so that they can tend to the word and the spiritual care of the members of this church. Such a blessing in that way. I cannot do my work without all of the administrative warriors that do what they do to enable us to do what we do. Thank you. A thousand times over. Thank you. Number three. Deacons are a gift to the church for how they show that both word and deed ministries are vital for the life and health of the church. I just made much of the word ministry, but I just want to make sure that we see that deacons are a gift because they show us that both word and deed ministries are vital for the life and the health of the church. We know that Christ's light shines as a witness in the world Not only through the ministry of the Word, but through the ministry of the lives of God's people engaged in good works that He produces through the ministry of the Word. 2 Timothy chapter 3, all scripture is God breathed and profitable for teaching and correction and training in righteousness and reproof. And at this pivotal moment in the life of the church in the first century in Jerusalem, word And deed ministry are both being preserved because both are vital. Elders lead in the ministry of the word And deacons lead in the ministry of service, administrating practical needs. But this is not just a leadership thing, really, it's a whole church thing Through the ministry of the word, the elders are equipping the saints to speak the truth in love to one another so that together we are built up to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. And through the service of deacons, we are raising up more and more servants. That's why when you get you get emails, so could you serve in this way? We could use some help in this way. The deacons are mobilizing the service ministry of all the saints. It's summarized so well in 1 Peter 4:10. As each has received a gift. You know, there are several places in the Bible that spells out the spiritual gifts, lists of spiritual gifts. This is the shortest one. It talks about two. Speaking gift and serving gift. As each has received a gift, use it to serve one another. As good stewards of varied grace, whoever speaks as one who speaks the oracles of God. Whoever Deacons as one who deacons by the strength that God supplies, in order that in everything God may be glorified through Jesus Christ. God is glorified through the proclamation of his word and through the serving ministry of his saints. And so we need both for us to be healthy as a church and have and God has given us Deacons to help us be faithful to both word and deed ministries. Last and frankly most important. So if you've been fading Please lock in with me for five more minutes, because this is the most important thing that there is to say today and every single Sunday that we gather Deacons are a gift to the church for how they show what a treasure Jesus is in his sacrificial service to us in our deepest need. Deaconal work is a great glory. The Grand Canyon Gorgeous sunset, they are glorious, but they are bland and dull compared to a deacon deaconing Because of the ways that he or she uniquely resembles Jesus. They are shining Examples of, they are pointers to the greatest deacon who ever lived, and that is our Lord Jesus Christ. We're in just a couple minutes. We're going to come to the Lord's table, which is a remembrance of that final meal that Jesus shared with his disciples on the eve of his crucifixion. And do you remember how that evening started, how that meal started Before the meal even started, Jesus, Jesus took a towel and washed the feet. of his disciples, one of whom was getting ready to betray him, all of whom would soon run away from him and leave him alone. And Jesus got a towel and he got on his knees and he washed their feet. And after that happened His disciples began to dispute amongst themselves as to which one of them was the greatest. And Jesus said to them, Who is greater? One who reclines at table or one who deacons? Is it not the one who reclines at table? That's what you would think, right? But I am among you, Jesus said, as one who deacons And the footwashing was just a pointer to the ultimate act of deaconing The son of man. You know the significance of that phrase, the son of man, Daniel 7, the Son of Man being brought before the ancient of days, and all worship going into this Son of Man. The Son of Man came, Mark 10, 45, not to be deaconed, but to deacon and to give his life as a ransom for many. Please don't ever tire of me telling you this, beloved. Jesus Christ came from heaven to earth as a servant, humbling himself even to death, a sacrificial death in our place on the cross by which he would bear in his own body the righteous indignation that we should have borne for our love of self, for our promotion of self, for our praise of self. We see it Acts 6. We see the apostles. A grievance is brought, a complaint is brought, and they spring into action to address this need. Jesus did not spring into action because a legitimate grievance that we had broke its way to heaven and prompted him to come down. No, just the opposite. Jesus came as a response to a complaint that God had legitimately against us. He was the one from all eternity, fully deserving of obedience and reverence and love. And we have neglected, we have grossly neglected to give him what is due. So who could be found to rectify this problem? I mean they the apostles in Acts 6, they just like, okay, there's a need. Let's find some godly people to address this need. Who could be found To bear the wrath of God that we all deserve for our sin. Only one could be found, one who is fully God and fully man. And in the course of time, Jesus came to save. And it was his joy to do so. He came and he served us. What greater act? Oh, I know I yell a lot, but what's just what greater act could he have engaged in? Than to leave the throne room of heaven when he could have stayed, and to stay on the cross when he could have left But he stayed on that cross, bearing the punishment that we were due for the joy set before him, and what a glorious result has happened. From that act of deaconing, God raised him from the dead, and now we by coming to Jesus can have peace with him, and he's gonna serve us for all eternity When he comes, Jesus said in Luke chapter 12, when he comes, truly I say to you, he, the Son of Man, he will have his disciples sit and recline at table, and he will come to them, and he will deacon them. For all eternity. And now, until that day, clothed with his spirit, we're all striving to ensure. That nobody in this body with a need would experience anything different among us at Chevrolet Baptist Church. If you've not repented of your self-love and your self-promotion and your self-praise, I urge you to do that today. Living for yourself is such a vain and futile way to live. Why would you not want to serve a king so generous and joyful in his service of you? Come to Jesus today Chevroly Baptist Church, brothers and sisters, this is the Savior, this is the servant, this is the deacon who all of our faithful underdeacons reflect. You've maybe never heard that phrase. I don't know that it's, I'm sure somebody said it. We talk about under-shepherds to the great shepherd. But our deacons are underdeacons to the deacon of deacons, as one has said. All of our underdeacons are here to reflect in their supportive work of meeting the practical needs of the body, they're here to reflect him His loving heart. So I know a lot of them are not sitting here right now, but Ben and Katie, because they're serving. They're busy serving now in the nursery. Ben and Katie and Devon and Beth and Adrian and Aaron and Maria and Dave and Missy and Kristen. And Stephanie, also serving, I think, with the kids. And all the ones who have faithfully stood earlier, who have served in this ministry, you are, you are, please understand, you are great gifts. And treasures to Chevrolet Baptist Church in showing us tangibly and physically what a treasure we are to Jesus. The great shepherd and supreme deacon of the church. May we all be moved to love and serve him more fervently, As we honor and recognize the deacon gifts that he has graciously given to us to reflect his servant-hearted love and compassion for us here at Chevrolet Baptist Church. Heavenly Father, we pray that you would help us. Help us to not take our deacons for granted. Help us to honor them and recognize them Help us to imitate their godly character and be faithful Christ-like servants ourselves, even as we look to Jesus. The deacon of deacons, we thank you for how Jesus so generously and joyfully served us. We pray that you would clothe us and empower us freshly with your spirit, that we might be zealous for good works that would bring you glory. We ask for this all in Jesus' name. Amen.