Please open up in your Bibles to the book of First Thessalonians, chapter 5. 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, if you're using one of the Bibles provided on a seat around you, that's on page 988 of those Bibles provided. As you're turning there, and as we prepare to read this short passage, I want you to think about where's your happy place? Do you have a happy place? A few places come to my mind when I think about that question. I was particularly reminded of A trip that we made this past May to Hilton Head, South Carolina. We go there just about every year to visit my dad. He lives down there and uh with all the changes and the newness that we had experienced over the few months before last May, Uh it was uh r very refreshing to go to a familiar place and I can recall especially the the morning after we arrived uh brewing a cup of coffee and going out to the back porch of our house, hardly hearing a thing, but maybe a few birds chirping, seeing a little little gecko crawl past on the back porch where I was sitting and Seeing an egret sailing along the the uh surface of the lagoon in the distance and seeing the the big tall palmetto trees and then the the Spanish moss there on the the oak trees and with just with just just did I mention it was quiet. It was so quiet. And I thought this is this is great. Just want to bottle up those moments and and never leave them. Do you know what I'm talking about? Do you do you have a happy place The Bible teaches us, and Tony already helped us to consider that when he talked about those clouds breaking and the sun coming out in London. But the Bible teaches us that godly leadership is meant to be experienced and enjoyed as that kind of happy place. That's what King David said in those words that Lois read to us from 2 Samuel 23. When one rules justly over men, Ruling in the fear of God, he dawns on them like the morning light, like the sun shining forth on a cloudless morning, like rain that makes grass to sprout from the earth. David says that's a that's a glimpse of what godly leadership ruling justly in the fear of God, what it's supposed to look like. feel like and smell like. But sadly, I probably don't need to tell you this Many people, even many people inside churches, are not experiencing godly leadership, godly rule like that A couple of years ago I saw a Gallup poll in which it said that uh 32 percent of Americans, only 32 percent of Americans said that pastors have a high or very high level of honesty and ethics. That was an all-time low We did still fare better than journalists who checked in at 19% and politicians at 7%. But that really was not very comforting to me. Now there are many contributing factors to this decline in confidence in pastoral leadership. But whatever causes of mistrust there are, it does present a very real problem In walking out God's design for his church, in which the Lord Jesus, that the chief shepherd of the sheep, has ordained and has given leaders to his churches to help them carry out their mission in submission to his supreme authority. A given the many instances of abused authority and ungodly leadership, even sadly, in churches Bearing the name of Christ, churches claiming to represent the king of love who is our shepherd. How are you supposed to know which ones you can trust? Uh what are those leaders supposed to be doing? How are you supposed to be relating to them In such a way that this all feels like the sun shining on a cloudless morning Well, on this occasion of reinstalling two of our elders, and the first time I've been able to address you on that occasion. I just thought it would be good for us to take a look at what Scripture has to say about these things. And so to help us do that, I want to focus our study, though I will mention a few other passages along the way, want to help us Think about this subject from some words in Paul's first letter to the Thessalonian Church. That's why I've asked you to turn there Uh listen to God's word as I read this morning 1 Thessalonians 5 verses 12 and 13 We ask you, brothers, to respect those who labor among you and are over you in the Lord and admonish you. And to esteem them very highly in love because of their work. Be at peace among yourselves. This is God's word, brothers and sisters. Thanks be to God. Let's ask for his help as we open up the scriptures Heavenly Father, we do thank you for this word. We trust, because it's from you, it's a good word. It's a word that we need to hear And not just one that we need to hear, but one that we need to heed. So we pray, Father, that you would make us not only hearers, but doers of your word We know we need your Holy Spirit to help us in that. It is the Spirit who gives life. The flesh is of no help at all. And so we pray, Father, that your spirit would be at work among us, giving us life that we might walk faithfully in accord with the truths of your word. We ask for this in Jesus' name Amen. That's a short passage, but I think I'd like to give you even a shorter summary of what I understand to be the main burden of those two verses. It's an exhortation. It's going to be framed. It's an exhortation to you, the church. But embedded in it, I hope you'll hear an exhortation to the elders of the church. Not just the two that we've just installed, but all five of us. The exhortation is this. This is a summary of the passage. Affectionately honor Christ-like leaders who labor strenuously for your holiness. I think that's the point of these two verses in 1 Thessalonians 5. Affectionately honor Christ-like leaders who labor strenuously for your holiness. And to help us understand that summary statement and apply that main idea to our life together, let's observe First, the responsibilities of leaders to the church as members. And then secondly, the responsibilities of church members to its leaders Fair warning. This sermon will be disproportionately weighted on point number one. So if you're concerned, as point one continues on and on and on, I understand point two to be shorter. First, though, let's think about the responsibilities of leaders to the church's members If this seems odd to you, does this seem odd to you that I'm preaching on this? This is a little bit this is a little bit weird. I'm not sure who else is going to do it. I don't think I'm supposed to call in some other guest. to come talk to you about what the pastors are supposed to be doing and how you're to be relating to the pastor. So I hope it doesn't seem weird to you. Uh but I I hope and pray that These considerations will help us. So it will help you to understand what it is that we're here for, what it is that Jesus instructs us and charges us to do. how you're to relate to us so that we can be uh protected from uh the harm that ungodly leadership does to churches and to the reputation of Christ, so that we could be ushered into this great blessing that good authority truly is. Point number one, the responsibilities of leaders to the church's members Verse 12 gives us uh a glimpse into those responsibilities. What John is responsible for and what Luke is responsible for. What I am responsible for and Tony is responsible for and Ryan is responsible for. Verse 12 says, We ask you brothers to respect those who labor among you and are over you in the Lord and admonish you. So Paul is he's addressing the brothers in Thessalonica. He he speaks of them as brothers twelve times in this letter. And that just Is taking us back even to the very first verse of the letter. He's writing to the church of the Thessalonians, and he's calling upon the church. To adopt a certain posture towards their leaders, towards those who are over you. So we see here in this passage that among this flock You see, it says there's some among them, so they're among the flock. They're not out at some other place unseen, unknown by the members of the church. They're among the church. And among the church, there are certain ones who are understood and recognized to be over the flock. I think it's safe to identify these ones over the brothers as the pastors or elders or overseers of the church. This passage does not use those words. Say why are you preaching a passage on the work of elders and you've chosen a passage where th th those words aren't mentioned? Well, because of the way other scriptures speak of the work and titles of elders, I think that this is A reference to the elders in the church. So 1 Timothy 5, 17, Paul writes, Let the elders Who rule well. And that word rule in 1 Timothy 5. 17 is this word translated over in 1 Thessalonians 5. 12. Let the elders who rule, who are over you, who exercise oversight, who manage, who lead, let them be considered worthy of double honor, especially those who labor. Same word as 1 Thessalonians 5. 12, especially those who labor in preaching and teaching. Paul says to the elders in Acts chapter 20, to the elders in Ephesus. And it says there very clearly in verse 17, he's speaking to the elders in the church in Ephesus. He says, pay careful attention to yourselves and to all the flock in which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers. Overseers. To care for, to shepherd the church of God, which he obtained with his own blood. I could share a couple more verses there with you, but I hope you can see there's a connection there. These overseers, the ones exercising oversight, are called The elders of the church, and they're called to pastor or shepherd the flock. And so we learn something from these verses about the scope of this leading, this ruling, this oversight. That pastors are to exercise. Did you notice in all of those verses? It's plural. There's never reference to just the pastor. We have a plurality, a sharing of eldership, because that's what the Bible teaches. The calling on those pastors, the calling on John, the calling on Luke and myself and Tony and Ryan. Is that we not it's not that we manage a corporation or that we function as entrepreneurs engaged in a business venture, seeking to ensure that all the shareholders stay happy. No, we're tenders of sheep. We're spiritual watchmen, physicians of souls, charged by the chief shepherd himself to look after his blood-bought, dearly loved sheep. We're called, we're responsible to look out for you To think, to look at this church, to look at its members, and to consider what what trends might they be Leaning in towards? What threats might there be to their souls? What false ideologies might they be susceptible to? Are they treasuring and appreciating the gospel? Is the gospel growing and bearing fruit in them? Are there any of these precious sheep who may be drifting or discouraged or uh disgruntled or weary we need to know the sheep So that we can help the sheep to flourish in love and obedience with an eye towards that day when we all stand before that king of love. Our great shepherd, the great shepherd of the sheep. We must know you. That is the first part of the labor. We've got to know you. It's a noble task. That's what Paul writes to Timothy. It's a noble task to care for, to look out for Christ's sheep in those ways. And it's not just a noble work, but it's strenuous labor. Now I use the word strenuous And you understand, do you understand, in preaching this, I'm exhorting the elders among us. I'm not patting us on the back and talk and telling. Look at how awesome we are, church. Do you see how great we are? I'm exhorting the elders among us right now and helping you to understand what to be praying for and what to be looking for in us. It's strenuous labor. I'm trying to, by putting the word strenuous there, I'm trying to bring out the force of this Greek word that is used there in verse 12, translated labor Which refers to exerting oneself to the point of exhaustion. It's sweat-inducing labor that Paul is talking about Now I have said on occasion on those Sundays when we don't have heat in here and it's very chilly and we're wearing winter hats and coats. that I feel that way and then when I'm ten or twelve minutes into this, I don't feel cold anymore. But it's not really that kind of sweat-inducing labor that I'm talking about. It's spiritually and emotionally exhausting labor to look out for the church. Paul uses illustrations in his writings of a hardworking farmer. Or soldiers in combat, or athletes training diligently for the Olympic Games, as so many of them that you'll be watching in a few weeks for the Winter Olympics There's a diligence involved. Paul speaks of spending and being spent for the souls of those whom he is caring for. He even has the audacity, and ladies, you might begrudge this if he wasn't writing under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, but in Galatians 4:19, he likens his labor to like the pains of childbirth. Till Christ is formed in you. In the writing of sermons and the study of God's Word, and in the prayers that we pray, and in seeking to set an example. to you by our lives and our conduct in the way that we would practice hospitality, the way that we would find time to meet you for coffee or to sneak in a lunch or to equip you in Sunday school classes, to encourage you, to counsel you, the discerning that we need. Do I just need to listen right now to this uh sheep who is frustrated and discouraged or do I need to speak an admonishing word? Is this a time to just be quiet and listen or or rebuke? In all of this Both personally in your lives and corporately, this is labor. You keep us up at night, and we love you. That's why It's hard work, it's strenuous labor to lead Christ's church And Paul singles out one specific aspect of the labor here in this passage. We ask you, brothers, and uh, to respect those who labor among you and are over you in the Lord and admonish you. Think about this word, admonish. The first thing I think about when I hear the word admonish Is that this work that we're called to engage in is word work. You use words to admonish. The oversight and the care that the elders of this church are called to give you is rooted in, and it is relying upon God's word That's why Paul tells Timothy and Titus when he spells out the qualifications for elders that they need to be able to teach. That doesn't mean that they're just dynamic and they're fun to listen to. It means that they faithfully communicate God's word to God's people and they can confront and rebuke False interpretations of God's word when that's needed. And when the elders take up this word in all the various ways that we do take it up. If you do a survey of Paul's pastoral epistles, the two letters to Timothy and the letter to Titus, and you just look at all the different words that he used to describe our words. urge and exhort and declare and charge and instruct and encourage and preach and teach and admonish and repute. I mean there's lots of words. And the aim in all those words is the holiness of God's people. Where did you get the word holiness from? Larry, that's not in the passage either. Well, Bible's open. Good Bereans that you are. If you turn back a page maybe in your Bible to chapter 4 of 1 Thessalonians, Paul says. Finally, then, brothers, we ask and urge you in the Lord Jesus that as you receive from us how you ought to walk and to please God. Just as you are doing that, you do so more and more, for you know what instructions we gave you through the Lord Jesus, for this is the will of God, your sanctification. That's a fancy word for holiness. I've been asking you, I've been urging you, you know the instructions that I gave you. What's it all for? Your holiness. Shepherding people, leading the people of God, exercising oversight is about preparing people to meet Jesus Himself So that one day we might present back to the chief shepherd these dearly loved sheep whom he died for. having cultivated in you the first fruits of that radiant splendor that will be your eternal inheritance. That's what pastors labor strenuously for. Your conformity to the likeness of Christ, your holiness. That's what Paul himself was laboring for. He said to the Colossians, Him we proclaim, warning everyone and teaching everyone with all wisdom. that we may present everyone mature in Christ, for this I toil. Same word translated, labor, in 1 Thessalonians 5. For this I toil, struggling with all his energy that he powerfully works within me. Praise God for the power of God that is given to the leaders to keep on laboring for the Lord's people because without his power We would all quit. We would all lose heart. There are all kinds of ways that faithful pastors can and must take up the word to promote that kind of holiness in God's people. But one important way And I'm going to pause here for just a couple of minutes and press down here because I think it's an especially challenging way, and maybe therefore a neglected way, and it's the way that Paul wanted to make sure the Thessalonians didn't miss, is through admonishment. How's that sit with you this morning, beloved? To attain to this holiness, you'll have need to be admonished I will have need to be admonished. Sometimes faithful shepherds Need to admonish the sheep. That's something actually that we need to do for each other if you look at the next verses, actually, in verse 14. It speaks of admonishing one another. To admonish, one commentary I read says to admonish means to exert positive pressure on someone to do God's will Or another commentary, giving advice and correction designed to change the conduct of a person. You you all have been very encouraging and affirming to me in my leadership here over the past year. And I, as I was thinking about this this week, and as I was thinking about this word admonishment, I thought of a dear, dear sister of ours in New Jersey named Stephanie. She came to me In that weird in-between time, in my former pastorate, when I had told them that I was probably leaving, but you all actually hadn't voted on me yet. And she wanted to get together with me. And she wanted, and we've walked with Stephanie for many, many years She wanted to talk to me about some ways that she was thankful for my ministry and there were some things that she wanted to challenge me about. In thinking of her losing me as a pastor and thinking about you receiving me as a pastor, there were some things she wanted to admonish me. about. And there was some things that she said that were hard to hear. But they were some things that I needed to hear. And I think that Stephanie Long has made me a better Christian. And she's made me a better pastor because she loved me enough To admonish me. It's not easy to give admonishment because it's not really easy for us to receive admonishment What's nicest for you to hear is not always what's most needful for you to hear And pastors are charged by the Lord to sometimes bring such words to you as occasion may warrant. And of all the labor that's involved in being one among the flock, who is also charged to be over the flock, this may be one of the things that is more laborious in the labor than anything else. Sometimes we need to say no to you. Sometimes we need to correct you or contradict your thinking or or remind you of something maybe that you've ignored or forgotten or disregarded. And it takes courage. to do that because sometimes this may be shocking to you uh but sometimes that ministry is not appreciated Sometimes people don't like to be admonished. And since we're humans, we're tempted to, it's sad it shouldn't be that way, but sometimes we're tempted to fear man more than we fear the accounting that we're going to give to Jesus. And that we might shrink back in saying from you, uh saying to you something that you may need to hear from us. We get tired, we get discouraged, we wonder if it's really worth it. And we may shrink back and not say anything at all But that impulse is an evil impulse, and it's an ungodly impulse. Pray, brothers and sisters, for your pastors that we will persevere. In loving you more than we love our own comfort, even when we must admonish you Cultivate a posture that understands and values this aspect of pastoral ministry. Coming from men who are sincerely and humbly and courageously, devotedly committed to your holiness. I came across this one quote years ago. I didn't know where it was. I Googled it. The name attached to it is Adrian Rogers, who was formerly the president of the SBC. He said a pastor who cares enough about you to risk his relationship with you in order to admonish you is a gift from God to you. And I wonder in the past three or four minutes if some of your blood pressure has risen a little bit. Because there are many and serious dangers lurking right here, aren't there? What I've just said about admonishing and saying hard things to you and correcting you and admonishing you, boy, that's awfully vulnerable to misuse and abuse. And I know that some of you have experienced that kind of leadership. And maybe it's made you fearful Maybe it's made you timid. Maybe you've been treated harshly or callously and torn down by a spiritual leader as being insubordinate because you brought some word of concern. Or care of your soul. There's great dangers here. And that's why this phrase, in the Lord Is such a precious and urgent and vital safeguard for us all. The elders who are over the church are over the church in the Lord. Now listen, if you've been tuning out, if you've been having a hard time staying focused, if you're a visitor among us, you're maybe you're not even sure that you're a Christian You're a child among us. Like, I don't know how this has anything to do with me. I don't have past. I'm not even a member of the church here. Please listen up for a few minutes here. What Lord are we talking about when we're told that elders are to be exercising their oversight in the Lord? We're talking about the Lord Jesus Christ. We're talking about the king of love. We're talking about the king before whom angels lay prostrate, King of kings, Lord of lords, who has eternally ruled over all things by his word. who who is so kind that he would personally come from heaven to earth and lay down his divine rights and prerogatives by submitting himself to the agonies of the cross To rescue rebels who have scorned and rejected his authority. We have spoken by our sin, we have spoken to the Lord of the universe and said, talk to the hand, because the ears, they're not listening. We have had the audacity in our heart posture, if we've not actually spoken it out loud, in our sin nature, we have essentially communicated to the God who made us, who died and made you in charge. Well actually he made the world and he upholds us. He has every right to condemn us to eternal torment. But instead, Jesus Christ came, the King, the Lord, came and he endured hell for us so that we could become beloved children and citizens of his eternal covenant kingdom. We could be brought in Wandering sheep that we were, perverse and foolish, straying from him. He died for us. He sought us out. He bought us with his blood, and he brought us back into the fold. And a biblical pastor exercises authority in the Lord, in that Lord, for his sake. To represent him as the fruit of abiding in his love, in loyal awe-filled wonder at the privilege that we would have of serving Him and pursuing His purposes and His priorities. for each of his dearly loved blood-boss sheep, knowing that we will give an account to that Lord for how we have overseen you, for how we have cared for you. It's the Lord Jesus, the chief shepherd of the sheep who has charged every under-shepherd. These are my sheep. They're not yours, Larry. They're not yours, Luke. They're not yours. They're Jesus' dearly loved sheep. So valuable to him that he gave himself to be slaughtered for their sins. and to be brought back into my fold. I love them. I can out yell. I can out yell. one. But I don't need to. Listen to this. Beloved. Big church or small church. Growing church or declining church, well-known prosperous church or obscure impoverished church, every church is dear to Jesus because he shed His blood for her. He shed his blood for you, Faith. He shed his blood for you, Ray. And Jeff. And Baruch. You just go around the room. He knew you. He means for you to hear this very personally and specifically. You are precious to Jesus, Devin. And one expression of his love for you. He loves you so much, Carrie That in saving you, he would appoint and raise up and empower with his spirit men who would devote themselves to the strenuous labor of taking care of you. Of guarding you from straying and leading you on that narrow way that leads to life He sets apart men to know you and to feed you and to lead you and protect you so that you would not fail to obtain the grace of God. And he says to these men, he has the The i I almost feel like it's the audacity. He calls us shepherds. That blew me away this week. What on earth? How could I possibly be called a shepherd in light of all that we've heard in the Bible about shepherds and the good shepherds He would call us shepherds. And he says to these under-shepherds, tend to these dear ones. Build them up. And nurture them and care for them. Take up a rod and a staff to lead them and strike away enemies when they would Be lurking and admonish them when needed and pray for them and rejoice with them when they rejoice and weep with them when they weep and be patient with them all because they mean everything to me I died for them. That's why it's so urgent that we pay careful attention to all the flock to each and every one of them to each and every one of you you Sabrina you Becky you Mike you Abelle Maybe by the end I will get to everyone. We'll see. I don't say your name. It doesn't mean because it's not because I haven't thought about you and prayed for you When a leader exercises oversight like that, I try to lean into that in my summary by saying it's a Christ-like leader. It just transforms the way they think about their office, about their work, and about the people that they're over. One man whom I've learned about the work of pastoring from is a man named Richard Baxter. He I never met him. He lived in the 1600s. But he wrote a book called The Reformed Pastor, and he said, and I want to just do it while I'm reading it to you. He said every time we look on our congregations Let us believingly remember that they are the purchase of Christ's blood, and that we should regard them as such That's our responsibility to you as pastors. And when the church's leaders are functioning in that way I don't think it's a burdensome thing to relate to them in the way that the apostle charges the church's members. Point number two, did I tell you it would be much shorter. Look again at verse 12. We ask you, brothers, to respect those who labor among you and are over you in the Lord and admonish you. and to esteem them very highly in love because of their work. The word translated here, respect is used 300 it's a very common word it's used 320 times in the New Testament and only in this one instance is it translated respect It's a very simple common word meaning to know. Know, recognize, regard those who labor among you Matthew Henry explains in this way: As the shepherd should know his flock, so the sheep must know their shepherd. I would say shepherds, if I could be so bold as to correct Mr. Henry. They must know his person, hear his voice, acknowledge him for their pastors, and pay due regard to their teaching and ruling and admonitions Now this knowing, I won't belabor this because I'm going to address this at length in two Sundays, Lord willing. But this knowing implies the importance of joining a church, of actually being recognized as a member of a church. It's why I've been speaking through this sermon as to the members of the church. Responsibilities for members, responsibilities of members, because to know your leaders. And for them to know that you intend for them to care and pay attention and oversee you, the way I've been trying to describe, as those who will have to give an account for you. That's another big Leadership Bible verse, Hebrews 13:7, 17. Obey your leaders and submit to them as those who are keeping watch for your souls, as those who will have to give an account We need to have a clear way of knowing who that group of people is that we're so responsible for. And so that's why we commend. That's why we emphasize the importance and value of membership in a local church. Now, I'll say more about that in two weeks. I'll leave it there for now. But this relationship of knowing your pastors involves it's marked by esteeming very highly in love. I use the phrase affectionately honoring. The work, as I've sought to describe it this morning, the work of leaders, is so high and holy and dignified I'm not saying the people are so high and holy and dignified. I'm saying the work that he's called leaders to do is so important and so dignified in the sight of the chief shepherd that there ought to be a high estimation. a high regard, a valuing beyond all measure. This word very highly is the word that we've encountered in our study of Ephesians when we talked about the God who is able to do immeasurably more. than we could ask or imagine. And that produces love for such leaders because of the work that they're engaged in. Now, this high esteem should not be equated with blind loyalty. Right? We're not the Lord. To state the obvious. We're not the Lord. Jesus is the Lord, right? Let's, are you still say that out loud with me? Jesus is the Lord. Come on now. I didn't ask the kid. I said everybody, Jesus is the Lord. You should not follow Jesus' undershepherds in anything that would lead you away from the will of the chief shepherd. as it's revealed in his word. And certainly we as under shepherds, who are fallible, who are still growing We may have need for correction and rebuke and admonition ourselves. I already gave you an example of that from my former church when I was in need of some admonishment. I've received a little bit of that since I've been here too. And I don't begrudge any of that. But Hebrews 13:17 does teach that sometimes this high esteem in love will mean submitting to a decision or submitting to words that you don't agree with. As leaders, sometimes we will make decisions, we will have convictions, we will express convictions. Whether it's at the personal level and maybe counsel that we would give to you or at the church level of just decisions and how we do things as a church that you might not agree with. There would be no need for submission in this relationship if there wasn't some level of disagreement. Kids, if your parents tonight were to say, go get another bowl of ice cream. You wouldn't have to submit to them to go do that. You'd be very excited about doing that. If your parents, if your parents said kids It's been too much junk for Christmas. We're starting, we're throwing all of that out, and there's going to be no treats for a week. That would be, oh no, I know, right? That would be horrible. You'd have to submit to that. And sometimes the members of the church do need to submit to their leaders. That's Hebrews 13, 17, not the Larry Lazarus Bible. The disposition in those times should be one of respectful trust, not suspicious scorn. And if mistrust becomes characteristic, okay, if it's not just one item here, but if there's a characteristic mistrust. If you perceive there's a characteristic failure in the work that I've tried to spell out in the first 30 minutes of this sermon, well then you, we would urge you to come to us and speak to us about that. Maybe one or more of us need to be removed from our office. Maybe you in good conscience need to remove yourself from the church if you believe characteristically we are misrepresenting the Lord Jesus in his leadership. But understand that highly esteeming us does not mean keeping your mouth quiet if you have a disagreement or concern about us and our leadership or our views. Now, you've all been listening so attentively. Let me say as I move towards your conclusion, I think you're doing great in this. I love it. I just want to be super clear. I was excited. I'm excited about pastoring. I'm excited. I'm excited to preach on pastoring. It's been a very sobering and challenging week for me. I'm not preaching this as some kind of underhanded correction or rebuke of you. Like you need to shape up Chevrolet Baptist Church. Y'all have been outstanding. in these ways over the 364 days since I stood here and took those vows. You've been a delight to pastor Keep up the good work. I'm glad to be here. You have made my work here in the past year a joy, and I'm confident that I can speak for John and Luke and Ryan and Tony when I say that. I'm honored to be here as your pastor and to serve you. Even in disagreements, and there have been some of those, there have been some tough conversations in the past year. Even in those disagreements, I have keenly Felt respect and high esteem in love. Thank you for that. And praise God from whom all blessings flow. I could give you many specific examples of that, even from this one year, but I should wrap it up. But if I as I think about what I've experienced in the past year, here's five ways that you can value the leaders of your church. I've seen you, you've done this. And I'm encouraging you, if you want to, how can I highly esteem in love the pastors of this church? Here's five things that you've done for me that I would commend you in and say, just as you have been doing, 1 Thessalonians 4, do so more and more. We'll call them the five, the vowel. Kids, what are the five vowels? I know why is confusing. I'm just confused about why. But what are the vowels? Say it, just say it, just yell out. It's getting late. A-E-I-O-U. Did somebody say A-E-I-O-U? I think, I hope somebody said. Maybe they said it in a different way. I always heard A-E-I-O-U. So here's some five vowels of value. This is very short, and then we're gonna close. A. Affirm evidence of God's grace where you see it. A firm evidence of God's grace where you see it. If you can't scribble all this down, I'm happy to send you my notes E. Encourage us to persevere in the midst of weariness. Because sometimes we get tired and discouraged I invite us into your lives, sharing your struggles, confessing your sins, honestly seeking our counsel uh on where there may be any ways in your own life that are in need perhaps of adjustment or correction. Oh openly share concerns or disappointments with how we're serving you and leading you. And you uphold us in prayer before the chief shepherd of the flock. Did I mention y'all are doing that very well? Not cracking a whip here this morning, Chevrolet Baptist Church. When all that's happening, when leaders are exercising Christ-like oversight Laboring strenuously for your holiness as you seek to respect and highly esteem those leaders in love because of the hard work that they're putting on in for your holiness. Well, that's a very happy place. It's like the sun shining forth on a cloudless morning. Like rain that makes grass to sprout from the earth. Thank you, brothers and sisters of Chevrolet Baptist Church, for how well you have done that. And pray for us as we seek to labor for your holiness. in view of the account that we'll give to the chief shepherd of the flock. Let's pray to that out now. Heavenly Father, thank you. Every single one of us in this room is just so undeserving of your love. The king of love. We are so delighted to be able to sing together as members of the church. Shepherds in the flock are sheep before they are shepherds. As your sheep, we rejoice to celebrate you. Perverse and foolish, oft we've strayed, and yet in love you sought us We thank you for how generously and faithfully you have given of yourself to us. We pray that you would help us all to walk worthy of your calling. Help me and John and Luke and Tony and Ryan to shepherd this flock diligently. Faithfully, humbly, sacrificially, help the members of this church to Esteem us highly because of the way that we would show Christ-like love to them. We thank you for the ways that you have blessed this church in its almost eight years of existence. We pray that you would give us many more years and decades of faithfulness to you. As we endeavor to show the world the right way in which authority is to be stewarded, in a world so divided, full of strife and conflict, Would you help us to show the way of peace that is made possible through Jesus? We ask for all this in his name. Amen.