Good morning, brothers and sisters. The privilege to be with you and to bring God's word to you this morning. Let's go to Him in a word of prayer briefly, once again, before we get started. Well, we love you. We thank you for paying it all. We thank you for completing the good work that you've started in each and every one of us that belong to you. We pray that this time together It's an act of faith, it's an act of worship, and that you would use it to continue your good work in us. Convict us by your word. Strengthen us by your word, correct us with your word, and change us through your word and the power of your Holy Spirit. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. But recently I received some mail from PG County, which is normally not that great of a thing This time I received a citation from those handy, lovely, trusty speed cameras. That look like they're all broken, by the way. Like some random white boxes that actually apparently work. From your chuckles, it sounds like some of you have received that mail as well. And if you've ever opened it, you see your sin exposed in HD. Right? Like they have great pictures. And then there's a fine that's attached to it. And if you're like me, your impulse is to deny, defend, and deflect. So deny it. Like that couldn't have been me. I couldn't have been going that fast, but those great cameras make a great argument that yes it was me Defend. Plenty of people drive here fast. People in Maryland drive crazy. Or this is just a money grab by this by the city or by the county. Or deflect. Like what time was that? What day was that? Was that really me or was it actually my wife instead? Turns out it was actually me. But I think we can all relate to defending ourselves. Denying our sin or deflecting when our sin is exposed in some way You might have some other examples that you can think of in your life. It's impulsive. It's what we do. We want to defend ourselves. We want to deny that it's really that bad, or we want to deflect and even blame others In our passage this morning, though, we're going to see a clear example of God's people doing just the opposite. They don't defend themselves, they don't deny their sin, they don't deflect to anyone else They actually take a better and more appropriate path, which is the path of repentance. And if you haven't turned there already, please meet me in your copy of God's word to Nehemiah chapter 9. In Nehemiah chapter 9, which is on page 404 in the Bibles that are provided. Last week we saw that God's people gathered. God's people heard his word and they rejoiced. They understood it. They obeyed it. They worshiped in response to his word But even as we discussed last week, some of their worship included some weeping, where people were weeping because of their sin, but they were told this is not the time for that. Now is the time to rejoice. And so they did. But now since they're at the end of the Feast of Booths, the Feast of Tabernacles, as we talked about last week, they gather together again To weep, to mourn, to repent of their sin. Instead of their rejoicing, they would repent Instead of their celebrating, they would confess. Look at verse 1 of our passage this morning. Nehemiah chapter 9. Now on the 24th day of this month the people of Israel were assembled together with fasting and sackcloth, and with earth on their heads. That means dust on their heads. So this appearance with sackcloth and ashes was to symbolize their fasting and also symbolize that they were in a time of mourning. They were in a solemn assembly, which was required by the law of Moses in Leviticus chapter 23. And they're hearing and responding to the word right now, again, as we're going to hear in these next couple of verses. But their response now is going to be different than we heard about in Nehemiah chapter 8. Look at verse 2. The Israelites separated themselves from all foreigners and stood and confessed their sins and the iniquities of their fathers. And they stood up in their place and read from the book of the law of the Lord, their God, for a quarter of the day, and for another quarter of it they made confession and worshipped the Lord their God. It should be noted that their separation from all foreigners was separating themselves from the non-Israelites that was among them that came back to Jerusalem themselves Who did worship the Lord, who did love the Lord, but they said, no, this time we need to own our sin. This is the sin of our people, of our ancestors. And so they are led in this corporate prayer of confession by the Levites. Look at verse four. On the stairs of the Levites stood Yeshua, Benai, Cadmiel, Chadbanai, Benai, Shariah, Benai, and Shemani, and they cried out with a loud voice to the Lord their God. Then the Levites, Jeshua, Hadmiel, Benai, Hashbanah, Shariah, Hodiah, Shabanai, Pathiah, and Pathiah said Stand up and bless the Lord your God from everlasting to everlasting. Blessed be your glorious name, which is exalted above all blessing and praise. Verses six through thirty-seven of this chapter is where you get this prayer of confession by God's people. And in it, we're going to see and hear a highlight reel of God's enduring faithfulness to his people. But we're also going to hear and see lots of lowlights Lots of low moments, lots of sin and rebellion by God's people, people of Israel So as we read and as you hear it, allow God's word to read you. Let's allow God's word to read us, and where it's there, reveal our sin to us. If you're taking notes before I read the rest of the passage, here's the main idea. Despite our sinfulness. God faithfully keeps his covenant and his people. Despite our sinfulness, God faithfully keeps his covenant and his people. We'll pick up at verse six of Nehemiah chapter nine. You are the Lord, you alone. You have made heaven, the heaven of heavens, with all their hosts. the earth and all that is on it, the seas and all that is in them, and you preserve all of them, and the host of heaven worships you You are the Lord, the God who chose Abram and brought him out of Ur of the Chaldeans and gave him the name Abraham. You found his heart faithful before you, and made with him the covenant to give to his offspring the land of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Amorites, and the Peshites, the Jebusites, and the Gergeshites. And you have kept your promise, for you are righteous. And you saw the affliction of our fathers in Egypt, and heard their cry at the Red Sea And perform signs and wonders against Pharaoh and all of his servants and all the people of his land, for you knew that they acted arrogantly against our fathers And you made a name for yourself as it is to this day. And you divided the sea before them, so that they went through the midst of the sea on dry land. And you cast their pursuers into the depths as a stone into mighty waters. By a pillar of cloud you led them in the day, and by a pillar of fire in the night to light for them the way in which they should go. You came down on Mount Sinai and spoke to them from heaven, and gave them right rules and true laws and good statutes and commandments And you made known to them your holy Sabbath, and commanded them commandments and statutes and a law by Moses, your servant. You gave them bread from heaven from heaven for their hunger, and brought water for them out of the rock for their thirst. And you told them to go in to possess the land that you had sworn to give to them. But they and our fathers acted presumptuously and stiffened their neck and did not obey your commandments. They refused to obey, and were not mindful of the one of the wonders that you performed among them. But they stiffened their neck and appointed a leader to return to their slavery in Egypt. But you are a God ready to forgive, gracious and merciful, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love, and did not forsake them. Even when they made for themselves a golden calf and said, This is your God who brought you up out of Egypt and had committed great blasphemies, you and your great mercies did not forsake them in the wilderness. The pillar of cloud to lead them in the way did not depart for them by day, nor did the pillar of fire by night to light for them the way by which they should go. You gave your good spirit to instruct them and did not withhold your manna from their mouth and gave them water for their thirst. Forty years you sustained them in the wilderness and they lacked nothing. Their clothes did not wear out and their feet did not swell And you gave them kingdoms and peoples and allotted to them every corner. So they took possession of the land of Shion, king of Heshbon, and of the land of Ag, king of Basha'an You multiply their children as the stars of heaven, and you brought them into the land that you told had told your fathers to enter and to possess. So descendants went in and possessed the land, and you subdued before them the inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites, and you gave them into their hand With their king and the peoples of the land, that they might do with them as they would. And they captured fortified cities and a rich land and took possession of houses full of all good things. cistern already hewn, vineyards, olive orchards, and fruit trees in abundance. So they ate and were filled and became fat, and delighted themselves in your great goodness Nevertheless, they were disobedient and rebelled against you, and cast your law behind their back, and killed your prophets, who had warned them in order to turn them back to you. And they committed great blasphemies. Therefore, you gave them into the hand of their enemies, who made them suffer And in the time of their suffering, they cried out to you, and you heard from heaven. And according to your great mercies, you gave them saviors who saved them from the hand of their enemies. But after they had rest, they did evil again before you. And you abandoned them to the hand of their enemies, so that they had dominion over them. But when they turned and they cried out to you, you heard from heaven, and many times you delivered them according to your mercies, and you warned them in order to turn them back to your law. Yet they acted presumptuously and did not obey your commandments, but sinned against your rules, which if a person does them, he shall live by them And they turned a stubborn shoulder and stiffened their neck and would not obey. Many years you bore with them and warned them by your spirit through the prophets, yet they would not give ear. Therefore, you gave them into the hands of the peoples of the lands. Nevertheless, in your great mercies, you did not make an end of them or forsake them, for you are a gracious and merciful God. Now therefore, our God, the great, the mighty, and the awesome God, who keeps covenant and steadfast love Then all let not all the hardship seem little to you that has come upon us and our kings, our princes, our priests our prophets, our fathers, and all your people, since the time of the kings of Assyria until this day. You, yet you have been righteous in all that has come upon us For you have dealt faithfully, and we have acted wickedly. Our kings, our princes, our priests. Our fathers have not kept your law or paid attention to your commandments and to your warnings that you gave them. Even in their own kingdom, amid your great goodness that you gave them, and in large and rich land that you set before them, they did not serve you. Or turn from their wicked works. Behold, we are slaves in this day, in the land that you gave to our fathers to enjoy its fruit and its good gifts. Behold, we are slaves. And its rich yield goes to the kings whom you've set over us because of our sin. They rule over our bodies and over our livestock as they please, and we are in great distress. That's the prayer. We'll stop there for now. And then the response in verse 38 to main points for the rest of our time. Point one, God's faithfulness and our sinfulness. And then point number two, the new covenant. We'll talk about later on. God's covenant is emphasized throughout this passage that we just read and heard. Specifically, that's stated in verse eight. You found in his heart faithful before you, and you made with him the covenant. Verse 32. Now therefore, our God, the great, the mighty, and the awesome God, who keeps his covenant and steadfast love. And then verse 38, as we'll talk about later, because of all this, we make a firm covenant in writing. And so a covenant is a binding agreement. It's a promise that two parties make with each other. So, like a wedding demonstrates a covenant, for example. And wedding rings symbolize that covenant promise. And this covenant that God made was a promise that He continually delivered on. And that's what God's people confess here in this prayer. that God is the covenant-making and the covenant-keeping God. As it says in verse 6, you have made the heavens. You preserve them all. You are the Lord who chose Abram. You made with him the covenant. Verse 8 His covenant is directly referring to Genesis chapter twelve, where the Lord caused Abram to leave from the land of Ur. With the promise that Abraham would be made into a great nation and all of his descendants would be blessed. And that promise was kept. Even in the wilderness, even in Egypt, the Lord faithfully kept his promise to his people And he freed them from slavery in Egypt. And he gave them his law. And he provided for them in the wilderness. That's what these Levites are rehearsing over and over again throughout that prayer. Like it says in verse 9, you saw the affliction of our fathers in Egypt and you heard their cry at the Red Sea, and you performed signs and wonders against Pharaoh. You divide the sea before them. You gave them a pillar of cloud by day and a pillar of fire by night. You came down on Mount Sinai and you spoke with them You made known to them your Sabbath and your commandments by your servant Moses. You gave them bread from heaven. Verse 15. You brought water for them for their thirst out of a rock. You told them to go in and possess the land that you sworn to their forefathers. God was faithful But although God was faithful in keeping his covenant, his people were not. His people sinned. They broke his covenant over and over and over and over again. And what we heard in the rest of that passage was this sin cycle of sorts. Where God is faithful to his people, and yet his people sin against them. They're punished because of their sin. They cry out because of their punishment, and yet God is faithful to them again. Rinse and repeat over and over. Verse 16 says that they did not obey, even in light of all that. In verse 17, in fact, it refers to God's people grumbling and complaining to Moses and saying it was better back in Egypt. In Egypt when they were in slavery. And then verse eighteen refers to the golden calf episode, where God's people made an idol and worshiped it while Moses was on the mountaintop hearing from the Lord the commandments that said in part do not worship idols And yet the very next verse says that the Lord did not forsake them even after that. Brothers and sisters, I wonder if you have a category for your own sins and your own shortcomings that are in the even after that category. Sins that embarrass you. Sins that you're ashamed of. Maybe you wonder, is there mercy even after that? Or maybe you're here as a non-Christian. You're not sure that there is mercy. Because you don't understand God's word completely. But you understand right and wrong. And even you have even after that in your life. Is there mercy for you? Is there mercy for any of us? Thanks be to God that the answer is a resounding yes. God does not just do merciful things. God's word says, and God says from his very lips, that he is merciful, that he is gracious. Verse 17, but you are God ready to forgive. Forgive, gracious and merciful, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love, and you did not forsake them. Verse 31 is echoed again. Nevertheless, in your great mercies you did not make an end of them or forsake them, for you are a gracious and merciful God That's what the Lord reveals about Himself in Exodus chapter 34, verses 6 through 7. The most repeated phrase in the Bible talks about God's character. He's gracious and he's merciful. And that is the only thing that makes repentance possible for any of us. Because all of us have sinned, and all of us have earned God's judgment. And yet, he is merciful. So if you're reminded this morning that the Lord is merciful, go to him today and receive that mercy that he's offering And I think we should also learn and be reminded in this moment that we, none of us, are more merciful or more gracious than our God. You don't believe me? Any of you drive? Any of you drive, and you have other drivers who don't drive as well as you do. They aren't as thoughtful as you are. They aren't as considerate. Your response to said drivers, whoever they are, is usually not grace and mercy. It's usually pronouncements of wrath and judgment upon them. Or even think back over your own life. Ways that you've sinned. Promises that you've made. Commitments that you said you would uphold To others, or agreements you made with God, or even vows you made to yourself. How often have you broken those I think if we were honest, we would say pretty often. You and I would have been done with us a long time ago. But thanks be to God that He is merciful. That He is gracious. And I think this should also help us as we read the Scriptures. As we get to parts in God's word where He is punishing people for their sin. Or even as some of us wrestle with the doctrine of hell and the fact that there's eternal judgment How could God allow something like that? Why would God punish his people? This should remind us that God is much more gracious and much more merciful than we'll ever know or understand. And our sin is so deep, it's so wide, it's more wicked than we will ever comprehend But we see God's mercy here, that He would not only sustain His people in the wilderness He would keep his covenant promise to Abraham, and he would bless this people. It says that he gave them kingdoms and peoples. He multiplied their children as the stars of the heaven. He brought them into the promised land. God's people took possession They were filled with God's goodness. They ate really well. They felt his faithfulness. God kept his promise, and his people lacked nothing That should have been enough. It wasn't These people, the Israelites, they sinned against God in the wilderness and in the promised land. Which I think shows us that our circumstances and even our context are not our main problem. It's our hearts. That are our main problem, our deceitful hearts that we often follow. Verse 26 says, Nevertheless, in spite of all of this, they were disobedient and rebelled against you and cast your law behind their back. If you can picture that, that just means it doesn't matter. Just flinging it behind you, taking your Bible and throwing it away. They killed your prophets who warned them, and they committed great blasphemies. Should also remind us about sin and what it does. It overpromises and under-delivers every time. And sin not only separates us from God, but it also enslaves us. Sin separates us from God, and it enslaves us. They're reminded of that in verse twenty-seven. Where it says, For example, the Lord gave them into the hands of their enemies. It might remind you of Romans one where it says, the Lord handed them over to their desires. They were separated from God. They were exiled. Or verse 36. Where they cry out, Behold, we are slaves this day. In the land that you gave to our fathers to enjoy. Yes, they made it back to Jerusalem. Yes, they were able to rebuild, praise the Lord. But that was occupied territory. A constant present reminder of their sin. Sin In any form, it masked itself and hides itself as freedom and joy, or as offering freedom and joy. And yet It leaves us in bondage, and as they said here, in great distress. And that should have been the end of God's people. Separated from him and enslaved once again. And yet it wasn't What happened? They cried out, and God heard and forgave. They had relief and they sinned again But then they cried out, and God heard and delivered them and called them to turn back to his law and sent them prophets to warn them. But then they didn't listen. So instead of Egypt ruling over them, or the Babylonians, now was the Persians. Instead of being ruled over in a foreign land, they were ruled over in the land that should have been theirs. But even after that, the text says, the Lord did not forsake them. The Lord was merciful to them Look at verse 31, where it says, Nevertheless, in your great mercies you did not make an end of them or forsake them. Why? For you are a gracious and merciful God. Beloved, there is more mercy in God than there is sin in us. So instead of denying our sin, Or defending ourselves or deflecting it and blaming others other people, the better path is to confess our sins and repent from it. Turn from it And that's what the Israelites do here. Notice in verse 32, we're starting in verse 32, there's a shift From they and them. So looking back at the Israelites of old, their ancestors, there's a shift from they and them to we and our. Verse 32, now therefore, our God. It goes on to say, let all the hardship that's let not all the hardship seem little to you that's come upon us. And our kings and our priests and our princes and our prophets and our fathers. Verse 33. You have been righteous in all that has come upon us. You have dealt faithfully, and not they, but we have acted wickedly Nehemiah 9 is an example of corporate confession of sin. You also have in Daniel chapter 9 or in Ezra chapters 9 and 10. Now some of us might be thinking, what's the need for corporate confession if sin is individual? Well, I think we can learn that God's people are linked together and God's people are united together And the sins that are confessed here, even the sins of their ancestors, their pride, their stubbornness, their disobedience, their disregard of God's law. They confessed it because they did likewise. They acted in the same way. So they owned it because they followed suit. And they owned it because they were living with the consequences. It should remind us that while our sins may be private, they are never personal. And we often miss this in our culture that's so individualistic. Talk about me and mine instead of we and our But if we think about it, we know that that's not actually the case, is it? Think of what infidelity in a marriage does, not just to a marriage, but to a family And to friends. Or just think of what a pastor's moral failing does, not just to an elder board, but to a church and to a community. It scars everybody all at once. That's in part why we're called in God's word to watch out for each other. To pray for each other, to encourage each other, and as situation requires, admonish each other. It's why we pray prayers of confession each week before we take the Lord's Supper. It's also why when someone's in unrepentant and flagrant sin, the church is called to respond with discipline. Why? Because as the Bible says, a little leaven leavens the whole lump. But just think of Jesus in teaching his disciples to pray. He taught them. He taught them to pray things like, lead us not into temptation Deliver not just me, but us from the evil one. Or even Jesus in his letters to the seven churches in the book of Revelation. He doesn't address an elder board or pastor or an influential member. He addresses churches. And he says things like, I know your works. I see it all. But you've abandoned the love that you have at first. Or you have the reputation for being alive and yet you are dead. Or you tolerate sin. Or you're lukewarm, you're neither hot nor cold. Now I don't presume to know exactly what the Lord Jesus Christ would say to us if he gave us Chevly Baptist Church a letter. But what I will say is as the Lord graciously reveals our sin individually and corporately Let us agree with him. Let us grieve and lament over it. And let's turn from it. Because he offers us the chance to do that Revelation 3. 19 Those whom I love, Jesus says, I reprove, reprove, and I discipline. So be zealous and repent. Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come into him and eat with him, and he with me. Brothers and sisters, may we hear the voice of the Lord Jesus Christ and may we welcome him into every single door of our lives. And even our church. So God faithfully keeps his covenant. God faithfully keeps his people. But his people sin against him. Time and time again. That's the summary. That's the summary of really that portion of God's word, really. Think about it. Says a lot about us. But it also says that we need a new covenant, don't we? Which is point two, the new covenant. Verse 38 of Nehemiah chapter 9. Because of all of this, we make a firm covenant in writing on the sealed document are the names of our princes, our Levites, and our priests. That's where chapter 9 ends. In chapters 10 and 11, we'll see more of those names, and we'll hear more about these new covenant commitments that God's people are making with him. So they acknowledge their sin, they confess it, they lament over it, but they also now are committing to repent and turn from it Sin leads us in the wrong direction. Sin is going against God and against his word and against his ways Like going on a train and going in the wrong direction. Repentance means getting up, getting off the train, and getting on the right train and going towards God's direction. Turning around away from our sin and towards the Lord. That's repentance. But kids and teens in the room As you've heard today about this sin cycle, you see this firm covenant and this commitment that God's people make. You know the Bible, or even the book of Nehemiah. Faller alert, tell us, how do they do at keeping that commitment that they soon make? Do they keep it or do they break it eventually? Any guesses? They break it. We'll see that in the next few chapters of Nehemiah. Not today, but we'll see it. So then what's the point? I thought we I thought they were making a new covenant. And in their minds, it was firm. It was a firm commitment that they did keep for a while But eventually they didn't keep it in heinous lay ways that we'll learn about later. So then what's the point? The point is we do indeed need a new covenant. And God is gracious and merciful, abounding in self-of-love for us, so much so That he's given us a new covenant as well. Jeremiah 31, which was echoed in Hebrews chapter 8 as we heard in the scriptural reading. Where the Lord says, Behold, Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah. Not like the covenant I made with their fathers, their ancestors, on the day when I took them by the hand and led them out of the land of Egypt. My covenant that they broke. Though I was their husband, declares the Lord. For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declares the Lord. I will put my law within them And I will write it on their hearts, and I will be their God, and they will be my people. God's people broke his covenant and they would break it again. And that's exactly why God would send his son to keep his covenant and to offer a new and better covenant. Not written on tablets of stone, not even written on a sealed document, but written and sealed by his blood that was shed on the cross for us, for our sins. Jesus came and lived a perfect life. He kept God's covenant from start to finish. But he would go to the cross. For us lawbreakers, for our sin, in the ways that we flung God's law behind our backs. And Jesus died and he rose from the grave so that he could offer the new covenant to us. Forgiveness, mercy, salvation, his Holy Spirit, his righteousness, his presence with us as his people forevermore. If you're here and you're not a Christian this morning, maybe you even recognize. Yeah, there's some stuff in my life too. You don't need to just try harder. You need a savior. Jesus is that savior. And apart from repenting and turning towards Jesus as your Savior, the judgment on you that you have earned remains. But you can turn to him in faith today. Brothers and sisters in Christ, as you hear these words, as you heard the passage, and as you might be pricked to the heart and you might be right reminded about the sin cycle in your own life. Remember that Jesus, in offering the new covenant to us, is also offering himself to us as our great high priest. Who's able to sympathize with us in our weaknesses? Who's faithful and just to forgive us and cleanse us of all unrighteousness? And he, by his grace, can help us to walk in his ways. So don't run from him Don't turn away from him. Turn towards him over and over and over again and receive the mercy he's offering to you, even right now. Two points of application as we close our time. How can we do that? How can we put this together? Three things. One rehearse God's faithfulness. Rehearse God's faithfulness That's what the Israelites did in this model prayer of confession. If you look at it again, you'll see that they talk a lot more about God and his faithfulness than their sin. I think we can learn from that. We don't want to undermine our sin in any way. But when we remember God's goodness and we remember God's grace, We'll turn from our sin because we know in doing so whom we're turning to. The God who is gracious and merciful and faithful. Rehearsing God's faithfulness as we share God's word in our homes with our neighbors, with our children, if you have kids, with your grandchildren. With those that you seek to instruct in the church. Rehearsing God's faithfulness helps to make sure that we are passing on the truth about the Lord. The reason why in part these generations strayed away from the truth is that they stopped hearing it. How is the book of Judges concluded? There was no king there. Everyone did what was right in the in their own eyes. Why was there this initiative in Nehemiah chapter 8 to Ezra? Bring us the book because they hadn't heard it So let's rehearse God's faithfulness continually. Secondly, repent in light of his mercy. Repent in light of his mercy Yes, repentance requires God's mercy and it requires God's help. And notice that the Israelites, even in verse 38, they make this firm agreement, not individually, but collectively. Brothers and sisters, if you find yourself in a sin cycle, confess your sins to the Lord and receive His mercy. And confess your sins with a brother or sister that will help you to walk in his mercy and walk in the light. Remember the new covenant. Remember the new covenant. The wages of sin is death. And that fine that we have earned, but of all of our pictures and all of our images in HD, not just a $40-something dollar fine. There's an infinite number of zeros behind it. Because of our sin. We can't afford it. But as we already sung, Jesus has paid it all. So remember the new cur new covenant that He purchased for us. Lean into His grace, fight against your sin, and long for the day where you and I will sin no more. Brothers and sisters, may the Lord help us not to deny, defend, or deflect our sin. But to take the appropriate path that He's given us, to repent and to receive His faithful covenant-keeping mercy over and over again. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for being in the covenant making and keeping God. The one that keeps his word, his promises, and his people. Lord, apart from you keeping us, we would not be kept. But thanks be to God for your helping hand. Thanks be to God for the gospel. Thanks be to you, Lord, for your Son, the Lord Jesus Christ Help us to remember and live in these new covenant promises we have today through Him. In Jesus' name. Amen.