We were in a foreign land, in bondage, under the sentence of death, but our mediator, the one who stands between us and God, came to us with a promise of deliverance. We trusted in the promise of God, took shelter under the blood of the Lamb, and he led us out. Now we are on our way to the promised land. We are not there yet, of course, but we have the law to guide us, and through blood sacrifice, we also have his presence in our midst. So he will stay with us until we get to our true country, our everlasting home. If you were to ask an Israelite delivered from death out of slavery in Egypt to share their testimony, their story, it would probably sound a lot like that quote I just read. But the point that Alex Moyter was making in giving that quote is that God's people, throughout the ages, basically all can share that same testimony. You and I might have interesting features or parts of our testimony of faith for those of us who are believers in the Lord Jesus Christ. For example, my story involves a self-righteous heart. I didn't believe I needed a savior because I was just so good, so I thought My testimony also involves missionary dating, which teens and college students, I don't recommend that, though the Lord can use it. I don't recommend it. It also involved a confusing altar call in which I went forward, but I didn't really know what I was committing myself to. It then involved a friend inviting me to a new church once that other relationship didn't work out It involves me learning about Jesus, this Jesus that I rejected for so many years, through hearing a sermon preached on the Sermon on the Mount. And it also involved a stranger's very, very mid gospel presentation to me. But the main ingredient in all of that is that the Lord was at work, even before I knew it, to deliver me from death, to make me his own and make me new. And we can all say the same if we are believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, can't we? So what's your story, beloved Kids and teens, if you don't know your parents' story of faith, I encourage you to ask them today. And parents share with them today, even over lunch. And maybe you're hearing you're not a Christian, and this is all new to you. Perhaps the Lord has brought you to church even today. As another element in writing your story of faith. Because maybe he's at work to deliver you, even today, from death. Well, to hear more about this story of the Israelites and how it worked out for them, please meet me in your copy of God's Word in Exodus chapter 13. And if you are using one of the Bibles provided around you, you'll find out starting on page 55. Last week we covered Exodus chapter 12, part one of God's deliverance of God's people. This final plague and the Passover in which God people were delivered out of Egypt. We learned last week how God delivers. We saw a picture of it, delivers through the blood of his Passover lamb. And this week we'll focus on another picture of God's deliverance and see how the rest of the story of deliverance unfolds for God's people who were slaves in Egypt. If you're taking notes, here's the main idea of our time together in God's Word today. God delivers from death through the waters and into new life. God delivers from death through the waters and into new life And what we'll focus on today in our time are three points or three implications of the newness of life that we have for those of us who have been delivered through the waters. Since God's delivered us, we have a new status. We'll see that in Exodus chapter 13, 1 through 16. A new story. Exodus 13, 17, all the way through chapter 14. And a new song, Exodus chapter 15, 1 through 21. We'll start with point number one, a new status, Exodus 13, starting in verse 1. Let me read just this verse for us to set the scene. The Lord said to Moses, consecrate to me all the firstborn. Whatever is the first to open the womb among the people of Israel, both of man and of beast, is mine. Now this sets the context because this should remind us a little bit of Exodus chapter 12 last week where the Lord declared that his deliverance was coming and then told the people how to celebrate his deliverance once they were delivered. They were to consecrate themselves by eating unleavened bread. But here the Lord further explains that he claimed Israel as his firstborn son, which we also talked about last week. And since he's done so, all of their firstborn sons belong to him, and even their cattle. What does this mean, though? So Moses would go in verses thirty uh verses three through ten of Exodus chapter thirteen, and he would explain to the people what the Lord meant. These were matters of reminders for God's people so that they could remember his Deliverance. So then therefore they should not eat leavened bread. And the Lord will bring them into the promised land. They're reminded of that. And when he does, they must keep this festival. And then they are to share the story of God's deliverance with their children. So consecrating their firstborn sons would have been pointing back to the Passover, which we talked about last week. But specifically because this reminded them that a sacrifice needed to be made in the first place. Let's pick up verse 11 and hear a little bit more about this. It says, when the Lord brings you into the land of the Canaanites, as he swore to you and your fathers, And shall give it to you. You shall set apart to the Lord all the first firstborn of the womb, and all the firstborn of your animals that are male shall be the Lord's. Every firstborn of a donkey you shall redeem with a lamb. Or if you will not redeem it, you shall break its neck. Every firstborn of man among your sons, you shall redeem. And when in time to come your son asks, What does this mean? You shall say to him, by a strong hand the Lord brought us out of Egypt from the house of slavery. For when Pharaoh stubbornly refused to let us go, the Lord killed all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, both the firstborn of man and the firstborn of animals. Therefore, I sacrificed to the Lord all the males that first opened the womb, but all of the firstborn of my sons I redeem. It shall be as a mark on your hand or front list between your eyes, for by a strong hand the Lord brought us out of Egypt. And let's stop there for a moment. But notice verse 16 where it says, this shall be a mark on your hand and even on your frontless. Says something similar in verse 9 of Exodus chapter 13. The point of this imagery is to show that the Lord, the mighty deliverer, since he delivered his people out of Egypt, He had the right to place his stamp on them. They belonged to him. Kind of like a birth certificate, right? After our kids were born, whether they were born in Miami, Florida, two of them were, or if they were born in London, England, the other two were, the process was exactly the same. Their birth would need to be certified. Quickly, we need to fill out an application with the child's full name, their place of birth, their date of birth. We need to also include it our names, and we need to show up to the office With the child and with proof that we were who we claimed to be. And of course, we need to pay an application fee. And then we would leave that place with a certificate that showed that that child, those children, they rightly legally belonged to us. So, what the Lord was doing in consecrating of the firstborn and the cattle was reminding them that he was the one that placed his name on them, reminding them that he was the one who is who he claimed to be And also reminding them that he's purchased them. So they had a new status, therefore, they belonged to him And with this new status, God gave them the right lenses to view themselves, their circumstances, and also to view their future. And we see this all throughout the scriptures as God's people are constantly referring to the Exodus. For example, when God's people later on are oppressing others, they are warned by being reminded of the fact that God delivered them out of slavery. And when God's people needed hope over and over and over again, they were reminded that God, the God who sent the Exodus, will send another Exodus to deliver his people and to redeem his people. So their new status as sons and daughters of God rightly shaped their identity, and the same is true for us today, beloved. You, if you are in Christ, you have been redeemed by the blood of the Lamb. You have been given a new status as a child of God. He's placed his seal on you through giving you his Holy Spirit. So we are called to view ourselves and our lives with gospel lenses in light of all that He's done because He has given us a new status. And point number two, he's given us a new story. Point number two, a new story Having already saved his people out of Egypt, the Lord would give them a new picture of what his saving work was like by delivering them through the waters. And this new story that God gives to his people of his salvation, it involves God's presence, his protection, and his power. Let's think about first his presence. We see his presence in the pillar of cloud and the pillar of fire. Look at Exodus 13, verse 17. When Pharaoh let the people go, God did not lead them by the way of the Philistines, although it was near. For God said, Lest the people change their minds when they see war and return to Egypt. But God led the people around the way of the wilderness towards the Red Sea. And the people of Israel went up out of the land of Egypt, equipped for battle. Moses took the bones of Joseph with him, for Joseph made had made the sons of Israel solemnly swear, saying, God will surely visit you, and you shall carry up my bones with you from here. Let's stop right there. This was the fulfillment of those last few verses of Genesis chapter 50, when Joseph told his brothers to bring up his bones from Egypt, when, not if, but when the Lord delivers his people. And so Moses did that. Look at verse 20. And when they moved, as they moved on from here, when they moved from Sikhoth and encamped in Etham on the edge of the wilderness. On the edge of the wilderness, and the Lord went before them in the pillar of cloud to lead them along the way, and by night in a pillar of fire, to give them light, that they might travel by day and by night. The pillar of cloud by day and the pillar of fire by night did not depart from before the people. Reasonable question. Why would the Lord lead them this way by the wilderness? Well, he already gave one answer, which we'll talk about in a moment. But I think another answer is, and maybe you've seen this in your life, Christian, God loves the scenic realm Right? Like Lord, when are you gonna do this? Aren't you gonna do it soon? His way is often the slow way But again, what the Lord says specifically here is that he was doing it deliberately, so that his people would not fear and run away But what's really happening is that the Lord is setting up another showdown with Pharaoh, another opportunity for him to deliver his people out of the impossible, so that only he will get the glory. And in doing so, he was giving his people a new story of salvation. We'll see that in verse or in chapter 14 of the book of Exodus. Look at verse 1. Then the Lord said to Moses, Tell the people of Israel to turn back and encamp in front of Pathahira and between Migdal and the sea, and in front of Baal Shaphan You shall encamp facing it by the sea. For Pharaoh will say to the people of Israel, They are wandering in the wilderness, in the land. The wilderness has shut them in And I, the Lord says, will harden the Pharaoh's hearts, and he will pursue them. And I will get glory over Pharaoh and all of his hosts, and the Egyptians shall know that I am the Lord. And they did so. When the king of Egypt, verse 5, was told that the people had fled, the mind of the Pharaoh and his servants was changed towards the people, and they said, What is this that we have done to let the people of Israel go from serving us? So he made ready his chariots and took an ar his army with him, and they took six hundred chosen chariots, and all of the other chariots of Egypt, with officers over all of them. And the Lord hardened the heart of Pharaoh, king of Egypt. And he pursued the people of Israel while the people of Israel were going out defiantly. The Egyptians pursued them, all Pharaoh's horses and chariots, and his horsemen, and his army, and overtook them encamped by the sea, by Feharuth, and by Balahaz Ballast is upon. Excuse me. Those are hard words there. So picture the scene. Pharaoh took his hard heart and his army with him to go recapture God's people. Thinking that the Lord has sent them to a dead end. But the Lord will quickly prove that He is the God that can make a way out of no way. Because he would protect his people. Verse 10. When Pharaoh drew near, the people of Israel lifted up their eyes, and behold, the Egyptians were marching after them, and they feared greatly And the people of Israel cried out to the Lord. And they said to Moses, Is it because there are no graves in Egypt that you have taken us away to die in the wilderness? What have you done in bringing us out of Egypt? Is not this what we said to you in Egypt? Leave us alone that we may serve the Egyptians? For it would have been better for us to serve the Egyptians than to die in the wilderness. There's no record of them saying that, by the way, but verse 13. And Moses said to the people, Fear not. Stand firm and see the salvation of the Lord with which he will work for you today. For the Egyptians whom you see today, you shall never see again. The Lord will fight for you, and you have only to be silent. Verse 15. The Lord said to Moses, why do you cry to me? Tell the people of Israel to go forward. Lift up your staff and stretch out your hand over the sea and divide, that the people of Israel may go through the sea on dry ground, and I will harden the hearts of the Egyptians. so that they will go in after them. And I will get glory over Pharaoh and all his hosts, his chariots and his horsemen, and the Egyptians shall know that I am the Lord, when I have gotten glory over Pharaoh, his chariots, and his horsemen. Then the angel of the Lord, who was going before the host of Israel, moved and went behind them. And the pillar of cloud moved from before them and stood behind them. Coming between the hosts of Egypt and the hosts of Israel. And there was a cloud of darkness, and it lit up the night without one coming near the other all nights. We'll stop there. Moses told his fearful people to fear not, stand firm, and see the salvation of the Lord. And again, in this salvation story, it's clear from the passage that God was the one who was doing the saving. Because since the angel of the Lord, this messenger, had been sent before them, this messenger of the Lord would also protect them. In verses 19 through 20, it says that this messenger of God was going before them and then got between them and the people of Egypt. Now, if you're wondering about this messenger, this angel of the Lord, this same messenger appeared to Moses in Exodus chapter 3 out of the burning bush. Where that messenger proclaimed, I am the Lord, Yahweh. And we'll see in Exodus chapter 23, verses 20 through 21, for example, where Yahweh tells Moses that this angel will lead them, saying, My name is in him. So this messenger who is identified as Yahweh and yet distinct from Yahweh, I think is the pre-incarnate Christ. Leading and guiding and protecting his people. This same messenger was leading them out. This same messenger moved to get between God's people and God's enemies to protect them. God's presence was with them, and God's protection was with them. This reminds us, brothers and sisters, that we have a God who gets in the way of us and our enemies. And he teaches us in his word that we do have enemies. The world, our flesh, the devil, and his demonic forces. Sin and death are enemies. They're much bigger and mightier and stronger than us. But greater is he that is in us than he that is in the world, beloved. And that's why we are to call on God's help when we are in time of need. And that's why we are to stand back and watch his work. We're to get behind him, as it were, as he goes out to work in protecting his people. He gives us his presence, beloved. He gives us his protection and also his power. Look at verse 21. Then Moses stretched out his hand over the sea, and the Lord drove the sea back by a strong east wind all night and made the sea dry land, and the waters were divided. And the people of Israel went into the midst of the sea on dry ground, the waters being a wall to them on the right and to the left. The Egyptians pursued and went in after them into the midst of the sea, all of Pharaoh's horse horses, his chariots, and his horsemen. And in the morning, watched the Lord in the pillar of fire and in the cloud. Looked down on the Egyptian forces and threw the Egyptian forces into a panic, clogging their chariot wheels, so that they drove heavily. And the Egyptians said, Let us flee from before Israel, for the Lord fights for them against the Egyptians Then the Lord said to Moses, stretch out your hand over the sea, that the waters might come back upon the Egyptians, upon their chariots, and upon their horsemen So Moses stretched out his sand his hand over the sea, and the sea returned to his normal course when the morning appeared. And the Egyptians fled into it, and the Lord drew the Egyptians into the midst of the sea. The waters returned and covered the chariots and the horsemen of all the hosts of Pharaoh that had followed them into the sea. Not one of them remained But the people of Israel walked on dry ground through the sea, the waters being a wall to them on their right and on their left. Thus the Lord saved Israel that day from the hand of the Egyptians, and Israel saw the Egyptians dead on the seashore. Israel saw the great power that the Lord used against the Egyptians. So the people feared the Lord, and they believed in the Lord and in his servant Moses. Wow. Now we've seen lots of maybe you've seen movies that depict this, maybe cartoon movies that depict it, but I promise it was much better than that. The Lord performed here another miracle that would strike the decisive blow to the Pharaoh and to the Egyptians. But again, the Lord makes it clear in this passage that this deliverance was all of his doing. Who drove back the sea? The Lord did. Who drew the Egyptians into a panic? The Lord did. And then who threw the Egyptians into the midst of the sea? The Lord did. And these Egyptians were swallowed up in judgment, while God's people were able to walk through a wall of water on dry ground. Now you might say that sounds impossible. Well, the God that created the waters and the heavens and the earth can do as he pleases with his creation. And this shows us another theme in scripture about God's deliverance: that he brings his people safely through the waters of judgment. And let's trace that for a moment. For example, going back to the beginning, in the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth And in Genesis 1-2 it says that the Ruach, the spirit, his spirit, hovered over the waters. Genesis 1:9. And God said, Let the waters under the heavens be gathered together in one place, and let the dry land appear. And it was so. It was a separation that occurred. God separated the waters through his spirit. That's the same word that's used in Exodus 14 for the winds. So God's spirit was at work. His presence was at work. His power was at work. So taming the waters was another act of creation or an act of recreation by God. Taming the Red Sea, and in doing so, he was upending his creation to bring about a new salvation for his people. The waters here in Exodus 14 were once again separated by God's power to create dry land. And God was at work to save his people by his power and by his might. That might remind us, beloved. Of another work where God's deliverance is seen through the waters. We talk about it a lot in this series: Noah and the Ark, where God's people are saved through the waters of judgment. After warning the people to get into the ark and flooding the world, Genesis 8:1 teaches that God made a wind blow over the earth so that the waters would subside. And what happened there is what happened in Exodus 14. God's enemies were swallowed up in judgment while God's people were delivered through the waters. In other words, God's people came through the waters with a new story. That they should have, though they should have drowned in judgment because of their sin, the Lord gave them new life. And baptism is a picture of that. Listen to authors Andrew Wilson and Alistair Roberts in their book Echoes of Eden, of Exodus, excuse me. Here's what they say. God has a regular habit of using water to divide his people from the world around them and protecting them from judgment. So it is only natural that the start of the Christian life would be marked off by a journey through the water. That journey, baptism. And from our scripture reading, as we heard this morning, Jesus talks about this when he's talking to his disciples there in Mark chapter 10. He asked his disciples, Are you able to drink the cup that I will drink? Or will you take the baptism that which with I am going to be baptized? What was he talking about? Why connect the cup, this picture of judgment, with baptism? I think it's because God delivers his people through the waters of judgment. And Jesus was saying, as it says in Mark chapter 10, 35, that he would give his life as a ransom for many. Meaning he would swallow the cup of judgment of God's wrath. He would go through the waters to deliver his people. And that's exactly what Jesus did when he went to the cross. He took on the full wrath of God for our sins. Jesus stood in our place between the enemies of sin, of death, of Satan, hell, and the grave as he went to the cross. And on the cross, Jesus was swallowed up in the waters of God's judgment, so that all who would turn from their sin and turn to Him by faith would be able to walk through on dry ground, though they deserve to be judged. As well, because of their sins. The Bible teaches that Jesus was buried, but then he rose from the third day in all power, so that instead of God's judgment, if we turn from our sin and put our faith in him. We have his protection, his presence, and his power that he gives to us. We can have, therefore, a brand new story. That though we deserve death and judgment, we've received life. Through his son Jesus Christ. That's a picture of salvation. And if you're here this morning and you're not a Christian, that's a picture of what the Lord intends to do in you. These are not just about different lifestyle preferences. It's not just, well, these people like to go to church and these people don't. These people believe in Jesus and these people believe in something else. No, the Lord is saying there's only one way to be delivered. He's already provided that way of deliverance for you. And what you need to do, what you are called to do today, even today, is to turn from your sin and trust in Christ by faith. If you have questions about that, I'd love to talk to you after our service. And there are lots of friendly people around you that would love to share the good news of the gospel with you this morning. That's you. Brothers and sisters in Christ, this is your story. And since the Lord has delivered you, you have a new story in him. Just think about these pictures of salvation that God gives his people in Exodus chapter 12 and Exodus chapter 14. In Exodus chapter 12, God says he would put the blood over their doors and were told to celebrate by eating unleavened bread. Kids in a room, what practice does that remind you of? It's something that we do every single week here at our church. Taking the Lord's Supper together. Excellent. These Malone boys are sharp. You guys are doing great. But then you have Exodus chapter 14, where God is delivering his people through the waters of judgment safely through dry ground. A picture of that, beloved, is baptism. That's why new believers in Christ are called to be baptized Where they are reenacting this story by being buried with Christ and then raised with him. As Christ was buried in the grave, but then rose from the grave victoriously, so therefore we rise with him. God wants us to remember our story, and that's why He gives us these pictures to remember them. So let's boldly share with one another what God has done for us. Let's share our story of faith, but make sure that we get to the good part where we share that God, though we were dead in our sins, he made us alive in Christ. Let's share with our brothers and sisters in Christ who may not know our stories. Let's share with non-Christians what the Lord has done for us and what he can do for them by faith. And maybe if you think about your own story, your own testimony, as it were, you might think, well, my story was not that dramatic. If you don't have a dramatic testimony, testimony, praise the Lord. Kids, teens, your your parents would love for you to have a very non-dramatic testimony. But if you have a very radical testimony, where it was big and there's even movies that can be made about it. Don't give glory to yourself, give all glory to Christ. Praise the Lord for that as well. Because circumstances aside, we are all delivered the same way by grace and through faith. The Bible teaches with this same picture of baptism that since we've been buried with him and raised to new life, we are called to live in newness of life. That's what the Apostle Paul is doing when he picks up this picture and this metaphor and refers to it in Romans chapter 6, where he says, Are we to continue in sin so that grace might abound? By no means. How can we who die to sin live in it? Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ were baptized into his death. We were buried, therefore, with him by baptism into death, in order that just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life. That's the call in our lives, beloved. We put our faith in Him. How do we do that? Two quick points of application, which point back to the two first points of this sermon. Remember your status and remember your story. Remember your status. You have been born again by Christ. You are a child of God. His name is on your spiritual birth certificate, and the blood of his son has already paid the application fee. To as Dane Ortland rightly says, nothing can unchild you. Not even you Secondly, remember your story. Remember who you were apart from Christ. Remember all that Christ has done on your behalf. And remember that He wants you to live as His new creation. Or to borrow the words from the Apostle Paul later on in that same chapter, Romans 6. 11, consider yourselves dead to sin and alive to God. That word, consider. Think about it. Dwell on it. When you are tempted, remember that's not who he's purchased me to be. And walk in newness of life And what does God also give to his people to remember their status, to remember their story He's giving them a new song. Point number three, a new song. We see that in Exodus chapter 15. We'll go up through verse 21. God's people were delivered through the Red Sea. God's enemies were swallowed up in judgment. And then what did God's people do? They sang a song, a new song, to him. Then Moses, verse 1, and the people of Israel sang this song to the Lord, saying, I will sing to the Lord, for he has triumphed gloriously. The horse and his rider he has thrown into the sea. The Lord is my strength and my song. He has become my salvation. This is my God, and I will praise him, my father's God, and I will exalt him. The Lord is a man of war. The Lord is his name. Pharaoh's chariots and his hosts he cast into the sea, and his chosen officers were sunk in the Red Sea. The floods covered them. They went down into the depth like a stone. Your right hand, O Lord, glorious in power, your right hand, O Lord, shatters the enemy In the greatness of your majesty, you overthrow your adversaries. You send out your fury, it consumes them like stubble. At the blast of your nostrils, the water is piled up. The flood stood up in a heap, the deeps congangled in the heart of the sea. The Lord said, I will pursue, I will overtake, I will divide the spoil. My desire shall have its fill of them. I will draw my sword, my hand shall destroy them. You blew with your wind, the sea covered them, and they sank like lead in the mighty waters. Who is like you, O Lord, among the gods? Who is like you? Majestic in holiness, awesome and glorious deeds, doing wonders. You stretched out your right hand, the earth swallowed them You have led in your steadfast love the people whom you have redeemed. You've guided them by your strength to your holy abode. The peoples have heard, they tremble. Pangs have seized the inhabitants of Philistia. Now are the chiefs of Edom dismayed, trembling, seizes the leaders of Moab and all the inhabitants of Canaan have melted away. Terror and dread fall upon them because of the greatness of your arm. They are still as a storm, as a stone. Till your people, O Lord, pass by. Till your people pass by who you have re purchased. You will bring them in and plant them on your own mountain, the place, O Lord, which you have made for your abode, the sanctuary, O Lord, which your hands have established. The Lord will reign forever and ever. And verse nineteen. For when the horses of Pharaoh with his chariots and with the horsemen went into the sea, the Lord brought back the waters of the sea upon them, but the people of Israel walked on dry ground in the midst of the sea. Then Miriam, the prophetess, the sister of Aaron, took a tambourine in her hand, and all the women went out after her with tambourines and dancing And Miriam saying to them, Sing to the Lord, for he has triumphed gloriously. The horse and his rider he has thrown into the sea. We sing, beloved, to rejoice in who the Lord is and what he has done for us as his people. And Exodus 15 talks all about that. That's why part of this song is that he has triumphed gloriously. His horse and rider he has thrown into the sea. The Lord is my strength and my song. He has become my salvation. The Lord is a man of war. His right hand is glorious in power, defeating the enemies. He overthrows, the Lord does, his adversaries. He blew with his wind or his spirit, and the sea covered them, and they sank like lead in the mighty waters. In verse 11, who is like you, O Lord, among the gods? Answer, no one is like our God. He stretched out his right hand, and the earth swallowed them. He has led his people in his faithful and steadfast love. He's purchased us as his people. And as it says in verse 18, the Lord will reign forever and ever. Isn't this our song, beloved? This is why when we gather together, we aim to sing songs that remind us of who the Lord is and what he's done for us. Grab your bulletins for a moment. You don't need to stand, but let's sing the chorus of Great is Thy Faithfulness. Ready? Great is thy faithfulness. Great is thy faithfulness, morning by morning, new mercies thy. All I have needed, thy hand have provided. Great is thy faithfulness, Lord unto me. Doesn't it feel good to sing that? It feels good because we're encouraged by the fact that the Lord is faithful and great is his faithfulness. We see his faithfulness every single day. Another reason why that song is good to sing and many songs like it is that we often forget that the Lord is faithful, don't we? We sung that song about maybe 35 minutes ago. And maybe even since then you've forgotten that the Lord is faithful. Or maybe over this past week you've forgotten the Lord's faithfulness. So my encourage to you, my encourage to all of us, beloved, is to add the spiritual discipline of singing to your life if it's not there already. Add it to your week. Even if you don't like the sound of your voice, the Lord loves it. Sing as a family after dinner or before bed, sing in the car on your commute where no one else can hear you but the Lord Maybe even sing together in your small group. Or if you go over to someone's house for dinner, you realize that's a Christian's together. What do Christians do? We sing. Let's sing a song together. Let's at least sing the doxology, something. And when we gather on the Lord's Day, beloved, come ready to sing. And as we gather together, we sing. And in singing, we are called to be active participants. With our voices, we give praises to God. With our minds, we remember and reflect on the goodness and the greatness of God. And with our bodies, we respond in thankfulness to God. That's what Miriam did, where she led the chorus of this new song at the end. She and the other women grabbed their tambourines, plural, as it were, and they danced. Now, some of us might hear that and feel validated in our love for the tambourine or other live instrumentation. Some of us might hear that and feel confused. Like, does this mean that we need a tabernacle choir at our church? Or maybe even you feel nervous about hearing verses like that? But God's people remembered his works and they rejoiced, and their responses, even the responses here, were appropriate. So I think this means for us, beloved, that when we sing together, let's not constrain ourselves by thinking too much about what the people around us might be thinking. And let's not constrain one another. By maybe giving too much attention to how other people are worshiping the Lord and are gathering together. What am I saying? I'm saying it's alright to lift up a hand or two in worship to God. It's alright to even clap on beats two and four. Amen. It's alright to look around the room as you sing, or even to bow your head in worship, because you feel so unworthy of the deliverance that the Lord has purchased for you. It's alright to smile as you sing. It's alright to sing through tears. It's alright to sit and pensively reflect over the words of the songs. And if you feel moved to move, then move. Even if you nod your head or you tap your toe or you gently sway, all of that is considered as appropriate, beloved. And kids and teens, as you watch your parents and they seem particularly moved by a certain hymn, why don't you go and ask them about that? Mom, you were crying. What happened? Dad, you were raising your arms. Why were you doing that? They would love to tell you why. God's people are a singing people. He's given us songs to sing now, and when we're with him in glory, we will sing with him together. When we are finally delivered from this world and into the promised land with the Lord, Revelation 15 talks about another song of Moses, and this song, the Lamb, joins in with him. Revelation 15, verse 3, and they sing the song of Moses, the servant of the Lord, and the song of the Lamb, saying. Great and amazing are your deeds, O Lord God the Almighty. Just and true are your ways, O King of the nations. Who will not fear, O Lord, and glorify your name? For you alone are holy. All nations will come and worship you, for your righteous acts have been revealed. On that day we will sing a new song because he's changed our status and he's changed our story And our story is a lot like that quote I read at the beginning of the sermon today. That though we were under the sentence of death, our mediator, the Lord Jesus Christ, came to us with the promise. And we by faith took shelter under the blood of the Lamb, and he led us safely through the waters of judgment. And though we are still on our way to the promised land, we still have his presence in our midst, leading us home. Amen. Let's pray Lord, we thank you for the wonders of your salvation. We thank you for the greatness of your salvation. Lord seeing the depths that you would go to save your people should remind us of the depths of our sin against you And Lord, we confess that we are not worthy, but we as your people are grateful. Oh, how we thank you for your salvation, Lord. We thank you for your deliverance. Help us to remember who you are, what you've done, and who we are in you. That we have a new status. That we are your people. That you've given us a new song to sing. You've given us new stories. Stories of faithfulness. Lord, we ask that even this week you will fill our lips with stories of your faithfulness to us as we proclaim the good news to those in our lives and also those who are far from you. And we pray you would use all of that to save and deliver more from darkness and into your light. In Jesus' name. Amen.