His name was George Lelo. He was a preacher, a church planter, and a missionary. But he was also born as a slave in Virginia in 1750. Around the year 1773, George Lelo gave his life to Christ and soon began preaching the gospel to other slaves. He was eventually freed from his slavery, specifically to continue to preach the gospel. And so he went on to start churches eventually in South Carolina. Then in Georgia. And then he later moved with his wife and kids to Kingston, Jamaica, where he went on to have a church of over 300 members. So he had a vibrant and faithful ministry, but he also had lots of trials, lots of time of sorrow, lots of disappointments. For example, Lilo left Georgia for Jamaica specifically to involve to avoid re-enslavement. And once there, he had to work for two years as an indentured servant to regain his freedom in Jamaica And while he had a faithful and vibrant ministry in Kingston, Jamaica, he was constantly arrested for sharing the gospel with slaves. And the members of his church, though that church continued to grow and grow, they faced lots of opposition and also even persecution from their government. Lilo passed away in 1828 for some unknown reasons. Ten years before slavery will formally end in Jamaica. Now, what do we make of stories like George Lelo's? Where you have people who step out on faith and obedience And yet they seem to be met with trial after trial and sorrow upon sorrow. What about us? When we know that the Lord will answer, we know that the Lord will hear our cries. We know he'll deliver us, but he seems slow in responding to us. What does God provide for his people when their obedience and their hope turn to sorrow and disappointment? With God's help, we'll find answers for that in our text today. So please meet me in Exodus chapter 5. And that's on page 84 in the Bibles that are provided for us. Where we left off last week, the Lord met with Moses and declared to him his very name. He called him to go to Egypt and to lead the people out of their slavery. And after some convincing, Moses went back to Egypt and declared to God's people that the Lord would soon free them from Egypt. These slaves had been desperate and they'd been burdened by their intense suffering. But when they heard from Moses, the end of chapter 4 says that they believed and they worshiped God. They were hopeful. But we'll find out that they were soon disappointed. So what would God provide for them? And then what about Moses? who was faithful here and obedient, but he was also soon disappointed as well. What would the Lord provide for Moses and for Aaron? You're taking notes. Here's our main idea for our time together in God's Word. As we long for deliverance, God provides his presence and his people As we long for deliverance, God provides his presence and his people. We'll cover that in three points. Point one, God's people are longing. That will be chapter five. Point two, God provides his presence. That's chapter six. And then in chapter seven, verses one to thirteen, God provides his people. Let's start with point one. God's people are longing. Let's hear about their longings in Exodus chapter 5, starting in verse 1. This is the word of the Lord Afterwards, Moses and Aaron went and said to Pharaoh, Thus says the Lord the God of Israel: let my people go that they may hold a feast for me in the wilderness. But Pharaoh said, Who's the Lord that I should obey his voice and let Israel go? I do not know the Lord, and moreover, I will not let Israel go. Then they said, The God of the Hebrews has met with us. Please let us go a three days' journey into the wilderness, that we may sacrifice to the Lord our God, lest he fall upon us with pestilence or with the sword. But the king of Egypt said to them, Moses and Aaron, why do you take people away from their work? Get back to your burdens. And Pharaoh said, Behold, the people of the land are now many, and you make them rest from their burdens? The same day Pharaoh commanded the taskmasters of the people and their foremen, You shall no longer give the people straw to make bricks as in the past. Let them go and gather straw for themselves. But the number of bricks that they made in the past, you shall impose on them, and you shall by no means reduce it, for they are idle. Therefore they cry, let us go and offer sacrifices to our God Let heavier work be laid on the men that they may labor at it and pay no regard for their lying words So the taskmasters and the foreman of the people went out and said to the people, Thus says Pharaoh, I will not give you straw. Go and get your straw yourselves wherever you can find it, but your work will not be reduced in the least. So the people were scattered throughout the throughout all the land of Egypt to gather stubble for straw. The taskmasters were urgent, saying, Complete your work, your daily task, as when there was straw. And the foremen of the people of Israel, whom Pharaoh's taskmasters had set over them, were beaten and were asked, Why have you not done all of your tasks of making bricks today and yesterday as in the past? Then the foreman of the people of Israel came and cried to Pharaoh, Why do you treat your servants like this? No straw is given to your servants, yet they say to us, Make bricks. And behold, your servants are beaten, but the fault is of your own people. But he said, You are idle, you are idle. That is why you say, let us go and sacrifice to the Lord. Go now and work, no straw will be given to you, but you must still deliver the same number of bricks. The foreman of the people of Israel Saw that they were in trouble when they said, you shall by no means reduce the number of bricks. Your daily task, you stay. We'll stop right there for right now But Moses and Aaron did exactly what the Lord God had instructed them to do: to go to Pharaoh and tell Pharaoh, let them go so that they could worship the Lord. Now, their request here was for a three days' journey in the wilderness, and that seems to be a mere testing of the waters. I think the Lord was trying to show just how hard the heart of Pharaoh was. Because even the three days' journey was too much for Pharaoh to say yes to. He did not let them go. And instead, he accused them of laziness, and even accused them of lying on the Lord's name. The Pharaoh gave the slaves unreasonable and unbearable work, and then beat the foreman because they could not keep up with the unreasonable quota. How do you think God's people felt at that point? They were probably discouraged. They were probably disappointed. I mean, they were told by Moses that the Lord said he heard their cries, that he remembered his covenant, and that he would release them and free them from their bondage in Egypt. But now their bondage was only more severe. So when these people met Moses and Aaron again, they accused Moses and Aaron of wrongdoing. Look at verse 20. They met Moses and Aaron, who were waiting for them, as they came out from Pharaoh, and they said to them, so Moses and Aaron, they said to them, The Lord look on you and judge, because you have made us stink in the sight of Pharaoh and his servants. And have put a sword in their hands to kill us. Then Moses turned to the Lord and said, Oh Lord, why have you done evil to this people? Why did you ever send me? For since I came to Pharaoh to speak in your name, he has done evil to this people, and you have not delivered your people at all. Moses cried out to the Lord because of the evil that was being done to the Lord's people. He laments being sent out in the first place. He says, Lord, you have not delivered your people at all. This is not what you said you were going to do. I wonder if any of us can relate to Moses. Have you ever been disappointed by God and God's apparent slowness? Disappointments are hard to swallow, especially when those disappointments are followed by faith and followed by obedience. So you share the gospel because you want you know the Lord wants you to share the gospel and now your former friends have now become your enemies. They want nothing to do with you Or you decide that you're going to do what's right at your job. And now no one wants to work with you. You've faithfully done your job well for years. And now you're discouraged. You still haven't found a new one. Or maybe you listened to the Lord and you move to a brand new place. Maybe it was for the sake of the gospel. And yet you're lonely, discouraged, disappointed. You've been met with trials and hardships and sorrow What does the Lord provide for his people when they're burdened and when they're disappointed? When they're longing for answers, when they're longing for deliverance Number two. God provides his presence. God provides his presence. Now focus mostly on chapter 6, but look back at verse 22 and chapter 5 for a moment. Because then Moses turned to the Lord and said Which I think we can infer means that the Lord was with Moses. He was close enough to him to hear his cry. This friendship between God and Moses is a theme that we see all throughout the rest of the book of Exodus. Like it says in Exodus 33:11, thus the Lord used to speak to Moses face to face As a man speaks with a friend. And we'll even see in chapter 6 the Lord's response to Moses and his lament, he's not angry. And I think we saw last week that if the Lord wanted to be angry with Moses, he could. So Moses' cry to the Lord here was not a cry of unbelief, it was a lament. It was a plea to God to act in light of who he's already proven to be. And the Lord had delivered, had uh revealed himself to Moses as a deliverer. And his people still needed deliverance. So Moses is asking, when is deliverance going to come? We heard an example about that from our scripture reading this morning, where John the Baptist, this man of faith, this forerunner to Christ. The one whose entire life was devoted to making straight the way of Christ was arrested. Imprisoned and waiting a death sentence. And he sent some of his followers to go to Jesus and ask: Are you the Messiah? Are you the one to come, or should we be waiting for someone else? Why in the world would John ask that question? He was discouraged. He was confused. And we'll see here that the Lord's response to Moses in his discouragement and in his confusion is similar to Jesus' words to John. He basically reminds him of what he already knows. Look at chapter 6 verse 1. But the Lord said to Moses, Now you shall see what I will do to Pharaoh. For with a strong hand he will be he will send them out, and with a strong hand he will drive them out of this land God spoke to Moses and said to him, I am the Lord. I appear to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob as Almighty God. But by my name I did not make myself known to them. I also established my covenant with them to give them the land of Canaan, the land in which they lived as sojourners. Moreover, I have heard the groaning of the people of Israel, whom the Egyptians have sold into slavery. And I have remembered my covenant. Say therefore to the people of Israel, I am the Lord, and I will bring you out from under the burden of the Egyptians. And I will deliver you from slavery to them, and I will redeem you with an outstretched arm and with great acts of judgment. I will take you to be my people, and I will be your God, and you shall know that I am the Lord your God. Who has brought you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians? I will bring you out, I will bring you into the land that I swore to give Abraham and Isaac and to Jacob. I will give it to you for possession. I am the Lord. So the Lord tells Moses basically the same thing that he's already told him before. Basically the same thing that he revealed to him out of the burning bush. That yes, he will deliver his people out of Egypt. That yes, he is the God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of Jacob. And yes, he's heard the groaning of his people. And yes, he remembers his covenant. He basically tells him the same thing. Aside from the fact that he emphasizes his presence with Moses. Look back at verse 2. God spoke to Moses and said to them, I am the Lord. I appeared to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob as God Almighty, but by my name I did not make myself known to them. Now that's an interesting statement, right? Because what it doesn't mean is that God or the name of God Yahweh was not used and before used in the Bible before Exodus. You can look in the book of Genesis and you can see L-O-R-D, all caps, Yahweh. His name is there. So then what is God talking about here Author Andrew Reed offers this translation of verses 2 and 3. I am Yahweh. I appear to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob in a limited way, as El Shaddai. But by the extent of what my name Yahweh means, I was not known to them. So in other words. Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, yes, they did know the Lord. Yes, they did know Yahweh, but they did not know the Lord as the mighty deliverer. He will make himself known, as he's made himself already known to Moses, as the mighty deliverer. And that's why he emphasizes his name to remind Moses that the Yahweh, the mighty deliverer, was with him. He already said that in verses 2 and 3, and a few more times starting in verse 6. Verse 6, where it says, say therefore to the people of Israel. I am the Lord. Verse 7, you shall know that I am the Lord your God. Verse 8, I will give it to you for possession. I am the Lord. The Lord is saying to Moses, Yahweh, the deliverer, is with you. In fact, he also emphasizes the promise of Genesis 17, there in verse 7 of Exodus chapter 6, where he says, I will take you to be my people, and I will be your God. And for any of us who are burdened and weary today, isn't that the hope that we have in the Lord Jesus Christ? We know that the Lord Has sent his deliverer, the Lord Jesus Christ, his chosen servant, to deliver us out of our bondage to sin and Satan and death. And God has delivered us with one great judgment against his sinless son on the cross. And on the cross, the outstretched arms of the Lord went out against Jesus for our sins against him. Deus was crucified, he was buried, and then he rose from the grave, and all power so that all who put their faith in the Lord Jesus Christ We'll be delivered out of slavery to sin, delivered out of slavery to Satan, and brought into God's possession, brought into God's family forever. And while Jesus is seated in heaven right now, because that's where he is, he has not left us as his people alone. He says in his word that he sent his Holy Spirit for us, his very presence to convict us, to correct us, and even comfort us as we long for our final deliverance. Because one day we will be finally delivered. That's what the Lord says in Revelation 21. That's what John saw. Verse 3: And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with with them, and he will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more. Neither shall there be mourning, nor crying, nor pain any more, for the former things have passed away. And he who was seated on the throne said, Behold, I am making all things new. If you are here this morning and you're not a Christian, If you forget everything else, you need to know that you need to be delivered. And God has already sent his son to deliver you from sin. Put your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ today. And brothers and sisters, our hope is that the Lord has delivered us. He is delivering us And he will finally deliver us from all of our trials, all of our mournings, all of our crying, all of our pain. And I did hear a few amens when I read those verses in Revelation chapter 1, 21. But does sometimes even hearing those verses seem to ring a little bit hollow for you? I mean, is the promise of Christianity that things will get better in the buy-and-by? Is that all that we have to hope for? Maybe sometimes we're like Martha after the death of her brother Lazarus, where yes, we believe that Jesus is the resurrection and the life. But we still say, Lord, if you had been there, things would have been different. Or maybe you resonate with God's people in verse 9 of Exodus chapter 6. Moses spoke thus to the people of Israel. He told them everything that the Lord said to say, but they did not listen to Moses. Why? Because of their broken spirit and harsh slavery. So how does the Lord respond to us when we're brokenhearted? We should remember that the same Lord Jesus Christ Who told John the Baptist, Blessed are those who are not offended by me, also went away to grieve after John the Baptist's death. The same Lord Jesus Christ, who told Martha, I am the resurrection and the life, who knew that he would raise up Lazarus from the grave, also wept with his weeping and grieving sisters. Brothers and sisters, the Lord enters into our grief with us. Listen these words from Dana Ortland. Our tendency is to feel intuitively that the more difficult life gets, the more alone we are. As we sink further into pain, we sink further into felt isolation. But the Bible corrects us. Our pain never outstrips what he himself shares in. We are never alone That sorrow that feels so isolating, so unique, was endured by him in the past and is now shouldered by him in the present If you are broken in spirit, you are brokenhearted this morning morning, remember, brothers and sisters, you are not alone. And while the Lord does not always offer explanations to us, he always offers his very presence. He says to us, as he says to Moses, I am the Lord. And so he tells Moses to go to Pharaoh in verse 10. Verse 10, Exodus 6. So the Lord said to Moses, go in and tell Pharaoh. Go in and tell Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, to let the people of Israel go out of his land. But Moses said to the Lord, Behold, the people of Israel have not listened to me. How then shall Pharaoh listen to me? For I am of uncircumcised lips. Now these verses that I just read are summarized and emphasized down in verses 28 through 30. Look there. Where it says, On the day when the Lord spoke to Moses in the land of Egypt, the Lord said to Moses, I am the Lord. Tell Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, all that I say to you. But Moses said to the Lord, behold, I am of uncircumcised lips. How will Pharaoh listen to me Now maybe Moses lacked faith here because he remembered the whole Dajibit, the bridegroom of blood incident in the last chapter. Maybe he thought God was moving slowly because he was in the way. Maybe it was his lack of faith that was slowing down God's hand. Maybe you've wanted the same in your own life. Your deficiencies or your family history or your past or even your sin, maybe that's blocking your blessings. Maybe that's stopping God from doing his work. But that wasn't the case. And I think that the fact that this wasn't the case explains why in the middle of those two verses that basically repeat themselves, you have this seemingly random genealogy. You see that in your Bible? Anybody read that this week and wonder why is that there? Why is that here? Well, that whole genealogy centers around the Levinic the Levitic lineage of Aaron and Moses. It talks about their family line. It talks about their family history. How do we know that? Look at verses 26 and 27. These are the Aaron and Moses to whom the Lord said, Bring out the people of Israel from the land of Egypt by their hosts. It was they who spoke to Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, about bringing the people of Israel out of Egypt. This Aaron and Moses, or this Moses and Aaron. So it's saying if you read that genealogy and you confuse who it's talking about, the Moses and Aaron that's mentioned there is this one. It's the same one that's mentioned all throughout this section. Why that emphasis? I think this is the Lord's encouragement to Moses, and even the Lord's encouragement to us, that he is with his people. And that nothing will stop his hand, not even us. And I think that's why the Lord responded so plainly to Aaron and Moses in verse 13. He gave them the same instruction, the same charge. Bring the people out of the land of Egypt. Bring the people of Israel out of the land of Egypt. This should encourage us, I think. Because this is the Lord saying to Moses, you're mine. You belong to me. And if you forget that, here's your family tree. I think that applies to us who are in Christ. We belong to God. We belong to Him. And if we forget that, we should look at our family tree. But our trials and our suffering have a way of making us feel like we've been cropped out of the family picture of God. Right? But that's where he says, look to the cross. The proof that we have been grafted into God's family tree by faith. We belong to Him, and He is with us So if you've been disappointed by the Lord, dear brother or sister, here's my question for you. Have you shared that with him Now you might say, yes, he's God. He knows everything. He knows that I'm struggling. But does he know it from you? Have you said it to him? So as a teen, sometimes my dad will come into my room and ask me how I'm doing. You know how sometimes these annoying parents do teams, right? They're always in your business. Like what's going on? Are you how are you doing? Are you okay? And I will respond in in teenage fashion. I'm good. I'm fine. And my dad would say this statement that always frustrated and annoyed me. He would say, son, I know you better than you know yourself. Tell me what's wrong. And I would roll my eyes and then tell him what was going on with me. What's the point? He knew me So there was no need for me to try to hide my feelings from him. I was probably pretty bad at it. Brothers and sisters, the Lord knows you. There's no need to try to hide your feelings from him He loves you. He's with you. So be vulnerable with God Tell him how you're doing. And then tell him how you're really doing. He wants to hear it and he's ready to respond. The Lord responded to Moses, and then Moses responded with trust and obedience, which leads us to point three. What else does God provide for his people as they are longing for his deliverance? Provides his presence, but he also provides his people. Exodus chapter 7. And the Lord said to Moses, See, I have made you like God to Pharaoh, and your brother Aaron shall be your prophet. You shall speak all that I command you, and your brother Aaron shall tell Pharaoh to let the people of Israel go out of his land. But I will harden Pharaoh's heart. And though I multiply my signs and wonders in the land of Egypt, Pharaoh will not listen to you. Then I will lay my hand on Egypt and bring out my host. My people, the children of Israel, out of the land of Egypt by great acts of judgment. The Egyptians shall know that I am the Lord, when I stretch out my hand against Egypt, and bring out the people of Israel from among them Moses and Aaron did so. They did just as the Lord commanded them. Now Moses was 80 years old, and Aaron was 83 years old when they spoke to Pharaoh. Then the Lord said to Moses and Aaron, When Pharaoh says to you, prove yourself by working a miracle. Then you shall say to Aaron, Take your staff and cast it down before Pharaoh, that it may become a serpent So Moses and Aaron went to Pharaoh and did just as the Lord commanded. Aaron cast down his staff before Pharaoh and his servants, and it became a serpent. Then Pharaoh summoned the wise men and the sorcerers, and they, the magicians of Egypt, also did the same by their secret arts. For each man cast down his staff, and they became serpents. But Aaron's staff swallowed up theirs. Still, Pharaoh's heart was hardened, and he would not listen to them as the Lord had said. The Lord sent Aaron and Moses, and surprisingly, they did exactly what he said. And I think that's why that emphasis is there. It's like he they really did what he said. Verse 6. Moses and Aaron did so. They did just as the Lord commanded them. And then verse 10, so Moses and Aaron went to Pharaoh and they did just as the Lord commanded. The Lord showed up and was with them, which helped them to trust in the Lord and then to obey him. And God told Moses that he would be like God to Pharaoh. I think that means that Moses was going there on behalf of the Lord, and Moses would be rejected. But Pharaoh's rejection of Moses would be also his rejection of the Lord. So God tells Moses the rest of the plan. He says that part that's part of it. You're gonna go, you're gonna be rejected, he'll harden his heart. I'll still bring the children of Israel out. All of Egypt will know that I am the Lord. Now there's a lot to say about the hardening of Pharaoh's heart. But we'll save that for another sermon. But what we should know is that this hardness of Pharaoh's heart will lead him to tell Aaron here, prove yourself by working a miracle. So God tells Moses to tell Aaron to throw down a staff so that he become a serpent. Now, kids, where have you heard that very same thing before? Where God told someone to take a staff and throw it down so that it become a serpent. Anybody? Thought I saw a hand Who did he tell that to? It was last week's sermon. I saw some kids leaving. Uh do they not want to answer? He said that to Moses in chapter four. Moses had a staff in his hand. He didn't believe the Lord, and so he said, All right, throw it down. It became a serpent. He ran from it. And then he said, pick it up again, and it became a staff. He's doing the very same thing that he did for Moses to prove himself. Why do you think he did that? Moses must have been like, oh okay, I've seen this before. I know where this is going. Aaron, you haven't seen it, but the Lord is going to do something through this. Moses saw the Lord do it before, and he would now see him do this again. And yet, Pharaoh, it says there, summoned his sorcerers so that they could do the same thing. But did you notice the end of verse 12? Aaron's staff swallowed up their staffs. This is all a slight preview of what's to come and all the plagues where it's propped up, and maybe even in your Bibles, it might say sometimes God versus the Pharaoh. As if it were an actual contest. It's not. Pharaoh's hard heart and his musicians or his magicians will be no match for the great I am. God would do exactly what he said he would do, and all of Egypt, just like the people of Israel, would know that he is the Lord their God But what do you think happened to Moses and Aaron's faith as they saw this playing out? Their faith likely got stronger. Because they not only heard God's words, they saw him work. Now that's good for them. What about the rest of the people of Israel? We weren't there. They didn't see this happening. Thinking about them? Notice that while Moses and Aaron are front and center, the Lord has his discouraged children on his heart. Look back at verse 4 Says then I will lay my hand on Egypt and bring my host, my people, the children of Israel, out of the land of Egypt by great acts of judgment. So God was providing his people in the midst of all this. He provided Moses and Aaron on behalf of these burdened people. He sent them to speak up for these burdened people. He encouraged the faith of Moses and Aaron so that they would be encouraged to obey him. And even though they were burdened and dis and and disappointed at times, God encouraged their faith And the people of Israel, who at this time we can assume were burdened and discouraged, he sent Moses and Aaron on their behalf and they didn't even know it And I think that's kind of how it works, where the Lord still provides for his people today. And since he provides, we can be vulnerable with him. And since he provides his people, we can be vulnerable with one another. Now imagine that for many of us being vulnerable with God, going to Him in prayer, lamenting, maybe even saying the words that Moses said here, you would not deliver your people. Maybe that sounds too strong. Maybe we have a hard time doing that. Well, if you do, you can go to some of the Psalms. You can go to different prayers in the Bible, and you have language to actually say what you should say But it's hard to be vulnerable with the Lord sometimes. As hard as that is, I think it's even harder for most of us to be vulnerable with other people. Like we all need the Lord, right? We know that. But sometimes we don't want the people around us to see that. To see that we actually need the Lord. It might be hard for many of us to admit to a brother or sister in Christ, hey, I'm really struggling. I'm really discouraged. I'm really burdened. I'm having a hard time believing the Lord right now. But we're called to. It's what Ed Welch says about us sharing our burdens with each other. Because thank those in the church who are open and ask for help. They reveal strength and weakness. The alternative to an open people is a church of polite people who hope to look like they are managing life well. Such a church will be ashamed to speak about their hearts before both other people and before the Lord What we want is a church that leads the way in being poor and needy and in asking Jesus and his people for help So, point of application, yes, be vulnerable with the Lord, but be vulnerable with one another. So if you're struggling with sin, if you're discouraged in your faith, if your marriage is really hard, if you're down and you're depressed and you don't know why. Say something about it. Share that with a brother or sister in Christ. Maybe even before you leave church today. Or if it's going to be a long conversation, maybe even set up that conversation for later this evening or sometime this week. And maybe you're thinking, if you're on the receiving end of that, if someone shares that with me, that they're burdened, they're struggling, what do I say? What do I do? Where do I even start? And start by listening. Enter into their grief with them. Maybe during the conversation pray, like Lord help me. Like, oh, okay, Lord help me to respond well. Go with them in prayer. Go with them to God's Word. And as you're reminded about someone else, maybe another brother or sister in Christ who has a similar struggle, then you might want to point them in that direction. And I'm with you. I'm praying for you. I think so-and-so will be encouraged to hear from you. I think there'll be a lot of help. That's how we're called to live with one another as brothers and sisters in Christ. Be vulnerable with the Lord. Be vulnerable with each other. And we can do that because he's provided his presence to us and he's provided his people. He's also provided his people to George Lelo, as well as his presence. Again, the preacher, the church planner, the missionary was born a slave and died in relative obscurity. We don't even know how he passed away. Though he was freed from slavery, he was in and out of prison for the sake of the gospel to slaves, trying to set them free physically and spiritually. But his work helped to encourage the ending of slavery in Jamaica as well as the spreading of the gospel in Jamaica. Listen to what one of his followers, what one of his disciples, one of his co-workers said after he died Because we have a great reason in this island to praise and glorify the Lord for his goodness and loving kindness in sending his blessed gospel amongst us by our well-beloved minister, Brother Lelo. We were living in slavery to sin and Satan, and the Lord hath redeemed our souls to a state of happiness, to praise his glorious grace and ever-blessed name And we hope to enjoy everlasting peace by the promise of our Lord and Master, Jesus Christ. So what did the Lord provide for George Lelo Presence and his people. What did the Lord provide for those slaves in Jamaica? His presence and his people. And what will the Lord provide for us as we long for his deliverance? Presence and his people. Let's pray. Well, we thank you that you have not let us left us alone. You are with us. You are for us. Your word says your Holy Spirit lives within us. And Lord, while that may be hard for us to believe, we say this morning, Lord, we believe. Help our unbelief. Encourage our brothers and sisters in Christ to know that you are with them. Encourage us as a church to know that you also send your people to do your work, to love, to share, to comfort. Help us to comfort one another as we long for the day where we will see you face for face and truly be delivered. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen.