Good morning again. Go ahead and open in your Bibles to the book of Acts. Acts chapter 2. If you are using one of the Bibles provided there around you, you should be able to find the portion of Acts 2 that we'll be looking at this morning on page 900. And eleven, Acts chapter two. I'm gonna be reading in just a minute. I'm gonna be reading just one verse this morning We're a little bit in between series here. We we reached a sort of a turning point, a little pivot in the book of Ephesians. We'll resume that in a few weeks. Our brother Tony next week is going to Lord Willing. resume a series that we left off last in early December in the book of Nehemiah. So reacquaint yourselves this coming week with the book of Nehemiah as we prepare for next Lord's Day. And in this sort of in between time, I thought it was a good occasion. For a standalone sermon, if we could want to call it that. And since it is the second Sunday of the month, and we'll be inviting you to gather with us This afternoon to pray seemed like a good occasion to think about why it is that we do that, and on the church's commitment to prayer. So that is where we find ourselves Today in Acts chapter 2, I'm going to read again, as I said, just verse 42 of Acts 2. And then I'm gonna pray because it's the Spirit who gives life and the flesh is no help at all, which means we need the Lord and his help desperately. So hear God's word this morning, and then I'll uh pray for our time as we consider really just the last part of this verse, even. Acts 2. 42. And they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and the fellowship, to the breaking of bread, and the prayers. That's so short, I'll just read that again one more time before I pray. And they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and the fellowship. To the breaking of bread and the prayers. This is God's word, brothers and sisters. Let's pray Heavenly Father, we do indeed need your help. We thank you for sending the Holy Spirit. We need him to move among us because it is your spirit who gives life So we pray that you would give life, even if there are some here who are spiritually dead, they don't know you, they are dead in their sins. We pray that it you would be pleased even In this next time, considering your word, that you would raise some from spiritual death and give them life in Jesus. For those of us who know Jesus, renew the life of the Spirit in us. Work in us what is pleasing in your sight through Jesus, that we might live wholly to the praise of your glory. And we ask for this in Jesus' name. Amen. There was a video uh circulating a couple of years ago of Baltimore Ravens quarterback Lamar Jackson. I just got some of your attention. There was a video of Lamar Jackson uh circulating. I don't know if any of you saw this, this I think it's two or three years old now. Uh but he was surprising a young super fan of his name Landon at a uh at a hotel in New Orleans where the Ravens were staying. Uh the parents of this boy who was suffering from a a serious heart condition were able to uh reach out to the ravens and arrange for a meeting where Lamar Jackson came to the hotel and there's this video. I think you could probably still find this video. Don't look for it right now, please But maybe afterwards if you're eager to see it, I think you could probably still find it online. They there's this poor they're in this sort of conference room of the hotel and and in comes Lamar Jackson. This boy has no idea And Lamar Jackson walks in and this young boy Landon, he's maybe 10, 11, 12 years old, something like that. And he and he just rushes toward Lamar Jackson and he gives him this great bear hug. And he and he will not let go for like 30 or 40 like like Lamar Jackson's like almost trying. I mean he's he's he's excited to be there, but it's almost like he's trying to pull away from the hug a couple of times and this kid will not let him go. And and the you know he's crying happy tears and you can hear the parents in the background, this is amazing, this is so wonderful. And uh Lamar Jack, you can hear Lamar Jack say this, he's making my day. It's a wonderful Little little scene. I have a sweet spot for stories like that. I'm not the only one, I don't think, who finds such stories or videos to be moving. There is something about seeing a great person Draw near to someone who is weak, who's helpless, who's basically a nobody, somebody you wouldn't think would be with such a quote-unquote great person to see greatness condescending and coming towards the lowly, that that strikes a nerve in our hearts. There's a reason it does And I remember watching that video and thinking particularly at the time I wish that I was as excited to draw near to the Lord in prayer. As this boy Landon was to run into the arms of his sports hero, Lamar Jackson. Uh undoubtedly, uh uh a friend Brian Davis, you know Brian, he was here a few weeks ago and preached the word. I've heard Brian say that undoubtedly among the highest privileges that our Lord Jesus shared with us Is the privilege of unhindered direct access to the throne of God in prayer Uh we can get excited about a a 25-year-old man who is really fast and really good at throwing a football taking time to spend a few minutes with a sick child, and that is well and good. I think it is it's it's good that our hearts are moved in a in a good way when we think about that. But what a what about the opportunity given to us in that the the one and only self-existing God, the God who is not made by anyone who was before everything and who holds everything together, who possesses all power and authority. The one who is the king of the ages. Immortal, invisible, the only God, the one who dwells in unapproachable light, whom no one has ever seen or even can see, the one to whom belongs eternal dominion and glory forever. That this God should invite us to come to him, that he would actually give us his own spirit that we would be able to come to him and bring our needs to him. How moving is that And it is it is all the more moving when we remember that our condition our condition was not nearly as likely to be treated compassionately as this young boy suffering from a physical heart condition. It is important for us to understand and remember as we come to this matter of prayer. It's in I think it's important to remember that prayer is not simply a right of yours. Like by virtue of your existing and being a human You know, that if God is out there and he exists and he is attentive to us humans, that he must be obliged to answer our prayers. But we should be disabused of that attitude of entitlement if we would have that at all as we think about prayer. Because God is not obliged to hear the prayers of his enemies. And that is what all human beings have made ourselves before God because of our sin. Isaiah 59, verse 2 says, Your iniquities have made a separation between you and your God. And your sins have hidden his face from you, so that he does not hear. Iniquity in our hearts, the Lord would not listen. Well, that is that is that marks the human condition apart from God's grace. We are all iniquity cherishers And so we don't deserve approaching God at will and being welcomed and heard and helped by him is not something that any of us deserve. We actually deserve the opposite. We deserve to be denied access to his heavenly throne. We cannot just go to God and expect a warm welcome because we've rebelled against him. In our sin, we declare that we think life without God is actually better than life with Him. We actually think that we could rule and manage our lives better than he could. And so the Bible says in Proverbs 28, verse 9. If one turns his ear from hearing the law, even his prayer is an abomination. Kids. I I wonder if i I mean you've I'm sure I would imagine you've not done this with your children, but maybe you're playing with with some friends or Yeah you just like you don't want to hear what somebody has to say and you put your hands in your ears like I don't want to hear what you're saying I can't hear you I can't hear you I bet I looked really silly when I just did that, but I sounded silly. That's a little picture of what sin is toward God. It's like we don't want to hear His law. We don't want to hear, I don't want to hear what you have to say, God. I want to do my own thing. I want to live my way. And the Bible says that if we would have that attitude, but then still ask his help for things that we want, that's an abomination to God But the good news that we've gathered here to celebrate this morning is that Jesus saves sinners. Jesus is the friend of sinners, we will sing at the end. We can see him. So lovely song we just sang. See him in Jerusalem. See him suffering. And you can see the price that he was willing to pay so that we could be brought back to God. That we could be brought near to him. Jesus is the one mediator between God and man who bridged that gap between man, that infinite chasm between us. and God because of our sin. And Jesus bridged that gap by absorbing in his own body the curse and the punishment from God that our sin deserved, so that we who were far off, we who had made ourselves his enemies, strangers and aliens from his good and almighty throne that we might be welcomed again and brought near to God as dearly loved children. Uh if you happen to have come here this morning and you don't consider yourself to be a Christian or you aren't sure really what you believe, we are so glad that you're with us. And I I would want you to hear this morning that there is a prayer that you could pray. You said, well, you just said that if I'm cherishing iniquity and I'm Then he won't even hear my prayers. There's one prayer that you could pray that we'd love for you to pray today, and I believe on good grounds that God will hear it. It's a prayer that one sinful man approached God with in the Bible and he said, Lord, have mercy upon me, a sinner. And if you would articulate that prayer to God, have mercy upon me, a sinner, because of Jesus. I can assure you on the basis of God's word, He will hear that prayer and He will save you even today. Kids, if you pray that prayer today, God have mercy upon me. I do, I shut my ears and I don't want to hear what God says. But Jesus will save you, kids. You cry out to him, have mercy on me, a sinner. Jesus will save you. For all who do that, for all who call upon the Lord and are saved, for all who repent and believe. God grants them his own spirit. We saw that last Sunday in our study of Ephesians. He seals his people with the Spirit. And he makes us his children, and he he enables us to approach his throne confidently in prayer. And this wonderful news landed powerfully on the crowd that gathered to hear the Apostle Peter's sermon on the day of Pentecost. If y'all were wondering, is that man ever gonna approach the book of Acts? He did read from the book of Acts. Yes, he did All this good news landed upon this crowd that heard the Apostle Peter preach on the day of Pentecost. They heard the word We're told if you look at the verses just before verse 42 where I read, they heard the word and they were cut to the heart. The Spirit brought conviction to them, and they longed to be forgiven of the guilt of their sin, of crucifying their Messiah. And they had repented and they had believed. And the Bible says they had been baptized and they had been added to the number of the church. And they began, it says there in verse 42, they began devoting themselves to the apostles' teaching. and the fellowship and the breaking of bread and the prayers. Wasn't just these it wasn't just you know some special elite class of Christians who were just superstars Who were devoting themselves to prayer. But it was all the Christians, all who heard the word that day. 3,000 of them who were baptized and added to the church. They were devoting themselves to the prayers. And that's what we want to think about a little bit this morning. Three observations that I think arise from thinking about this verse and particularly just that phrase they were devoted to the prayers. Three observations And since I was un I was unusually affirmed last week that the question-answer format was like helpful I will give you three questions. I don't know that I will do this every week of my ministry here, but I will give you three questions that I think we can answer from thinking about this verse and other portions of scripture uh in the book of acts that speak to this matter of prayer. Question number one, how devoted was the early church to prayer? How devoted, how devoted was the early church to prayer? Well, let's think about that. How devoted was the church to early prayer to the early church to prayer? Here's the simple answer. They were really devoted to prayer. Really, really, really, really devoted to prayer. But we're told that it was so. I mean, not really, really, really, in Acts 2. 42. It just says they were devoted to the prayers. But the whole book of Acts confirms and illustrates this statement. That the early Christians were really, really, really, really devoted to the prayers. Let's think about it this way. How did we get here? Like how is this even happening right now? That in the year 2025 at the Bladensburg Elementary School that there would be a gathering of people worshiping the Lord Jesus Christ. How did that happen? How did we get from this small band of 120 confused and fearful disciples huddled in an upper room in the middle of Palestine. I take that number from Acts 115, if your Bibles are still open. 120. There are more of us in this room right now. than there were after Jesus had spent three years working miracles and teaching with wisdom and authority and suffering and dying and rising from the dead and commissioning his disciples to go to the w end of the ends of the earth and make disciples. And then he went to heaven, there were less of them in that room than than there are right now. And he said, go and fill the whole world with disciples of Jesus. And like we're here. It's happened. And it's happening. How? And I I I do think there are probably multiple layers to that answer, but if we just followed the book of Acts closely in search of an answer to that question I have no doubt that a part of the answer, a big part of the conclusion we would draw is that it happened through prayer. The risen Christ had told this small group of followers that they would be his witnesses in Jerusalem and Judea and Samaria and to the ends of the earth. That's Acts 1. 8. And he told them they were to wait for the Holy Spirit. And so what did they do? They waited. And we're told specifically they waited prayerfully. Look at verse 14 of Acts 1. All these, with one accord, were devoting themselves to prayer, together with the women and Mary, the mother of Jesus, and his brothers. They were waiting. Jesus had said, wait, I'm gonna send you to the whole world, but you need the Holy Spirit. Wait, wait for him. And they waited prayerfully. And so I think we can understand that what happened on the day of Pentecost with the Spirit coming down as fire and 3,000 being converted on that day was a response to the prayers. They were waiting prayerfully. And so then we see in verse 42 that they were devoted to the prayers And immediately after that wonderful picture in Acts chapter 2 of the early church and the life of the early church, the next big evangelistic wave gets chronicled starting in Acts chapter 3, and it starts with devotion to prayer. Look at chapter 3, verse 1. Now Peter and John were going up to the temple at the hour of prayer. The ninth hour. They were going at the hour of prayer. They were going to pray. And then we see an evangelistic wave happens there and it brings about opposition and it brings about arrest And we see in chapter 4, verse 31, the church is strengthened with boldness to keep persevering in witness through prayer. We see them pleading with God: give us boldness, give us courage to keep bearing witness. They prayed about that. And the Lord brought so much fruit that when a ministry crisis arose in chapter 6. There was a crisis. There were certain widows in the early church. They were being neglected. They were not being cared for. And the apostles were so committed to prayer, they said, we cannot meet this need. We must stay devoted to prayer. and the ministry of the word. So they up they they raised up, they they told the church to select faithful servants who would tend to that need so that they could, so that the apostles could remain devoted to the prayers, so that they could keep on praying and ministering the word. And what did they do when those servants were selected to meet that need? They commissioned them with prayer. Acts 6 verse 6 Then we get to Stephen, the first of those servants, one of those servants who was raised up to help meet that need. Stephen becomes the first Christian martyr. He's stoned to death. And as his life is coming to an end, he prays for the forgiveness of those who were killing him. And do you know who one of the men was there who was over kind of overseeing the killing of him? Man named Saul, who we know Paul, we've been studying his letter to the Ephesians. And Stephen is praying, forgive them, and then this man, Saul, gets converted and becomes the greatest missionary the church has ever known. And I believe we're intended to see the connection that all Paul's mission and all Paul's ministry, which is still bearing fruit today in our lives, when we pick up Ephesians or Romans or whatever it is, is the fruit of prayer. In Acts 8, 15, we see the Holy Spirit falling upon new believers in Samaria through prayer. Then we see that conversion of Saul, who we now call Paul, that we see that encounter in chapter 9 that he had with the risen Lord Jesus, and it leads him to prayer. chapter nine verse eleven as he waits for Ananias to uh r restore his sight. And then when Paul recounts that whole story In Acts chapter 22, he says the Spirit directed him to move on from Jerusalem through prayer. Acts 22, 17. Then we see at the end of chapter 9, Peter heals a woman named Tabitha by prayer. And then in chapter 10, we see this monumental event where the gospel reaches the Gentiles through the house of the Roman centurion Cornelius, who's told by an angel that his prayers have been heard. Chapter 10, verse 2. And a gospel witness is going to be sent to him who himself is being prepared for the occasion in prayer as Peter's ethnic prejudice is confronted. As he's beginning to realize Jew and Gentile are meaning to be brought together in one spirit, in one church, that's happening to Peter through prayer. Acts 10, verse 9. Then we see in chapter 12, James and Peter are arrested, and James is killed for his faith, and it seems like Peter is next up. But the church, we're told, Acts 12, 5, the church is an earnest prayer. And so Peter, then we see is miraculously delivered by an angel, and he shows up at the very prayer meeting where they were seeking his release. Paul and Barnabas in chapter 13 are set apart for the global advance of the gospel, the first strategic planned cross-cultural missions trip. is the fruit of the leaders of the church in Antioch giving themselves to fasting and prayer. Chapter 14, verse 23, as they established churches. We see that Paul and Barnabas are appointing elders in every church, committing them to the Lord through prayer and fasting. My wife is not here, so I'll I'll I'll call her out in a good way. You know, we're here, we're new here We're talking to members and we hear a lot about, you know, oh it would be wonderful to have a building. I prayed about it er uh earlier and we should. My wife just said to me a couple weeks ago, like we should just have some prayer and fasting for a building Fasting. That's what you see it twice there in those references in Acts. Prayer and fasting. This is how God is doing the work. Whatever the work is. Paul and Silas come to Philippi chapter 16. They meet some women at a prayer meeting. And that becomes the start of the church plant in Philippi. Then Paul and Silas get arrested for preaching the gospel and as they're singing hymns and praying, an earthquake leads to the conversion of the jailer and his household. There's more. But I think you're getting the picture. This mention in Acts 2. 42 that they were devoting themselves to the prayer, that's just not a passing remark. The way the gospel advances. is through the prayers of his people. And that's why I say that we're we're gathered here this morning. How did we all get here? It's the fruit of the earnest prayers of God peep God's people that have prevailed over all the powers of hell and all the schemes of man that have sought to destroy Christ's precious bride for the last 2,000 years For 2,000 years, the world in its wisdom and arrogance has been preparing the church's obituary And yet for 2,000 years, Jesus has just been going about fulfilling his promise to build his church such that the gates of hell will not prevail against her. The church is triumphant. The church will prevail, and we will prevail. Jesus will build his church and he will do it through prayer. How devoted was the early church to prayer? Really, really, really, really devoted to prayer. Which leads to a second question Why was the church so devoted to prayer? I hope you've just seen from all those examples that I just pointed out in the book of Acts that they were really devoted to prayer. Why was it so? And I think a simple way to answer that question would be: prayer is what the people of God do, because what the people of God are called to do, they cannot actually do. But Jesus had told the apostles unmistakably before his departure, before his ascension, that they could do nothing without him. We heard that passage read earlier in the scripture. Shannon read to us from John 15. I am the vine, you are the branches. Whoever abides in me and I in him, he it is that bears much fruit, for apart from me, you can do the A few things, some small things? That's not what it says, no. Apart from me, you can do nothing. So I trust that the apostles still would have had those words ringing in their ears when Jesus charged them after his resurrection. To go and make disciples of all nations, and to baptize them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, and to teach them to obey everything that He had commanded. I mean how how do you how how do you think that would have sounded to those 11 who were there as it's recorded in Matthew 28 Go to the whole world and make disciples of me. That the Apostle Paul, when he when he reported before King Agrippa, when he was telling the story of his conversion and his commissioning In Acts 26, he said this. He said, the Lord Jesus said to him, I'm sending you to open their eyes. So that they may turn from darkness to light and from the power of Satan to God. That's what Paul was sent to do. As we seek to go and evangelize and make disciples, that's what we are being called to do. We're not doing it the same exact way that Paul was. Paul was an apostle We're not apostles, but we are still called to go and bring this message to those who are blind and who are under the power of Satan. How are we going to do that? Can we do that? Can we raise the spiritually dead? Can we remove the blinders of people's eyes? Can we can we change the leopards' spots? You remember what the prophet Jeremiah said? Can leopards change their spots? He says, so can you, who are accustomed to doing evil, turn and do good. Can we reason people out of their bondage and infatuation with self and personal autonomy? Can we keep a soul in the love of God Can we encourage the faint-hearted? Can we give stability and patient endurance to those who are oppressed? Can we produce in ourselves or in anyone here? Can we produce that holiness without which no one will see the Lord? Can we help someone grasp how wide and long and high and deep is the love of Christ? Can we make someone hopeful of the immeasurable greatness of God's power toward those who believe? Can we make someone walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing to him? bearing fruit in every good work and increasing in the knowledge of God, can we present anyone mature in Christ? Can we? No, we cannot, not without God. Parents, can you make your children walk in the ways of the Lord? Not without God. Because the devil is real and vicious, and because our flesh is weak and stubborn, and because the world is crooked and twisted, We are totally impotent to bring about the things that we long for and the things that we are called to pursue in our own lives and for each other and for our nation and for the whole world. We cannot do it That's why we need more of the Spirit's empowering presence in our lives. We don't need more of the Holy Spirit. We received the Holy Spirit. We were sealed with the Holy Spirit when we heard the word of truth and believed. But we do see in the book of Acts that there are ways in which we can be freshly filled with the Spirit's empowering presence. And we need that. And so we pray. That's why we pray. We pray because the existence of even one Christian anywhere in the world, the existence of just one, let alone an entire congregation. Is miraculous. We're this is miraculous. What's happening here? Right now. We're dealing in the realm of the supernatural. I understand it doesn't feel like it, but this basket just hovering over the Murrays like it is. But that it's a miracle. What's happening? What has happened among us and what is happening among us is only possible by the supernatural power of God. And we give expression to that, to the sense that we have, the very real sense that we have of our own weakness. And of God's Almighty adequacy and power, we give expression to that when we pray When we pray steadfastly, when we pray continually, when we pray without ceasing, as the scriptures call us to pray. This wasn't just an example that we see in Acts But we see throughout the New Testament exhortations to be devoted to prayer, to be constant in prayer, to be steadfast in prayer, because our prayers are a big billboard highlighting our own weakness and God's goodness and power to give us what is good. To believe that any good we might see is not due to us, but is due to that fountain of every blessing that is the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. That's why the church is devoted to prayer. Because we can't do anything without him. It's what's marked the church of our Lord Jesus for 2,000 years now. And I pray that it would mark us as well. That leads us to a third and final question this morning. We considered was the church how how how devoted was the church to prayer? And and why were they so devoted to prayer? Now question number three, are you devoted to prayer? Are you devoted to prayer? And let me just preface everything I have to say now after this question. Let me preface it with this. I did not ask that question to shame you all. So do not expect in the next 10 minutes that the I want that the effect that I'm looking for is for you all to feel miserable and horrible about what wretched, filthy, prayerless sinners you are. That's not the point. The point is to help consider. Here's the practice. Here's what we see. Here's what we need. How are we? I have some growing to do. By the grace of God, I can look back at two and a half decades of following Jesus and see like there's been some growth by the grace of God. So let us consider, are we devoted to prayer? Are you devoted to prayer? Because of the great privilege that it is. Because of the great power that it possesses, because of our complete and total helplessness to bring about any of the good that we long to see, and because it is bountiful all-sufficiency. By which he is pleased to supply every need of ours according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus. Let Chevrolet Baptist Church be a congregation that is devoted to prayer. And devoted to prayer together. Let prayer mark the lives of the saints in this place. When we gather together on these Lord's Day mornings, we try to pray meaningfully. We do not just pray for so that the stage can transition, so that there can be like a set change. That's not the point of why we do prayers. But we pray to commune with the God who has so Richly and graciously lavished us with every spiritual blessing in Christ, including the gift and the blessing of prayer I love in this church that there is a whole concentrated prayer devoted to praising God. That was not the air I breathed in my former position, in my former church. I love that. We're not asking him, we're just praising him for who he is We need him. We pray for help. We pray to confess our sins. As we open up the word, what do we do? We pray. As we close the word in a few minutes, what do we do? We pray. We don't just pray because that's like a preacher thing. You just say, how do you how do you close this thing? It's weird if I just say, uh come on and let's sing a song or here's the element We pray because we stand here. I stand here, I look at you, and I know I can do nothing. Nothing good will come from this time without God's blessing. And so we pray. And we hope that this posture of prayerfulness that we bring to the gatherings will lead us to pray in untold and innumerable expressions throughout the week and the weeks and the months and the years and the decades Before and after the service. Let there be prayers in the newsletter that you members receive each week. There are prayer requests at the end of that newsletter. Don't miss those. When you're given a member directory, that's not intended to just be an administrative tool. That is a prayer tool that we would be praying regularly for the other members of this church, praying without ceasing. Father, would you grant that it that Shah Day be protected and not led astray from a sincere and pure devotion to Jesus? Father, would you bless Tony and Erlene and fill them with every resolve for good and every work of faith by your power so that the name of the Lord Jesus would be glorified them and that they would be glorified in him. Would you grant, Father, that Carrie and Sue would run with endurance the race that is set before them, fixing their eyes on Jesus? In in trials and tribulations, would you help Matt to taste your nearness and to be granted that peace which surpasses understanding to guard his heart and his mind in Christ Jesus? Can any of that happen without prayer? None of that can happen in any of our lives. And so we pray in small groups and in elders' meetings and in members' meetings and in the student ministries and new members' classes. Let there be filled with prayers. Kids. Kids, you may be wondering, what does you know, I'm not a member of the church. I'm not sure what my part is. What do I do here? Uh how does this all make how does it apply to me? Kids, let me ask you a question. Do you eat dinner? Does somebody say no? Does somebody say no? Do you eat dinner? You eat dinner? Do you pray before you eat dinner? Yes? Okay, well here's an idea, kids. The next time you're getting ready to pray for dinner, just maybe say to mom or dad. You know, since we're getting ready to pray, maybe we could pull out that member directory and pray for a member of the church before we eat. That's a way that you could play a really big and important part in the life of this church, kids. It's just maybe something to consider this afternoon. Oh, and by the way, we also have this one meeting each month on the second Sunday of the month where we focus on Hearing prayer requests and then bringing those requests to the Lord. I've been emphasizing almost the entire sermon I've just been saying devoted to prayer. Prayer, prayer, prayer, prayer, prayer. But it actually says in Acts 2. 42 They were devoted to the prayers. Not just that each member of the church was personally committed to praying regularly. That's important. But this seems to be, and many commentaries draw this out, a reference to something specific and gathered and corporate F. F. Bruce, in his commentary, says that for the prayers for which they were participating, the primary reference here in Acts 2. 42, he says, is no doubt to their own appointed seasons. for united prayer. So to those of you who are devoted to attending that meeting, which is happening today at 4 p. m. To those of you who are making that time a priority, praise God. Thank you for doing that. I know it's not always easy to do I don't usually get home till like 1. 30 or 1. 45, and then it's like it's like two hours we're turning around and getting ready to go to prayer. I know it's not always easy or convenient. But thank you. And I just want you to know, I'm super, I've only been here for a couple of months, but the two times that we've had that since we moved, I've been so encouraged to see so many of you out for that time. It's wonderful. If you've not, if you've never or rarely been to one of those meetings, we would love for you to be there with us, even this afternoon at 4 p. m. It is one of the most important things we do as a church. It says that in the bulletin, and we really mean that. Come, it's going to be wonderful today. We're going to hear an update from Campus Outreach. We're gonna hear a one a really encouraging update about some ministry that happened in this very school, not just like when we gather on Sunday, but uh bearing witness to Jesus in this very school and praying for the school here that meets here Monday through Friday. We're going to hear from a brother coming from the United Arab Emirates who's doing ministry in the United Arab Emirates. He's going to come and share about what's going on with him, and we're going to pray for him. In some ways it's not like the most grandiose thing to look at. We're going to show up, we're going to talk about some things that need prayer, and then we're going to pray. And we're going to ask God for help. And and It may not look like any evident demonstrable thing happens when we close in prayer and we go our separate ways. But apart from it, we can do nothing. We can do nothing. And so we pray and we pray and we pray some more. I know not all of you can make it at that time But I do pray that more of you would make it more frequently. It's something to be devoted to. It's not something that we're going to naturally drift into. That's one thing that the word devoted to communicates. Is this not something you just coast along and it happens? They were devoted to it. So I I would encourage you, if you've not been there, 4 p. m. this afternoon. You may have a really, really something really important going on. You might not be able to make it. But your your soul might be incredibly blessed by coming And that's that's actually not the highest reason why you should think about coming. Not just the personal benefit to us, it's really not the main reason to make it a priority. It's just it's good and right, and it's what God calls his people to be about, to be about praying together But I I'm pretty confident that if you come, you will not regret coming. For years, uh our church in New Jersey, we practiced we did this twice a month on the first and third Sundays. And there were some times Lots of times. I was the one normally leading best time of prayer up there. And I would many times it would happen. I'd be like four o'clock in the afternoon. We would do it at five o'clock, and there'd be many times where it's like, I'm not really I don't really feel like going Lots of times. But you know, like I'm the pa like I gotta go, right? Because I'm the pastor. You could go and it you could not go and be just like it's okay, no one's really gonna notice. So I would go. And I always without fail, always, was like, I'm so glad that I had to go. Because I was blessed by being with the people of God, hearing about what's going on in each other's lives and praying for those things. I want you to know also, I don't receive any, this is not a believing in the in the offer letter that I signed. I don't get any kind of commission. You know, for the attendance at the Sunday evening prayer service. I have nothing to gain personally from you coming other than the joy of knowing that more of us are being blessed by it As as God grows our church in love and in unity, as he unites us around our mission, as we're instructed week to week and month to month in what to pray and how to pray. I believe God gets great glory as we devote ourselves in this way and in all the other ways that we've been talking about to praying together. So brothers and sisters, as we come to a close. What keeps you from praying? What keeps you from prayer? And it'd be good for us to think about Even as we come to the Lord's table, even as we're led in confessing some of our sins, even as you have a few moments holding the bread and the cup to silently reflect. It'd be good for you to reflect on that. What is it that keeps me from praying? Because undoubtedly, among the highest privileges that our Lord Jesus shared with us is the privilege of unhindered direct access to the throne of God in prayer. And as we prepare to come to the table, we're reminded that Jesus didn't just call us to pray, but he shows us a life fully devoted to prayer. Right when we come to the table, we don't just come to wallow in our own misery. We come to look at Jesus. We come to remember Jesus. At the beginning of his ministry and at the end of his ministry, at his baptism and in his wilderness temptations and at the Transfiguration and in the Garden of Gethsemane, and even as he hung on the cross, bearing the sins Of our own failure to seek God and inquire of Him the way we ought to. Even as He hung on the cross, what was He doing? He was praying. Father, forgive them. Into your hands I commit my spirit. In his darkest moment, Jesus was praying and he invited his disciples and prayed. He said, My soul is very sorrowful even to death. Keep watch with me. Come pray with me. And his disciples, his dearest disciples, fell asleep on him. They could not keep watch one hour. as he prepared to suffer the punishment for all the sins of all of God's people for all time. And though they failed, and though we have failed, we know that his prayers did not fail. That's how we got here His prayers triumphed, securing the success and the steadfastness of our faith and of his mission through his prayers Even now, even now, in resurrected glory, he ever lives above, seated on his throne of grace to help us in our prayers and in our pleas of weakness. So brothers and sisters, let us look to our Jesus and let us join him in being devoted to prayer, being devoted to the prayers together for his great glory and for our great good. Father, we we want to be faithful prayers. We need you. We know that we need you. Sometimes we feel sluggish and lethargic in our praying. We pray that you would help us in our sluggishness. And help us to remember that it's not the fervency of our prayers that make them acceptable to you. But it's it's Jesus through whom we come to you. We pray that you would help us to be freshly moved and filled with awe and wonder over the gift that we have to be able to come near to you. And to be able to do that together as your family united in Christ. And we pray that you would help us to be devoted to the prayers For your glory and for our good. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen