You pray with me again. Father, we're looking to James chapter four this morning. And we know that your word does not return void. We know that you use to soften hearts and sometimes to harden hearts We pray that in your mercy, that you would show mercy to us. We pray that you would soften our hearts this morning according to your word Lord, we pray that this sermon would be used for our good and your glory. In Christ's name. Amen. I woke up around 6 this morning and went downstairs, made the coffee, looked over my sermon. But when I woke up and was walking downstairs, I you know looked at my phone and overnight a friend had sent me a text About another friend, acquaintance, who had written an article on Trump And my friend who was texting me was angry, upset about what the first friend had said about Trump. So first trim first friend says this about Trump, second friend says that about Trump. Uh I'm I'm trying to look at my text. Why did I look at that? Should we talk about Trump? What is it? Vote for him? I'm kidding. Actually, I want to talk about COVID and what went wrong with COVID. Should churches have required masks? Again, I'm kidding. Okay, how about complementarianism and the distinct roles of men and women in the church? Home Good topic for a dinner party? Honestly, these three come to mind, these three issues come to mind because they're they're very recent ones. In my own life. Things have just kind of popped onto the radar screen. Friends have been discussing, debating, and in some of those conversations, discussions, I've found myself getting annoyed, frustrated. What are you thinking? They don't have the wisdom to think like I think. A friend's comments about Trump produced a low-level fire inside of me. None of you know this person. So if I've had a conversation with you or someone you know about Trump, that's not who I'm talking about. Another occasion several friends and I were texting about an article written on complementarianism, and one brother in that conversation and I, with whom I agree basically about everything Disagreed strongly about this particular article, and he said something that I felt was a little condescending, which set me off. I was packing for a trip. I'd hear my phone ding over there on the shelf and I'd think, just ignore it. Just ignore it. That guy got, what does he say? Gotta look The funny thing, I was leaving for a trip to go give a talk on how do we disagree in the church in a post-pandemic world? And I was asked to give that talk because I wrote a little booklet called How to Love Church Members Amidst Political Disagreement. Apparently, I hadn't read my own book At least it wasn't very effective. Uh friends, what causes you to quarrel? Now the examples I just mentioned are kind of intellectual ones, political ones, theological ones, but of course they can also be very personal ones. Someone's not doing what I think they should do. Someone's not giving what I think they should give. I think they owe me a little more respect here. So we quarrel. You and I quarrel. But what do we make of all of this quarreling going on inside the church? Outside the church, in the workplace, in the home. Well, to help us answer that, we're going to look at James chapter 4 this morning, verses 1 to 12. James requires us to look in two directions at once in this chapter. Both hear, our own hearts And to do a little surgery and to look here at the Lord on his throne. I think we can divide these verses into twelve, these twelve verses into four parts. Let's read them now. James chapter four. Verses one to twelve. What causes quarrels and what causes fights among you? Is it not this? That your passions are at war within you. Desire and you do not have, so you murder. You covet and cannot obtain, so you fight and quarrel. You do not have because you do not ask. You ask and do not receive because you ask wrongly to spin it on your passions. You adulterous people. Do you not know that friendship with the world is enmity with God? Therefore, whoever wishes to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God. Or do you suppose that it is to no purpose that the scripture says he yearns jealously over the spirit that he has made to dwell in us? But he gives more grace. Therefore it says, God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble Submit yourselves, therefore, to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you Cleanse your hands, you sinners. Purify your hearts, you double-minded. Be wretched and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning and your joy to gloom. Humble yourselves before the Lord, and he will exalt you. Do not speak evil against one another, brothers The one who speaks against a brother or judges his brother speaks evil against the law and judges the law. But if you judge the law, you are not a doer of the law, but a judge There's only one lawgiver and judge. He who is able to save and to destroy. But who are you to judge your neighbor? Four points. Here's the first. Our fights and quarrels root in our passions and desires. Our fights and quarrels root in our passions and desires. Verses 1 to 3. Notice he starts with a question: what causes quarrels and what causes fights among you? And then the answer: is it not this that your passions are at war within you? And the U here is plural, so he means the passions that are at war within individual hearts, yes, but also the passions that are at war within a church, right? He's writing to a church. And then James then explains what he means by these quarrel-causing passions. Verse 2, you desire and do not have, so you murder. You covet and cannot obtain, so you fight and quarrel. I want something, I don't get it, so I fight for it. Right? And isn't that what's happening here? Uh uh a children fighting over a toy provides an easy illustration of this, but of course, James has all of us in mind. Uh indeed, verse two offers us a history. Of all peoples and all nations, ever since Cain murdered Abel, because Cain wasn't get what he wanted. No doubt there are times when we or history have argued for truth and justice, but try to name a war, a battle, a crime, an argument between siblings or spouses. Among colleagues or in Congress in which James 4-2 didn't somehow apply. So much of what occurs on social media Or lawsuit after lawsuit, or divorce hearing after divorce hearing. Verse 2 points to fallen hearts Fallen families, fallen nations, a fallen international order. Someone at work annoys me. Maybe he steps on my turf. And so I offer a passive-aggressive word. Oh, interesting how you did that. Making a little dig because he's threatening something that I want. Recognition? Control. Oh, we can do the same thing in a church, of course. You disagree with somebody about something, you tell yourself that the disagreement is intellectual, but really they're in the way of something that you want. I think it's worth realizing that our desires come with justifying arguments, part of the DNA of a desire. Is an argument for that desire, a justification for that, the rightness of that desire. When I say rightness, I mean it comes with a moral argument. It's right that I get what I'm desiring right. It's just. That I get what I'm desiring. I want that toy, I want that house, I want that person, I want his respect. And packed inside of those desires. again, is an argument or a justification for why it would be right for us to have that toy, that house, that person, that respect. Now, we might have countervailing arguments for why we shouldn't have it. I might say, I want that toy, but I recognize for three reasons I shouldn't have that toy. Okay, that's true. But insofar as it's a strong desire, and those are weak other arguments, we justify what we want. That means anybody who oppose us, if what we want is just and what their opposition is, is unjust. And that injustice makes me angry. Anger is the God-given emotion for injustice. Injustice happens, you should get angry But now we're wrapping our sense of rightness, our sense of justice around our desires. And so you oppose my desire, I oppose you, and you're unjust. I indict you. I fight with you Isn't that one fights of any kind? From bar fights to the wars between nations to the battle of sexes, anything else. Isn't that what happens? We think we're just And waging this fight. Okay, others may be unjust, but not me. I'm right in this desire. I'm just in this desire Uh teens. Is there something that you want? Spending time with friends, playing on this team, going to that event, and your parents say no. So you quarrel with them. Maybe with your mouth, maybe just inside of your head. You're a little put off. You're a little annoyed. Your quarrel feels justified, doesn't it? Feels right. You should have that. Those desires feel so inevitable, so natural, so right. Why would they not? In general, friends, our guts and our hearts want something, our heads join the cause by saying, it's right you want that for reasons A, B, C, D. Our heads make an alliance with our desires. Get angry. The injustice of the person's opposition to your desire. In other words, friends, I think this side of heaven, James is encouraging us to maintain at least a little bit of self suspicion Toward our desires and the justifying arguments that accompany our desires. Perpetual self-doubt? No. But we need to have at least a little bit of suspicion toward our ability to deceive ourselves with our desires and their moral justifications. I deserve that toy, that house, that person, that respect, that control. It's right that I have it. Do you ever second-guess your desires? Do you ever second-guess your anger or your sense of justice of your cause in the middle of a quarrel? If not, James would say to you, Better learn how to do that. Or you'll live in permanent self-deception. Okay, so that there I am. I'm in a quarrel with my wife. Am I able to stop and ask myself, okay, Jonathan, am I willing to make any Accommodations right now? Am I willing to see things from her point of view at all? Am I willing to grant the possibility that there's some truth in what she just said? And if in those moments there's there's a burning inside of me that just says no to the truth of any of that possibility, No, there's no way she's right here. I know I'm right here. Well at that moment I should see a little flashing warning light on the dashboard Something's wrong with the engine here. Could it be, Jonathan, you're pouring a little bit of ego into the gas tank? And that's what's firing up the engine. Now keep in mind James is talking to Christians here. And so he continues with the explanation of this quarreling in a slightly different vein. Look at the end of verse 2 again. You do not have because you do not ask. Verse 3, you ask and do not receive because you ask wrongly to spend it on your passions. Notice there's there's two scenarios here. Scenario one, you don't ask the Lord for what you want in prayer, so you don't get it. Why don't you ask? Well, because you Your desires are fleshly, and you kind of know it, so you don't even think to pray. This is not a spiritual desire, and so you're not going to the Lord and say, okay, Lord, I want to be with you, so you don't even ask. Or, scenario two, verse three. You ask and do not receive because you ask wrongly to spend it on your pleasures. Okay, here you are asking the Lord. But frankly, it's still your sinful flesh that's driving you. Jesus may have said, ask and it will be given to you. But he's talking about those desires that are what are lining up with the will of God. God's purpose is not asking for the sake of sinful indulgence. I wonder if there's ever been something about your spouse or your college roommate or your teammate that frustrates you He never filled in the blank. She always fill in the blank. This marriage is so Fill in the blank. Why is this roommate of mine fill in the blank? And let's suppose the thing that you're frustrated about is ostensibly a good thing. You desire a good thing. More communion. Communication, more understanding, more connection, more closeness. And so you pray about it. Nothing happens. You pray about it some more. Nothing happens. And little by little you start to seethe, get angry, get bitter. I can't believe what's going on. Is it God? And God's purposes you're desiring that moment? Lord, whatever you have for me in this situation, I'm there. Or Something you want, your selfish desires, cloaked, camouflaged as this good thing that you want Well friends, right at that moment when you see the bad fruit of anger rise up is the moment to see the flashing light. Okay, stop. What's going on in my heart? Trace it back. Little self-suspicion. What am I wanting? What's my heart after? Even if it's not an outward fight. Maybe it's just an inward seething. Maybe I've been totally quiet with my tongue, but my heart is quarreling with the person. Watch your heart. The wellspring of life. The point of desire And friends, it's really, really hard to see the selfishness of our desires once we've convinced ourselves of the moral rightness of those desires, when those desires have masqueraded themselves, camouflaged themselves as just. Go back to my text exchange with my friend over complementarianism. Okay, so there I am. I'm packing for a trip. I hear the phone beep. I I wait a minute. I I read it. I notice that he's simply repeating himself. He's already said that. The conversation's clearly reached a dead end. I know what he thinks. He knows what I think. Jonathan just walk away. There's nothing else to be said. To continue in this is foolishness. I walk downstairs, get a glass of water to kind of clear my head. Don't have to respond. Don't have to respond. I'm telling myself, I gotta respond. I gotta say something. Take my phone. Type up a text. Brother, you said the same things 14 times now. I get it. I'm simply suggesting there's another angle by which to view the topic. I stare at my text. Should I hit send? Am I simply suggesting there's another angle here? Or am I simply trying to win Now, my ego's involved. There is truth that I'm trying to stand up for. Yes, I want what I think is true to prevail. Yes, so let's just say there's good motives there. But are there bad motives? Is there not wanting to be caught on the wrong end of an argument? Or thought to have been caught on the wrong end of an argument? Friends, you and I are not computers. We're not calculators rationally calculating various moral and political and personal. Equations, objective and free from all passion, what causes quarrel, says James? He says, is it not this, that your passions are at war within you? You're not as objective. I am not as objective as we think we are. Here's the deal: even as Christians, we are simultaneously justified and sinful. Our motives, every one of us, is mixed And that's why James is saying this to Christian readers. Or complicated. We fight for truth and justice for God's sake, and yet at the same time there's a kind of godlessness and even anti-godness that can motivate our hearts. And that's why James goes, that's where James goes next in his next point Point one, our fights and quarrels root in our passions and desires. Point two, here it is, our worldly passions make us enemies of God. Our worldly passions make us enemies of God. That's verses 4 and 5. Look there again. You adulterous, strong language, you adulterous people, do you not know that friendship with the world is enmity with God? In other words, there's only two ways to live. Friendship with the world or friendship with God. Love one is to hate the other. Says Jesus. Therefore, says James, whoever wishes to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God. Or do you suppose it is to no purpose that the scripture says he yearns jealously over the spirit that he is made to dwell in us? Okay, so there I am at my refrigerator filling up my water glass. My mind is contemplating whether or not to respond, and I know that my ego is what's pushing me. I sense that. I can feel it. Okay, your ego's here. And my conscience is telling me that, Jonathan, this is about your ego at this point. The real conversation is over, and we've just moved into egos battling egos territory. Stop. Don't listen. Let your friend think he got the better of you in this conversation. It's fine. Yet I walked back upstairs and I typed out that Text, honestly, just so I can have the satisfaction moment momentarily of looking at it on the screen. Have you ever written an email that you knew you weren't going to send It's sort of like walking down that alleyway of temptation. Like, I'm not going to go in the door. I just want to walk down the alley. Just kind of indulge it for a moment. What are we doing in that walk down the alleyway? We're saying, God, I know better than you. I'm aligning myself right now with the world. I'm aligning myself. My conscience, you've given me a conscience that says this is wrong, but I'm going for it. Or at least leaning into it. Of making myself an enemy and a friend of the world, enemy of God Now, this is one small text between two friends who more or less agree, who cares? This isn't leading to murder, to use the language of verse 2. Yeah, what I'm trying to help you see is that, or James is trying to help us to see, is that worldliness is creeping so easily inside of us. And it's creating the seed of that battle and those wars and that murder. Remember, James is writing to Christians, and he's telling them we can be Friends of the world, or we can be enemies of God. Now here's the deal. You and I, I trust, didn't walk around all week, Christian brother or sister, thinking I'm an enemy of God. I'm a friend of the world. We didn't think that this week. I didn't think that this week Why is James saying this? How does this happen? Well, look down at the very last word of verse 8, double-minded. We can be double-minded. We say we're friends of God. Our hearts are still loving the world But because our desires are self-justifying, remember I said they come packed with the DNA of self-justification, an argument for them, a moral argument, the rightness. Of them, because our desires are self-justifying, we learn to give these desires a religious guise, as I said, religious Camouflage. We train ourselves, we're deceived by the devil to train ourselves to pursue our desires in the name of truth, in the name of justice. Isn't that what happens when we are double-minded? This is the husband who points to the Bible, verse as he belittles his wife The woman who knows just the right words, subtle, pious words, to make her friends feel terribly guilty The professor on social media whose words drip with condescension, as he stands up for justice. The pastor who refuses to be questioned because he's the pastor. Each of these are examples of how Christians can too easily quarrel and fight. In a double-minded fashion, we leverage moral arguments to get what we want, and so we prove ourselves friends with the world, enemies of God. Verse 5 then tells us that these are spiritual fights indeed. God, it says, yearns jealously over the spirit that He has made to dwell in us. What does that mean? Well, it means God is jealous for our friendship and love. It means we are, as the verse begins by saying, we're adulterous. And he is a jealous God, as the Old Testament says over and over. It means that our friendship with the world provokes a good jealousy From him, because he as the creator is good and he loves us and he knows the way of joy and life evermore for us. So why would we push him off the throne and make ourselves judge over and against him These quarrels and fights with other people, whether they are personal or political or whatever, theological, whether they occur in the home or the church, are profoundly spiritual matters And we are too often in opposition to God. Now, am I telling you not to have personal disagreements or political or theological degreements? No, I'm not telling you not to have them. I am saying that when you have them, there needs to be a deep sense of self-suspicion. And you're to have them very carefully. Well, how do we have them carefully? That brings us to point three. Point three. God will give grace if we humble ourselves and if we humble and submit ourselves to God. God will give grace if we humble and submit ourselves to God. Look at verses 6. But he gives more grace. Oh, that's good news because I need grace. My desires feel so strong, they're overwhelming. God, I need your grace. Okay, to whom does he give grace? Keep reading. There, if it's for it says, God opposes the proud but gives grace to the gumble. Okay, he gives grace to the humble Oh there th there I am stuck in a fight. There you are stuck in a fight over Trump or complementarianism or views of God's sovereignty or frustrations of marriage or the disobedience of your children or the the toy to which your sister is clinging or the thing your pa you really want but your but your parents say no. The respect you feel like someone owes you, any quarrel, your ego's involved, something you want, your temperature perhaps is rising, maybe you're starting to scorn the other person. In moments like these, what do you do? Verse 6. We recognize our need for grace, which means humbling ourselves. How do we do that? Verses 7 to 10. Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded. Be wretched and mourn and weep, let your laughter be turned to mourning and your joy to gloom. Humble yourselves before the Lord, and he will exalt you. Friends, I don't know everyone here today. I assume most of you are Christians, but I also trust some of you are not Christians. We're very very grateful you are here, whether you are Christian or you're not a Christian If you're not a Christian, well, how do you become a Christian? Well, you could just read verses 7 to 10. You become a Christian by submitting yourself to God. Fleeing the devil, drawing near to God, seeking forgiveness for your sins, so you mourn those sins, humbling yourselves Before the Lord. In other words, Christianity begins when we've reached the end of ourselves and our resources. We realize that we are sinners who have nothing to say when we're standing in front of him. We only have guilt. His wrath is warranted. And so we turn to Jesus Christ and the payment he made for sin. By dying on the cross, paying the penalty we deserve, rising again, defeating sin and death, and we say, okay, okay, Christ, right there, his righteousness That's all I can plead. I got nothing of my own to plead. No worthiness, no glory, no righteousness, no, hey, I think I deserve to plead. I'm just going to hold on to him I didn't win the trophy. He won the trophy. I'm just going to hold on to his trophy. Have mercy. Oh Lord. That's the beginning of Christianity right there. If if if if you want to know more about this, I'd be happy to talk to you about it afterwards. Yet to the Christians in the room, I would say: notice how James gives this hear how you become a Christian counsel, and he applies it to Christians. In the context of a quarrel, worldly quarreling, to the Christian on social media, to the Christian who despises his roommate or fellow church member To the Christian wife or husband who is frustrated. Okay, amidst all of these fights, James says Enough of your self-righteous posturing. Enough of your boastful fighting Go back to the beginning. Repent and believe. You think you can posture and boast Cleanse your hands, you sinner. Purify your hearts. Mourn and weep because you too deserve judgment. In other words, stop playing God and humble yourselves before God. I told you earlier that you need to examine your hearts. Let's be honest. It's hard to examine our hearts and see what's really going on in our hearts. at all times, yet even when I can't quite see myself and my heart clearly and what it really wants, When I go and stand before him, and the radiance and the glory of him and the perfection of him and the fact that he is judge, okay That's starting to put things in perspective. Now I have the scale. Now I have the measuring tape. Now I have the standard by which I can say, oh goodness, that's I'm not the judge. What happens in the Bible when people appear before God? Isaiah 6. In the year that King Uzziah died, I saw the Lord sitting upon a throne high and lifted up, and the train of his robe filled his temple. Then verse 5, and I said, Woe is me. For I am lost. For I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips, quarreling lips. For my eyes have seen the King, Lord of hosts. Ezekiel 1. 28. Such was the appearance of the likeness of the glory of the Lord, and when I saw it, I fell on my face. Mark 5. 6. And when the demon-possessed man saw Jesus from afar, he ran and fell down before him, and crying out with a loud voice, he said, What have you to do with me, Jesus, son of the most high God? I adjure you, by God, do not torment me. And Jesus asked him, What is your name? He replied, My name is Legion, for we are many. And cast us into the pigs. Or Revelation 6. Then the kings of the earth and the great ones and the generals and the rich The powerful and everyone, slave and free, hid themselves in the caves and among the rocks of the mountains, calling to the mountains and rocks, Fall on us and hide us from the face of Him who is seated on the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb. All the mighty ones of the earth would rather have a mountain fall on them than standing before the judgment seat of God. In other words, Friends, there are no arguments, no quarrels, no fights when you're standing before God. No quarreling, no fighting In an ironic sense, the most peaceful place in the universe is right before the throne, beyond the universe, is right before the throne of God. Sometimes people think when I show before God, I'm gonna tell him. No, you won't. Not a chance. You have no idea. This is the one who holds the atoms of your body together with the breath of his mouth, says Hebrews. In other words, friends, in that quarreling, in that fighting, we humble ourselves by beginning with the right recognition of who we are and who God is. And friends, this in a way that this is the whole Bible. The whole Bible is basically just saying God is God, you are not. Indeed, all of Knowledge in the universe and of ourselves starts with a right knowledge of God. There is no understanding apart from knowing, right understanding apart from knowing Him. To stand before him and his gaze and compare yourself to him is to see yourself finally For who you truly are. And so Isaiah says, Woe is me, I am undone. Suddenly he realizes this gaze penetrates him like nothing ever. So it is with you and I when we stand there. Okay, so there I am Disagreeing with a friend or fellow church member, feeling frustrations with my wife, feeling frustrated with a kid. Maybe my temperature is rising. What do I do? Verse 7. Submit yourselves therefore to God. Be like Ezekiel Isaiah. Recognize who God is, who you are. The flip side of this, of course, resists the devil. The devil, of course, is, I said our head makes alliances with our hearts in justifying what we want. Well, what's the devil's job? in this little play. Well the devil's job is making an alliance with our head, making an alliance with our heart. So he says to Eve, yeah that that that fruit looks pretty good, doesn't it? Be like God if you have that fruit Resist that. Resist those arguments. Resist those desires. Flee the devil. Stand before God. Verse 8, draw near to God. He will draw near to you. How do you do that? I pray. Psalm 37 Delight yourself in the Lord and He will give you the desires of your heart. Okay, God, I have these I have these strong desires right now, but I'm gonna delight myself in you. I'm gonna run mine myself. I want you more than anything. And so I need you to help me, as I delight in you, I need you to help me. Desire whatever it is you would have me desire. I want to get to the other side of this predicament and know that what I'm desiring is what you would have me desire. Give me the desires of my heart And then and then and then give me whatever that is. Because I'm desiring what you want me to desire. I'm drawing near to you. You're drawing near to me. Verse 8 again, cleanse your hands, you sinners. Purify your hearts, you double-minded. Okay, so I'm attending to my external behavior, cleansing hands. I'm attending to my internal behavior, purifying my heart. Trace it back to the heart. Verse 9: Be wretched and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning and joy to gloom. The world might say, drink, and be merry. Hey, let's have fun. A Christian standing before God says, well, there's a time for fun. There's also a time for soberness, thoughtfulness, reflection, a time for recognition of who he is and who I am. And then verse 10, humble yourselves before the Lord, and he will exalt you, which repeats verse 7, submit yourself to the Lord. Okay, what what what what exaltation am I looking for right now? Here I'm on my text. How am I trying to exalt my am I trying to exalt myself? Or am I putting the coral down and saying, Lord? You exalt yourself. And any exaltation I receive, I receive because I'm simply holding on to and trusting you. I don't want to, I know any exaltation I give myself, any desires I accomplish that I don't get through you. isn't gonna last, isn't gonna lead to peace and joy, because I'm gonna have to keep holding on to it lest somebody else take it. And so, Lord, I want you to be exalted And I'll just hold on to that and gain my exaltation in that. Illustration I've used for this is um You're on a basketball team with Michael Jordan. Football team with Tom Brady. Whatever. Pick your favorite athlete. Star athlete. You win the Super Bowl. You win the championship. You get to hold on to the trophy. You might have sat on the bench the whole game, but you still get to hold on to the trophy And let's suppose you're sitting there on the bench. And then Jordan or Brady or whomever says, hey, hey, hey, come here, come, come here, put your hand on the trophy with me, hold it with me. And you're like, I sat on the bench the whole time. You won the game. I want you to enjoy this glory, this trophy with me. Okay, kind of a silly I feel the not enoughness of that illustration, but I think you get what I'm saying. The glory comes from him. Not from us. And the exaltation we receive is the exaltation that He gives to us that He owns And isn't that an exaltation that gives us the freedom and the joy of knowing it lasts forever? We don't got to keep clutching it. Okay, so there I am in the quarrel. Am I willing to let go of whatever it is I want in the quarrel? And maybe what I want is a good thing, a right thing But am I willing to let go of it and not have it? Because my main goal is to get the other side of this quarrel and to see God exalted. God, I think this is a good thing for me to have right now. I think this is a good thing for this to occur in the family right now. And I'm tempted to be angry with so-and-so who's opposing this right now. But you know, I'm not you. I don't see the future. I don't see everything. I trust you So whatever happens, Lord, when we get to the other side of this quarrel, whether what I'm asking for happens or not, I'm just going to trust you that you're good and that you're powerful and that you will exalt yourself in this. I want you to exalt yourself in the other person's life. I want you to exalt yourself in my life. I want to hold on to that exaltation. I want them to hold on to it. Do that, God. Point four. Do not speak evil or playjudge against one another. Do not speak evil or playjudge against one another. Look at verse 11 Do not speak evil against one another, brothers. Okay, so the humbling yourself before God, that vertically oriented transaction Will have a horizontal impact. The person who humbles him or herself before God in repentance and faith does not Speak evil of others. Which means if you are speaking evil of others, you are undoing your repentance and faith. You are unrepenting, unfaithing. To speak evil about a fellow Christian is to be anti-gospel. I'm proud. Okay, but in case this is not clear already, why shouldn't Christians speak evil against one another? Well, James explains in the rest of the verse. He says: the one who speaks against a brother or judges a brother speaks evil against the law And judges the law. But if you judge the law, you're not a doer of the law, but a judge. Okay, do you catch the logic Here. To speak evil against a brother is to judge a brother, and to judge a brother speaks evil against God's law. And makes one judge over God's law. It's as if you ascend Mount Sinai. And God hands you these two tablets, the law, and you say, no, thank you. I have my own tablets here, God. I'm going to hand them to you. Now, God, I'm going to judge you according to my tablets. I'm judge over the law. Not you. I'm on the throne. Not you. This is what we're doing when we speak evil against a fellow Christian in our personal or political or any other kind disputes. Am I exaggerating Look at verse 11 again. The one who speaks against a brother judges his brother, speaks evil against the law and judges the law. But if you judge the law, you're not a doer of the law, but a judge. I'm judge God, not you Again, we push him out of the judge's chair and we place ourselves in it. And once again, let me just encourage you to let me invite you to survey all of history. Pharaoh, king of Egypt, who's the Lord, that I should obey him Now, I'm not saying that there's not righteous moments that people have pursued, and kings and nations, and individuals and families, and fathers and mothers and employers have pursued. Amidst these disputes, yes, we have pursued and stood up for righteousness and justice along the way, but amidst all that tumult and turmoil, amidst all the land grabs and enslavements, all the pillaging and all the fighting and bickering. It's not just verse 2, it's also verse 11. And what's James's response to the problem highlighted in verse 11? Well, it's verse 12. There's only one lawgiver and judge, he who is able to save and destroy. But who are you to judge your neighbor? James' response clearly is you're not the judge of heaven and earth. Stop acting like it Job quarreled. Chapter after chapter, he quarrels with his And yet, little by little Job's ego gets involved. Wait a second, why is this happening to me? And so God shows up Where were you when I laid the foundations of the earth? He asks Job. Who determines this measurement? Surely you know. Who stretched the line upon it? And then God spends several chapters reminding Job of who he is. And then how does Job respond? He replies, I know that you can do all things, and that no purpose of yours can be thwarted. I I have heard of you by the hearing of the ear, but now my eyes have seen you, and therefore I despise myself and repent in dust and ashes In other words, suddenly all the arguments evaporate. All the self-justifications dissolve. Standing there before God. What you're gonna say? Think of what God says to Isaiah Who has measured the waters in the hallow of his hand, and marked off the heavens with a span, and closed the dust of the earth in a measure? Who weighed the mountains in a balance and the hills in a scales. Who taught him the path of justice and taught him knowledge and showed him the way of understanding? Behold, the nations are like a drop in the bucket, and accounted as dust on the scales. Behold, he takes up the coastlands like fine dust. Why do you say, O Jacob, and speak, O Israel, my way is hidden from the Lord, and my right disregarded by my God? Have you not known? Have you not heard? The Lord is the everlasting God, the creator of the end of the earth He does not faint or grow weary. His understanding is unsearchable. One more time. There's you and me arguing about the election, some theological matter, something in a friend that frustrates us, a sibling that annoys us, a church member that bothers us, step one. Has your heart ascended to assume the throne of the Almighty? Step two, have you beheld him in all his splendor and asked him what he wants? And which path do you think brings more joy and sweetness and freedom? Exalting ourselves? Or saying, be exalted. And whatever exaltation I have, I'll take from you. Let's pray Father God, we give you, well we start by confessing sin. We confess that too often the passions have been at war within us. And we have been double-minded and justified them and tried to say, hey, no, what I want is right and just, and I deserve this, and so we've gotten angry. We fought and we've done this to spend it on our own passions. We've been double-minded. We've been at war with you. We've been friends of the world. We confess these things, Lord. Please forgive us. And Lord, you tell us you give grace, and so right now we come to you and we apply for that grace and ask that you would grant it by humbling ourselves, doing our best to humble ourselves and stand before you and say, You are judged, we are not. Help us to resist the devil and his dumb justifications, our flesh's dumb justifications. Help us to delight in you so that you would give us the desires of our hearts. We would desire what you want. We would desire your exaltation, whatever this quarrel, this dispute, this argument is We'd want what you want, not our immediate ends. Have mercy on us in these ways. Thank you for the blood of Christ, which covers all of our sins. In his name, amen.