Good morning. Okay. Y'all just got a pastor. Good morning. There that is. Hi, I see you, sister. Okay. You know what David did when the ark made it home, right? Maybe you don't. I don't know. He was dancing. He was dancing. What a what a what an honor it is for the Lord to give gifts to men. What a gift he's given you in this family. And what a gift he's given this family in this church. So I have been able to be here quite a few times. I would like that to continue. I would just like to begin by saying that. Okay. Um let me go and pray. Sorry, y'all. I'm I'm getting over some stuff. So forgive me if I have to clear my throat a little bit. But let me let me pray and ask the Lord for his help. A Father in heaven, we do bless you this morning. We give you thanks. There's been a lot of prayers that have been answered In this season, and uh we give you thanks for that. We don't want to be like the lepers who got what they asked for and didn't return with thanksgiving. We're here to say thank you We're here to sit under your word, to incline our hearts towards you, and we ask that you would bless us. For those who are sleepy, Lord, we pray you will wake them up For those of us who are distracted, would you help us focus? For all of us, Lord, would you sanctify us in the truth? Your word, O Lord, is truth Lord, we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. I can do this for my whole clock. Amen. Alright, thank y'all. Okay, listen. It is only encouraging to me when you let me know you are still alive. Amen. It is truly an honor. To be present for the installation service of a new pastor at Chevro Baptist Church in God's providence, Larry's voice will be one of the most formative sounds that this assembly will hear for the duration of his ministry here. That's significant. And so I think it's right to recognize the magnitude of the moment. To consecrate it to the Lord under the ministry of the word and by prayer. And what a privilege it is for me to play a very small role in y'all's story by bringing God's word in this season of CBC's life. Brother Matt, can I move this a little bit? This is uh we don't even need this. Okay, word. Okay, thank you. I'm just gonna do that Uh, as I was deciding on what text to preach, several came into mind. But John 21, and go and turn there in your Bible if you have a copy of God's word in front of you. John 21 came to mind because it seemed to me to be the closest. in scripture to Jesus conducting a pastoral installation charge. And when you don't know what to do Do what Jesus did. Just a few moments ago, we got to witness vows. And in those beautiful and solemn vows that we got to witness, questions were formed. That were aimed at exposing the minister's affections for the church, his allegiance for the Word of God, his adoration for the gospel of Christ in such affections cannot safely be assumed. They must be professed publicly and asserted. And I love the first question. The very, very first question on the vows. The very, very, very first one. This was the question: do you reaffirm your faith In Jesus Christ as your own personal Lord and Savior. And I love that question for two main reasons. The first reason I love that question Is because it reminds everyone that all of our Christianity flows out of our personal relationship with Jesus Whether someone is a member or they are a minister, they must have their own personal trust in Jesus and must experientially know his saving power for themselves. If you don't know that, you don't know God yet. It's not enough to say, well, this is my church. You gotta be able to say, the Lord is my shepherd. So I love the first question because it owns and it acknowledges that impersonal religion is unauthentic and it is unwanted here. Because ultimately it is completely useless. The Lord Jesus plainly told us that apart from personally abiding in him, we can do nothing. The second reason I like that question, though, is because it's where Jesus began when he conducted his pastoral installation charge for Peter. At least that's what I'm calling that section of scripture from here on out. Though the setting is different, and though the words are different, and though the minister is different, I do think the charge is the same. Before giving a charge to ministry, he was to Reaffirm he was required to own his personal faith in Jesus. And we want to examine that moment this morning. And to do that, we're going to be looking at John 21. Go and say amen if you're there. Okay, John 21. I'll read. This is verse 15 through verses 17. Please hear the word of the Lord. When they had finished breakfast, amen. Jesus said to Simon, Peter, Simon, son of John. Do you love me more than these? He said to him, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. He said to him, Feed my lambs. He said to him a second time, Simon, son of John. Do you love me? He that's Peter said to him, that's Jesus. He said to him Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. He said to him, Tend my sheep. Verse 17, he said to him the third time, Simon, son of John, do you love me? Peter was grieved because he said to him the third time, Do you love me? And he said to him, Lord, you know everything. You know that I love you. Jesus said to him, Feed my sheep. Saints, this is God's word. Thanks be to God. May He bless the hearing of it. May He bless us as we seek to apply it Several different things we want to look at, but first I just want us to look at Jesus' question. You could say Jesus' questions, but it's the same question. Asserted multiple times, Simon, son of John, do you love me? Uh what a question for us to consider, right? If it were only asked once, we could all easily get away with the quick, heartfelt, yeah. It would go something like this. Do you love me? Jesus would ask. Then we would answer, of course I do. Moving on. After breakfast, then to lunch. However, that's not quite what happens here. What do we do with this threefold interrogation? That Jesus is putting on Peter. What do we make of Jesus persistently pressing this question on the disciple Peter? What do you make of Christ questioning the devotion of his own disciples? You have a category for the Savior asking you, do you love me? Do you love me? Do you love me? I think it's hard to imagine the emotion of this moment. On one hand, this was a deeply exciting time. It was a happy occasion why the risen Lord had appeared again. Peter was so eager to see Jesus. Remember, they're on the boat fishing that when he discerned it was Jesus on the shore, I love it. It says he threw himself into the sea. In Peter fashion, no smooth swan dive, no synchronized swimming. Just that he threw himself into the sea and then he swam a whole football field to get to Jesus. And there they broke bread with the risen Christ, the very hands that washed their feet, that were eventually nailed to the cross. Here they were again, active in serving his disciples. Making them breakfast. And then a pretty sharp turn occurs because after they had finished breakfast, Jesus breaks his heart No sooner did Peter throw himself into the sea for joy than he was thrown into sorrow by Jesus. I think if we carefully examine this interaction, we can appreciate how Jesus' words were intended to break Peter down and to prune Peter. Just consider how Jesus pruned Peter's entitlement here. Peter used to argue for his own greatness along with all the rest of the disciples. He was of the select three that was given the insider access to Jesus. He was the one when Jesus would do stuff, always got text to come along. He was brought up the mountain of Jesus' transfiguration. He got to see the unveiled glory on that mount. He was brought near. In Gethsemane to see our Lord's deepest trial. But in addition to those privileges he enjoyed among the disciples Perhaps maybe the crowning one for him was the unique name and honor that Jesus bestowed on him. You remember, Jesus gave him a different name He called him Peter, meaning rock. Because on that rock, Jesus would build his church only here Jesus doesn't call him Peter. He doesn't refer to him as Rock. He doesn't call him by his special name. Jesus uses his natural name Simon, son of John. I think we see Jesus pruning away at Peter's entitlement. If you press further, you can see how Jesus is pruning at Peter's confidence. Peter was arrogant. No other way to cut that cake. Scripture says that pride goes before destruction and a haughty spirit before a fall. And we see that played out in how Peter's vain boasting went before his denials. Peter is famous in church history as the lead disciple who denied Jesus three times in one night. And it was the night of nights. But what made it even worse, and it is made even worse when you consider the context. Is that before Peter denied Jesus as many times on the night when he denied him, Peter said that he was more faithful than everyone else before he did it. Which seems to be obviously what Jesus is bringing up here in that question in verse 15 when they finish breakfast Jesus said to Simon, Peter, Simon, son of John, do you love me more than these? It was a direct reference to Peter's boastful self-confidence and his empty allegiance. Just to refresh you, on the eve of Jesus' death, he was telling his disciples what would happen to him, that he would be struck. That all his people would scatter from him, Peter insisted he would not, that his devotion Was above all the others. Mark 14, verse 29, Peter said to Jesus, even though they all fall away, I will not. Days after his denials and after Jesus' own death, our Lord brings Peter's cringe-worthy self-confidence back up right before his own face. We can only imagine the immediate remorse and regret that would have swelled up in Peter the moment Jesus asked. Not just Peter, do you love me, but when he kept going more than these Pruning away at Peter's confidence in himself. But Jesus goes further, and he even prunes away at his very love. Three times he asked Peter this most intimate and penetrating question. Already the way our Lord worded the first question ensured that Peter knew that this was a painful investigation by reminding Peter that he knew and He remembered Peter's arrogant assertions. And in questioning Peter's love three times, you find that it mirrors Peter's three denials. And Peter gets that. And we're told in the text that's actually what grieved him. Verse 17, Peter was grieved because he said to him the third time. Do you love me? Can it seem here? And that grief, that brokenness there, his soul was finally humbled enough. The Lord put the pressure on Peter until just the right amount of things broke. Then he removed his hand from him. For the Lord stops the examination, and Peter, it seems, sees with Fuller clarity. It's as if right when Peter reaches the end of himself, when he freshly feels the weakness of his own strength, when he senses the degree of his own sins, it's There, that his love for Jesus is its purest. His allegiance to Jesus is the most honest. His reliance on Jesus is the most in measure. And it's as if Jesus is saying that. That, that is the posture he wants Peter to remain in for him to have faithful ministry. Peter, you can't bring none of that other stuff with you You gotta leave all that. You gotta shed all of that. You gotta lose all of that entitlement, all of that self-confidence, all that boastful arrogance. You cannot serve me that way. The Lord uses broken vessels and he puts powerful treasure inside. And Peter was never to forget. That his salvation was not deserved, and neither was his appointment into ministry Now we can read and we can see and we read the gospel accounts. We know Peter loved the Lord You can hear it in the angst, you can hear it in his grief, you can hear it in this exchange, even after being pressed three times, and even after being exposed in full light for all of his sins, there is this genuine Love for Jesus. So real was his love that he could appeal to Jesus' perfect knowledge as a witness to its reality. Lord, you know everything. You know that I love you I do not love you perfectly. I do not love you like I thought I loved you, but you know I love you. Peter's love was sincere, but it was still weak. Jesus wanted Peter to know he was not interested in any arrogant affection at all. There's no place for self-confidence in his service. What Jesus was after was an honest examination of Sincere searching of the heart and a response that recognizes that he really knows everything about us. And he knows even more than us that there's nothing deserving of honor within any of us And that's the place Peter eventually arrives at. I mean, you can hear it even in the text that our brother Jonathan read earlier this morning. What From Peter saying, even if everybody else leaves you, I won't, to him saying, clothe yourselves, all of y'all, with humility. Because God opposes the proud. He gives grace to the humble. What changed that for Peter? I think it was this scene we're seeing right here. Grieved by his own sinfulness, stripped of all self-confidence, clear he is unworthy of service, and yet sincere in his love for Jesus and what you have there. Is a useful servant. Grieved by his own sin, stripped of all self-confidence Clear that he is unworthy of serving, yet sincere in his love for Jesus. That is a useful servant What a savior we have in Jesus. Who would take Peter at this point? Y'all was looking for a pastor for a little stretch. Let's say Peter's application slid across your file I love him. Who would take his word right here? Who would hire this guy for ministry? Let's be honest: if a week before your church voted on Larry, we had footage of him denying Jesus, not once, not twice, but three times in one night, how y'all think that vote would have gone? And rightly so. He is not Peter. We are not Jesus. But praise God, Jesus is Jesus. And that's what makes Jesus special, y'all. He's a redeemer. He doesn't just end up with a bunch of sinners. He came for them. He was eager to have us, so eager that he was willing to die for us. And that's what's happened at the cross. Jesus came into world into the world to save sinners, even the biggest ones, even the chiefest ones Even ones like Paul, even ones like Peter, even ones like you, even ones like me. And listen, we needed a redeemer We were made to love God supremely. It's what we're designed to do. We all malfunction in the most basic of ways. Love for God is the purpose of a person. And not love for God among other loves, it's a love for God supreme. All the commandments of God's law hang on our love for God as supreme. But we're so corrupted by our sin that our loves are naturally and completely backwards rather than love God supremely we don't love God at all we love pleasure we love others we love ourselves over and above loving God as we should in this malfunctioning Shows us all to be morally corrupted. It's wrong not to love God. It's evil to not love his goodness. It's wicked to not follow Jesus. He's the good shepherd. It's sin. This warrants our destruction. This deserves eternal death because it suggests that somehow God is unworthy of our love. It's those he's given his image to rebelling against him by saying he's unworthy of his own image. But even though we deserve to face God's judgment for our lack of love towards God, Jesus came to take our judgment on himself because Of his own love for us. It was because of the great love with which he loved us. That we were made alive when we were dead in our sins. It's because God so loved the world that He sent His only Son so that we would not perish but have eternal life and be capable of actual love. Towards God. He loves sinners enough to save them. He's powerful enough to change them. Even though their sins are catastrophic, his salvation is comprehensive. It's through the death of Jesus that our sin was paid for. It's through his resurrection that we are raised to a newness of life. Raised up to now love God. And he offers that love to all. He offers that forgiveness to all. He offers that redemption to all. To anybody who gets grieved over their lack of love for God. If they Turn to Jesus, they will find that He will save them and supply them with enough love to live by. And we see Jesus doing that for Peter right here Jesus is recently off the cross, freshly out the tomb, and he's using this conversation to massage his mercy into this man's soul. Jesus is the only special one, period. There are no special saints, no special pastors, no special churches What's special is Jesus. Our connection to Jesus. That we're alive in Jesus. That we're the assembly of Jesus. That will be with Jesus, been washed by Jesus. Peter was thinking what many of us think, and that is we get we're off. We just don't get how off we are. Thank you, brother And Peter didn't understand just how empty he was. Peter was not called because of the man he was He was called because of the man Jesus was. Peter was a wicked man that Christ died to save Peter was a dirty man that Christ cleaned by his word. Peter was a lost man that Christ called to himself. Peter was a knuckle-headed man that Christ endured in his patience. Peter was a denying man that Christ protected by his prayers. Peter was a cowardly man that Christ emboldened with his spirit. Peter was an ashamed man that Christ installed to his service. Praise God for Jesus. Oh, Peter had to be humble if he was to be helpful. No one's helpful who is not humble. He had to empty himself. And to put it differently, he had to be emptied of himself if he was gonna be effective for Christ. And the way to be humble. If you're thinking of that, I could use a little emptying this morning. The way to rid of our ourselves of our self-confidence is to not run from this interrogation. But to sit and let the waves of Jesus' questions wash over you, to answer sincerely from the depth of your own heart, the honesty of your own soul. See Jesus looking at you and to look right back at him by faith and hear him ask you these same questions. Do you love me? Notice it's not do you love ministry? It's not do you love preaching? It's not do you love my people? Very Important questions for a person who will shepherd God's flock, but one question outshines them all, and it's the one question everybody has to answer. Jesus asked, Do you love me? Listen to this quote from Spurgeon here. He says, the question the Lord asked three times as if to show that it is of the first, and of the second, and of the third importance. as if it comprised all else, and therefore he would again and again and again insist upon it as orators dwell with repetitions and emphatic sentences upon topics which they would urge upon their hearers, this nail was meant to be well fastened, for it is smitten on the head with blow after blow with Unvaring tone and look the Lord inquired Simon son of John lovest thou me It shows, he says, what weight our Savior attached to the matter of his love that he asked him about that, about that only, and about that three times. When's the last time you felt Jesus ask you that? Oh, hear him now. Do you love me? And I think it's clear from the narrative, Jesus isn't asking the question three times to condemn Peter. He can't be. There's no one who's ever been more for Peter than Jesus And similar to you, when he asks you, he's not asking you to condemn you. There's no one who's more for you than Jesus. But he is after something though He is after a sincere, humble, empty, self-confident pledge and sincere affection. I see you, I know you, and I love you. We know he's not asking this question three times to condemn Peter. He's asking it related to his commissioning. He's grieving this guy to build this guy up. This is what the Lord does with his pruning shears. He prunes so that we'll be more fruitful, not die. Remember, this is Jesus doing Peter's pastoral installation charge. And it was a spicy one. It was a needed one. It's as if at the outset of sending pastors. Jesus wants pride completely crushed out of them all There's no more humbling way to sober us up than for Christ, the all-knowing one, to look at us straight in the eyes of our soul, fully mindful of all the ways you failed him. And ask us again and again and again, do you love me? If there's anything entitled in a response, you gotta hear the Lord ask us again Are you here because of your love for me? There's anything self-confident about our response We gotta hear him ask us again. Are you here because of your love for me? The way you live and what you've done, do you love me? It's difficult to have our love questioned. It's discouraging to have that done repeatedly But don't we all have a very good reason to be questioned in this manner? It's inappropriate for us to question God and yet we question him about his love all the time. And he is above questioning. We'd be unfaithful than a mug. The audacity of God to question my love. This exercise isn't meant to only discourage. It is meant to discourage pride. It is meant to diminish sin. But it's meant to help us to posture us so that we can actually be fruitful for him. Remember, who's asking you? Not your destroyer, your deliverer. The one questioning your love has demonstrated his love towards you is above questioning. Jesus was asking Peter with some holes in his hands I bought you, man. I love you, man. I died for you. Rescued you, saved you. Satan tried to have you. I told him, nah, you're mine. But look at me, Peter. Do you love me? And any swagger Peter had had to go. Any self-confidence Peter had had to leave. This is the one to whom I will look, Isaiah 66. He who is humble and contrite, and who trembles at my word. This is not a light question, and a shallow answer won't suffice. He asks us repeatedly to make the point clear to us it is unavoidable So that we might surrender every prop of pride and reason we would boast in ourselves. And Jesus asks us already knowing our answer to him. So don't front We had a phrase growing up, it's like you ain't gotta lie to kick it. What that meant is you ain't gotta lie to be cool with us. You just be you. Be real you. Don't act like you're someone you're not. You ain't gotta lie to kick it. Jesus is telling this to Peter right now. I don't need all that confident apostle stuff. You don't got a lot of kicking. You're mine. You're here. That needs to get shut down though Oh, beloved, Jesus is the reason for rejoicing. Jesus is the hope for the church. Jesus is the savior of souls. Jesus is the one with steadfast love. And Peter needs to know This not just for his own sake, though his soul will be more free, his soul will be more happy His freedom will be more sound and solid. Peter needs to know this not just for his own sake. Jesus is actually eyeing people who Peter will affect, though. It's actually for the sake of God's people, Peter needs to understand this too. If a minister It's not empty of self-importance. He's going to poison the flock's food by his own pride. After each question and each answer, Jesus gives a very simple charge. Feed my people. But he breaks them down each time. Gives them the same direction. See that in verse 15, he said to him, feed my lambs. You see it in verse 16, he says to him a second time, tend my sheep. You see it again in verse 17. Jesus said to him, feed my sheep. Oh, his people are dear to him, so dear that he bought them with his precious blood. Doesn't get dearer than that. They require careful attention, like She do he loves them. He wants them well nourished. He wants them well fed. And that can only happen if the minister's ego gets out the way and Peter's pride gets put aside and all that's left Is humble, undeserving, sincere love for Jesus. That's how the church thrives. When the pastors show up and they know we do not deserve to be here. We don't deserve to be with him, we don't deserve to serve you. It is our joy to do it. We love him, we love you. But this is all Jesus here. That's what he wants his people fed. What does Jesus want his people? He doesn't tell them what food it is Alpa, what they need. What do you feed sheep? Jesus' whole point is you feed them me. You feed them me. And you only feed them me. They only know Peter. They don't need no they don't need no Apollo's, don't need no Paul. They need me. That's what he wants his people fed. Him and him alone. Him in all his lovely glory. Him in all his saving goodness. Him in all his redeeming kindness, him in all his unsearchable wisdom, him in all his tender compassion, him in all of his rich mercy To know nothing else except him and him crucified, proclaiming him and him alone. Jesus wants love for him to be his people's food It's their care. It's their nourishment. It's how they'll grow. Feed them a pure love for me. And everything about Peter's story was to help him maintain the posture. Peter was forgiven by Jesus. Peter was found by Jesus Peter was died for by Jesus, resurrected for by Jesus, indwelled by Jesus. Peter was appointed an apostle by Jesus, called to be a witness by Jesus and to be a witness of Jesus. And that is what Peter is to feed God's people. Jesus. Preach the word means what? Preach me from this book. And only preach me. That's the charge for you, Larry. May it be abundantly clear every time you step into this pulpit that what you preach is not yourself But Jesus Christ is Lord and you as a servant for his sake. Based on this, I have five charges here. Two for the congregation, three for you. I'll start with the congregation. If there's anything we see in the life of the apostles, disciples, Peter specifically, it's the carnal emptiness of arrogant comparisons. This can be done by ministers and by churches. We know that. That's what 1 Corinthians problem was. Like, who we have Paul. Paulos is coming next week. Cephas was just here last month. Peter once held himself above his brothers, and now. I wonder if you saw, he won't even dare to entertain the thought. It's the question he didn't answer Jesus. Jesus said in verse 15, Simon, do you love me more than these? And Peter knew that was a trap. He said, I ain't going near that. The answer to that is plain. You know I love you. I don't want to compare myself with nobody. Oh saints, may it be so with you. May it be so in this church. Don't discourage your ministers by comparing them to other ministers. And don't boast in your ministers by comparing them to others. Be content with the priorities of Christ and let love for him be enough for you. Don't brag about who your minister is. Brag about who your minister loves. It's good to value expository preaching, and it's good to desire a gifted preacher. You got both. But do not rejoice in this. Rejoice that your names are written in heaven, that you have a team of pastors who love the king who's seated there. Praise God for pastors who love Jesus. Don't play the comparison game at all. Keep the eyes fixed on love for Christ. That's the first thing. Second thing. Just remember your ministers, and I'm specifically talking about Larry, but this applies to all the pastors, your ministers are not perfect. I find great encouragement that the rock of the church, Peter, is found crystallized in very rocky times. Christ did not call Peter because Peter was the most excellent among others, or because he was the most godly among others It's noteworthy that on the eve of Jesus' crucifixion, Peter actually seemed more like Judas than Jesus. And this isn't the last time Peter gets rebuked in our Bible. But flaws in all, he was God's man. Swerves in all, he was a faithful servant, and he was a shepherd of God's flock Remember this with Larry. He's full of passion, but he is far from perfect. He's gonna fail He's going to fall short. He's going to fumble and perhaps in even significant ways. That's all part of us following Jesus Now, of course, you must hold him to the high standard of the pastoral qualifications. Don't put those down, but be careful not to hold him high above them either His labors to bring you God's word as a preacher does not negate the fact that he himself is beset. With weaknesses as a Christian, as are all of God's children. One of my favorite verses in the Bible on Christian leadership is in Hebrews chapter 5 You remember when God designed the sacrificial system and he appointed a high priest, there's a reason he picked a high priest from among men. And one of the reasons is because he was going to be uniquely useful to God's people because he was a fellow sufferer with God's people. Listen to Hebrews 5. It says this: for every high priest chosen from among men is appointed to act on behalf of men in relation to God to offer gifts and sacrifices for sin He can deal gently with the ignorant and the wayward. Who's that? Who's the hey? Come on now. If you see your name, raise your hand. Look, when he says he can deal gently with the ignorant and the right wayward, that's him talking about his people. What's my flock like? Ignorant and wayward. That's us. Okay, what degrees you got spiritually Sheep status, right? And what that means is we are ignorant and wayward. And what he wants to be clear to them is: but I'm gentle with ignorant and wayward people Listen what it says. He can deal gently with the ignorant and wayward since he himself is beset with a weakness. You have a perfect lead shepherd here. It's just not over here. And you know who knew that most? Peter. Because Peter said, Hey y'all, remember the chief shepherds coming. Pray for him. Pray for God to grow him in areas he's weak. There's a lot of them. Pray for God to humble him by areas he fails. Chapter 21. Pray for God to grow him into greater Christ-likeness day by day. Above all, pray for his love for Jesus. That he is rid of any self-confidence. That he's humble before his Lord And that he loves Christ as his Savior. The larger his heart is for Christ, the larger help he's going to be to y'all. This brings me to my three encouragements for you, brother. One brother is submit to God's pruning so that your love can be pure It's good, I think we're reminded here, it's good to grieve over our sin. We all have a lot to grieve over. Grieve over your sin and let it stir in you gratitude for Jesus. May all your stumbling be sanctified to strip away any confidence in yourself, and may it build up in you greater awareness of the love of Christ How vast and full and entire it is. Far be it from you to boast except in the cross of Christ. And I know this is your desire. Second thing, brother, is to keep a close watch on your love. Remember that when Paul encouraged Timothy to keep a close watch on himself and on the teaching, he says, For by it you will save yourself and your hearers. But that's all connected to affection for Christ. Because Paul, when he begins that letter, he reminds Timothy: the whole aim of our charge is love. Love that's coming from a pure heart, good conscience, and a sincere faith. It's only by a humble, sincere love for Christ that saving ministry can occur. Don't be cool too cool to be broken before him. Receive it And keep a watch on it. If you're going to do anything meaningful in your ministry here, it's always going to be in proportion to your love for Jesus. The third thing is remember the privilege it is to be a pastor. God distributes gifts as he sees fit, and it isn't according to what we deserve. You don't deserve to be in God's house, you don't deserve to be a shepherd there. By the grace of God, you are what you are. It is an unspeakable privilege to be a Christian And it is an additional privilege to be a pastor. Guard your heart with all diligence. Make sure it is protected from your pride. Make sure it's empty of self-confidence. Make sure it's flowing with love for Christ. Because from that flow all the issues of life, all the material for your ministry. And be encouraged, y'all, that just as with Peter, Jesus is still installing very unworthy men into service. Did it with Peter. He's doing it with Larry. We're thankful that the Lord is pleased to use people like us. The words of Hebrews, it says, May the good God of peace who brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus. The great shepherd of the sheep. By the blood of the eternal covenant, may he equip you with everything good so that you may do his will, working in us that which is pleasing in his sight through Jesus Christ To him be glory forever and ever. Amen. Dear Lord, I pray for this church. I pray for this pastor. I pray, Lord. I pray that this will be a place where it's hard to be proud. That Christ would be so put up high that anybody who tries to raise their shoulders up looks weird But that Christ would be shown as being so beautiful that anybody who thinks they got a little something going on looks strange. I pray that as Jesus is lifted high, that what happened to Isaiah happens again and again and again That the woe is us, and the pardon for us produces service from us I pray for Pastor Larry, Lord. I pray that as he walks into this pulpit, they would hear the chains every Lord's day. A man chained to the glory of another. I pray that he would have John the Baptist-like joy. That he would love decreasing, that Christ might increase. I pray that he would preach Christ and Him crucified, and that He would choose to know nothing among the people here except for that. And Lord, I pray for this people that as they look to Christ together, they look on him with unveiled face. O Lord, would we all be increasingly humbled, increasingly emptied of our self-confidence, stripped away from every pride and arrogant assertion and brought to our knees in deep, sincere love for Jesus May we keep that posture all our days. Help us, Lou, we ask. In Christ's name. Amen.