Well, good morning, friends. It's a pleasure to be here with you today, to have this opportunity to open up God's Word together and to hear Him speak to us through His living word. Before we do that, I'm going to pray for us one more time, briefly. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you have said that you have sent out your word and that your intention is for your word to not return to you void. But that it will accomplish the purposes for which you have sent it. We pray that you would accomplish those purposes among us today, and that you would accomplish saving and sanctifying your people. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. I want to invite you to turn with me in your Bibles to Genesis chapter 17. If you're using the Bible that we provided, you're going to find the passage on pages 11 and 12. And I want to encourage you to go ahead and open to the passage because I'm going to read the whole chapter here in just a minute. You're going to be helped by following along as I read. And I want to also encourage you to keep the passage open in front of you throughout the entirety of our time this morning because I'm going to reference it time and time again. I want you to see where I'm getting what I'm teaching us today. It would be really difficult to overstate the significance of Genesis 17 and the role that it plays in the rest of the Old Testament. It is the culmination of the covenant that was initiated in chapter 12, then confirmed in chapter 15. And in chapter 17, that covenant with Abraham reaches its climax as it's enlarged and expanded. And this covenant is really a watershed moment in Abraham's life. And it's a moment that also comes to define the nation of Israel throughout the rest of Scripture. But it's also difficult to overstate the significance of Genesis 17 in the New Testament as well. We'll see the Abrahamic covenant foreshadows for us the new covenant more clearly than any other covenant in the Old Testament. And it also foreshadows for us. How we come to share in the promises of the new covenant that Christ brings. But let me go ahead and read Genesis 17 for us now. Then we'll look more closely at it. This is God's word. When Abram was 99 years old, the Lord appeared to Abram and said to him, I am God Almighty. Walk before me and be blameless, that I may make my covenant between me and you, and may multiply you greatly Then Abram fell on his face. And God said to him, Behold, my covenant is with you, and you shall be the father of a multitude of nations. No longer shall your name be called Abram, but your name shall be Abraham, for I have made you the father of a multitude of nations. I will make you exceedingly fruitful, and I will make you into nations and kings shall come from you And I will establish my covenant between me and you and your offspring after you throughout their generations for an everlasting covenant to be God to you and to your offspring after you. And I will give to you and to your offspring after you the land of your sojournings, all the land of Canaan, for an everlasting possession, and I will be their God. And God said to Abraham, as for you, you shall keep my covenant, you and your offspring after you throughout their generations This is my covenant, which you shall keep, between me and you and your offspring after you. Every male among you shall be circumcised You shall be circumcised in the flesh of your foreskins, and it shall be a sign of the covenant between me and you. He who is eight days old among you shall be circumcised. Every male throughout your generations, whether born in your house or bought with your money from any foreigner who is not your offspring Both he who is born in your house and he who is bought with your money shall surely be circumcised. So shall my covenant in your flesh, so shall my covenant be in your flesh an everlasting covenant. Any uncircumcised male who is not circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin shall be cut off from his people. He has broken my covenant And God said to Abraham, as for Sarai, your wife, you shall not call her name Sarai, but Sarah shall be her name I will bless her. And moreover, I will give you a son by her. I will bless her, and she shall become nations. Kings of peoples shall come from her. Then Abram fell on his face and laughed and said to and said to to himself, Shall a child be born to a man who is a hundred years old? Shall Sarah, who is 90 years old, bear a child? And Abraham said to God, Oh, that Ishmael might live before you. God said, no, but Sarah, your wife, shall bear you a son, and you shall call his name Isaac. I will establish my covenant with him as an everlasting covenant for his offspring after him. As for Ishmael, I have heard you. Behold, I have blessed him and will make him fruitful and multiply him greatly. He shall father twelve princes, and I will make him into a great nation, but I will establish my covenant with Isaac, whom Sarah shall bear to you at this time next year. When he had finished talking with him, God went up from Abraham. Then Abraham took Ishmael, his son. And all those born in his house, or bought with his money, every male among the men of Abraham's house, and he circumcised the flesh of their foreskins that very day, as God had said to him Abraham was 99 years old when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin. And Ishmael his son was 13 years old when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin. That very day Abraham and his son Ishmael were circumcised, and all the men of his house Those born in the house and those bought with money from a foreigner were circumcised with him What I hope to persuade you of today from Genesis chapter 17 is that if you want to share In the glorious and everlasting promises God made to Abraham and his offspring, then you must be spiritually circumcised. by putting your faith in Jesus Christ. Now, I just want to call out the fact that this may be the only time in the history of Chevrolet Baptist Church that the main point that I am trying to teach you today contains the word circumcision. If this is your first time visiting CBC, welcome. Welcome. We don't normally talk about circumcision, but as I'm sure you noticed, it is a repeated theme in our chapter this morning. There is no getting around it. It is a key idea in Genesis 17, and as we'll see Physical circumcision symbolizes a deeper spiritual reality that must occur in your life. For you to have a relationship with God. So again, the main point I hope to persuade you of this morning is that if you want to share in the glorious and everlasting promises God made to Abraham and his offspring, then you must be spiritually circumcised by putting your faith in Jesus Christ. And in order to show you that from the text, we need to do a lot of work in a short amount of time. So we're going to consider this passage under four points. Two major parts that parallel one another. Point one, we're going to look at the promises of the Abrahamic covenant. Point two, we're going to look at the participants. Of the Abrahamic covenant. Then we're going to see how it's fulfilled in the new covenant, and we're going to look at the promises of the new covenant and the participants of the new covenant. Then we're going to think of a few lessons that we should take away in our own lives from Genesis chapter 17. So first, the promises of the Abrahamic If you have your Bible open, go ahead and look with me at verse 1. We see that Abraham is now 99 years old. We first met Abraham in chapter 11. Chapter 12 is when God calls him. So 24 years have passed since God first initiated his covenant with Abram in chapter 12. When he promised Abram to give Abraham a land of his own, numerous descendants, and a special relationship with God. Those three promises. Then in chapters 13 to 15, those promises are repeated again and again. But each time they're repeated, they grow and expand. Right, so the promise of numerous descendants in chapter 12 becomes descendants that are more numerous than the dust of the earth and the stars of the sky. The promise of a land becomes all the land of Canaan that you can see in every direction, north and south, east and And the promise of a special relationship with God, I will bless you individually, becomes a relationship in which God will be Abraham's personal shield. and protect her. And then we see again in chapter 17, these promises are expanded and enlarged again. They they reach what we would call a glorious crescendo in chapter 17. I want you to notice how each of those three promises is expanded and enlarged. Look at verse 4 Not only will Abraham have countless offspring, he is going to be the father of a multitude of nations. So important is the expansion of this promise that God gives him a new name, Abram, which means exalted father Is now going to be called Abraham, which means exalted father of a multitude, because he is now going to be the father of a multitude of nations. The promise of descendants Is expanded now to envision a day when people from every nation, not just the nation of Israel, will look to Abraham and call him father. Well, that's not the only expansion on the promise of descendants. I want you to look at verse 6. Abraham's offspring will now also include royalty. God promises that kings will come from him. Abraham's descendants will be royal. The promise of descendants has expanded to include now nations and kings. But it's not just the promise of descendants that has expanded. The promise of land has expanded. Look at verse 8 I will give to you and to your offspring after you the land of your sojournings, all the land of Canaan as an everlasting possession. The word everlasting can mean forever, can also mean in perpetuity or in a long duration, right? The promise of a land. has now expanded from some general land in chapter 12 to all the land that you can see, to all the land of Canaan for you and your offspring forever. And the expansion on the promises of descendants and land is coupled with expanded promises of a new relationship with God. Look at verse 7. God establishes an everlasting covenant with Abraham and his offspring to be God to you and to your offspring after you Then again, at the end of verse 8, look there, God says, I will be their God. God is promising a unique Personal covenant commitment to Abraham and his offspring after him. Out of all the people on earth, out of all the nations on earth, they will be God's special and chosen possession. And all of those promises center around the miraculous birth of a child. Look down at verse 15 and following God changes Sarai's name as well, Abraham's wife. Her name will now be Sarah, which means princess. And her name is Princess because kings will come from her. The same kings promised to Abraham, and those kings will eventually come through the miraculous birth of a child to Sarah. And it's miraculous, I'm sure you can tell. Because of how old they are. Abraham is ninety-nine. Sarah is ninety, right? That is Really truly advanced maternal age, right? 90-year-old women don't have children. It is such a stupendous promise that Abraham falls on his face and laughs. This can't possibly be true. How on earth could this happen? A 90-year-old woman have a child? Which is why in verse 18, Abraham asks God to use Ishmael. his 13 year old son through Hagar. I've already got a 13-year-old use him. But God says no, he will not be the promised child. He will not inherit the covenant promises. Sarah will bear you a son, and you will call his name Isaac, which means laughter. A little bit of irony, humor on God's part. You laughed at me, and now I'm going to laugh at you by giving you a child, name laughter. His name is Isaac, and my everlasting covenant will be with him. I want you to see here. Just step back and notice how the promises have been expanded and enlarged Abraham will not only be the father of a great nation with descendants as innumerable as the dust of the earth, he will be the father of a multitude of nations. Kings will come from him. He won't just inherit a land, but he and his offspring will have all the land of Canaan as an everlasting possession. He won't just experience general blessing from God, but he and his offspring will have a unique personal covenant relationship with God forever And all of these promises will come to fruition through the miraculous birth of a child. But who, we need to ask? Who will inherit and experience these promises? Who are Abraham's offspring? That question brings us to point two, the participants of the Abrahamic covenant. Central to this chapter. Is God's giving of the sign of the covenant that will mark off who will experience these promised blessings and who won't. And that sign is physical circumcision. Look again at verses 10 and 11. This is my covenant, which you shall keep between me and you and your offspring after you. Every male among you shall be circumcised. You shall be circumcised in the flesh of your foreskins, and it shall be a sign of the covenant between me and you. The participants of the Abrahamic covenant. Those who will inherit the glorious promises God made to Abraham are those who are Circumcised in the flesh. Circumcision became a boundary marker showing who was going to receive the physical promises to Abraham of a land and offspring and who was Cut off from the physical promises to Abraham. Look at verse 14. Any uncircumcised male who is not Circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin shall be cut off from his people. He has broken my covenant. Those who did not have their flesh cut off Were themselves cut off from God and his promises to his covenant people. This is why Circumcision was such a big deal to ethnic Israelites. You could go so far as to say That physical circumcision created the nation of Israel. It is what brought them into existence, what marked them out visibly from the rest of the nations. on earth. It made visible those who were part of God's covenant with Abraham, the participants of the Abrahamic covenant, the ones who would inherit the glorious physical promises of innumerable descendants. Kings coming from them would inherit all the land of Canaan and who would have a unique personal covenant relationship with God were those who were circumcised in And what we have to see, the Old Testament repeats time and time again throughout the whole Old Testament, to his physically circumcised people. God kept all of his promises. This is repeated over and over again. From the beginning of the from this moment forward to the end of the Old Testament, it is said over and over and over again. God kept his promises to Abraham. He kept them when he led the nation of Israel into the land of Canaan in the book of Joshua. He drove out the nations before them, gave them all the land. He kept them and preserved them in the land of Canaan for generations in spite of their sins. And though he finally exiled them from the land because they persisted in flagrant sin. He eventually brought them back into the land in the books of Ezra and Nehemiah. And what does Nehemiah say after God brings him back, brings the nation of Israel back into the land? And they have temple reconstitution service. What does Nehemiah say? You are the Lord, the God who chose Abram and brought him out of Ur of the Chaldeans. And gave him the name Abraham. You found his heart faithful before you, and made the made with him the covenant to give to his offspring the land of Canaan, and you have kept Your promise for you are righteous. You have to let this sink in for just a minute. You have to realize how much time has passed from Genesis 17 to Nehemiah. Seventeen hundred years have passed from Genesis seventeen to Nehemiah. One thousand and seven hundred years. Have passed, and yet the promises God made in Genesis 17 are still fresh on his mind This was massive for the people of Israel. Their hope, their relationship with God depended on them having the land. We inherited the promises. We are the circumcision. You are our God. 1700 years have passed. And Nehemiah is saying, you kept your promises. Friends, that would be like you and me. Citing promises to God that God made to one of our ancestors in the year 300. Like, do you even know who any of your ancestors were in the year 300? Let alone can name them by name and cite promises that God made to them? No, of course not. None of us can't 1,700 years have passed. And Nehemiah is saying, you kept all of your promises to Abraham and to his offspring. You are faithful. Physical circumcision gave the nation of Israel rights to share in the promises God made to Abraham. And God kept all of his promises to them. Abraham's descendants became as numerous as the dust of the earth Kings came from them. Kids, name some kings that came from Abraham. Adaniah? David? Name another one. Who? Solomon. Any others? We could go on and on, right? Tons of there are two books in the Bible called kings. First and second Kings showing all of the kings that came from Abraham. They inhabited all the land of Canaan, and God was their God, and they were his people. But we need to ask the question, if all of these promises were fulfilled, then why doesn't Scripture end where the Old Testament ends? Why doesn't the Bible end with Israel's return to the land in Ezra and Nehemiah and with Nehemiah's declaration that God had kept all of his promises to Israel? The reason is because the Bible tells us that the promises of the Abrahamic covenant weren't ultimately made to ethnic Israel The promises of the Abrahamic covenant foreshadowed and looked forward to their ultimate fulfillment in Jesus Christ. Remember what Paul says in Galatians chapter 3, verse 16. Crucial verse for us understanding the purpose and the nature of the Abrahamic covenant and the new covenant. He says. Now the promises, all the ones that we've just talked about. Now the promises were made to Abraham and his offspring. It does not say and to offsprings, referring to many, meaning the nation of Israel, but referring to one. And to your offspring. Who is Christ? Jesus Christ is the true offspring of Abraham And the true recipient of the promises to Abraham. The promises of the Abrahamic covenant are finally and fully realized in Jesus Christ. And the new covenant that he has established with his spiritual offspring. Brings us to point three. The promises of the new covenant. From Genesis 12 to Genesis 15 and through to Genesis 17, the promises God has made to Abraham have been Growing, gloriously growing and expanding. But it is only in the coming of Christ and the new covenant that He has established that we can see these promises in their true Epic and heavenly proportions. I want you to see how point for point the promises of the Abrahamic covenant are simply shadows. Right, have you ever been to a restaurant where you get the you get the menu and the menu has pictures of the meals on them? But you you don't just hold the menu and and lick those pictures. You want the meal. I want the real meal that this is a picture of. The promises of the Abrahamic covenant are like that picture They're pointing forward to the real meal, the real land of Canaan, the real descendants, the real king, the real everlasting covenant. Well, God will be God to a particular people. They will be with him and he will be their God forever. The new covenant is that meal. The Abrahamic covenant, pictures. You're licking the pictures if you want the Abrahamic covenant, right? You want the meal. The meal is the new covenant. And I want you to see how point for point The new covenant is filling out, showing the to be the fulfillment of the Abrahamic covenant. When Jesus comes and establishes the new covenant, the promises of the Abrahamic covenant explode into glorious heavenly proportions. Want you to see this. Think about how the promises of the Abrahamic covenant foreshadow and prepare us for the new covenant. The promise Of the miraculous birth of a child to a 90-year-old woman that will lead to the realization of all the other promises, because it's coming through this child, is fulfilled And the promise of a miraculous birth, not to a 90-year-old woman, but to a virgin. Mary, who gives birth to Jesus Christ, the head of the new covenant. The promise to Abraham that in him all the nations would be blessed is Finally and fully realized in the new covenant as Jesus Christ comes to bring the blessing of salvation not just to Israel but to every nation on earth. Recall what Jesus said to his disciples about who he came to save in the Gospel of John. He said, I am the good shepherd. I know my own and my own know me, just as the Father knows me, and I know the Father, and I laid down my life for the sheep, and I have other sheep that are not of this fold, not of Israel. I must bring them also, and they will listen to my voice. So there will be one flock and one shepherd. Jesus Christ. Came to bring the blessing of salvation to people from every flock, every nation, to Jew and Gentile alike. I want to hit pause here real quick. One of the reasons we're giving away Shylin's book, The New Reformation, about how to pursue ethnic unity in the church. Awesome book. I commend it in every way possible. Is because the new covenant is reversing ultimately what happens at Babel. When the nations are dispersed, they are disunited from one another. They don't understand each other. War, fear, every type of disunity comes about when they're dispersed. And now in Jesus Christ, God is saying to those nations, come back and be one. Find true unity through my son Jesus Christ. And that's why we in the church who come from many nations, many tribes, many tongues, need to fight for ethnic unity. So go get and read that book. Excellent book. Commend it in every way. Let's keep going. The promise to Abraham of innumerable offspring is finally and fully realized in the new covenant. As untold numbers of people who put their faith in God's promised Messiah, Jesus Christ, have become Abraham's offspring Spiritual offspring. I want you to think even of the future vision of the heavenly throne room and Revelation 7:9. What does it say about how many people are there? After this I looked, and behold, a great multitude that no one could number, innumerable offspring. Proclaiming salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne and to the Lamb Not only that, but the promise to Abraham that kings would come from him is finally and fully realized in the new covenant with the coming of Jesus Christ, who is. Great David's greater son, the King of Kings and Lord of Lords, who rules and reigns over God's heavenly kingdom, and of whom the author of Hebrew says, Your throne, O God. O Jesus God is forever and ever an everlasting kingdom. The promise to Abraham that his offspring would inherit the land of Canaan. forever is finally and fully realized in the new covenant as those who put their faith in Christ are assured that they will inherit the new heavens and new earth, the true promised land. Forever. Where the promise to Abraham that his offspring would experience a unique personal covenant relationship with God will also reach its climax because in the new covenant through faith in Christ. We become God's very own covenant people now and yet await the day when Christ will return and bring us to Himself And then John's vision of the end will come true when he heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with them, and they will be his people. And God himself will be with them as their God. Full realization in the new heavens and new earth. Do you see how gloriously Majestically, powerfully, the promises of the new covenant fulfill and then utterly eclipse in every way the promises of the Abrahamic covenant. But we need to ask the question, who will receive these promises? What people come to inherit The promises of the new covenant that we've just talked about. And how do they come to inherit them? That brings us to point four: the participants of the new covenant. Entrance into the Abrahamic covenant was dependent on physical circumcision. Those who were physically circumcised were Abraham's physical offspring And gained access to the physical promises of the land of Canaan. And yet, throughout the Old Testament, God made it abundantly clear That while physical circumcision showed who Abraham's physical offspring were, it did not make a person one of Abraham's spiritual offspring. To become one of Abraham's spiritual offspring and so inherit the promises of the new covenant, a person needed to have the same faith in God that Abraham had. Abraham's physical offspring also needed to circumcise their hearts to become his spiritual offspring. This is why in Deuteronomy chapter 10, Moses commanded the people of Israel, saying Circumcise your hearts and be no longer stubborn. Just because you are physically circumcised does not mean that you will inherit the fulfillment of God's promises to Abraham. True, you will inherit the physical land of Canaan, but God has so much more planned for those who love him. Circumcise your hearts. Walk with the same faith that our forefather Abraham had. The problem is neither the Abrahamic covenant, nor the Mosaic covenant, nor the Davidic covenant provided the power For a person to circumcise their own hearts. The people of Israel were incapable of circumcising their own hearts, and so are we. What was needed was a new covenant in which God, by his holy and divine power, would perform spiritual heart surgery on his people and cut away the flesh of their hearts and give them new circumcised hearts And this is exactly what God promised to do for his people in the new covenant, isn't it? Think about his promise in Ezekiel 36. Where he tells the people of Israel what he's going to do in this new covenant. He says, and I will give you a new heart. And a new spirit I will put within you. And I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh In other words, he's telling them that a new covenant is coming where he will spiritually circumcise his people so that they are guaranteed. Access to all of his glorious promises. And that is what has happened in the new covenant. If you are a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, that spiritual heart surgery has happened to you. God reached in, took out the stone, put in a beating heart of flesh with his spirit inside of it. He said, live, and you lift That is what God has done for his people. And this is exactly why Paul wrote to believers in the city of Colossae, telling them that when they put their faith in Christ, they were spiritually circumcised by God. He writes, In him, in Christ, you were circumcised, with a circumcision made without hands, by putting off the body of the flesh by the circumcision of Christ. You who were dead in the uncircumcision of your flesh, God made alive together with Christ, forgiving us all our trespasses. In the new covenant, our access to the glorious fulfillment of all of God's promises to us in Christ Is not dependent on our ability to keep the law of circumcision or any other law. We were dead in trespasses, completely incapable of keeping God's law. But God being rich in mercy, and because of the great love with which He loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses, God made us alive together with Christ. It is by grace. that you have been saved. Friends, God's richness of his mercy is seen in the fact that he did what we could not do He spiritually circumcised our hearts. He brings us into the new covenant where we inherit all of the glorious promises he has for his people. And that spiritual circumcision happens. When we put our faith in Jesus. If you want to experience the glorious promises that God has for His people Then you must be spiritually circumcised by putting your faith in Jesus Christ. Now, I want us to consider a few specific lessons that I think Genesis 17 has to teach us today. The first lesson is for the kids. Kids, I'm sure you checked out long ago. That was a lot of stuff. I'm sure some of the adults probably checked out long ago. There's a lot of stuff. But I want to get your attention real quick. Raise your hand, especially for the younger kids. Nine and under maybe. Sorry if nine year olds if you feel offended by that. Right? Raise your hand if you've ever been to an amusement park. Have you ever been to an amusement park? A place with rides, roller coasters, fun stuff like that, cotton candy, right? Okay, you can put them down. Maybe it's Six Flags, maybe Dutch Wonderland, maybe Disney World, right? What happens? You pull into the parking lot You stand there and you look and you see the amusement park, right? And it looks amazing. You see the rides going, people screaming, there's games going on. Blinking and noises and dinging and there's cotton candy being made, and you just can't wait to get in there. And so you just make a dash for the gate, right? And then you get to the gate and there's a long line. So you stand in line. You wait excitedly. Like you're going, I want to get in. I want to get in. But then when you get to the front of the line, there's a person standing at the gate. And what do they need from you? You What do they need? Your what? Jack? Your ticket They need your ticket to get in, right? You have to give them your ticket. Where's my ticket? I gotta get I want to get in the park, right? What God has planned for you kids is way better than six flags It is way better than Disney World. Way better than any amusement park. But to get in, you need a ticket. What is that ticket? Knox. Repentance. Repent and believe in Jesus. You need to repent and believe in Jesus. Kids, I want to encourage you all today. As you think about how awesome amusement parks are, think how much more awesome heaven is. The new heavens and the new earth to be with God forever. Jesus is your ticket. If you put your faith in Jesus, God gives to you his righteousness and he says, come in, and I will be your God forever. I want to encourage y'all to do that today. A little different than the younger kids, is that each of you must decide for yourself to believe You must decide for yourself whether you will believe in Jesus or not. As you know, you won't be saved by your parents' faith On this point, the new covenant is not like the Abrahamic covenant. People inherited the promises of the Abrahamic covenant by blood relation. If you were descended from Abraham and circumcised, these promises were yours, whether you had faith or not. But the promises of the new covenant aren't inherited by blood relationship. They are inherited by faith. The promises of the new covenant are only for those who believe. My question to you is, do you believe? Do you believe all that Jesus taught about himself? All that he taught about God and about you and about the world? Do you believe in Jesus' life, death, and resurrection? I want to encourage y'all to bring up that conversation today with your parents. And it's okay if you don't, but at least talk about it. Each of you must decide for yourself whether you will believe. And for those present who do believe, who have put their faith in Jesus, I want you to consider another lesson from Genesis 17. And it's this: true faith Genuine faith will manifest itself in a changed life. And it's uh, and we see this In Genesis 17 itself. I wonder if you noticed Abraham's instant obedience to God's covenant Let your eyes scan over verses 23 to 27 at the end of the chapter, and you will notice that the same thing is basically repeated in every verse. Abraham did what God told him to do. He circumcised all the males. Twice it says, that very day, as this to say, he didn't wait at all. You want me to do it? I'm doing it. Right? So far in Genesis, we've met one other person who obeyed all the instructions God gave to him, and that was Noah. God told him to build a boat with very specific instructions, and he did all that God told him to do. Noah was a man of faith who walked with God and so obeyed God. Abraham, we know, believed God, and it was his faith that was counted to him as righteousness, and yet that faith manifested itself in action. That very day he obeyed. In the New Testament, James will look to Abraham in order to teach his hearers that faith without works, faith without action is dead faith. It is not actually living faith. The works don't save you. The action doesn't save you. The faith saves you, but saving faith always produces a changed life. Have you seen this change in your life? Do you see this desire to obey God? Appear in your life. When you come to God's word and find you're living in a way that God says you shouldn't, do you keep living that way or do you fight to change by the power of the Spirit? How are you doing obeying God? Saving faith produces a changed life. But that leads to the final lesson I want us to take away from this chapter, and that is. Rest. You can rest in Christ if you have put your faith in Christ. If you've put your faith in Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of sins, you can rest. Truly, genuinely rest in Christ. We just talked about how saving faith produces a changed life, and that is true. It should But the reality is on this side of heaven, that change is incomplete. All of us will struggle with obeying God as we should. Abraham struggled with obeying God at times. But this is where the new covenant is so much better than the old covenant. Our inheritance of all the glorious promises that God has for his people is not dependent on our obedience to the law But on the obedience of Jesus Christ on our behalf. It is his righteousness that we are saved by. And God loves us so much that he freely gives to us that righteousness. Jesus was born under the law, the law of circumcision, and all the laws of the Mosaic covenant. And he was born under the law. in order that he might keep the entire law on behalf of all God's people, so that the righteous requirements of the law would be kept on behalf of those who break the law. And then Jesus was cut off on the cross. He died the death that we deserve so that we covenant breakers. Would be brought into God's covenant family, and God would become our God, and we would be his people. He kept the law for us. He secured the promise for us. And because he was cut off from God, we will never be cut off from God. That was Abraham's rest, and this is our rest. Christ has done all that is necessary to secure our salvation for time and eternity. And everlasting covenant. I want you to look with me at verse one. Notice what God tells Abraham to do. Walk before me and be blameless. Abraham will fail at this. He has already and he will again. He will not be perfectly blameless. But he was never saved by his blamelessness. He was saved by his faith in the blameless one. And so are we. You and I will fail to walk blamelessly. But I want you to listen to God's new covenant promise to his people from the book of Jude. Now to him who is able to keep you from stumbling and To present you blameless before the presence of his glory with great joy. To the only God, our God, through Jesus Christ our Lord. Be glory, majesty, dominion, and authority for all time and now and forever. And all God's people said, Amen. Perhaps the most precious new covenant promise of all for sinners like you and me is that God has done everything necessary to bring us to Himself. He has saved us, He has circumcised us, and He will present us blameless. before the presence of his glory with great joy. And then he will give to us all all of his glorious promises. And if you want to share in those glorious promises, you must be spiritually circumcised by putting your faith in Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Father, we give to you all glory and honor, dominion and authority. All praise in heaven and on earth is yours. We worship and adore you. We thank you for what you've done for us in and through the Lord Jesus Christ. And we wait. So help us to rest and help us to walk in obedience to you as we wait for the coming of Christ. and for the true realization of all of his new covenant promises. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.