I have two sermons for you this morning. I have the Habakkuk I sermon listed in your bulletin, yet I also have a sermon before the sermon. And the sermon before the sermon offers a brief argument for why we have the sermon that we're having. And the title of the sermon before the sermon is: How to Reach the Next Generation. In fact, I'm stealing here from an upcoming booklet by Kevin DeYoung in it. Kevin Unpacks five strategies for reaching the next generation. The booklet is the not so secret secret about reaching the next generation. And the five strategies for reaching the next generation, he says, are Grab them with passion, win them with love, hold them with holiness, challenge them with truth, and amaze them with God And for this sermon before the sermon, I want to think about that fifth strategy: amaze them with God. Think about our upcoming generation. The generation that is rising more than ever before is trained with technology, seduced by screens, divided by social media Zombie-eyed from video games, riddled with anxiety, consumed with identity, liquefied in gender. Unmoored in sexuality, born into broken families, desirous of justice, acutely aware of injustice. Afflicted by higher rates of depression and loneliness and suicide than previous generations, women especially, victims of the lies of deconstruction Fearful of greater economic instability than their parents or grandparents and with good reason And an all-too-familiar arity with a nation and world of compromise leaders and abuse of leaders and bullying leaders and political hucksters and business charlatans and religious scammers. So, what can a church like ours or Christians like us offer this next generation? How do we reach them? I beg of you, says DeYoung. Don't go after the next generation with mere moralism. Either the moralism of the right, don't have sex, do go to church, share your faith, stay off drugs. Or the moralism of the left. Recycle, dig a well, feed the homeless, buy a wristband, protest. And don't give them a God, he says, reduced to our level. Rather, if people were ever starving for a God the size of God, it is now. He continues. Give them a God who is holy, independent, and unlike us. A God who is good, just full of wrath, full of mercy. Give them a God who is sovereign, powerful, tender, and true. Give them a God with edges. Give them an undiluted God who makes them feel cherished and safe. and small, and uncomfortable too. Give them a God who works all things after the counsel of his will and for the glory of his name Give them a God whose love is lavish and free. Give them a God worthy of our wonder and fear. A God big enough for all our faith, hope, and love. De Young concludes: As you try to reach the next generation for Christ, you can amaze them with your cleverness, your humor, your beauty. Or you can amaze them with God. Okay, that's the sermon before the sermon And I thought it would be useful to give the sermon before the sermon because our sermon series is on the book of Habakkuk. And the book of Habakkuk as a whole is about confronting our dire circumstances with a big God theology. That's Habakkuk. The nation of Judah, where the prophet Habakkuk resides, just watched her big sister, Israel to the north, get swallowed up by Assyria And now Judah, where Habakkuk resides, also feels the imminent existential threat from all Sides. And then the book of Habakkuk records, as Tony said a couple of weeks ago, a dialogue between Habakkuk the Prophet and God, sort of like the journal that my wife And my daughter, Sophie Keep, one writes down another message and leaves it, and then the other comes and writes a message and leaves it, and then the first comes and writes a message, and so is Habakkuk. Let me give you a quick quick preview of the book as a whole. Go ahead and turn there. I want you to see this. And this will help you understand what Habakkuk is doing in our section. Just gonna flip through it real fast. Look at verses chapter 1, verses 1 to 4. That's Habakkuk's original lament to God, which Tony talked about. Verse 2 O Lord, how long shall I cry for help and you not hear? Or cry to you violence, and you will not save? And in this week's passage, verses 5 to 11, God answers. He basically says, Don't worry about it, I'm bringing the Babylonians. Verse 6, for behold, I am raising up the Chaldeans, which is another word for Babylonians. And then Habakkuk replies in verse 12 through chapter 2, verse 1. He basically says, Are you kidding me? The Babylonians They're even worse. Look at verse 13. You who are of pure eyes than to see evil and cannot look at wrong. Why do you idly look at traitors? Now flip to chapter 2, verses 2 to 20. God then replies to Habakkuk, verse 4, basically, trust me, the righteous will live by faith And then verse 8, I'm gonna take care of these Babylonians. Verse 8, because speaking to Babylonians, you have plundered many nations, all the remnant of the people shall plunder you. So we have Habakkuk God, Habakkuk God, and now finally chapter 3. Habakkuk one more time. Chapter 3, he he he now humbled replies. Lord, you are mighty indeed. Verse 2, you and your work, O Lord, do I fear. I don't fear the Assyrians or the Egyptians or Babylonians. It's It's you our fear. And then the final little paragraph you see there in the book, verses seventeen to nineteen, are the comfort and the rejoicing Habakkuk tas takes. Life might look terrible on the outside. fruit on the vine, there's no food, there's no flock, there's no herds, and yet even then I will rejoice. In the Lord. It's terrible out there, but we got a big God. We rejoice. That, friends, is the book of Habakkuk. It sets us down inside of a nation surrounded around by mightier nations who threaten Judah's very existence. And it says, you know God's in charge, right? He's not sweating this. In fact, it helps us to do this By staring at one of the most difficult questions of all, what is God's relationship to evil Is God sovereign even over evil? That's the challenge that today's text Points us to. Does he have control over it or is that out of control of him? And if he does have control over it, is he not responsible for it? Is he not Guilty in some sense, or is he sinless? This week's passage pushes us right into the heart of that very question We'll unpack our text, verses 5 to 11, over three points. Here's point one: God is sovereign over the nations, planning their beginnings and their endings. You write stuff down, write that down. God is sovereign over the nations, planning their beginnings and their endings. Tony explained a couple of weeks ago from verses 1 to 4 the northern kingdom had been swallowed up by Assyria The southern kingdom of Judah now feels that threat. Abakat cries out in verse 2: O Lord, how long shall I cry for help and you will not hear? Or cry to you, violence, and you will not save. And this week shows us God's answer to that cry. We start with an invitation in verse 5: Look among the nations and see. Wonder and be astounded. In other words, as if God is saying Don't worry about the Assyrians to the north, the Egyptians to the south. Check this out. I'm about to blow your socks off. Are you ready for this? Says God. For I am doing a work in your days that you would not believe if told That's verse five. Gonna do something amazing. Blow your mind. You're ready for this. You want to reach the next generation? Amaze them with God. And what God can do. Don't give them a small God. Give them the God of the Bible And that's what he invites us to do this morning. That he has complete control over the nations. Look at verse 5. Look among the nations and see, wonder, and be astounded. Friends, think about the recent headlines which I prayed about this morning between Russia and Ukraine or Iran and Israel or the United States and China. The nations and their governments seem really powerful, don't they? They seem powerful and inevitable. We worry about them and we write about them. Is there anything as powerful and is inevitable As the nations, and we we we send our spouses and our our children and our parents off to war to fight But in fact, there's an Almighty God who calls himself throughout the Old Testament the Lord of hosts. Do you know what the Lord of hosts means? The hosts are the armies, the Lord of the armies. He's in charge of the headlines. He's in charge of raising up and tearing down the nations That's why Jeremiah can declare, there is none like you, O Lord, you are great, and your name is great and might who would not fear you, O King of the nations. At his wrath the earthquakes, and the nations cannot endure his indignation. And King Jehoshaphat praise your rule over all the kingdoms of the nations in your hand. Are power and might so that none is able to withstand you. Job. He makes nations great and he destroys them. He enlarges nations and leads them away. Psalm 47, God reigns over the nations. Psalm 59, you will mock the nations. Psalm 66. Keep his eye, his eyes watch, keep watch on the nations. Isaiah 40, look, the nations are like a drop from a bucket. All the nations are like nothing before him. And we know, of course, ancient Rome came and went The Holy Roman Empire came and went. The Soviet Union came and went. The United States has come and will go. God is not scared of the nations. God is not threatened by the nations. He's not intimidated by the nations, as I heard one preacher recently say, He's not in need Of the Secret Service to rush on the stage and grab him and take him to a safe room when there's a threat. He doesn't need to walk into a war room and figure out what to do when an enemy is coming. In fact, God actually uses, employs the nations for his purposes. They are pawns on his chessboard. They they they are the words that he's writing on his page. He ordains everything that comes to pass nationally, politically, globally. He plans and executes their rise and their fall, their beginning and their end. Listen to Paul in Acts 17. And he made from one man every nation of mankind. To live on the face of the earth, having determined allotted periods from from from here to there, from from here, from from then to then Having determined allotted periods and the boundaries of their dwelling place. Okay, you can go this far here, that far there, that far there. So kids, for instance, have any of you studied in your history lessons the kingdom of Prussia? Do you remember what Prussia is and when Prussia started and stopped? Well, do you do you realize that at one point God said, Oh Prussia I will make you a kingdom in 1701 when Ferdinand I crowns himself And, oh Prussia, I will bring you to an end. In 1918, towards the end of the First World War, with the German Revolution, overthrowing the monarchy. All of this was by God's decision. All the millions of billions of trillions of human decisions leading up to that rise and that fall, free human decisions. Were planned, ordained, executed by God. Now, one of my daughters is interested in studying international relations A couple of you work in that field. You work in the State Department or for any number of intelligence agencies. You read foreign newspapers to stay abreast of what's going on. The thing is, God intends for all of us to be at least a little bit interested in international relations Why? How? Well, he intends for all of us to recognize his complete and total sovereignty over all of it. He moves the pieces around. He topples the pawns and the rooks and the knights, the kings and queens, as he pleases A pastor friend one asked once asked me what makes for good preaching. I said, I think it's preaching that helps us in our personal lives. Yes. But it's also preaching that gives us a global-sized view of God's work. That way we can better understand and apprehend how big and mighty and awesome God is. Because that's the God we need in our personal lives. Furthermore, His control over the nations and their governments should remind people that our citizenship finally is in heaven. It reminds us, says the author of Hebrews, that together with Abraham we look forward to the city that has its foundations, whose designer and builder is God. And that with Abraham we desire a better country. That is a heavenly one. So point one: God is sovereign over the nations, planning the beginnings and the endings. Point two, God is sovereign over evil, permitting and planning Evil's pathways for his precise purposes. I got a little carried away with the P, but It'll help you remember. God is sovereign over evil, permitting and planning evil's pathways for his precise purposes. Okay, and it's in this point that we we really get into it. We we get into the purpose or the challenge of today's passage. We we get in some ways to the linchpin of this whole book, the very thing that makes Habakkuk's God, big God theology so big. Verse 5, we saw God promises to blow our socks off. Verses 6 and following explain why our socks will be blown off. Look there. For behold, I am raising up the Chaldeans, the Babylonians. But let's be clear, who is responsible for what is about to happen? God is. I am raising up, he says. I am raising up the Chaldeans. He is planning their pathway for his purposes. The pathway of the Chaldeans is not accidental. It's purposeful. It's divinely purposeful. He is going to use them to bring judgment on Judah. As becomes more clear later in the book. What can we say about the Chaldeans? Well, we can say they are utterly evil They are terrible. The Babylonians are terrible. Look at the rest of the passage, verse 6. For behold, I am raising up the Chaldeans, that bitter and hasty nation, who march through the breadth of the earth to seize dwellings not their own. Okay, here we have this invading army that takes what does not belong to them. They may march across borders, they seize dwellings. Houses, wives, children that are not their own. The Babylonians pillaged, plundered, destroyed populations as they went They had their way with them. And then verse 7, they are dreaded and fearsome Their justice and dignity go forth from themselves. How did this invading army define justice and human dignity? Well, what does it say? It says from themselves. In other words, according to their own greed, their own lust, their own hunger, they define justice. I. Desire to use you and destroy you, and that is just, because it's what I want, said the Babylonians Then verse 8. Their horses are swifter than leopards, more fierce than the evening wolves Ask me what my favorite movie is. I'll tell you it's The Lord of the Rings. If you've seen it, you know that they have these they have these horses and wolves that are kind of combined that the orcs Ride. That's how scary this army is. Their horses are coming like wolves, utterly frightening And the rest of verse 8. Their horsemen press proudly on. Their horsemen come from afar. They fly like an eagle swift to devour. They all come for violence, all their faces forward, their faces forward, going for violence. Not looking to the right or the left, towards violence. That's them. They're not doing good. Rest of verse nine. They gather captives like sand And do you think they're taking these captives from Judah, or the promise of captives from Judah, and bringing them back to Babylon and placing them in nice suburban homes? Well, no, they're taking them as slaves to use them however they wish. Dispense of them. However, they wish. And then verse 10. At kings they scoff. At rulers they laugh. They laugh at every fortress, for they pile up earth and take it. Nothing can stop this army. It's like a bunch of sand castles on the beach. A bulldozer. Good luck sandcastles And verse 11, and they sweep by like the wind and go on. Guilty men whose might is their God, if you're not yet convinced of how bad they are. This last verse should make it clear, that last line, their strength is their small g God. They worship Their strength. They orient their lives around their strength. They do everything they can to prove their strength. And they are, the verse says, utterly guilty. That's our text for this morning. Verse 5. Watch what I'm going to do. It's amazing. And then the rest of the passage: I'm going to use the Babylonians, and they're really, really bad. When Tony and I decided to take turns going through the same book, I said, why don't you take the first crack at kind of assigning who does what passages? And he looked at the dates I was available and he assigned me this passage. A few weeks ago, I opened up the Bible, I read it, and I thought, well, okay. So my whole sermon is basically the Babylonians are really, really bad. And God's going to use them. Good morning. Welcome to this gathering of Chevrolet Baptist Church. We're here today to open your Bibles to tell you the Babylonians are terrible. And God uses them. Go in peace. It's no surprise that Habakkuk replies as he does, as we'll see next week. Are you preaching that? Next week verse 13. This is a loose translation of verse 13. Wait, what Your eyes are too good to look at evil While the problem of evil is necessarily a mystery that we can only see so far into and certainly not all the way into. This passage this morning gives us the opportunity, it gives us the requirement, in fact, of stopping and and reflecting on it. So, yes, this is going to be a very theological Sermon, but I have to tell you these big theological truths are some of the most precious truths I've discovered Especially I remember a time in my life when I was witnessing terrible evils that impacted me It was in those times I discovered these most precious theological truths for enduring that season. I hope the same will be true for you. So even if you are not enduring witness of evil now, I pray that God would use these. Be astounded! I'm gonna blow your socks off truths. So that you can endure that day when it comes. A few months ago on December 26th, just the day after Christmas. An Israeli tank shell blasted through Gaza Baptist Church, which is just one of four churches On the Gaza Strip. You have a Baptist, a Roman Catholic, an Anglican, and a Greek Orthodox Church. And Gaza Baptist Church had built this building Just a few years ago in the early 2000s, you know how we're saving money, we're trying to build a church. Imagine we we finally get the minion, we finally get the land, we finally build a church, and then a tank shell goes through it And blows it up. And since the beginning of the Israeli-Palestininian War, about 70 individuals from 15 families have been sheltering in that church. Here Is a picture of what the church building looked like after the shell threw it. Right? So just across the Atlantic Ocean. We have brothers and sisters at Christ at Gaza Baptist Church. This is what they are living in and going through right now. Now, I'm not interested in discussing the politics of Israel and Palestine. If we could just leave the kind of the politics of it all on the shelf. I simply want to take a very real scenario from our own world to help us get our heads around Habakkuk's situation, even if slightly. Christians And the Gaza Strip have had it especially difficult since the war began. First you have this invading Israeli army with their with their bombs and tank shells. You all you have the broken down economy and food scarcities. Worse, in some cases, you have Hamas controlling the food supply. And what Hamas does is exclude the Christians. They've always kind of tolerated them, but now they have their chance to strike a blow against the Christians too. So they exclude the Christians from Food distribution. Okay, so right there, put yourself in the shoes of our brothers and sisters in Christ right now in the Gaza Strip at Gaza Baptist Church You got Israeli tanks blowing up the building in your homes and your working places, and you're having a hard time finding food for yourself and for your children. So, what do you do? You cry out to God. You say, God, please help. And God says, watch this. I am gonna bring Hamas And you think they're worse. They're worse than these bad guys are worse than those bad guys. What are you talking about? Back to Habakkuk. On the one hand, we have God, who Habakkuk tells us is sinless This Jonathan Stockman will help us reflect on next week. So sinless he cannot even look at evil. On the other hand. God is using proud, guilty, self-worshiping, violent, pillaging, and slaughtering Babylonian army to accomplish his greater purposes for. Salvation and judgment. How do we put these sinless God using terrible wickedness together Well, there's two basic theological explanations that Christians have gone to again and again for why a good God would allow evil in the world. The free will explanation and the greater good explanation. Arminianism offers the free will explanation. That means God chooses to permit natural hurricanes and moral wickedness, evil He does so in order to respect and honor the gift he has given us of free will. So he will limit himself in what he will do in order to provide a space for our free will to exercise it, which also means allowing the consequences of our free will, the good and bad decisions, and the consequences of those good and bad decisions to Transpire. Now, I don't dismiss the free will defense of why God would allow evil in the world. I think it is a part of the answer. But all by itself, it's not enough as the sole explanation for why God would permit evil After all, just think about it for a moment, God could prevent every specific or any specific instance of evil Which means God is making specific decisions about the what, when, where, how Of every specific instance of evil. In other words It's as if God decides, Okay, I am going to allow Instances of evil A, B, and C over here, but I'm going to prevent Instances of evil X, Y, and Z over here. You see? In other words, it's not enough to say just free will. Because why would he permit A, B, and C, but not X, Y, and Z if God is powerful enough to stop any act of evil? He must be deciding the what, the when, the where, the how, the every instance of evil that does occur, the A, the B, the C, as opposed to the X, the Y, the Z. We simply cannot escape that fact. In other words, God must have a bigger, higher purpose than just free will. Than saying yes to ABC, no to X, Y, Z. Why those not those? You must have another reason than just free will. Brings us to the second explanation Christians have long given, besides the free will explanation. Reformed theology adds to the free will explanation a greater good. Explanation. Reform theology teaches that God permits evil, as in Arminianism. He he grants all human actors agency, that is decision-making power and he grants us decision-making power agency in order to choose good or bad. He never overrides Our agents. He never forces us to do something that we do not want to do, which means he does not cause evil. He doesn't enact it. He doesn't do it. Humans always do it. Nonetheless, God does plan the what, the where, the when, the how of any specific instance Of evil, such that we can say, no instance of evil is ever perpetrated except as permitted by and planned by God. There's no perfect analogy here. Suppose I'm I'm walking through a crowded park And I have a rabid, violent dog on a leash. As hold as I'm, as long as I'm holding that leash tightly, that dog, though it's trying to bite everyone around, can't. As soon as I decide to loosen my grip just slightly enough, it can indeed bite The dog is doing it. It's choosing the evil. But I possess An overall sovereignty, dominion over what, when, where, how, how that dog does what that dog by its own nature wants to do Think of how God loosened the grip on the leash just enough in the book of Job And the Lord said to Satan, Behold, all he has is in your hand. Only against him. Do not stretch out your hand. Satan was not seeking the glory of God and living by faith alone in Christ alone. Satan and the human actors that he employed were doing evil. But both Satan and those human actors could only act within the precise boundaries and jurisdiction of God's perfect plan. Think of the free decisions that Joseph's brothers took to sell Joseph into slavery They lied to him, they threw him in a pit, they sold him off into slavery, they lied to their father, they covered up his garment in blood. You remember the story? How does Joseph a few chapters later summarize this story? As for you, you meant evil against me. There it is. They meant evil. They intended evil and they did evil. Against me, but God meant it for good. To bring it about that many people should be kept alive as are today. Okay, so notice you have you have one set of actions, but behind that one set of actions, you have two intentions. You have an evil intention by the human actors, you have a good intention. Behind God's action. He intended good. What was good, God's good intention? Well, that the greater good of many people would be kept Alive. In fact, Romans 8 generalizes the point for us. And we know that for those who love God and all things work together for good, all things include all things, the good and the bad. The righteous and the right unrighteous, all things work together for good to those who are called according to his purpose. God works all things, even evil things, for good, for his purposes, for his greater good. And that is why that is the big God that De Jung said we should preach. He says, give them a God who works all things after the counsel of his will and for the glory of his name. Turn to Acts chapter 4. Turn to Acts chapter 4. I think here we find the most central example in Scripture. Of God permitting and planning evil for his good purposes. Look at verse 27. For truly in this city, says Peter, they were gathered together against your holy servant Jesus This is a prayer. Whom you, Lord God, anointed. Both Herod and Pontius Pilate, along with the Gentiles and the people of Israel. To do what were Herod and Pontius Pilate and the people of Israel and the Gentiles to do? To do whatever your hand and your plan had predestined to take place. Okay, so you have Herod and Pontius Pilate, you have the crowds of Gentiles and Israelites making all of these individual decisions. Countless, thousands, millions of individual decisions that lead up to this very moment of the cross. And the beating of Jesus, and the raising above the cross, the crucifixion, spear through the side, all of that. Human decisions got it all there. Herod, Pontus Pilate. The Gentiles, the Israelites, did all of that. But what were they doing, says Peter? What God's hand had planned. And predestined to take place. And if God can execute that The greatest sin, the greatest instance of wickedness in all of history. If he can do that and yet remain sinless, stands to reason, so he can with any other. I could point you to countless other examples in Scripture, friend. No sinful decision or action, no wicked thought or conspiracy occurs apart from God's permission and plan. apart from him deciding to loosen the grip here, there, at just these moments, exactly as he means to loosen the grip on the dog's leash. Indeed, the larger point here is that the Lord God maintains complete and Total control and dominion over all things, even wickedness, because his planning of history is meticulous. Down to the details. Proverbs 16, night. The heart of a man plans his way. Good plans, bad plans, I plan in my way. But the Lord determines his steps. Proverbs 1633. The lot is cast into the lap. The dice is rolled. But it's every decision is from the Lord. Roll the dice. Bump bump bump bump bump. Six. Three. Whatever. So every decision is from the Lord. The king's heart, Proverbs 21. The king's heart is a stream of water in the hand of the Lord. He turns it wherever he will. The king's heart is just straight. The water's going according to the king's own desires, good desires, bad desires. There goes that stream. But God is like, okay, I'm gonna take that stream and I'm gonna channel it here I'm going to channel it there. I'm going to do exactly what I intend to do with the stream. He doesn't use the analogy of a dog on a leash. He uses the analogy of a stream. The stream is going by its own accord, like that rabid dog. But God is And a channel it. Again, we can look at example after example in the Bible. It's just to be clear, as we talk about the sovereignty of God, we always need to keep these four principles together. Write these down, these four principles. Number one. God is completely sovereign, meaning nothing occurs apart from his plan. Number one, God is completely sovereign. Nothing occurs apart from his plan. Number two, God does all things for his glory and his people's good. Number two, God does all things for his glory and his people's good. Number three, humans are free and morally responsible agents. Humans are free and morally responsible agents. Number four, sin and evil are the fault of the creature, not the creator. Sin and evil are the fault of the creature and not the creator. Even as both are ordained by God How do we put these four together? I don't know, but the Bible does again and again and again. Think of the Joseph thing one more time. God is sovereign over the reactions. God planned it for good, says Joseph. And he's doing it for the good of his people. God planned it for good to bring about the present result, the survival of many people. And number three, Joseph's brothers are free And number four, Joseph's brothers are morally culpable. You planned evil against me. In other words, in every single action, again, you have two wills acting, a human will and a divine will Human will maybe seeking wickedness. The divine will is planning and employing that for perfect, good, and righteous and holy purposes Every time. And this is why our passage begins as it does. Verse 5: Wonder and be astounded, for I am doing a work. Who's doing a work? I am doing a work. Says the Lord. I'm gonna bring the Babylonians. I'm doing a work. I'm gonna destroy them. I'm gonna judge them. I'm doing a work. They're gonna do wickedness, but I'm doing a work. Uh Says the Lord. They're intending wickedness. I'm intending awesomeness That's how big and powerful I am. I can take the mightiest nations of work on earth And I can move them around, the chessboard is little pawns. They're no threat to me. And I can do it in such a way that I even keep my hands clean from all of their wickedness. I am the Lord. There is no other, says Yahweh. Friends, that's the God we worship. He is that big. He is that strong. How do you want to reach the next generation? Amaze them with the God of Habakkuk. Point two, God is sovereign over evil, permitting and planning evil's pathways for his precise purposes. Point three. We can wait quietly for the Lord in the face of evil. We can wait quietly for the Lord in the face of evil. I don't want to steal too much thunder from the brothers preaching the rest of Habakkuk. I want to steal too much from their texts Still, we need to ask the question: how does the fact that God is sovereign over the nations and sovereign over evil help us? There's a lot of things that I could say. Let me pick just one thing The knowledge of God's perfect, meticulous sovereignty over evil helps us wait. Wait in a posture of faith and trust, even as we endure and witness evil. Look at chapter two, verse three. Habakkuk two verse three. For still the vision awaits its appointed time, it hastens to the end, it will not lie. If it seems slow Wait for it. It will surely come. It will not delay. Look at the end of the book. Look at chapter 3, verse 16. Or the almost end of the book. Chapter 3, verse 16. I hear, and my body trembles, my lips quiver at the sound, rottenness enters in my bones. He can hear the hoofbeats of the Babylonian army coming. He's he's quivering Rottenness is entering his bones. I mean, literally, you hear those hooves coming. You're inside the city. The walls are up, but you know the walls aren't going to stand too long. You're frightened to death And yet you've just had this conversation with God in which he's like, I got it. I know what I'm doing. And so you. Conclude, again back to verse 16, I hear my body trembles, my whips, lips quiver at the sound, rottenness centers of my mouths, my legs tremble beneath me, yet I will quietly wait. For the day of trouble to come upon people who invade us. They're going to come? They're going to destroy us It's awful. I can quietly wait. God's going to bring judgment on them too. He's going to do good. The reason it's easy to see and take comfort in God's sovereignty over evil in the Joseph story or the Habakkuk story is that is that we can read the whole thing in a few chapters. Time for the reader feels compressed. You know, we think, oh, okay, I can I can see over several chapters how God is doing, what they intended for evil, God intended for good. Okay, great. That that feels good. It's much harder to see that when that evil and its consequences in our lives is stretched out over great quantities of time and we don't get the explanation. In fact, it may it may never come in this life. But with that stretch of time, it's just like ah And yet God chooses to work slowly, patiently over long stretches of time. That's how He does it Because over those long stretches of time, as I'm watching evil and I'm watching its consequences, and I'm watching the desolation it brings, that challenges my faith. That challenges that force me to be like, okay, are you really God or not? Do I trust in you or not? Do I rely on you through all of this or not? Are you really working out your purposes in all things for my good? Is that the case? So that we can say with Paul, our momentary light afflictions are producing for us an absolutely incomparable weight of glory. God does mean to afflict. And he intends for those afflictions to endure. Because he means for those afflictions to create in us. An incomparable weight of glory. That's the greater good He's finally working out. He's giving us free decision, yes, but he's building this incomparable weight of glory. Do you trust that? Do you believe that, brothers and sisters? Evil things happen to us, to our friends, to our family, to our nation. Yet knowing none of this is accidental, and everything happens according to God's permission and plan helps us wait in a posture of confidence and even as we'll discover. The very few last verses, a confidence of joy. So just last week I heard a man describe the accidental death of his three-year-old son People tried to tell him, God had nothing to do with this. Don't blame God. He didn't find comfort in that He said, as a father who lost his son, I didn't want to hear God had nothing to do with the loss of your son. If that's the case, then where was he? He needed to know that God was still completely and totally in charge. And that even if he could not see the good purpose now, he could trust the good God who was in charge had perfect purposes for that terrible event. Knowing that God is sovereign over evil doesn't make enduring evil or witnessing evil less painful. It's still that painful It should make it less frightening. The mean boss, the friend who betrays you, the unkind spouse. The unruly child, the dishonest banker, the treacherous politician, the enemy nation and its army, and its hackers A terrorist doesn't finally have control, doesn't finally have dominion over you, over me. None of these things are in charge. None of these things are rabid dogs on the loose biting whenever and wherever they will. God slightly like, oh, I gotta get control of that running after the dog in the park, grabbing for the leash. River rising up over the riverbanks, apart from God's channeling of it The Lord of the armies remains always and forever in charge. The agents of moral and natural evil Before you and me remain, as I said, pawns on his chessboard, words on the page that he is writing The switch metaphors again are the rabbit dog is going to bite. It's morally responsible for the bite, yet if you feel the bite. Take comfort in the fact that God has permitted, even planned, that particular bite For his good purposes in your life, my life. Even though we can't see it and understand it right now. And that one day he will judge the biter. And bring perfect justice and recompense to the biting. And perfect healing to the bite For our good. And one day we will rejoice. Ah, he let that dog bite me like that. And look what he did from it. I cannot I am astounded. And isn't that what he invites us to in these very verses? Look and be astounded. You would not believe it if I told you, says the Lord. So if you want to reach the next generation, friends, is this not the God to whom we should point the God of Habakkuk, the God of the Babylonians? God of all the earth and humanity and the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, who was by God's hand and purpose and will slain by sinful men, so that, greater good, so that he might forgive the sin of sinful men. And defeat the sin of sinful men by rising from the grave demonstrating God's perfect, complete, total, meticulous sovereignty over every single bit of it. We have nothing to fear. Can you imagine a God more worthy of your heart's trusts and desire amidst this world in which we find ourselves? Is there some other God to whom you are looking, whom you will find more comfort from? More fearlessness, more courage from, if not the God of Habakkuk. Let's pray. Lord God, you are mighty, you are powerful, you are glorious, you are meticulous in your ordaining of all things, and we give you praise. We have nothing to fear. We go into the parking lot, we climb into our cars, we drive down the streets, bad things happen. We don't need to be afraid. W we get home, arguments and do uh uh show up, we go to work, Wickedness occurs. We don't need to fear. We can wait quietly through all of it. Because you are God and you are good and you are the king of the nations. You cause them to rise and to fall at your precise time. So we give you all thanks, glory, and praise. Amen