And so they gathered together, eagerly awaiting their deliverance. This watch night occurred on New Year's Eve, eighteen sixty-two, throughout this country. Where enslaved and freed African Americans gathered, many of them in secret, many of them in churches and other meeting points to bring in the new year. The dawn of the new year would usher in their freedom, as the Emancipation Proclamation announced some months earlier, would finally take effect. And they gathered, and they prayed, and they sang, and they watched the clock, and they waited And they even read accounts about other slaves in Egypt keeping watch away in the dawn of their exodus. But these slaves in Egypt, their emancipation had already been declared as well. Because the Lord God, as we've heard in previous weeks, He had spoken to Moses. And Moses and Aaron then spoke to them, declaring them of their coming freedom. The people eventually believed it, but they had not yet experienced their deliverance. So how would God deliver his people? To answer that question, please meet me in the book of Exodus, chapter 12. If you're using one of the Bibles provided, that's on page 53. And if you're here and you don't have a Bible, please take that Bible as a gift from us to you. Today we'll be focusing on this final plague against Egypt that would answer the question: how does God deliver his people? Now, deliverance of God's people is a central theme in all of Scripture, which even goes back way before the book of Exodus and goes all the way back to the Garden of Eden. And it's fulfilled all the way up to that city that we'd heard about last week, the city that is to come. So God's people are those who live between his promises. We've received his promises, and at the same time, we are awaiting the complete fulfillment of those promises. We have been delivered and we are still being delivered. But how would these Israelites These slaves in Egypt be delivered out of the mightiest king the world had ever seen at that point, and from the mightiest empire the world had ever seen at that point. How can any of us be delivered from the clutch of sin and death that grips so tightly Please follow along with me as I read Exodus chapter 12, starting in verse 1. This is the word of the Lord. The Lord said to Moses and Aaron in the land of Egypt, This month shall be the beginning. This sh month shall be for you the beginning of months. It shall be the first month of the year for you. Tell all the congregation of Israel that on the tenth day of this month every man shall take a lamb according to their father's houses. A lamb for a household. And if the household is too small for a lamb, then he and his nearest neighbor shall take according to the number of persons. According what each can eat, you shall make Your count for the lamb. Your lamb shall be without blemish, a male a year old. You may take it from the sheep or from the goats. And you shall keep it until the fourteenth day of this month, when the whole assembly of the congregation of Israel shall kill their lambs at twilight. Then they shall take some of the blood and put it on the two doorposts and on the intels of the houses in which they eat it. They shall eat the flesh that night, roasted on the fire, with unleavened bread, and bitter herbs they shall eat it Do not eat any of it raw or boiled in water or roasted its head with its legs and with its inner parts And you shall and you shall let none of it remain until the morning. Anything that remains until the morning you shall burn. In this manner you shall eat it, with your belt fastened, with your sandals on your feet and your staff in your hand, and you shall eat it in haste. It is the Lord's Passover. For I will pass through the land of Egypt that night, and I will strike all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, both man and beast. And on all the gods of Egypt I will execute judgments. I am the Lord. The blood shall be a sign for you. on the houses where you are. And when I see the blood, I will pass over you. And no plague shall befall you to destroy you when I strike the land of Egypt. This day shall be a memorial day, and you shall keep it as a feast to the Lord throughout your generations, as a statue forever. You shall keep it as a feast. Seven days you shall eat unleavened bread. On the first day you shall remove leaven out of your houses. For if any one eats what is leavened from the first day until the seventh day, that person shall be cut off from Israel And on the first day you shall hold a holy assembly, and on the seventh day a holy assembly. No work shall be done on those days, but what everyone needs to eat, that alone may be prepared by you. And you shall observe the feast of unleavened bread, for on this very day I brought your host out of the land of Egypt. Therefore you shall observe this day throughout your generations as a statute forever In the first month, from the 14th day of the month at evening, you shall eat unleavened bread until the 21st day of the month at evening. For seven days no leaven is to be found in your houses. If anyone eats what is leavened, that person will be cut off from the congregation of Israel. Whether he is a sojourner or a native of the land, you shall eat nothing leavened. In all of your dwelling places, you shall eat unleavened bread Then Moses called all the elders of Israel and said to them, Go and select lambs for yourselves according to your clans, and kill the Passover lamb. Take a bunch of hyssop and dip it in the blood that is in the basin, and touch the entails of the doorposts of the two doorposts with the blood that is in the basin. None of you shall go out of the door of this house until morning. For the Lord will pass through to strike the Egyptians, and when he sees the blood on the intel and on the two doorposts, the Lord will pass over the door, and will not allow the destroyer to enter your house to strike you. You shall observe this right as a statue for you and for your sons forever. And when you come to the land that the Lord will give you, as He has promised, you shall keep this service. And when your children say to you, what do you mean by this service? You shall say, it is the sacrifice of the Lord's Passover. For he passed over the houses of the people of Israel in Egypt when he struck the Egyptians, but spared our houses. And the people bowed their heads and worshipped. Then the people of Israel went and did so, as the Lord had commanded Moses and Aaron, so they did. We'll stop there for now in our time in Exodus 12. But we should note that Exodus chapters 12 through 18, which we will be covering for the next few weeks. Is the center of this book of Moses explaining how God delivers, why he delivers, and what does he deliver his people into? For chapter 12 today, we will answer just one of those questions. How does God deliver his people? And here's the main point if you're taking notes for our time together. God delivers from death through the blood of his Passover lamb. God delivers from death through the blood of his Passover lamb We'll cover this main idea in four points. Point one, the blood covers. See that in verses one through thirteen and then 21 through 28. Point two, the bread consecrates 14 through 20. Point three, God delivers, verses 29 through 39, and then point four, the people remember, verses 40 through 51. So, with this final plague, the Lord continues the previous pattern that we learned about several weeks ago. Pharaoh was warned and his heart was exposed. That already happened in Exodus chapter 11. And Egypt would be struck. So the Lord gives specific instructions to Moses and to Aaron in verses 1 through 20, and then they're meant to relay that message, which they did in verses 21 through 28. And here's the first message, which is point one. The blood covers. The blood covers We see that right away in Exodus chapter 12. With this Passover, the Lord was doing something new for his people. This is also why he was ushering in a new year for his people. Their calendar back then and even to this day would be ordered around the celebration of this feast, this Passover that would come. And these instructions were specific. It says on the tenth day of the month, each household should take a year-old spotless male lamb. And keep it until the fourteenth day of the month. And then that land were to be slaughtered at twilight. And the people were meant to gather into their fathers' homes, as it said in verse 3. If their household was too small, they were going to gather with other Israelite neighbors so that they can all be in one house. And we see in verses 7 through 13 that this lamb was also meant to be eaten that night and roasted on the fire. None of it was meant to be left. And the blood of the Lamb was meant to go on the doorposts, or the two doorposts, and the intels of the houses of the people of Israel. Why? Because judgment was coming. So all the people needed to take shelter. And God's people were meant to find shelter not in their homes, but under the blood of the Lamb. And the Lord says as much in verse 12 of Exodus chapter 12, he says, I will pass through the land of Egypt that night, and I will strike all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, man and beast, and on all the gods of Egypt, I will execute judgments. I am the Lord. The blood shall be a sign on the houses where you are. When I see the blood, the Lord says, I will pass over you. So up until this point, with the nine plagues, God had been playing chess the long way, as it were. But with this final plague, Pharaoh and Egypt would be in checkmate. All the houses that were uncovered, including the house of the mighty Pharaoh, would be met with death But why would the Lord strike the firstborn all throughout Egypt? I think this was a way of God, Yahweh, the Lord of all lords, placing his claim on his people as his firstborn son. You might remember this from Exodus chapter 4 when he told Moses to tell Pharaoh the following: Thus says the Lord: Israel is my firstborn son. And I say to you, let my son go that he may serve me. If you refuse to let him go, the Lord says, behold, I will kill your firstborn son. And he did. And I think this is also a callback to the beginning of the book of Exodus. If you remember that, when Pharaoh tried to put an end to God's people by doing something specific. To the baby boys. Kids in the room. Do you remember what the Pharaoh had in place to get rid of the baby boys? Langston? Say it again. That he had to be killed. Let the girls live, but the baby boys need to be killed. So this is the Lord rightly showing that He is the one that claims His people, and He is the one that remembers their suffering. And therefore you have the Passover. Passover in Hebrew is translated as Pasha, which can either mean to look over And to protect. And I think the Lord was doing both here. He was looking over their sin because their houses were covered in the blood, but also protecting them. From the judgment that they deserved. He spared them from the plague of his judgment. And he used a lamb to do it And even that is pretty striking if you think about it. You have mighty Pharaoh, this mighty king, and the mighty warriors of Egypt. And then you have the Lord using a lamb, a spotless lamb, to cover their sins. It had to be a spotless lamb. Only the blood of an innocent lamb would do, because only innocent blood can clear the guilty. And God was saying to his people essentially, it's not just the Israelites, the Egyptians that are guilty, you are guilty as well. So Moses called on the people of Israel and he gave them these same instructions. Like he says in verse 21, he called all the elders. He said, Go select a lamb for yourselves according to your clans. And kill the Passover lamb, take a bunch of hyssop and dip it in the blood that is in the basin, and touch the intels of the two doorposts with the blood that's in the basin. None of you shall go out of the house until morning. That was a warning for them. Don't leave the house, for the Lord will pass through, verse 23, to strike the Egyptians, and when he sees the blood. The Lord will pass over the door and not allow the destroyer to enter. So Moses calls the elders, He gave them these instructions about the Passover lamb that would need to be sacrificed, the blood that would need to go over the door of the homes And warned them not to leave the house until morning, because the Lord will pass through and strike, but will not allow the destroyer to enter the homes that were covered by the blood of the Lamb. So, some questions I think we need to answer with all that. Why blood? Doesn't that seem so gross? Or doesn't that seem so primitive? In fact, other religious texts like the Quran, which accounts a lot of stories that we will be familiar with. Removes all mention of the shedding of blood. In fact, the Quran teaches that it's in our piety that we can try to reach Allah, our good works. And what's interesting about that is that I think that that's what most people tend to think. If we're going to be delivered, surely it has to be because of our good works. Surely it has to be because eventually our good works will outweigh our bad works. And eventually, on the scale, someone somewhere will have to let us in to someplace. The problem with that statement, and there are many, is that there's no guarantee that our good will ever outweigh our bad That also leads to another thing. Who is actually doing the judging? Who's doing the weighing? But we see from the Bible that the blood is a clear feature in God's plan of deliverance. That's because the blood indicated that both a sacrifice and a substitute had been made In Genesis chapter 3, for example, after Adam and Eve sinned against God and they tried to cover themselves with Gucci fig leaves. What does the Lord do? He makes garment of skin to cover their nakedness. A sacrifice and a substitute was made Or in Genesis chapter 22, when the Lord told Abraham to sacrifice his son Isaac. And Isaac was willing to do it. But Isaac knew, or or Abraham was willing to do it. But Abraham knew, as it says in the book of Hebrews, that the Lord would provide a sacrifice. And that the Lord did, because there was a ram in the thicket. A substitution was made so that Isaac would not have to be sacrificed. And as the writer of Hebrews also says, without the shedding of blood, there is no forgiveness of sins. So another question that's about the blood. What about this destroyer that's mentioned in verse 23? Did you catch that Some translation, maybe your translation says a death angel, as in a messenger Now, there's a lot of debate about who this messenger or this death angel or this destroyer was. Wherever you land with that, it's clear that the messenger was sent by God Himself. Because the Lord says several times, not that the messenger will strike, he says, I will strike the Egyptians. This shows that the judgment here was God's doing. The Lord was acting on behalf of his firstborn son, the people of Israel. Which also means collectively that the Lord who is able to judge and destroy is also the same Lord who's able to display his goodness and mercy. So, in summary, God provided a spotless substitute to atone for their sins, which means that God's people didn't just have Pharaoh to deal with, they had God to deal with, and they had their sin to deal with. As Tim Chester writes, the Israelites had to dab blood on the doorposts precisely because they were as guilty as the Egyptians. So death would come to each home that night, either the death of the firstborn or the death of a Passover lamb. Final question. Why all of these instructions? Why all of these instructions? Even as Brother John loaded to me in earlier this week, a few days ago, there's a lot of instructions that's happening here in this passage before the Passover actually happens. There's even instructions about how the Passover should be celebrated before it even happens. Why is he doing that? He's talking about the Passover and the feast of the unleavened bread. It's as if the Lord is shooting his shot, but then as the ball goes in the air, he turns from the basket and goes the other way because he knows it's going to be nothing but net. Now, kids and teens learning to play basketball, do not do that. That's not a good thing for you to do. It's not a good habit. It doesn't work all the time, not even for stuff curry. But with the Lord, he always accomplishes his purposes. Always. And we'll hear more about these instructions in just a moment, but it's worth noting here, as it says in verses 26 and 27, that they were to talk about the Passover. With their children. The children were to ask them, and the parents were to have an answer for them. So, parents, talk to your children about the work that God is doing in and among you. Talk to them about your worship of him. And kids, if you don't understand something that your parents are doing, ask them. And they should have an answer. Because the truths of God's deliverance through the Passover were meant to be passed on generation after generation. And the same is true for us today. In verses 14 through 20 in the passage, the instructions continue. And the Lord's moves from talking about the blood that covers to talking about point two: the bread that consecrates. The bread that consecrates. We'll see that in verses 14 through 20. Now, something that is consecrated is something that is set apart for the Lord's use. It is holy and it's made for a special purpose. And God's people, in order to remember God's deliverance out of slavery, out of Egypt, they would need to have a holy assembly. And that was part of the feast of the unleavened bread. This feast will last for seven days from the 14th through the 21st day, as it says in the passage. And the feast was to occur throughout all generations. And in fact, that feast still happens to this day. This year that'll happen the second week of April. But these instructions about the bread that consecrates come with some warnings. Two warnings. Keep the leaven out and keep the sacred days holy. Keep the leaven out and the sacred days holy. Look at verse 15 of Exodus 12 Seven days you shall eat of the unleavened bread. On the first day you shall remove the leaven out of your houses. And if anyone eats what is leavened from the first day until the seventh day, that person shall be cut off from Israel. On the first day you shall hold a holy assembly, and on the seventh day a holy assembly. No work shall be done on those days, but what everyone needs to eat, that alone may be prepared. Verse 19, for seven days no leaven should be found in your houses. If anyone eats what is leavened, that person will be cut off from the congregation of Israel Whether he's a sojourner or a native of the land, you shall eat nothing leavened in all of your dwelling places. You shall eat unleavened bread So what's the deal with the bread? An unleavened bread. Biblically, leaven symbolized evil. Sin, corruption, and decay. So to keep the leaven out of their homes was another way of saying that they needed to keep sin out of their home. And since God's people were going to be covered by the blood, they were meant to have consecrated or separated, set apart lives in full devotion to Him. And these lies were meant to be lived together, which was also symbolized in the unleavened bread. So bread that was unleavened was bread that was without yeast. And the Lord had instructed the people to eat the Passover meal in haste, in a hurry, leaving no time for the bread to ferment. So the bread also symbolizes the corporate nature of God's people. Just think about the way that God's people are referred to as the congregation of Israel, all throughout the passage. So it mattered not just me by myself keeping sin out of my my life, but it mattered to keep sin out of our home. As the Apostle Paul would later say, a little leaven leavens the lump. And God's people were meant to be consecrated or set apart for his glory. And again the warning: if they ate leaven bread, they would be cut off from God's people Now that seems really severe, but I think that that's showing if they did eat leavened bread, they were not part of God's people to begin with. But we need to keep in mind in this passage that seems like you have the talk about the blood and the lamb, and then this section on leavened bread and unleavened bread, it might seem a little bit out of place. It might seem like what's going on here. But I think what we also see here is a picture of how salvation works with the Lord. The Lord saves from sin. He talks about what he's going to do in verses 1 through 13. He says it's going to happen. And then tells him to celebrate, but in the midst of that, he tells them how to live as a result. In other words, the Lord consecrates us Through his salvation. And then he calls us to live consecrated lives. And that order is important. The Lord saves and then calls us to live consecrated lives. So since the homes would be spared because they were covered by the blood, the people inside the home were meant to keep the leaven out. And that's why the Lord initiated these holy days, these celebrations, these sacred assemblies. He wanted them to remember his work, and he wanted them to worship him for the deliverance that he offered. So really keeping the leaven out and keeping the sacred days holy kind of go hand in hand Kids, a few minutes ago I mentioned that if you have a question around something that your family does, you should ask them. Just a few days ago, right before small group One of my kids asked me, why do we need to go to church? And to be real with you, I was pretty annoyed at that question at that time. Thankfully, God gave me a little bit of grace to give him this answer. Because God said so, and because we need other people to continue to follow Jesus. In other words, and relating that back to this Exodus passage, we keep the leaven out in part by keeping the sacred days holy. Meaning, we do this as we gather together for corporate worship, or we gather for evening prayer, or we gather for women's and men's retreats, or small groups, or other informal times of fellowship that we have with each other because we need each other to continue to follow the Lord, to live consecrated lives that He's already purchased for us So, with the feast of the unleavened bread, that commemorates their freedom from slavery. And this were to be basically a reenactment of Israel's quick departure from Egypt. Keep their belts on because they would need to leave at a moment's notice. And then the Passover commemorates liberation from death. It reenacts God's passing over or protecting of Israel. Both the Passover and the Feast of Unleavened Bread remind us that God delivers from death and He frees us from slavery. And this meant as that they celebrate it, even up to this day, the lamb, the bread, and the wine would all be necessary elements part of the Passover meal. The lamb will be a visible reminder of their substitutionary death The unleavened bread would remind them of the need to rid their lives from sin. And the wine will remind them of the blood that was shed for them by the Passover lamb covering their doors. So God's people were pretty passive in this deliverance, but they were meant to be active in their remembrance of this deliverance. Because this God would soon come and soon deliver. Point three, God delivers. Point three, God delivers. God's people heard these instructions and they bowed in worship. They did just as Moses and Aaron commanded. They took shelter under the blood. And here's how that night happened. Verse 29. At midnight, the Lord struck down all the firstborn in the land of Egypt. From the firstborn of Pharaoh who sat on his throne to the firstborn of the captive who was in the dungeon, and all of the firstborn of the livestock. And Pharaoh rose up in the night, he and all his servants and all the Egyptians, and there was a great cry in Egypt. For there was not a house where someone was not dead. Then he summoned Moses and Aaron by night and said, Up, go out from among my people, both you and the people of Israel, and go, serve the Lord as you have said. Take your flocks and your herds, as you have said, and be gone and bless me also. The Egyptians were urgent with the people to send them out out of the land in haste, for they said, We shall all be dead. So the people took their dough before it was leavened, their kneading bowls being bound up in their cloaks on their shoulders The people of Israel had also done as Moses told them, for they had asked the Egyptians for silver and for gold and for clothing. And the Lord had given the people favor inside of the Egyptians. So they had let them leave with what they asked. Thus they plundered the Egyptians. And the people of Israel journeyed from Ramses to Sikhoth, about six hundred thousand men on foot, besides women and children. A mixed multitude went up with them, and very much livestock, both flocks and herds. And they baked unleavened cakes of the dough that they had brought out of Egypt, for it was not leavened But they were thrushed out of Egypt and could not wait, nor had they prepared any provisions for themselves. We'll stop there for now So Pharaoh, the God and king of Egypt, even had his firstborn struck down. And there was wailing in all of the households. Can you hear it? All except those whose houses were covered by the blood And so Pharaoh finally let them go. The Egyptians sent them on their way, and God's people didn't go empty-handed, like God said. They plundered the Egyptians. But this plundering wasn't through a military conquest. It's because the Lord had done all the work and they gave the plunder away to them. And then this mixed multitude went out with their flocks and with their loaves and with their unleavened bread and everything that they had in their possessions. Now it's pretty interesting to me that the focal point of this Exodus account, which is that night that the Passover actually occurred, only takes up one verse in our passage. Verse 29, where it says, at midnight the Lord struck down all the firstborn in Egypt. I think this means for us. That the story of the focus of the Passover, the point of the Passover, is for us to both prepare and remember. Everything before that point is be is for us preparing for the Passover. And everything else for us to remember. So question for us: are we prepared? That might sound like a strange question though, right? We're talking about something that happened many, many years ago But if we know God's word, we know that this thread of deliverance shows that God does deliver, and he delivers through judgment. Let's think about Noah and the Ark. And we love that story. Kids love that story. And they are called to go into the boat. And into the ark. Those who went into the boat and into the ark, they were saved. But everybody else were judged. This also happened in the Israelites' homes. Instead of the firstborn, their firstborn being slaughtered, the firstborn of their children, or their firstborn of their cattle. The blood on the door meant that someone had already been slaughtered for them. The lamb had been slaughtered in their place. Now, this was meant to happen year after year. It was a reminder for them that this Passover was symbolic. They were delivered from death, yes, but they were not delivered here from eternal death They will be freed from Egypt, yes, but as we'll see in some coming weeks, Egypt will remain in them. There will still leaven and sin among them as God's people So the blood of the lamb offered temporary deliverance. But God's word teaches us that the blood of his spotless lamb, the Lord Jesus Christ, would offer eternal deliverance. And this is what John the Baptist saw when he saw Jesus approaching in John chapter 1, where he says, Behold the Lamb who takes away the sin of the world. And Jesus did not rebuttal him, and he did not correct him because he was right. But in case there was any uncertainty from his disciples about who Jesus was. Jesus clarifies that, I think, most clearly in the Passover that he celebrated with his disciples. The Last Supper. We heard about that in our scripture reading from this morning. And then the Passover meal, there will be a presider of a meal. Jesus would have been the presider of that meal. And the disciples would have expected to hear the story about God delivering his people out of Egypt. They would have heard about, they're expected to hear about the spotless lamb, the blood that covered the doorposts, the unleavened bread. But Jesus stands up and instead he says, My time is at hand, meaning the sacrifice would soon be made And Jesus would take unleavened bread and he would break it. And instead of account recounting the story of unleavened bread that we just heard, he said, of the bread, this is my body. Broken for you. Do this in remembrance of me. And then he took the cup, the wine that would have remembered, reminded God's people of the blood that was shed by the sacrifice of the lamb. But he didn't say that story. What he said was: take and drink, for this is my blood. This is the blood of the covenant poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins. So Jesus Christ, the only true unleavened bread, had his body broken for us. And none of his bones were broken, as it says there in the passage. His blood was shed for us, which is why he had the cup. But you know, in all of the gospel accounts about this Passover night You have the bread, you have the wine, but there were no lambs on the table. Why? Because the sinless, spotless Lamb of God was standing before them And he will soon go to the cross to be sacrificed on their behalf. His blood was shed. His life was given on the cross. And unlike any of those other lambs, Jesus gave up his life willingly for the forgiveness of our sins. And he also took up his life again when he rose from the grave. Calling all of us out of slavery to sin, out of slavery from darkness, out of slavery from death, by placing our faith in Him alone for our salvation. And in placing our faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. We were like those Israelites putting the blood over the doorposts over our homes, over our hearts, over our lives. Why must we do that? Because we learn from verse 29, judgment is coming. We must be prepared. So are you prepared for that? The Lord is coming back. The Lord will enact justice when he comes back. Are you ready for that day? You will see the Lord. I will see the Lord. Either as our wonderful and merciful Savior or as the righteous judge. Well, there's every right to condemn us because of our sins. If you're here today and you feel underprepared and you want to know more of what that means, let's talk after church. But you can be prepared today by faith because the blood of the Lamb was already shed, even for your sins If you would trust in him by believing that he came to take away your sins and trusting that he's the only one that can deliver you from death, put your trust in Christ today. And brothers and sisters in this room, for those of us who are already covered by the blood, remember we are called to remember and celebrate the deliverance that God has already won for us. And remember that he still delivers only one way through the blood of his Passover Lamb. And when we're in glory, as we heard from our scripture, our call to worship in Revelation 5, We will sing with a loud voice, worthy is the Lamb who was slain, when our deliverance is complete. When we have no more sin to worry about, when we have no more shame to carry with us, when death will not be a factor in our life or anyone else's life around us, that day is coming soon, beloved. Because as Jesus said at the end of the book of Revelation, I am coming soon. May we be people that say, come Lord Jesus, and await his coming So what should we do in the meantime? What should we do in the meantime? Point number four. In the meantime, we should remember. Point four, the people remember. God's people are intended to remember his deliverance, and they're meant to do so together. I think we see that in the remaining of the passage in at least two ways. God's people are called to keep watch together and also to keep faith together. Look at verse 40 of Exodus chapter 12. The time that the people lived in Israel in in Egypt of Israel lived in Egypt was 430 years. At the end of 430 years, on that very day, all the hosts of the Lord went out from the land of Egypt. It was a night of watching by the Lord to bring them out of the land of Egypt. So this same night is a night of watching kept to the Lord by all the people of Israel throughout all the generations. And the Lord said to Moses and Aaron, This is a statute of the Passover, no foreigner shall eat of it, but every slave that is brought for money may eat of it after you have circumcised him. No foreigner or hired worker may eat of it. It may be eaten in one house, and you shall not take any of the flesh outside of the house, and you shall not break any of its bones All the congregation of Israel shall keep it. If a stranger shall sojourn with you and will keep the Passover to the Lord, let all his males be circumcised. Then he may come near and keep it, and he shall be as a native of the land, but no uncircumcised person shall eat of it There shall be one law for the native and one law for the stranger who sojourns among you. And all the people of Israel did as the Lord commanded Moses and Aaron. And on that very day the Lord brought the people of Israel out of the land of Egypt by their host. So how should we remember? God's people can remember by keeping watch together And I think that means we are meant to keep alert and remain on guard because our deliverance has come and it is soon coming. And notice how timely this deliverance was. Notice that the Lord had prophesied that the people of Israel would be in Egypt for over 400 years. And on the very last night of that, 430 years later, they were delivered. The Apostle Paul affirms that timeline in Galatians chapter 3: 430 years. This should remind us that God will always keep his promises, even if we think that he's slow in keeping his promises. So if you and as you and I long for the Lord Jesus Christ to come back, we see sin, we see suffering, our bodies are wearing out, our bodies are decaying. Remember the words of the Lord. Remember the words of his word, which says that he is being patient. Jesus has not come back yet because that's his own timeline. But in the meantime, he calls us to keep watch. He is being patient with those who have not turned to him. So let's be faithful in sharing the good news with others who have not turned to him. But as we know and as we learned last week, he is preparing for us a city where nothing wicked will ever enter it. And in this city, the Lamb will be its light because He is all the glory that we will ever need. So let's trust the Lord beloved and let's keep watch because He is coming soon. Secondly, we are also called to keep faith together. I think that's why there's so many references here to circumcision. Verses 43 through 49, the Lord reminds Moses and Aaron to tell the people, Since they've been delivered, they should live as those who have been delivered. And that's why you have references to circumcision, this sign of the faith. And if they were to eat the Passover, they were to do so by faith. Israelites were to do so by faith and sojourners. They would need to have their males circumcised. Why? Because that would be showing that they would be taking the Lord's Supper or the Passover meal by faith. This reminds us that God's people are meant to be accountable to each other, to make sure that they were taking this Passover meal by faith And that's similar to what we do each Lord's day, as we take the Lord's Supper together by faith. The reason why we take the Lord's Supper and not the Passover meal is because of how Jesus applied the Passover to the Pass. And because Jesus is the Passover lamb who's already been slain. There's not another lamb that we need to find. There's not another blood that we need to have over our doorposts. Jesus has already done that. And so what remains is the bread and the cup, which reminds us of our deliverance that the Lord has won for us As we do so, as we take the Lord's Supper, as we will take in just a few minutes, we remember that He has delivered us, and our deliverance is coming. It's like that part in the passage that was read to us by Missy where Jesus says, I will not drink again of the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God comes. We will drink anew with him by faith when our deliverance is final and sure. So as we take the Lord's Supper together, I know this is said often, but brothers and sisters, Yes, look inwardly, praise the Lord for his grace, but then take a few moments and look around the room and see that you have been saved and brought into a family. Be reminded of God's grace and the other people around the room. And if you are struggling with leaven in your life As we all do from time to time. And you look and see one of those brothers or sisters around you taking the cup, pull them aside after service and ask for their prayer. Ask for their encouragement. Ask for their help. We are called to keep watch together, beloved, but we are also called to keep faith together. And so we gather together, eagerly awaiting our deliverance. We watch and we pray and we praise and we thank the Lord for what He's done because He has delivered us. And he will deliver us. We wait in hope because we know that the blood of his Lamb was shed for us. And so that we have right standing even right now with him. So let's keep watch, beloved, and let's keep faith together. Oh Lord, thank you for your word. Thank you for your salvation. Thank you for your grace. Thank you for your mercy. We are all in need of mercy. Thank you for all the ways that you've woven in the death of a spotless lamb as the focal point of our salvation and our deliverance. Lord, we thank you that the hard work has already been done by your son Jesus. Jesus has truly paid it all. He has delivered us, and he will deliver us. Help us today, O Lord, to live as your delivered people. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen