Good morning, brothers and sisters. Good to see you this morning. Good to be with you. Good to sing with you, and good to collectively put our hope in the Lord Let me pray one more time before we get into God's word this morning in James chapter 5. Please pray with me. Oh Lord, help us to place our hope in you today. We hope in you. We trust you We hope in your word. We know it doesn't return void. We know you use it to sanctify us because it is truth. Your word is truth. So we ask you would use this time to sanctify us To convict us, to correct us, to change us. Help us to look more like your Son, Jesus Christ, as a result. In his name we ask and pray. Amen. In eighteen eighty-two, Antonio Galdi began working on the Sagara Familia in Barcelona, Spain. This cathedral has become one of the most famous tourist attractions in Barcelona, but not necessarily because it's beauty. I know that Bryce and Sarah went to Spain recently. Did y'all go to Barcelona? Did you see this? Oh, okay. I should have taught you all more before the sermon. Ask them about it later. I haven't seen it myself. Just seen it online. Uh it's eccentric looking It stands out like a sore thumb. It's a bit strange looking. It looks like it doesn't fit in the rest of the city. It towers over it. And it's still under construction. Since 1882, it remains a work in progress. The construction plans were interrupted by Gaudi's death in 1926. The original plans were lost. The Spanish Civil War started in the 1930s. There were financial issues that interrupted the progress along the way. And even COVID, just like it slowed everything else down in the world, also slowed down the progress of finishing this cathedral. I wonder if things in your life seem like they just kind of stick out like a sore thumb today. They don't fit. They seem, they look, they feel out of place. Or maybe trial after trial, or enduring sickness, or hardship of some kind has slowed down your progress Maybe you look at your life and you feel like there's still a lot of work to get done and you don't know how to finish it. You don't know when it's gonna finish. And these Christians that James is writing to in the book of James, these Christians who were dispersed abroad, these Christians who were having trials of their own kind, these Christians who were persecuted Might have been thinking and feeling the same exact kinds of things. Which is why James concludes this letter, chapter 5, pretty much the whole chapter, with a word on suffering and patience. Please meet me in James chapter 5 if you haven't turned there already. The Bible's provided, that's on page 1013. James, the brother of Jesus, and this leader in the early church, has been teaching God's people Amidst their own trials, amidst their own hardships, about how faith in Christ works. And faith in Christ, it matures and it endures. And this maturing and enduring takes place through trials. James kind of started the book with that in chapter 1, for example, where he says, count it all joy as you experience trials of various kinds, for you know that the testing of your faith produces something. Produces endurance or steadfast steadfastness. And let endurance have its full effect in you, so that you may be perfect and complete, lacking nothing. Or in that same chapter, verse 12: Blessed is the one who endures trials. But when he has stood the test, he will receive the crown of life that God has promised to those who love him Chapter 5 continues in that same vein. It's almost like he's closing the loop on this theme around trials and suffering. He focuses specifically on how we can mature and endure in the faith a missed suffering of any kind. How can we do that? The answer that James provides this morning is patiently. Please listen as I read James chapter 5, starting in verse 1. This is God's word. And it reads, Come now, you rich, weep and howl for the miseries that are coming upon you. Your riches have rotted, and your garments are moth-eaten. Your gold and silver have corroded, and their corrosion will be evidence against you, and will eat up your flesh like fire. You have laid up treasure in these last days. Behold, the wages of the laborers who mold your fields, which you kept back by fraud, are crying out against you And the cries of the harvesters have reached the ears of the Lord of hosts. You have lived on earth in luxury and self-indulgence You have fattened your hearts in a day of slaughter. You have condemned and murdered the righteous person. He does not resist you. Be patient, therefore, brothers, until the coming of the Lord. See how the farmer waits for the precious fruit of the earth, be impatient about it until it receives the early and the late rains. You also be patient, establish your hearts, for the coming of the Lord is at hand Do not grumble against one another, brothers, so that you may not be judged. Behold, the judge is standing at the door. As an example of suffering and patience, brothers, take the prophets who spoke in the name of the Lord. Behold, we consider those blessed who remain steadfast You've heard of the steadfastness of Job. You have seen the purpose of the Lord, how the Lord is compassionate and merciful But above all, my brothers, do not swear, either by heaven or by earth or by any other oath, but let your yes be yes and your no be no, so that you may not fall under condemnation. We're taking notes. The main idea for our time together in God's Word. Faith in Christ matures and endures. As we patiently await the Lord's return. Faith in Christ matures and endures as we patiently await the Lord's return. Where am I getting that from? I'm getting that from where I think the main crux of this passage is, which is verses 7 and 8, where James talks about patience. He says, be patient, therefore, until the coming of the Lord. And then at the end of verse 8, he says, establish your hearts, or stand firm, for the coming of the Lord is at hand. And I think everything around it links to it. So if you were hearing that, you're wondering how do these sections fit together? I think that's how they fit together around the fact that we should wait patiently as we await the Lord's return. So we'll divide the passage in two parts. We'll focus on verses 1 through 6, where James provides this word of warning to God's enemies in light of the Lord's return. And then verses 7 through 12, where James provides words of wisdom to God's people as we await the Lord's return. So first off, first part, these words of warning, verses 1 through 6 of James chapter 5. Verse 1 starts with the phrase, come now. As he just started, a few verses earlier, if you flip back to chapter four, starting in verse thirteen. Verses thirteen through seventeen were words of warnings to God's people about presuming on knowing the future. Come now, you who think tomorrow we will do this and that. We heard about that last week. But in chapter 5, this word of warning, these words of warnings are to people presuming upon God's grace. As if God will not judge them for their sin against people, and therefore against God It's as if the rich that are described here in James chapter 5, verses 1 through 6, they're walking around saying what people might say in our day. Only God can judge me. To which James says, yes, God can, God will, and that is not good news for you. And again, this section might seem or sound ill-placed. Why is James going from talking to God's people directly and now talking to people who are not of the household of God? People who are not of the faith. That's actually kind of in line with what the prophets do all throughout the scriptures Prophets like Jeremiah or prophets like Isaiah, they speak for the Lord to God's people, and then they also speak to God's enemies. Why do they do that? It's a warning to those enemies, but it's also a reminder to God's people that God is actually going to do something about this. In this section, that God is actually going to do something about the injustice that you all are experiencing. This injustice we hear about from the text specifically around these field workers and these harvesters, these landovers who were basically exploiting people. Now that idea of God's people and these people particularly being exploited or being taken advantage of financially is not far-fetched historically. In fact, think of Acts chapter 2, for example, where God's people, after they were converted, they had all things in common. Why would they need to have all things in common? Because as soon as they came to Christ, they were rejected from the rest of the world. They were rejected from the rest of society. They lost their status. They did not have any power politically or economically in this empire. They were often poor, marginalized, and in some cases. They were victims of injustice. So James is addressing these people who are doing the harm, these oppressors, in this letter to these Christians. He's warning them. But in warning them, he's reminding God's people that God will do something about this. The unjust will not get away with their doing. God sees it all, and he knows it. Look again at verse 1 through 3 of James chapter 5. Come to you rich, weep and howl for the miseries that are coming upon you. Your riches have rotten, your garments are moth-eaten Your gold and silver have corroded. Their corrosions will be evidence against you and will eat up your flesh like fire. You have laid up treasure in the last days. He seems to be pointing forward to something. Seems to be pointing forward to the day when those people will stand before the Lord, when the Lord will judge their sin. Now you might be thinking, what's wrong with wealth? What's wrong with being rich? Maybe these people were just business savvy. Maybe they were just self-made men. James doesn't see it that way. They seem to acquire all of their wealth on the backs of people And these warnings that James is giving here is in line with what the Bible teaches in places like Leviticus 19. Where God teaches against such practices. Leviticus 19, 13. You shall not oppress your neighbor or rob him The wages of a of a hired worker shall not remain with you until uh with you all night until the morning Or even think of the words of Jesus, Matthew 6. 19, where he teaches about treasure and what we should do with it, how we should think about it. Do not lay up for yourselves treasure on earth Where moth and rust destroy, where thieves break in and steal, but lay up for yourselves treasure in heaven Where neither moth nor rust destroys, where thieves do not break and stick and sit where thieves do not break in and steal, for where your treasure is, there your heart will be also Jesus also says no one can serve two masters. You cannot serve God and money. Money, again, is a great tool. It's a terrible master Or to put it another way, when you love money, you will never have enough of it. James has already taught in James chapter 1 that to place all of our hope in riches Is foolish because riches, just like our lives, are fleeting. And it says in James 1:11, so also will the rich man fade away in the midst of his pursuits Right in the middle of it. So these people who are addressed here in verses 1 through 6, they're not savvy or just shrewd. They're viewed as sinful in the eyes of the Lord. He sees it all, he knows it all, and he will judge it. James explains why, starting in verse 4. Look at verse 4 of that same section. The wages of the laborers who mowed your fields, which you kept back by fraud, are crying out against you. And the cries have reached the of the harvesters have reached the ears of the Lord of hosts. Again, the Lord of hosts, a phrase about the Lord's judgment, the phrase about the Lord's righteousness. You have lived on earth in luxury and self-enjoy and indulgence. You have fat in your hearts in a day of slaughter. You've condemned and murdered the righteous person. He does not resist you. All for the love of money. But these are not just distant first century examples, unfortunately. Examples of this kind of greed and exploitation abound in our world Just even think of the history of chattel slavery in this country, or even modern slavery and human trafficking happening right now as we speak in virtually every country in the world. Or even think of financial schemes to deceive the elderly out of money. That's not savvy, that's wicked. It's sinful in the eyes of the Lord And James' warning to them is that their days are numbered and they will be judged for their sin. Think of Exodus 2, for example, verses 23 through 25. You think of this, you get this picture of the people crying out in their cries going up to the Lord. And the Lord hearing them and then responding. It says in verse 24, and God heard their groaning, and God remembered his covenant with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. And God saw the people of Israel. And God knew. He sees and he knows when people are suffering because of the cause of other people. He sees it and he knows it. He doesn't overlook it. So in short, the unrighteous will not get away with anything. And I mean anything. The Lord sees it all, he knows it all, and he will righteously judge it all. That's in part what he's coming back to do. So if we are in Christ though, if we are God's people, what do we do with this section? We're all sitting here right now. What should we do with this section of scripture, that first half? We should all take heed We should all take heed. This section reminds us of what the Bible teaches about wealth. In Proverbs 21:6, the getting of treasures by a lying tongue. And is a fleeting vapor and a snare of death. So for our teens in the room or our college students, as you think about your future, as you think about your career path Consider much more than just what the dollar amount will be at the end of it. Consider how you'll get it. Consider how you can best love your neighbor as yourself. And you can do that in an array of career paths. But choose wisely. Or even for those of us in business or in leadership of others. Do what you can to serve the good of the people who work for you. Remember, if you are in Christ, Christ is your master, and he is after more than the bottom line of the company. You have a higher regard. The Lord is after your heart. For all of us who were in Christ, we should take stock of ourselves and our relationship with our wealth, with our money, how we manage it, how we spend it. Are we generous or are we consumed with greed? For those of us who are here and you're you're not a Christian, you wouldn't describe yourself as a Christian The Lord's judgment should not right now provide any comfort for you. The Lord's judgment leaves all of us, every single one of us, condemned apart from the Lord's mercy. But that's why Christians use the language of being saved. Saved from what? Saved from the penalty of our sins, of our crimes against God. Not even just the ones that are described here. All of us have sinned and all of us have fallen short of God's glory. But all of us, by faith alone in Christ, can be saved by Christ Because Jesus came to this world to live a perfect life, to die on the cross for our sins. He was the righteous man who was condemned and murdered, and he did not resist it But he is also the one who rose from the grave, who was ascended to the right hand of the Father right now, the one who came before, and the one who will come again to judge righteously. And it is true that only God can judge you, but it's also true that only God, through his son Jesus Christ, can save you. And he can save you even today. If you place your faith in him. And we would love to talk to you about that if you have more questions about what that means to put your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Brothers and sisters, the fact that the Lord Jesus will return should be the banner that we place over our entire lives. All of our experiences, all of our sufferings, everything that we see, everything that we think, we should remember that the Lord is coming back. To us that will not be a burden. We don't have to fear his coming, John says in John in 1 John chapter 2. We don't have to shrink back from it. We can say come Lord Jesus because we know he's coming to redeem us. Just think about the Marvel movies from years ago, the good ones from years ago. Where you would sit through the Marvel movie, you would sit through the credits, because there will probably be some sort of scene, a teaser about the next movie, and then usually after that the screen would go black, and then it will say something like Tony Stark will return. I was like, okay, something's cooking here. Something's going. I'm expecting something else to come. That's giving me a little bit of hope. That's giving me something to look forward to. Brothers and sisters, more than that, over every banner of your life, every issue in your life, every sin in your life, every injustice that you see and even face yourself Remember that Jesus Christ will return. That is a fact. He will return. He will redeem. He will restore every single thing And James wants these Christians here to live in light of that banner, to live in light of the fact that Jesus is coming back. So he gives them words of wisdom and just how to do that, which leads to part two. These words of wisdom that James gives to his people. Words of warnings for the people who are doing the exploitation, these landowners, but now he's giving words of wisdom for God's people. Or how they should live in light of the suffering that they will face, as they long for the day that the Lord will return. These words of wisdom extend, I think, throughout the rest of the letter. We'll hear more about that next week, Lord willing, as we talk about prayer and suffering, etc. , and all sorts of different things. But first, this first word of wisdom that we'll focus on today from verses 7 through 12, specifically here, verses 7 through 8, we're focusing on this word of wisdom. Which is to wait patiently. Dame says, in lieu of the second coming, wait patiently. Look at verse 7. Be patient, therefore, brothers, until the coming of the Lord. See how the farmer waits for the precious fruit of the earth. Being patient about it until it receives the early and late rains. You also be patient. Establish your hearts, for the coming of the Lord is at hand. Again, I think those verses are the main thrust of this section in James chapter 5. It binds the first section, the warning, with also these words of wisdom to God's people. In the middle of that is the fact that Jesus will return. We should patiently wait and hope in him. And to illustrate that, James uses the illustration or the picture of a farmer. The farmer waits for fruit to be produced. The farmer waits for the harvest. But kids in the room, have you ever been on a farm before? What do you think a farmer must do in order to actually receive a harvest? And you don't have to be on a farm to know this. You just have to have gone home one day with some seeds that your teacher expects you to plant in your family's backyard. What do you have to do? Mercy You gotta wait. Well, before you wait, though, you have work to do, don't you? What kind of work do you need to do before you wait? Anyone? You have to print. You have to sew. You have to work. You have to do something. Simon, what do you want to add? You have to fertilize. It takes work. It takes effort. Farmers observe the season the seasons. They know what time of year to plant. They know where the sunlight's coming from. They know when they're expected to get rain. They have to tend the soil. They have to sow the seeds. And then, like Mercy said, they wait. James here is referring to the early rains and the late rains. The early rains would have come like in October or November after crops would have been first sown. And then the later rains would become like in March or in April in that time of the world or in that part of the world. And between the time, there was still work to do Farmers would still have to tend the ground. They would have to work to keep the weeds out. They would have to work to keep out any anybody who wanted to come in, or any animal who wanted to come in to disrupt the growth of the crops. And they could do nothing to speed up the process of the growth. They could do nothing to speed up the harvest. They would have to wait with hope, but wait nonetheless. And God's people are called to wait like a farmer. Wait with hope, but we are called to wait nonetheless. And again, think about it. There's another factor in this farming metaphor that people cannot control. We cannot control the weather We cannot control the rain. We cannot control how much of it that we actually get. Which means therefore the farmer sow as they may, work as they might. They don't know when the harvest will come. They don't know how much of a harvest will come. But they work trusting that the harvest will come. Why is James using this illustration in light of the Lord's return? I think he's using it to say that in light of the Lord's return, we've got work to do We need to sow. We are called to pray. We are called to obey the Lord and His Word. We are called to love one another. We are called to love even our enemies. We are called to preach the gospel. And we are called To wait, not knowing exactly when the Lord will return, but knowing that his return is sure and it's soon Look at verse 8 again, where James says, establish your hearts, for the returning of the Lord is at hand. Or it's near. Or it's imminent. Now James is not claiming to know the time or the date of the Lord's return. And I'll say, if you follow someone on YouTube who claims to know the time or date of the Lord's return, you should probably unsubscribe. Like right now. Here's the take out your phone and do it. But the meaning of the phrase the Lord is at hand means that there is nothing in the way of the Lord returning in redemptive history. There's nothing in the way of that. James has already used the phrase in the last days, for example. And the Bible's use of in the last days doesn't mean that it's tipped off with a presidential election, for example. It means we are in the last days because Jesus already come, He's already died on the cross, He's already ascended into heaven. Since then, we've been in the last days. That's what the Bible teaches. So since we are in the time between the times, between the first coming and the second coming, we are in the last days Because Jesus will come again to judge, and Jesus will come again to redeem, as in redeem his people. In the middle of that, there's his suffering that James has been talking about all throughout the letter. What do we do in the midst of it? We trust him. Some of you know I've been visiting home a lot lately to look after my dad. Thank you for your prayers. Uh continue to covet your prayers. But a beautiful picture of this truss was by a stranger, a woman named Miss Georgia, who came in to clean the hospital room. Singing unashamedly, humming words to a song that said, when I don't know what to do, I'll put my trust in you. That's all she was singing. And that ministered to me so greatly. I don't know if she made up that song. I don't know if that's an actual song, but that's just what I needed to hear Brothers and sisters, maybe you need to hear the same. When you don't know what to do, when you can't make sense of everything, trust in the Lord. Wait on him. That's what he's called us to do, to wait, like the farmer, patiently and full of hope. But here's a second word of wisdom. Wait patiently, that's the first one. Second word of wisdom. Do not grumble. Look at verse 9. Do not grumble against one another, brothers, so that you may not be judged. Behold, the judge is standing at the door. Now that also might seem a little out of place. Like how why are we going back and forth here? Why is he saying do not grumble? I think this is because this clearly demonstrates two temptations that come when we are experiencing suffering. The temptation to compare and the temptation to complain. Now, lamenting and going directly to the Lord with our grief is very different. That's an altogether different category. There are psalms about that. But we are tempted to compare and to complain when we face these trials of various kinds. We might compare our situation to others and grumble about it or grumble against them because there's no way they could understand what I'm going through. They seem so favored. But James says in chapter 4, verse 12, who were you to judge your neighbor? We don't have all the facts necessarily. The Apostle Peter had a similar situation in John chapter 21, after Jesus restored him to faith. After he restored him to apostleship, as he tells him to feed my sheep, feed my lambs, Jesus told him what would happen with his life. He told him how he would die And Peter did what most of us would do in that situation. It was like, well, what about him? What about that guy? Now, as much as we want to say in that same situation, we would start singing whatever my God ordains is right. I think if you're like me, you're kind of like Peter. Where it's like, okay, Lord, what's going on here? Why me? What about him? And Jesus' response, basically, that ain't your business, Peter. You follow me. He doesn't say it like that, but you can read John 21 for yourself later. And that's exactly what Peter did. He kept following Jesus. Read the book of Acts. He kept following Jesus. Read 1 and 2 Peter. All through his suffering and all the way to glory. Because that death that he would die eventually happened the exact same way that Jesus did said it would happen Brothers and sisters, do not grumble against one another during your time of suffering. Do not grumble about one another during your time of suffering. What you might not see might not be how things actually are. There might be more going on than you think or perceive. And As hard as it may be, rest in the Lord's goodness. Rest in the Lord's judgment. Rest in the Lord's sovereignty. And follow him. And follow him all the way to glory. It's the third word of wisdom from James chapter 5. Learn from Godly examples. Learn from godly examples. I think that starts around verse 10. As an example of suffering and patience, brothers, take the prophets who spoke in the name of the Lord. We consider them blessed who remain steadfast. You've also heard the steadfastness of Job, and you've seen the purpose of the Lord and how the Lord is compassionate and merciful. So in those verses, James referring to the prophets as examples of suffering and patience, people who suffered for the sake of the Lord, who experienced trials and even injustices of all kinds. And yet were patient. And they continued to speak in the name of the Lord and declare the good news of the Lord. Jesus says this in Matthew 5. Blessed are you when others revile you and persecute you and other utter all kinds of evil falsely against you on my account. Rejoice and be glad. For your reward is great in heaven, for so they also persecuted the prophets who went before you. There's a lot we can learn from these prophets that have gone before us. So if you're experiencing some hardships, maybe you should read some of the prophets. Jeremiah, Isaiah. You can even read Lamentations. You can even read Exodus or Deuteronomy and you can read about Moses trying to lead God's people and the challenges that he faced. Sometimes from God's people. Or even study Hebrews chapter 11 and get a glimpse of all the heroes of the faint, the saints that have gone before us who persevered through suffering. Why? Because Hebrews 11 says, they were waiting for their reward. And we should be awaiting our reward as well. But in James 5, of these examples that we can talk about, plenty of people that could be mentioned, he mentions only two names: Elijah, we'll talk about him next week, and Job. You know about Job, the righteous man who was permitted to be harmed by Satan. Who experienced trial after trial. He lost his wealth. He lost children. He lost his good health. He even lost his reputation as his friends questioned him and wondered if he was the cause of his suffering And Job, throughout it all, remained steadfast. He continued to walk with God. Now raise your hand if you've read the book of Job Before. Okay, hands down. Scripture reading today was from Job chapter 42. That's the last chapter. There's a lot in the middle of chapter 1 and chapter 42. And if you've read Job, you know Job's story. He kind of stumbled along the way. He had these grand declarations of faith. Though he slay me, I will yet trust in him, for example. Or I know that my Redeemer lives, and at the last he will stand upon the earth. So we can quote those verses. But then in the middle of it, there starts to seep in this doubt, this confusion, this arguing with his friends. Defending his own character, saying, I will stand before the Lord and I will confront him about my suffering. And yet, James still says he remained steadfast. Why does he say that? I think that's because all along the way, Job was still going this way towards the Lord. In all of his confusion, frustration, doubts, questioning, he went toward the Lord, not away from the Lord. That's what it means to remain steadfast. And then think about scripture reading at the end of the book. After the Lord responds to Job, and Job responds by saying, I heard about you, Lord, but now I see you face to face. Brothers and sisters, if we remain steadfast amidst our suffering, even if we stumble along the way, the reward is a clearer view of God. Of who he is and who we are in him. But even think of the purpose of the suffering. Think of the purpose of the book of Job. How does James define it? He says you've seen the Lord's purpose in verse 11. That the Lord is compassionate and merciful. And isn't that also striking? That's not always the conclusion that we make about Job. We don't think, praise God, we think poor Job. And none of us would actually want to switch places with him. We don't view our suffering in that way. And it's hard to do. But since the Lord will return, since he will one day make everything right. Since he will wipe away every tear from our eyes, since he has not changed and remains faithful, we can look for his compassion and his mercy to accompany every single trial that he gives us. Every single one. Makes me think of a friend of mine, Richard, who's had a number of health challenges throughout the last several years. He's been hospitalized more times than I can count. And every single morning, including this morning, he sends out verses of the day to groups of people. The verse this morning, Galatians 6:9, let us not grow weary in doing good, for we will reap in due time if we do not lose heart. It's almost as if he knew what I was preaching. Even in his suffering, he remains an example of steadfastness. Doesn't mean he doesn't have hard days, but each morning he's looking to the Lord's compassion and mercy. So let's be willing to learn from these examples as we see it in Scripture. People who not only saw the hard, but they also saw that the Lord was still faithful and good. People who said, Lord, I don't see your goodness or your compassion or your mercy, but I will look for it and I will keep looking until I find it. We should learn from those people. We should learn from those godly examples around us. But here's a forced word of wisdom. We should also, in times of trial, as we wait for the Lord's return, speak honestly. Wait patiently. Do not grumble. Where's the third one? I can't find it now. Uh learn from godly examples. There it is. And fourthly, speak honestly This is verse 12 that I'm focusing on here. Let me read the verse But above all, my brothers, do not swear either by heaven or by earth or by any other oath, but let your yes be yes and your no be no, so that you may not fall under condemnation. Again, that seems like why is that there? How does that fit? Am I trying to just make this fit? Is that misplaced? Again, this is talking about how we respond in times of trial. And it's connecting our words and our actions, which I think is what the entire point of the book of James is. I think the main point of James is summed up in James chapter 2, verse 12. So speak and so act as those who will be judged under the perfect law of liberty. So he talks to God's enemies, they will be judged under God's perfect law. He talks to God's people, you will be comforted when the Lord comes. But in the meantime, as you live, remember there is this law of liberty that you should be following, that you should be walking in. That law is good for you. I think that's why it's included there. And I think even this conversation around your yes be yes and your no be no is a callback to James 4:13. Presuming about tomorrow. Not telling your yes be yes and your no be no is presuming around the future. Or, in some cases, it's just speaking dishonestly about the future or about what you know could happen or couldn't happen. Jesus says the same thing in Matthew 5. 37. He says, Let what you say be simply yes or no. Anything more than that comes from evil. But what does this have to do with suffering and patience specifically? Because we can apply that a lot of different ways. One quick way, if someone's inviting you somewhere and you think that you really don't want to go, don't say maybe. Just say no. No, thank you. I I won't be going. Right? Or maybe if you're like me sometimes you kind of hope that if you had a pre-arranged gathering You hope that something happens where somebody else says, I'm sorry, we can't do it anymore. And you're like, oh, that's too bad. And really you're relieved. Right? Then he says, let your yes be yes and your no be no. Alright, back to my manuscript. What does that have to do with suffering and patience? I think it could deal with the kind of bargaining that we might be tempted to do with God when we experience hardships. Like Lord, if you would just fill in the blank, then I will fill in the blank. Or, maybe it's even in answering the hardest question to answer when you're experiencing trials. How are you doing? Church, we can bear with each other as we grieve, as we experience suffering and trials of all kinds by speaking honestly. So put it another way, this means that during times of trial, we're not trying to rush through it by trying to bargain with God to get our way. That doesn't work. We're not making oaths because our words can't keep or accomplish pretty much anything. And we also are not with our words undermining the time that we're experiencing. We're not undermining our suffering. Our oaths don't have the power to change anything. And undermining our suffering does not change the sting of our suffering. But along with our honesty, we need to remember to bring the truth, the honest truth of God's word, to our times of suffering. That he will never leave or forsake us. That he truly is compassionate and merciful. That Jesus will not break a bruised reed, even if you feel bruised and broken. That Jesus is lowly and gentle in heart, that we can cast all of our cares upon him, and he will hear them, all of them, for he cares for us. So if you feel grieved today, do not turn away from God. Do not turn away from His Word. Steadfastness looks like walking with God, walking towards God. And even looking to his word and seeing the truth about him and about us that's within it. Remember, God keeps his word all of it, and he keeps his people, all of them. Antonio Guardi, the architect who began work on the Sagrada Familia in 1882, knew that this project would take a long time to finish. In fact, his estimates were that it would take 200 years to complete. And people are saying that this project will be completed in 2026. Well, we'll see. They should probably add if the Lord wills to that. But speaking of this project, Antonio Galdi, before he passed, he says the following The patron of this project is not in a hurry. Brothers and sisters The patron, the architect of the project of our lives is not in a hurry. He is still working. He is still conforming us to the image of his son. And he's using our trials and our suffering to do just that. So our suffering is not interrupting anything that he plans to do. He will actually complete his good work that he started in us. He'll get the job done, and he's not in a hurry to do so. But may He give us grace to grow in our patience as we suffer, as we experience trials, and as we long for his return. Let's pray Father, we know what's true in your word, but we also know what's true in our lives and our hearts, and we need your grace desperately. Lord, many of us are saying right now, we believe, help our unbelief. We are grieved. We are tired. We need your help. But we're asking you, Lord, because we know that you can and you do answer. So please help us all to walk with you, to remain steadfast under trial, knowing that on the last day we will receive our reward, knowing that we will reap if we do not lose heart. Help us not to lose heart, we pray in Jesus' name, amen.