Good morning again. It's good to be with you. Good to open up God's word together. I hope you feel that way. I feel that way. So please do turn in your Bibles to Ephesians chapter three. If you're using one of the Bibles that we have provided. Simon, you're excited about being in chapter three? Awesome. No, it didn't take us. I wasn't going to say that anymore. I was moving on. But but we Simon's excited. New chapter of Ephesians. Ephesians chapter 3, that's on page 977 of those Bibles that are provided if you're using one of those. A while back, so about a year and a half ago, I believe, when we were still living in South Jersey, we made plans to have some dear friends. over to our house. They were from Philadelphia. There's a pastor and his family from Philadelphia and we'd been trying to get together. They'd never been to our house. We'd been to their house a couple of times. We're trying to get them to come over to our house and The plans just were never working out, but finally we had we had gotten things together and we were excited this day had come. They were gonna come visit us and about an hour uh before they uh were scheduled to arrive at our house. uh my friend vouter uh called and I just thought maybe they were getting a little bit of a late start or they hit some traffic or something. He's voice was uh cracking and he told me that they had just been in a serious car accident. They'd just gotten like T-boned by a car that just accelerated out of a gas station and smacked right into the side of their car Car was was totaled basically. No one thankfully was seriously injured, but there were some bruises and the his kids have four young children. Kids were especially shaken up And so obviously they were not going to be coming to our house for dinner that night. It was a quick call. Uh but when I hung up, I had this deep feeling of guilt Uh it was it's kind of an irrational, you know, feeling at that moment, but I I I I felt like this wouldn't have happened to them if they weren't coming to our house. As if in some way the pain and the trauma that they had just experienced was my was because of me. I wonder if you've ever experienced something like that feeling. I'm so sorry that you've had to suffer and and your pain and your affliction has come as a result of serving me or doing something for me. It seems like the Apostle Paul is anticipating something along those lines. uh in the mind of the Ephesians at this point in the letter uh that we've been studying together and this particular portion that we're going to study This week and next week, actually, chapter 3, verses 1 through 13. If you you've had time to get to your Bible, look there. I'm gonna read this whole passage in just a moment, but look at verse 1. You see Paul says there, for this reason. And that means he's uh gonna bring something to a conclusion. He's been expounding upon the glory uh of Jesus as the creator of a of a new race. We've been talking about that, a new humanity. bringing down the the bitter wall of hostility that separated Jews and Gentiles and uniting all different peoples, all different ethnicities in Christ through his cross. Sometimes I've heard when people talk about the conflict that existed between Jews and Gentiles in the first century, they say it's hard for us to get our minds around what that how bitter that conflict must have been. And they'll point to conflicts in our own day like maybe about race or about politics. It's like I actually think it's pretty easy to get a feel in our own day for the bitterness. All we have to do is read the headlines. That's the bitterness that existed, and yet Jesus has united bitter enemies and turned them into beloved family members. And Paul says then, for this reason, chapter 3, verse 1. And he's getting ready to pray for the Ephesians to increasingly know this this deep unity-forming love of Christ, this love that surpasses knowledge. You see, Paul's going to pray that in verse 14. Look at your Bible. He says, for this reason. But before he gets to that prayer, something about Paul's mentioning his imprisonment causes him to interrupt himself and leads him into a digression. When he says there in verse one, again, I am going to read the passage here, but when he says there in verse one, I'm a prisoner for Christ Jesus. He's it's the first time in this letter that he's communicating something that his readers may well have known already, but it's good for us to be reminded of. that while Paul's been glorying in these wonderful spiritual blessings that we have in Christ, he's been in a Roman prison cell He's been in jail. And again, it's likely that the Ephesians knew this. Maybe they were feeling frightened about what Paul's imprisonment meant for them who had received this message. Maybe he's expecting or thinking that they're perhaps feeling guilty, that he's suffering so severely as a result of serving them You see, it says there in verse 1, he's a prisoner of Christ Jesus on behalf of you Gentiles. For us? It's all this suffering for us. And so Paul's getting ready to pray, but then he stops. And he'll resume that thought and that prayer in verse 14. But first he aims to comfort the Ephesians and encourage them That they not lose heart over what he's suffering for them by pressing a little deeper into this unfolding plan of God that he's been expounding upon and his specific role in it. And their role in it. And I think it applies to us in our role in this continuing unfolding plan of God. So let's listen in and see what Paul has to say to us As we read now verses 1 through 13 of Ephesians chapter 3, listen along as I read For this reason, I, Paul, a prisoner for Christ Jesus on behalf of you Gentiles Assuming that you have heard of the stewardship of God's grace that was given to me for you, how the mystery was made known to me by revelation, as I have written briefly. When you read this, you can perceive my insight into the mystery of Christ, which was not made known to the sons of men in other generations as it has now been revealed to his holy apostles and prophets by the Spirit. This mystery is that the Gentiles are fellow heirs, members of the same body and partakers of the promise in Christ Jesus through the gospel. Of this gospel, I was made a minister according to the gift of God's grace, which was given me by the working of his power. To me, though I am the very least of all the saints, this grace was given to preach to the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ And to bring to light for everyone what is the plan of the mystery hidden for ages in God who created all things. So that through the church, the manifold wisdom of God might now be made known to the rulers and authorities in the heavenly places. This was according to the eternal purpose that he has realized in Christ Jesus our Lord, in whom we have boldness and access and access with confidence through our faith in him So I ask you not to lose heart over what I am suffering for you, which is your glory. This is God's word, brothers and sisters. Thanks be to God. Let's pray and ask for His help as we think about these words together. Heavenly Father, we do thank you and praise you for the gift of this time. We did just sing, as Tony reminded us, we just sang a prayer that you would speak to us. And we we ask you now that you would speak to us, that it would not just be merely a man standing up here. uh talking about various things from the Bible, but the you by your own spirit would communicate to us. It is your spirit who gives life. The flesh is no help at all. So Father, we pray. Get me out of the way And help us all to hear from you and apply your word to our lives. That we would not be merely hearers of it, but that we would be doers of it as well and know the blessing that comes to those who are doers of your word. We ask for all of this in Jesus' name. Amen. The big idea that I want to think about with you from this passage, we could sum up this way. God's eternal mystery in Christ has finally been revealed to the nations and is on display in the church. That's what we want to focus on. That's what we want to think about as we look at the scriptures together this morning. God's eternal mystery in Christ has finally been revealed to the nations. I'm interchanging the word nations and gentiles, which you see a few times in that passage. And this mystery is on display in the church This is a bit of a heavy one. Just giving you fair warning up front. We're swimming a little bit in the deep end of the theological pool this morning. I just want to be faithful to what Paul says, and he gets us into the deep end of the pool. So we're we might need your thinking caps a little bit this morning, but remember that Paul's aim is to encourage and comfort. Not to confuse and perplex. So let's think about this together. God's eternal mystery in Christ has finally been revealed to the nations. You see this word mystery showing up four times there in our passage, in verse 3, and then again in verse 4, and then in verse 6, and then in verse 9. This mystery, Paul says, it's been made known to him, verse 3. If your Bibles are open, just look there and follow along here. This mystery has been known been made known to him, Paul says. Though in verse 5 he says it's not been revealed in previous generations as it was now being revealed to the apostles and the prophets. So the apostles who were the authoritative spokesmen of the risen Christ and were it's I'm not exactly sure who these prophets were. They were an office also at the time of the New Testament. that were helping to lay the foundation of God's revelation didn't carry the same authority as the uh apostles, and we'll think about that a little bit more when we get to chapter four. But they were involved in the laying of this foundation of the revelation in Christ before the time that the New Testament was completed. This mystery had been hidden, but it was now being revealed through the apostles and prophets. And the plan of this mystery, Paul says in verse 9, had been hidden for ages in God. That's why I said it it was finally revealed. It had been hidden for ages in God. And it was a gracious stewardship that Paul had received. We see that in verse 2, to to bring to light for everyone, verse 9 said, Jew and Gentile, the plan of this mystery. And that's why he was suffering, because of this stewardship that he'd received to bring this mystery to light for everyone, a mystery which had been hidden for a long time, but was now being revealed. So what is this mystery? Well, Paul tells us very clearly in verse 6. Look there at verse 6. This mystery is that the Gentiles are fellow heirs. members of the same body and partakers of the promise in Christ Jesus through the gospel Now he'd already written of the glory of this mystery briefly. You see that he mentions that in verse 3, as I've written briefly. That's probably a reference to what he'd just been saying at the end of chapter 2. This this mystery is that the Gentiles who were once far off, who were once without hope and without God in the world. that God is gathering Gentiles together with Jews to be fully included in all of the blessings and promises that God made to Israel through their union with Christ as proclaimed in the gospel. Now if you if you are new to thinking about Christianity, maybe you don't consider yourself a Christian, but you're here this morning That word gospel is really important, and I'm going to come back to it and explain to you exactly what that gospel is and what we mean by that word, what Paul means by that word gospel in a few minutes. But for now, I'm gonna just assume that you've been tracking, as it is the case for most of you who are here, that you've been tracking with me over the past weeks. And so you've heard and you have come to believe this good news about Jesus, that God, this this mystery, that God is gathering a people from all around the world. No matter how moral they are, no matter what their religious background would be, no matter what their ethnicity would be, that he's gathering different people, all uniting them in Jesus. There's no B-list in God's thinking. I wonder if you've ever been invited to a wedding and you're there enjoying it, and then in some way you realize, like, oh, wait a minute. I actually wasn't invited at the beginning of this party, but some people declined, and I somehow got an invite after the fact. That's not the way the kingdom of God operates. There's no B list in God's thinking. All peoples can be united on the same ground, the same basis. Paul says that very clearly there in verse 6 It's that the Gentiles are fellow heirs. This is the way another translation puts it to draw this out. Fellow heirs, fellow members of the body, and fellow partakers. The same Fellow partakers, fellow heirs, fellow members of the body, partaking in that promise in Christ Jesus. Whether Arabs or Jews Israelis or Iranians, Kutus or Tutsies, Turks or Afghanis or Argentinians people from all around the world, all different backgrounds and ethnicities and socioeconomic uh classes and and political convictions, all those differences that can so easily and so naturally divide people, they are being smothered by the greater, deeper unity that is found through recognizing I once was a lost, guilty, condemned sinner But because of Jesus and because of Jesus alone, I have found life and salvation and eternal forgiveness, and that shuts down all of the conflict. That's the mystery. That's now being revealed. It had been hidden, and now it was being revealed in Christ through the ministry of the apostles and prophets. It's not that this idea of Gentile Inclusion into the worship of Israel's God was completely unknown prior to the arrival of Jesus and the preaching of the apostles and prophets. It's woven throughout the whole history of Israel that God would gather all the nations to Himself. We heard one example of that from what Carrie read to us in Isaiah chapter 2. The nations, the peoples are gonna stream to the mountain of the Lord. And that promise goes all the way back to Genesis chapter 12, when God promised Abram that through his offspring all the nations, all the families of the world would be blessed. And we see those promises woven all throughout the Old Testament. But there was a hiddenness to them. There was an obscurity. How is it going to happen? When is it going to happen? And now Paul says, Pastor Tony said it was like a time capsule. I wrote down it was like a a Christmas gift. Imagine kids, kids, are you excited about Christmas yet? It's not really time to start thinking about Christmas. John's like, oh, is it is it time? It's not quite time yet. But I wonder, kids, if you you ever had a box put out maybe early in December under the tree. And you've got to wait and you're wondering. You don't know what's in that box, but it looks great. You're confident it's going to be a good thing, but you don't know exactly what it is. And then you get to unwrap it, and then you see, well, there was this gift that was there throughout the whole Old Testament, but nobody, it was like a gift that was that was still wrapped And now in Christ, through the ministry of the apostles, this gift is being unveiled for the whole world to see Christ in you, Jew and Gentile, all the walls torn down, everybody gathered together. In Jesus, trusting in Jesus, worshiping the same God together on the same ground. This is the mystery revealed, uniting me and Missy together in the same family. Akil and Brent in the same family, Shannon and Angie in the same family. Look at Kessid sitting there with John. Members, fellow partakers. How does that happen? How's that possible? That's what Christ does. That's the mystery being revealed. But this marvelous mystery Wasn't just a New Testament unwrapping of a gift promised in the Old Testament. This was actually God's eternal purpose in Christ. Did you see that phrase in verse 11? This is where it would be good to put your thinking caps on for a few minutes if you have one. I don't know where the phrase thinking cap I don't even know what that is, but you know what I mean An eternal purpose in Christ, he says, which had been hidden for ages in God, who is the creator of all things Now we've encountered this idea ever so briefly earlier in Ephesians when it says in chapter 1, verse 4, that before the foundation of the world, God had chosen a people for himself in Christ. And that's weighty and it's big, and again, I talk about thinking caps, but it's not intended to be philosophical mumbo jumbo about predestination and human freedom. It matters deeply. When you're frustrated with your life, when you're frustrated with this world, when you grieve with bewilder bewilderment over what what God is doing in the world. Why is Why is the story, why is my story unfolding the way it is? I I got a text message yesterday from a friend. I have a thought as this guy came to mind. I haven't thought about him in months. He's a friend from another church. And I just, you know, when when someone when you're have someone brought to your mind like that, it's good to just reach out. You know, you never know. So I just said, hey, thinking about you today. How are you? And I went back and forth with this guy, and he's really struggling to hold on to the faith. He said, pray for me, that my faith won't fail. I said, I texted him back. I said, thank you for being transparent. Why uh like what what is it that's causing you to doubt or and he he just said he said the world This is what's happening in the world. I had already written this. What I just said to you about the story. He said, I this the world and when I think about this story and I even my own story, it's just hard for me to believe that there's gonna be anything better than this. So this matters. This is not just abstract philosophy that we're talking about. God has an eternal purpose in Christ. And what that means is that God began even before the beginning. Kids, do you know what the first words in the Bible are? Simon. In the beginning. That's the way the Bible begins. In the beginning. That makes sense. But actually, at different points in the Bible, it tells us that there was a before the beginning in God. In ages past, hidden in God, there was a plan. And that plan involved Christ being sacrificed for a multitude of sinners and bringing them to himself. gathered in worship around his throne. There the the final book of the Bible speaks of names being written before the foundation of the world in the book of life of the Lamb that was slain. That's something to put a thinking cap on. Before the world existed, God had a book, as it were. And that book was called the Book of Life of the Lamb who was slain. So If I could use this as an analogy, this is not the way God operates. You understand? I'm giving you an analogy right now When the triune God, when Father, Son, and Holy Spirit took counsel in himself in eternity past, conceiving of a story to write, the best possible story that could be written. A story that would involve the creation of the world and the human race. The goal, the main goal in God's mind. I'm just giving you an analogy. Do you understand that? There was not like a meeting of the Trinity. The objective was, how can I write this story in such a way that the riches of the glory of my son would be displayed and exalted in the clearest, most magnificent way? That is God's plan for the ages. Right? We heard about that in chapter 1, verse 10. Plan for the fullness of time to unite all things in Christ, things in heaven, and things on earth. The display of the full array, the full panorama of God's perfections in Christ, all to the praise of his glory. And the best display of all this glory would be in the sacrifice of the greatest being in the universe for a multitude of undeserving sinners all over the world. That is how God would show the full riches of his glory, the riches of his holiness and his righteousness and his power and his love and his grace and his wisdom. And that glory reaches its highest point when his ransomed people from every tribe and tongue and nation and language All the in-Christ ones, Jew and Gentile, would be gathered around his throne, having washed their garments in his blood, singing of the glory of the Lamb who was slain to rescue them. From the awful wrath that we had so richly deserved. This this the revealing of this plan, this fulfillment in Christ, is why history exists. It's why there is a world. And it can be hard for us to be excited about that. Because sin has caused human beings to care more about their own comfort and happiness than the fullest display of God's glory and praise. But our happiness, though God cares about our happiness and our ultimate happiness is found in knowing and loving and praising God. God is not ultimately concerned about our immediate near-term comfort and happiness. He is concerned to exalt to the fullest the display of who he is. And so he had an eternal purpose in Christ. That was revealed in the fullness of time in the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus. And now that is that glory is being displayed right now in the church. God's mystery in Christ has finally been revealed to the nations and is on display in the church Do you see that reference there in verse 10? I'm going to take some water because I'm probably not done yelling just yet I'm not apologizing for yelling. Which I've been known to do. But I'm not gonna I just called attention to it, so that'll be something we can call attention to in service review this week. I don't need to call attention to it. Look at verse 10. Paul received this gracious stewardship. I'm just setting it up. He received this gracious stewardship to preach Christ And to bring to light the plan of the mystery hidden for ages in God. And then it says there in verse 10, so that through the church, so that through the church, the manifold wisdom of God might now be made known to the rulers. and authorities in the heavenly places. This accords, Paul says, with God's eternal purpose in Christ. That eternal purpose to unite all things in him, things in heaven and things on earth. That's what's gonna happen. That's where the world is headed. That's the happy ending that my friend who I texted yesterday can't see could be good enough. The uniting of all things, things in heaven and things on earth Sometimes we sing about it in the hymn, This is my father's world, when earth and heaven will be one. This united symphony of praise when all things that are disordered and fractured are brought together in a glorious harmony in Christ. Paul's saying that for that coming glory, there's a foretaste of it, like a coming attraction of a movie, and it's the where you go on earth to see the future glory that's coming is the church. The church meaning this what we call the universal church, the heavenly End-time assembly of all the redeemed from all around the world and through all time, and that universal church shows up visibly in space and time in the existence of gatherings like this local congregations of Christians who gather to preach the word and to affirm one another as brothers and sisters in Christ and to nurture one another's obedience to King Jesus The universal church shows up in the local church and God is showing off his glory in the church. Kids, did you know that God, this is gonna sound bad, but let me explain, God is a little bit of a show-off You don't like show-offs. We don't like people showing off if you're playing sports or if you're just around at school. People who show off kind of are annoying. But you see, God is great. God is the greatest of greatest of great beings. And to see and to know and to love the greatness of God is the greatest thing that could possibly be given to us. So for God to be a show-off and show off his greatness is not a bad thing. He's actually the one being in the whole world who showing off is actually a good thing. God loves to show off his glory. And what he's what Paul says here, this is mind-blowing Of all the created glories that display God's wisdom, his creative excellence and beauty Think of all the created glories. Just think of some of them, whether they be food or whether they be natural pieces of creation or pieces of music or fine pieces of art. These are all ultimately God's handiwork. Of all the created displays of God's beautiful wisdom in the world, the best picture, what he says is exhibit A Of God's manifold wisdom, his multicolored, that's that that word manifold is like multicolored, like Joseph had this multicolored dream coat. The best display of God's manifold wisdom is the church Is assemblies like this that reflect the end times universal heavenly assembly that we'll all know on that final day. What? Us right now Jew and Gentile united in joyful praise to the risen Christ is a display to the whole cosmos God saying, you're looking at my wisdom. No one else could bring these people together. But look at what I have done and look at what I am doing in the church. Sometimes we feel small. Sometimes we feel insignificant as a church. But when we feel that way, Uh someone said, was it Tony who said this something about a humble gathering? You used the word somebody used the word humble up here earlier. This humble, simple gathering. There's a vast audience that is watching what's going on here. The New York Times ain't gonna write about it, the Washington Post isn't gonna write about it, we're not gonna hear about it on Fox News or CNN, but there's a vast audience Intent on what's happening right here. They're described as rulers and authorities in the unseen heavenly realms Beholding what's going on in Christ's church. Now he may be referring, Paul may be referring to angels, holy angels who. We're told in 1 Peter they long to look into these gospel glories. Those holy angels don't get to sing amazing grace that saved a wretch like me. And so they long to look into these glories? I think it's more likely, actually, that this is a reference because of what we see in other places in Ephesians, particularly Ephesians 6. 12. That this is a reference to fallen demonic angels, evil spirits, who watch, who see with dreadful dismay as they see God working his wisdom out in the world. Just when they think that they thought that they'd won the the biggest battle and killed Jesus on the cross, God says in his wisdom, What you meant for evil, I've meant for good, the worldwide display of the riches of my glorious grace in the enjoyment of my blood-bought, diverse but united bride. And the rulers and principalities are confounded. And so God is saying, He's showing off. to the angelic and demonic authorities in the unseen realm. Do you want to see where I'm taking the world? Do you want to see your doom? Foreshadowed when you are eventually evil rulers thrown into the lake of fire that burns forever and ever with no rest. Do you want to see what I'm doing in this world Do you want to see the preview of the coming unity of earth and heaven into one? Look at my church and you will see what I'm doing. All the hostile elements of creation will be unified. He has come to make his blessings flow. far as the curse is found. And we get a little glimpse of that future by looking right now at churches, local churches, reflecting the universal reality. It's a foretaste, as I said. A little preview of where God's taking the whole universe on display right here, right now, in the church. We get to show the world. I mean, are you are you you haven't fallen over and fainted yet, so you have we haven't gotten it yet. I'm including myself in that. We get to show the world, including the heavenly unseen world. of a foretaste of the new creation, what it's going to be like. To preview that breathtaking harmony that every human heart so deeply aches for. So as I said some minutes ago, if you're here today and you're newer to thinking about Christianity, or you're not really sure what we're all about when we use this word gospel, maybe you've heard it. Well here's where I want to speak to you directly for a few minutes. Do you realize that the existence, the fact that you feel hunger physically, is a testimony to the existence that there is food? The fact that you feel hunger means you know there's such a thing as food. The fact that you feel thirst is an indication that there is something actually called water that quenches thirst. What do you make of the ache that is in your soul? A spiritual thirst or hunger, we might say For a world of peace and justice. A world where other countries don't bomb other countries. What does that testify to? We understand that it testifies to your longing for the good and righteous rule of King Jesus, who is the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. See, what we believe, this gospel, this good news that gathers us, is that God is good. God is holy. God is righteous. He's wise. He's the creator of all But human beings have sinned against him. We have rebelled. We have sought our own way instead of submitting ourselves to his way. And when you take that sinful posture and you multiply it into nations, you get people killing each other. But it's not just nations out there, it's every human heart that is guilty before God. God in his love and kindness though plan to save all sinners who would desire to come to him repentantly, trusting in Jesus. He sent his son Jesus into the world 2,000 years ago, and Jesus lived a life perfectly submitted to God. And he completed that perfect life of obedience to God by dying on a cross, suffering in the place of sinners Bearing the punishment that you and I and all people deserve for our sin, so that any and all who would turn away from their rebellion and receive Jesus, receive his mercy could be forgiven of their sins and could have a new hope, a living hope, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ, because he didn't see stay dead he actually got up and he lives now and he reigns now and we could have this living hope in Christ that one day He's going to come again and he's going to make all things new and he's going to bring us in to a world without any tears. Without any sorrow, without any war, just like we heard read in Isaiah 2 earlier, and we read about so many other places in the Bible So if you're here today inquiring, thinking, I would urge you, get on the right side of history and come to Jesus right now. You can receive him right now in your heart, confessing yourself to be a sinner deserving judgment, and say, Jesus, save me and rescue me. We'd love to help you understand what it means to live out that commitment. But that's what we urge of you today. Now, brothers and sisters, most of you here are the members of Chevrolet Baptist Church. And it's a good thing for us to consider in light of what a high and holy calling it is that we have. I mean, this is the reason why we do. As Tony said, we think we take membership seriously. We have membership classes. There's a process. We take who we bring into as members of the church seriously because we're stewarding a cosmic foretaste of the coming eternal glory that will happen between heaven and earth being united under Christ's headship. We do take it seriously. And it would be good for all of us members of Chevrolet Baptist Church to consider, am I? Are you, am I, are we as a church together obscuring the visibility of God's wisdom to the watching world? Or are we enhancing that vision? There's been a lot of failure in the history of the church. A lot that I don't just mean I'm not talking about Chevrolet Baptist Jordan thing in the history of the church, universal There's been a lot of grievous ways in which the church has done a bad job of representing this picture of heaven on our on earth. While we may lament those previous failures, what we can do is labor diligently in the Spirit's strength to ensure that we now, as a church, Give a faithful picture of what God intends to fill the whole cosmos with on that final day. How is it that we do that? I mean what does that look like? Well it's it's what if it's what chapters 4 through 6 of Ephesians talk about, really. It's when we walk in humility and gentleness with one another, when we count others more significant than ourselves, when we Seek to reconcile with brothers and sisters who have offended or sinned against us instead of just being relationally distant from them or even leaving the church because we don't want to really interact with them anymore It's when we serve each other with the gifts that God has graciously given. It's when we commit to praying for one another, seeking God's goodness in one another's lives. It's when we pray for other churches as we do most Sundays that we gather. uh reflecting all all the good that we're all in this good work together. We're not competing with other gospel preaching local churches in our community. It's when we let no corrupting talk come out of our mouths, but we commit to speaking only words that build up and give grace. Not speaking about other people in ways that we would never be caught speaking to another person It's when we forbear with one another, though we rub each other the wrong way, and we don't see eye to eye on every aspect of Christian living. It's when we give thanks always and for everything. to God the Father in the name of Jesus Christ our Lord. It's when we abstain from sexual immorality and filthiness and foolish talk and crude joking It's when sin is confessed and forsaken in the lively remembrance of Christ's superabounding grace in our every time of need. It's when the church labors to support and send missionaries who will go so that more and more people groups can join us as fellow heirs and fellow members and fellow partakers of this wonderful promise in Christ Jesus through the gospel. There's a whole lot more that we could say, but we do have some weeks. We'll get to chapters four through six. Chapters four through six is all how do we live in this way so as to show the world. What God is doing in the church and the preview of what's coming. So there's time. For now what I want to do is I want to just linger for a few more minutes on this specific call to the nations. God's mystery in Christ has finally been revealed to the nations, the Gentiles, and is on display in the church You do see that in this passage that I read, chapter 3, verses 1 through 13, this emphasis on the ministry to the Gentiles. He says he's he's suffering for the sake of the Gentiles. And that that does mean non-Jewish individuals, just almost everybody here, it does mean that. But it means more than just that. It means nations. It means ethnic people groups. And it is easy to forget when we read a letter like Ephesians, and that's why I wanted to spend a few minutes pressing on this today. It's easy when we read through or study a book like Ephesians to forget that the establishment of this outpost of the heavenly assembly in Ephesus came into existence As part of Paul's commitment to travel all around the known world, bearing witness to the peace that God offered to all who would come to him in Christ by faith. Uh Paul, kids, again, a little trivia today today. Kids, does anybody know the town where the apostle Paul grew up, where he was from? Langston. He was not from Rome. He was hoping and eager to get Rome. He was in jail in Rome. So not Rome. Anyone? Bold. Is bold always to put your hand up? So thank you, Langston. Thanks for listening so well. Noah? He was from Tarsus. Do you know how much Paul was from Tarsus? Do you know how much ministry we see Paul engage in in Tarsus in the Bible? If you can't remember a passage, it's because there isn't one When Paul established this little outpost of heaven in Ephesus, he was in the middle of a missions trip About and some of you have maps that show these kinds of things, or you could look it up online. It was this big circle of about 2,500 or 3,000 miles that Paul went around the known world, bearing witness to Jesus, among people groups, among different ethnicities. Paul was devoted to that because the heart of the risen Christ beats passionately for the faithful and zealous proclamation of his excellencies among all the peoples of the earth. I mean why why was Paul devoted to suffering so for the sake of the Gentiles? Well he tells us in Romans chapter 15 He says, I tell you that Christ became a servant to the circumcised to show God's truthfulness in order to confirm the promises given to the patriarch. So he he came As a Jew to the Jews to confirm the promises that God had made to the Jews that he would send a Messiah, that he would send a Redeemer. But it says also also and in order that the Gentiles, the nations, might glorify God for his mercy, as it is written. And then Paul just combs through the Old Testament. Whether he's got it in his mind because he's memorized it, or whether he's going through a scroll and looking for these references, as it is written, therefore I will praise you among the Gentiles and sing to your name. And again it is said Rejoice, O Gentiles, with his people. And again, praise the Lord, all you Gentiles, and let all the peoples extol him. And again Isaiah says, The root of Jesse will come, even he who arises to rule the Gentiles In him will the Gentiles hope. Paul was committed to suffering for the Gentiles because he knew his Bible well. And he knew that God had a heart to bring all the nations. And now, and it continues into our day, now was the time of revelation and advance to the ends of the earth. It's that that promise and that mandate, right? Go into all the nations and make disciples, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit. That mandate has gripped the people of Christ from Paul's day until this day. So in uh uh uh uh by the year 174 A. D. the first Christians were reported in Austria. Uh in 280, rural churches began springing up in northern Italy In 432, Patrick, a man named Patrick, took the gospel to Ireland. We celebrate with Shamrock Sheikhs now. In 596, Gregory the Great sends a team to England to reintroduce the gospel, and two years later there's 10,000 converts. In 635, the first missionaries land in China. In 740, Irish monks reach Iceland. By the year 1200, the Bible has been translated into 22 different languages. In 1498, the first Christians are found in Kenya. In 1554, 1,500 converts are found in Thailand. In 1801, Baptists begin meeting at the U. S. Treasury Building in Washington, D. C. , and organize the first Baptist church in Washington, D. C. And as I told you last week, as I mentioned, in 1867, a group of eight people began praying for a Baptist church on Capitol Hill. And 11 years later, that church came into existence. It was called Metropolitan, the Metropolitan Baptist Church, which was renamed to Capitol Hill Baptist Church. And 140 years after the foundation of that church In 2018, uh 60 people were sent from that church to start a new church in Chevrolet and around Chevrolet. To be a witness to the Lord Jesus Christ. And there's more stories to be written. There are yet more stories to be told and more advanced to take place. Because the word of God is proving true, and nations in accord with the promise of Isaiah 2 are flowing to the mountain of the Lord, and they're saying, Come, let us go to the mountain of the Lord. Let us resist communism. Let us resist Islam. Let us resist secular humanism. Come. Let us go to the mountain of the Lord, and the kingdom of God cannot be shaken, and the earth will be filled with the knowledge of his glory. As the waters cover the sea, and there's yet more stories to be told until that day when Jesus sees fit to end it, there's more stories to be written. More people who must go and more people who must sacrificially send. There's people who are they're training to go This is the fruit of us lingering. A year ago, fifteen months ago, we were really prayerfully serious about going and partnering and working. with a ministry that was going to help these people go to those people hard places to get to where the temperatures are brutal and the disease is rampant and the governments don't want you to go They were there's people they're training in Tijuana right now. They're training to go to those places. And one of the abide I'm here now, and I'm glad to be here. But one fruit that remains is I still get emails from these people who are going. I get their emails. They're in Iraq. They're in Saudi Arabia. They're in Indonesia. They're in Kazakhstan. Not just to go to the national language, where there are some churches that do need strengthening, but they're there as a means to an end of learning another language. So they can go to a remote place that has no Bible, no gospel, no Jesus, no church. Some of us maybe are called to go. Some of us are not called to go. Most of us, I guess, are not called to go, but are called to sacrificially send. To drive older cars, to have smaller homes, to stop spending so much money on ourselves So that more money can be sent. Because they're there. They're ready. They're going. They're training. Some are called to go sacrificially. Some are called to send sacrificially. until the church is built. And as we sung, the earth is filled with your glory. Beloved, we're about to sing not that song, but another song. And it was gonna be a little bit different, because we're just gonna, I'm gonna end the sermon, we're gonna stand up and sing. Then we'll take the Lord's Supper, just so you know. A little different. We're about to sing a song, Jesus Paid It All, all to him I owe. And as we sing that hymn together, and we're going to repeat that refrain, we've repeated every verse. All to him I owe. All to him I owe. All to him I owe. All to him I owe. Not as if we could pay God back for our salvation, God forbid. But because we're so moved at the love that He showed us, that He paid it all, that He came. And left the comforts of his heavenly home to die and suffer and paid all for our salvation. We give him our lives as a living sacrifice of worship And I'm asking you as we sing that song to consider how might you use me, Heavenly Father, how might you use me to advance the gospel among all the nations of the earth? the earth. Because someday our king is going to return. Soon and very soon, we are going to see the king. While we wait, may we not be tethered to the stuff of this world, but may we be tethered to and ravished by that glorious day when gathered around Christ's heavenly throne We sing with representatives of every tribe and language and people and nation, he's done so much for me. I cannot tell it all Don't we long for more people and more peoples, people groups to join us in that eternal song? Let's pray, brothers and sisters, and then we'll sing Jesus Paid It All. Heavenly Father, thank you for saving us. Thank you for bringing the gospel to us. It's so easy to take for granted. We're Americans and of course we have the gospel, but we were far from where this whole thing got started We're so glad that you have sent the gospel to us, that we live in a land of light, where the good news of Jesus has been shining for decades and even centuries. We pray, Father, for our communities. We know they still need light here. They still need the light of our love for you and our proclamation of the gospel But we pray that you would help us to be earnest and thoughtful about how we might participate in your work of taking this good news of Jesus to the ends of the earth, to those who have never heard, who have no way of hearing right now. Please, Fathers, the harvest is plentiful, the workers, the laborers are few. Would you send out laborers and would you help us to play our part well in that good work? For Jesus' sake. Amen.