Come and behold him, the one and only holy God. Good morning, Chevrolet Baptist Church. Uh just wanna first say that it's sincerely an honor. To bring God's word to you this morning. I'm truly honored. If you want to follow along this morning, which I'd encourage you to do, you can turn to page 502 We'll be looking at Psalm 104 together. Again, that's page 502. So would encourage you guys to turn there. Before we begin, let me just ask for God's help, pray. With me. Father, you are amazing and great, and you are so tender and good. And God, I pray that you would help me to bring those truths before us today through your word. God, help me to speak truth. God, help me to point to you and everything. And God, I pray that everyone in this room, that their souls would bless the Lord. God, that they would praise you for your goodness and your greatness in creation. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Where do you see beauty? About two years ago, I led a team of college students on a mission trip to Thailand. After six amazing but long weeks, we were completely exhausted. To close out the trip, to reflect and refresh, we spent two days at a resort on an island I know that may sound extravagant, but the dollar goes a long way over there. I told the students there are no plans today, just take some time and process the last six weeks. And I knew that I needed this maybe more than anyone. So I left my phone in my room and I went out to spend time with God I carefully ventured out onto this rickety bridge that I found, and I found myself on a small concrete slab in the middle of the ocean. I sat there and I'm looking out, and God's beauty is radiating from everything. I see the waves and the clouds, birds flying through the air. I see the beautiful shore and people scattered around. It was as though everything was directly pointing to God and saying, Don't you see him? Three and a half hours later, I was still there, in the presence of God, praising him and his creation. Where have you experienced beauty like this? Maybe you think of a trip to the Grand Canyon or Niagara Falls. Or maybe a hike that you enjoyed when you were a kid, where the view looked like a painting. There are some breathtaking things to see in this world, and it's a blessing to see God's beautiful creation. But the psalmist in Psalm 104 actually wants us to see that you don't need to go to one of the seven wonders of the world to see the wonder of God's creation and the beauty of God. You don't need to go to a resort island in Thailand to see God in all of creation. You can go to your backyard or your workplace. You can go to your living room. You can even do that here today at Bladensburg Elementary School. And I hope that you will. If you haven't already, turn with me to Psalm 104 in your Bibles, and I'm going to read it in its entirety. It's a long passage, 35 verses, so stick with me. I'd encourage you to follow along. Start in verse one. Bless the Lord, O my soul. O Lord my God, you are very great. You are clothed with splendor and majesty, covering yourself with light as with a garment, stretching out the heavens like a tent. He lays the beams of his chambers on the waters. He makes the clouds his chariot. He rides on the wings of the wind. He makes his messengers winds, his ministers a flaming fire. He set the earth on its foundations so that it should never be moved. You covered the earth with the deep as with a garment. The waters stood above the mountains. At your rebuke, they fled. At the sound of your thunder, they took to flight. The mountains rose, the valleys sank down to the place that you appointed for them. You set a boundary that they may not pass, so that they might not again cover the earth. You make springs gush forth in the valleys, they flow between the hills, they give drink to every beast of the field The wild donkeys quench their thirst. Beside them the birds of the heavens dwell, they sing among the branches. From your lofty abode you water the mountains. The earth is satisfied with the fruit of your work You cause the grass to grow for the livestock and plants for man to cultivate, that he may bring forth food from the earth, and wine to gladden the heart of man, oil to make his face shine, and bread to strengthen man's heart. The trees of the Lord are watered abundantly, the cedars of Lebanon that he planted. In them the birds build their nests, the stork has her home in the fir trees The high mountains are for the wild goats, the rocks are a refuge for the rock badgers. He made the moon to mark the seasons. The sun knows its time for setting You make darkness, and it is night, when all the beasts of the forest creep about. The young lions roar for their prey, seeking their food from God. When the sun rises, they steal away and lie down in their dens. Man goes out to his work and to his labor until the evening. O Lord, how manifold are your works! In wisdom have you made them all. The earth is full of your creatures. Here is the sea, great and wide, which teems with creatures innumerable, living things both small and great There go the ships and Leviathan which you formed a play in it. These all look to you to give them their food in due season When you give it up, when you give it to them, they gather it up. When you open your hand, they're filled with good things. When you hide your face, they are dismayed. When you take away their breath, they die and return to the dust Their dust, when you send forth your spirit they are created, and you renew the face of the ground. May the glory of the Lord endure forever. May the Lord rejoice in his works, who looks on the earth and it trembles. Who touches the mountains and they smoke. I will sing to the Lord as long as I live. I will sing praise to my God while I have being. May my meditation be pleasing to him, for I rejoice in the Lord. Let sinners be consumed from the earth, and let the wicked be no more. Bless the Lord, O my soul, praise the Lord. Amen. Psalm one o four can be summarized in this simple sentence God's glory throughout all creation should lead us to praise Him and hate sin. God's glory throughout all creation should lead us to praise Him and hate sin. Today we'll explore this passage together through three points. First, in verses 1 to 9, we'll see the greatness of God, how God sovereignly reigns over creation. Then in verses 10 to 30, we'll see the great goodness of God, how God tenderly sustains his creation. Finally, in verses 31 to 35, we'll see the psalmist's response So point one, which will be more brief, the greatness of God, point two, the great goodness of God, and point three, the psalmist response. So we'll start with point one, the greatness of God. Look with me at verses one and two. Bless the Lord, O my soul. O Lord my God, you are very great. You are clothed with splendor and majesty, covering yourself with light as with a garment, stretching out the heavens like a tent. God is clothed with splendor and majesty. Take all of the beauty of all of creation, all of the wonder of sunsets and oceans and skies. God takes splendor and majesty and puts it on like a piece of clothing. Even more amazing, it's not as though God goes into the closet and he sees splendor and majesty and he says, that would look good. Let me put that on. I think that would that would look good. Rather, splendor and majesty emanate from his very being. He created beauty itself out of nothing, and it does not exist apart from him All beauty finds its origins in God. He's not only clothed with this glory and beauty, but light itself is wrapped around him. If you were to go outside and look at the sun for just a few seconds, you could have severe damage to your eyes. If the sun was to stand before God, it would melt in an instant. Light could blind you and me in a few seconds, and God wraps it around himself as a garment. Just as God has splendor and majesty in his very being, life-giving and illuminating light has its origin in God. Genesis 1 3 says, let there be light, and there was light. That's what God says. It comes from him. Out of the abundance of God's wisdom and creative power, he creates light. And then he rolls out the heavens like a garment. In the same way you took your shirt out of the dress for this morning and unfolded it, God unfolds the very heavens. Consider the scale of the heavens, just for a second. Things in space are measured by light years. Light travels 671 million miles per hour, which is already just unfathomable. A light year is how far light travels in a year. And the observable universe is 93 billion light years across. And it contains up to two trillion galaxies, which each have about a hundred billion stars. Our galaxy, the Milky Way, is a hundred thousand light years across and it's on the smaller side. And our sun Is one of those stars. God upholds all of that and he created it all. God not only creates this mind-melting universe, but he creates the invisible heavenly realms as well. Where gloriously terrifying angelic beings stand in the ready in service to him, just waiting to serve him. Our God is great. Infinitely beyond our greatest imaginations. Every angel, every star is numbered by Him, and it is all sustained by His power alone In verse 5, we zoom in from space and the heavenly realms to this little speck of rock in the midst of the universe. That God decided to care about. And we call it earth. We're on it right now. Look at verse 5. He set the earth on its foundations so that it should never be moved. In this vast expanse we call space, God places the earth exactly where he wants it. And he sustains it with foundations that we do not understand. Think about it this way. When a construction company wants to build a skyscraper, they have to build a foundation hundreds of feet into the ground. And if it's not built correctly or deep enough, the skyscraper will collapse. On the other hand, Job 26:7 that God hangs the earth on nothing. God sustains the foundations of the earth with invisible forces, with his word. The Earth stays in orbit and position due to the power of God's voice, just like the rest of the universe. After creating and placing the earth, God covers it with vast waters in verse 6. And these waters, immense in scale, cover the mountains, not one square inch of earth left uncovered. But At God's rebuke, with a word which thunderously resounded throughout all of creation, the oceans fled. And as the oceans retreat, the contours of the surface of the earth are revealed. First, the mountain peaks can be seen as the water lowers on the earth. Valleys are revealed. The waters continue to recede and recede and go lower until God says stop. In verse 8, we see that the mountains and the valleys are exactly where God appointed them. The oceans stop where God tells them. He sets a boundary line that they can't cross. God is truly the sovereign King over all creation. Does the glory of our sovereign king make you tremble? Does it leave you speechless this morning? It should. Does the greatness of God capture your soul and cause you to praise Him? It should In light of the awe-inspiring greatness of God, it can feel like he's kind of far off, though. David expresses this feeling in Psalm 8, 3, and 4. This was mentioned in the Psalm of Praise. He says, When I look at your heavens, the work of your fingers, the moon, and the stars which you've set in place, what is man that you're mindful of him, and the son of man that you care for him? David's asking the same question. God, if you command the oceans and form galaxies with your hand, surely you don't have time to care about me or your creation. Well, I have amazing news. That God is great, but he's also good. He is so, so good. And he tenderly sustains his creation. So point number one, the greatness of God. And now we'll look at point number two, the great goodness of God. Look with me down at verse 10. You make springs gush forth in the valleys. They flow between the hills. They give drink to every beast of the field. The wild donkeys quench their thirst. After looking at vast oceans, he moves to the springs. In God's meticulous providence, oceans sink down just the right amount, leading to tributaries and rivers In perfect harmony, these streams and rivers sustain animal and plant life all across the planet. Donkeys and every beast of the field drink. Trees rise up from the ground sustained by the water. And not only water from the streams, but rain down by God Himself. Verse 13, speaking of God, says, You water the mountains. Or verse 16, the trees of the Lord, the trees that God planted, are watered abundantly. Birds take up shelter in these trees, singing beautiful songs. Well I'd ask you, what do you think of what do you think when you see rain in the weather forecast? My guess is that it's not instant joy and gladness. Maybe it ruins some of your plans. Well, maybe there's beauty in the rain too. John Piper has an amazing article highlighting the glory of God and rain. I'll read a little bit of it. He writes this. Picture yourself as a farmer in the Near East, far from any lake or stream. A few wells keep the family and animals supplied with water. But if the crops are to grow and the family is to be fed from month to month Water has to come on the fields from another source. From where? Well, the sky. The sky? Water will come out of the clear blue sky? Well, not exactly. Water will have to be carried in the sky from the Mediterranean Sea over several hundred miles and then be poured out from the sky onto the fields. Carried? How much does it weigh? He goes on to explain that if one inch of rain falls on one square mile of farmland, that would be about 206 million gallons Which is 1. 65 billion pounds of water just for one inch. These billions of pounds of water are lifted into the sky from the ocean through evaporation, creating clouds that somehow remove the salt, and then instead of a massive deluge of 1. 65 billion pounds of water, which would destroy everything The clouds rain down perfect droplets due to a process called coalescence. In all of this scientific wonder of rain, this is a work of our good God. Rain is a gift from God to bring life to his creation. So next time you see rain on the forecast, praise God for the gift of rain. We see God's tender hand in all things. The rock badgers and the lions, the trees and the plants, the rain. But we see it in a special way with man. Look with me at verse 14 and 15. You cause the grass to grow for the livestock and plants for man to cultivate, that he may bring forth food from the earth. And wine to gladden the heart of man, oil to make his face shine, and bread to strengthen his heart. The psalmist here gives a few extra details about God's tender care for humanity, specifically. He gives plants for food, wine and oil and bread. Just like all the other animals, God provides food for man. But it's a little different. Well, lions in verse 21 roar, seeking and waiting for their food from God. Man has a special role in cultivating the earth. He has a role in helping the earth to flourish and become beautiful as he enjoys sustenance from God's creation. Beyond this, God not only provides what's needed for man's basic survival, but God gives things simply for our pleasure and good. He goes above and beyond what he does for every other creature to bring us gladness of heart. He gives wine as a good gift, so that our hearts would be glad. When we enjoy wine and wisdom and holiness, we can praise God for this good gift. He gives oil so that our faces shine, and bread so that our heart is strong. God cares so much about us that He provides countless products in His creation just so we can be beautiful. God says, I don't want man to just be sustained, but I want him to enjoy my creation. I want him to be beautiful and strong. I want to give him such a variety of things to cultivate that he can enjoy my creation in thousands of ways. God has truly shown us his abundant goodness and care. He's not a stingy God. How much more do we get to experience that here in America? Let me ask you a question. Do you enjoy food? I would imagine most of you would say yes. Food might be one of my favorite things on the earth. A couple of weeks ago I had a simple sandwich. I toasted up some sourdough bread, had some turkey, cheese, mayo, and mustard. Nothing crazy. Later I was thinking about the sandwich and I asked my wife Ashley, You think a gourmet chef would love this? It's amazing. I do think I was a bit hungry, but the point is, God has blessed us so richly with food of all kinds. You don't need to go to a gourmet restaurant to praise God for food. Today for lunch, whether you're eating pizza or chili or tacos Pause. Take a second. Taste your food and praise God for flavors. As 1 Corinthians 1031 says, whether you eat or drink, or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God. Well, why God's special care for man above and beyond other creatures In the Genesis 1 account of creation, God is making everything. He makes light, and he says it was good. He makes the earth and the seas and he calls them good. He makes the sun and the moon and plants and animals, and he calls them good. Finally, the last thing that God creates is man. And it's only after creating man that in Genesis 131 we read that God saw everything that he had made, and behold, it was very good. Everything is good, and then the last creature God creates is man to be the pinnacle, the crown of creation. How does that hit you? Maybe you're thinking, huh, how does man make the creation very good? I've seen people do some pretty bad things to each other, to creation. I think you're asking the right question. What about humanity makes creation very good? The answer is found in how God created man. Genesis 1:26 says, Then God said, Let us make man in our image after our likeness. Pause. What does that mean? Made in God's image. You've probably heard that term before, but why is it so special? Think of my six-month-old David. How do you know that he's my son? Well, Lord willing, he'll look more and more like Ashley and me as he gets older. Right now people say Ashley, but I'm thinking he's starting to come around. He may even share some of our character traits, the same hair color, a similar height. The point is, because David is our son, he reflects us. You could say that he's made in our image. In the same way, humans, both male and female, made in God's image, are made to reflect God. We are created to reflect the sovereign ruler and tender sustainer of all creation. Moses, the author of Genesis, explains one primary way we reflect God on the earth in Genesis 1, 26, and 28. Man's purpose given by God is to subdue the earth and to have dominion over it in order that it would flourish. What other creature has dominion over the earth like man? God made us uniquely to be co-rulers under him on the earth, to reflect his dominion. And we don't only represent God in His dominion, but in His personal character as well. Our love for one another. Our love for our spouse. Is meant to reflect God's love for people and for other members of the Trinity. Our creativity in art, in clothing, in architecture. In literature reflects the very creativity of God when He created the earth and everything in it. Show me a novel written by a rock badger. I would love to read it. Show me a mountain goat who's a physics professor. I'm not saying that we can't learn from animals. The proverbs often point to animals for us to learn from, but man is unique. Do you realize how special you are? You have the potential to exude, to express, to emanate the glory of the Creator Unlike any other created thing. If you put a man or a woman next to a waterfall or a sunset or even a holy angel, and you ask God which one is more beautiful in an instant He would say man. We are made in God's image. And this is why God has chosen to uniquely care for us above all other creatures. As the psalmist closes his panorama of God's glorious creation, he identifies the self-sufficiency and centrality of God. In verses 27 and 30. Every aspect of creation mentioned in the Psalm looks to God for everything. Galaxies sit in wait, ready to obey the almighty voice of God. Mice sit in basements, searching for crumbs from God's hand. And man waits for the rain to fall by God's command that the harvest might come. After seeing all that God gives to his creation In his goodness, what does the psalmist give in response? What can he give to God? In our scripture reading from earlier, we read in Acts 17, 24 to 25. We read this. The God who made the world and everything in it, being Lord of heaven and earth, does not live in temples made by man. Nor is he served by human hands as though he needed anything, since he himself gives to all mankind life and breath and everything If God is not served by human hands, if he doesn't need anything from us, what does the psalmist give back to God? Well, we observe the greatness of God, and then we observe the great goodness of God. Now we'll move to point number three, the psalmist's response. Psalm 104 opens and closes with the thrust of the entire psalm. In verse 1 and 35, the psalmist explodes with praise. Bless the Lord, O my soul. Though there is theology in the psalm, this is not a theological treatise. Though there are truths about creation, this is not given to us to be a science textbook This psalm is all about God and his glory. He's referred to 46 times in these 35 verses. The aim of this psalm is that our souls would bless the Lord and overflow with praise to God for all that He has done. Look at how the psalmist expresses this praise in verses 33 and 34. I will sing to the Lord as long as I live. I will sing praise to my God while I have being. May my meditation be pleasing to him, for I rejoice in the Lord. The psalmist simply returns God's infinite blessing with praise. And he praises God with the language of singing. As long as God gives him life and breath, he sings. Have you ever thought about how strange it is that one of the primary things we do at our worship services is sing? In general, you won't go into a mosque or a Hindu temple and find people singing praise to their God. Maybe they'll sing on occasion, but singing praise to our God, the one true God, is central to the Christian life. In one obvious way we sing is here at church. We've done it already today, and we'll do it again. I would encourage you, when we sing, don't just sing mindlessly or even stop at the beauty of the instruments and the harmonies. Trust me, I love when Susan plays the violin. It's beautiful. I enjoy it. But when we sing here in a few minutes, sing the words from your heart. Sing them as one who gets the privilege of knowing the one true God. Sing them to Him. Sing them to each other. Sing them to your own soul as you meditate on his greatness and goodness. Apart from singing songs at church, what song does your heart sing throughout the day? Is it a song of grumbling? Or is it a song of joy? Is it a song of anger? Or is it a song of thanksgiving to God? In verse 34, the psalmist prays that his meditation would be pleasing to God because he rejoices in the Lord. How often does your heart rejoice in the Lord? Here is something you could do today at lunch or dinner. Go around each person at the table three or four times and praise God for anything and everything. Let me give you an example for right now. I could sing praise to God in my soul for this podium. The metal that went into it was placed in the ground by God at the creation of the earth. This podium was creatively designed by a person made in the image of God, and its design reflects the creativity of God. The color blue on the walls is beautiful. God created beautiful colors and has given us the capacity to see them. Every single person in this room is fearfully and wonderfully made and points to the beauty of God, being made in God's image. The outlets on the wall contain electricity. I certainly don't know how it works. But God designed and upholds the laws of nature which allow that to exist and work. You could see how you could go around forever. Do this with your family or around the dining table. It could be like a little game with your kids. Or do this on your own, in your heart at work, when you're thinking about how you'd rather go home. Or do this when you fall asleep. The song of our hearts should be, Bless the Lord, O my soul, when we look at everything. Though we have nothing of our own to give, How amazing is it that we get to give him our praise. Maybe today you feel weak. Spiritually, you feel spiritually dry, whatever you're feeling today, whatever your circumstances, give God your praise today. As the psalmist speaks of singing praise to God and rejoicing in the Lord, he closes his psalm on a jarring note. You may have heard it earlier and been confused. We get all of this praise and glory and wonder at all of creation. And then we get verse 35. Let sinners be consumed from the earth, and let the wicked be no more. Why? Why does he end with this? Well, maybe throughout this message, you were encouraged, but you felt like something wasn't quite right. Sure, God's creation is beautiful and there's so much to praise Him for, but Jeff, you're forgetting about something. What about suffering? About natural disasters? What about murder and atrocious acts committed by people? Or what about my coworker who's blatantly unkind to me? Or my boss? Or what about my broken relationship with an old friend? I have a one-word answer for you. Sin. This verse should crush us. It should take the breath from us. The mountains and oceans obey God's voice, going exactly where he tells them. The lions and birds seek their food from God and look to him for sustenance and for everything. Man, created to reflect God in a way no other created thing could, hears the voice of God and responds, no. God, you're the creator, you're powerful, but I'll take it from here. This is inexpressible evil. It's an affront to the creator of the universe. The reason for all the suffering and pain and evil in this world is because of sin. Starting with Adam and Eve. One singular sin plunged all of creation into pervasive corruption. Not one thing left uncorrupted. One sin. Does this show you the evil of sin? The cosmic unraveling caused by rebellion against the Creator? Ralph Venning, a Puritan author, wrote a book during a severe outbreak of the bubonic plague in England. The book explored the depths of the wickedness of sin, and it was titled The Plague of Plagues. The bubonic plague may have been killing people, but sin is the plague of plagues, the evil of evils. He goes on to explain how sin is worse than every form of evil, including suffering, death, the devil, and hell Sin is worse than suffering. It's sin that brought suffering into the world. Someone can say that good came out of their suffering, but no one can say that good came out of their sin. Sin is worse than death. First Corinthians fifteen fifty-six tells us that the sting of death is sin. Death came into the world because of sin. And apart from sin, there's no sting in death. Sin is worse than the devil. The devil is so wicked because of his sin, and because of the sin that he tempts us to commit. Sin is worse than hell. Hell is only a punishment, but sin is the crime. Hell is only the punishment, but sin is the crime. And the reason hell is so bad is because people are being punished for their sin. And they go on sinning forever. In light of the glory of God in creation, sin is a stain. And this is why the psalmist praised that God would rid the earth of sinful man. Friends, the sinners described in Psalm one hundred four thirty-five is you and me. This is deeply sobering. Left to ourselves, we have just righteous punishment to await. But praise God, we have not been left to ourselves The sovereign ruler and tender sustainer of all creation showed his integrity and his loving character by entering into his creation He sent his own Son, the second person of the Trinity, to be a man. Hebrews 1:3 tells us that Jesus, the God-man, is the radiance of the glory of God. The exact imprint of his nature, and he upholds the universe by the word of his power. All of the galaxies, all of those light years, the billions of light years, the trillions of galaxies and stars are upheld by Jesus Jesus in the flesh was the sovereign king, revealing his greatness as God. The oceans obeyed his voice when he calmed the sea with a word. Peace be still. In John 21, Jesus commanded 153 fish to enter his disciples' nets. He had power over the seas. Jesus cast out demons. He showed his power over evil angelic beings. He also showed himself to be the tender sustainer, revealing his goodness as God in the flesh. In John 2, at the wedding in Cana, he turns water into wine, simply to gladden the heart of man. He is the bread of life that provides true sustenance for all who would trust in him. He healed people throughout his whole ministry. Not because he had to, but because he loves to. He is the true vine who calls us to abide in him so that we bear much fruit. He is the resurrection and the life, and he gives water, living water, without price, to all who would come to him Jesus is amazing. From the beginning of time, Jesus was the sovereign ruler and tender sustainer of all things When he came to earth as a man, he became the suffering servant as well. Unlike Adam and Eve, unlike you and me, Jesus committed no sin. Not one. But on our behalf, he was crucified with wood that he upheld by his power. For sin that he did not commit, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God For our sake he made him to be sin who knew no sin, so that in him we may might become the righteousness of God. By faith in Jesus' life, death, and resurrection, we can experience forgiveness of our sin. We can experience eternal life with God. And one day a new creation, where all things will be made new, and God's glory will cover the earth as the waters cover the sea. If you're here today and you're not a Christian, let me ask you a question. Is this God? Is Jesus worthy of your life? We have sinned against our great and good God. And today If you turn to Him and turn away from your sin, if you trust in Jesus' work on your behalf for your forgiveness, you can have a relationship with your Creator. I would plead with you today to do this. He is worthy. And you need him. It's only through him that you can be saved. For the Christian here, we've surveyed all of creation. It all looks to him. It's all sustained by him. It's glorious to zoom out and view the glory of God in his creation. But now I want to speak to you. Today. Sitting in the chair right now. I want to zoom in on you. What do you need to see today? Do you in your heart today need to behold God's greatness, or do you need to believe and enjoy God's goodness? Of course, we all need to see both in many ways, but I want you to ask yourself right now, which truth do I need today? To you who need to behold God's greatness, let me ask you a question. If God has the power to make the heavens and earth obey him with exact precision, What is God incapable of? When Job is confronted with these truths, he responds this way, in Job 42, 2. I know that you can do all things, and that no purpose of yours can be thwarted. Beloved children of God, who have been bought by the blood of Christ, what things have you given up on God for? What things have you prayed for for years and you've just resigned? If God could do it, he would have done it by now. I'm not talking about the prosperity gospel, a new car, or that boat that you've wanted for a long time. I'm talking about God-centered, faith-filled requests. Maybe it's a lost family member who you deeply want to be saved, but you've given up praying for them. Maybe it's a broken relationship with a sibling or a parent. Or maybe it's a chronic health condition that you've had for decades. I was personally convicted by this as I was preparing this message. I've dealt with chronic back pain for about five years, and I realized that without even noticing I'd given up praying for it. Instead of leading to prayer, I tried to ignore my pain. Brothers and sisters, what is it for you? Do not give up on God's power to save, heal, and redeem. Continue to cry out to him. He's the sovereign king over all creation. With man it may be impossible, but with God all things are possible. Or maybe you need to behold God's greatness because your heart has grown dull. You may not say it out loud, but there are certain areas of your life that you have deemed God unworthy to claim lordship over. Certain sins that you don't even want to fight anymore. Or even certain sins that you don't believe that God can help you to fight. If that's you, you need to see that God is great. He's worthy of every part of your life He has the power through the blood of Christ and the Holy Spirit living in you to help you kill that sin in your life. Now to those of you who need to enjoy God's goodness, in some ways it might actually be easier to believe that God is great. He's kind of out there somewhere. Of course, he's powerful over all things. But do you see God's tenderness for you? Do you see that this majestic God who clothes himself with light cares about you? You, made in God's image, are precious to him. Jesus makes this clear on this in the Sermon on the Mount in Matthew 6, 26 to 31. Look at the birds of the air, they neither sow nor reap, nor gather into barns, and yet your heavenly father feeds them. Are you not of more value than they? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow. They neither toil nor spin. Yet I tell you, even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. But if God so clothes the grass of the field, which today is alive and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, will he not much more clothe you? O you of little faith, therefore do not be anxious. God doesn't wake up one day and decide that it's a good day to feed the birds or clothe the lilies He doesn't decide on a whim to help the oppressed or care for the poor or comfort the afflicted. No, it flows out of his very character Just like his creative power, our God is not a God who neglects his creation. He's not a God who neglects you And if you're in Christ, God is not angry toward you, waiting with you with a scowl for you to mess up. Rather, he's a tender shepherd who loves you and invites you to call him father. And we already talked about the ultimate example of this: that God shows his love for us, and that even while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Before you can even make one move toward him, he died for you. What does this say about his heart? He delights to care for you Whether you feel today more like you need to behold God's greatness or enjoy his goodness, all of us today need to look to Jesus Christ on the cross Punished for our sins and raised for our justification. It's in Him that we see the greatness and goodness of God on display Yes, sin is worse than affliction. It's worse than death and the devil. It's worse than the punishment of hell. But Christ took our sins upon himself. And he turns our affliction into good. He turns death into the gateway to glory. He defeats the devil. And he saves us from the just punishment of hell and brings us into heaven with him forever. Whether we're looking at the podium, or our spouse, or our kids, or we're at work, wherever it is, may the song of our hearts be Bless the Lord, O my soul. Day and for all of our days is worthy. Pray. Father, you are unimaginably great. And Father, you are unimaginably good God, your sovereign power and your tender care blow us away. God, we deserve hell for our sin. And you have given us your very self. Father, I pray that you would help me and everyone in this room to praise you. God, not just today, but for the rest of the week, for the rest of the month, for the rest of the decade, and God, all the way until eternity, when they'll praise you perfectly forever. May we bless the Lord and we bless you in our souls. Amen.