I predict the internet will catastrophically collapse in nineteen ninety-six. said Robert Metcalf, co-inventor of Ethernet in 1995. Apple will probably never come out with a cell phone, said New York Times writer David Pogue in 2006. Hollywood movie producer Daryl Zanick of 20th Century Fox said in 1946: Television will not be able to hold on to any market. People will soon get tired of staring at a plywood box every night. Said the movie producer. In nineteen sixty-six, Time magazine predicted that computers will soon fill the roles of everyone Except high-level executives, leaving 90% of the population to live a state-subsidized life of leisure. In 2010, Eric Anderson of Space Adventures told Space. com, by 2020, you'll have seen private citizens circumnavigate the moon. Elon Musk went further saying, I'm going to go out on a limb and say that by 2020 there will be serious plans to put people on Mars. By 2000, the common cold would be only a memory. Arkansas physician Dr. Lowry McDaniel predicted in 1955. In a piece for the Ladies' Home Journal in 1900 John Watkins, the curator of mechanical technology at the Smithsonian Institution, said that in 100 years We would no longer need the letters C, X, and Q. They will be abandoned because they won't be necessary, he wrote. No C, no X, no Q. What happened to the cats? The xylophones? The quinoa. Kids, no quizzes. Yay! On a more serious note. On the Sunday of june eighteenth, eighteen fifteen, one of the greatest generals in history felt confident. He would win his next battle against a ragtag coalition of inexperienced British, Dutch, and German soldiers This general had the more war-hardened, experienced veteran soldiers. He had the big cannons, and most of all, he was Napoleon. He boasted he would win this battle by 2 p. m. One of his generals heard this and said to him, remember, sir. Man proposes, but God disposes. That was a common way at the time of Summarizing Proverbs 19:21. Man knows the plans of his heart, but the Lord determines his steps. Napoleon replied, I'll have you know, sir. Napoleon proposes. Napoleon disposes. That was the beginning of the end That night it rained heavily. The cannons could not be moved through the mud, the horsemen could not get in position, the cavalry could not get in position soon enough. The battle was delayed. Napoleon lost the Battle of Waterloo terribly and spent the rest of his life in exile. Man proposes. God disposes. Last week we looked at James chapter four The first part, and we considered the fact that when we quarrel with others and speak against others, speak evil against them, we are in that very moment presuming to be Their judge and their law givers. I said it's as if we ascend Mount Sinai. God hands us the tablets of stone We say no, thank you. We hand them back, and then we hand him our tablets of stone and say, God, we're going to judge you and all people by our law. That was last week. This week examines another way in which we presume to challenge God and presume to seat ourselves on his throne, another form of rebellion and usurpation. Turn to chapter 4, where we discover that how easily it is that we can test to supremacy not just over law, but over time. In the future, we declare ourselves sovereign over history. And we do so in the most ordinary of ways. We tell them what we're going to do tomorrow. Looking at the last five verses, starting in verse 13. Come now, you who say, Today or tomorrow we will go into such and such a town and spend a year there and trade and make a profit. You do not know what tomorrow will bring. What is your life? For you are a mist that appears for a little while and then vanishes. Instead, you ought to say, if the Lord wills, we will live and do this or that. As it is, you boast in your arrogance. All such boasting is evil. So whoever knows the right thing to do and fails to do it for him, it is sin. We pray, Father, grant us your spirit that your word would be applied to our hearts. We learned four things from our text this morning. It's a very simple outline. Here it is. Number one, we presume to know and control the future. We don't know or control it. Our presumption is boastful, arrogance, is evil, and sinful. We should commit the future and our plans to God. Pretty straightforward. I'll repeat those as we go. Point one, verse 13. We presume to know and control the future We presume to know and control the future. That's verse 13, as I said. Come now, you who say, Today or tomorrow we will go into such and such a town and spend a year there and trade and make a profit. It's really just a simple phrase, isn't it? It's a fairly ordinary, everyday phrase that The kind we often use. If you glance over at chapter 5, look at the first couple of verses of 5, we see that James is writing at least in part to wealthy people Perhaps there's merchants. They're used to going and traveling and trading and making a profit. This is their job. They make a little tidy bundle. And to be clear, there is nothing wrong with a businessman who makes plans. It's good to make plans. The Bible says it's good to make plans. Proverbs 21, verse 5 reads, The plans of the diligent surely lead to abundance. But everybody who is hasty, not planning, just kind of living spontaneously, everyone who is hasty comes only to poverty Still, it's one thing to make plans. It's another thing to tighten your grip and presume upon those plans. And such presumptions? What are the words that are used in verses 16 and 17? Look there. Boastful, arrogant, evil, sinful. Quite an indictment. Wow. Still, this example provided in verse 13 does seem to be a fairly prosaic everyday example. This week in the family's going apple picking. My daughter will attend university next fall. Invest in Apple. You will get a great return. So-and-so will win the election in November. Ah, you worry too much. You're gonna be fine Statements like these, each of them, make a certain presumption about the future, as if we know it and control it. I wonder if any of you have been watching one of those, like an action movie. I feel like I've seen this again and again where you got a parent and you got a scared little kid. There's chaos going on and the the parent says, okay, stay right here. I will be back. We will be okay. And now we think. . . Really? Did you know that? You sure you want to promise that to your kid? Now am I saying that it's sin? To ever use the future indicative, we will, in an unqualified fashion like this. Well, let's start by thinking about the posture of the heart. There is a heart that forgets And the Lord and presumes the future is under our control and presumes that we can take the necessary steps to control it If we were to slide that verse, verse 13, into an X-ray machine so that we could see the skeletal structure of that Oh, tomorrow we'll go here and do this and make some money. Put that into the x-ray machine. What are the bones? It might sound more like this All time and the future are in my hands. I simply need to make plans. And execute them. I have sovereignty over my days. I can keep myself safe I can become whatever I want to become. Do whatever I intend to do. Napoleon proposes. Napoleon disposes. Not only that, I also expect the same thing of you You have control over your days. You must control your own life. You must determine your fate. And if you don't, it's your own fault. Notice the heart posture that places all sovereignty into our own hands tends to be accompanied by a lack of compassion, patience toward others. Now, am I speaking against personal agency, personal responsibility? Am I implying that we're all victims of forces and circumstances beyond our control? Not at all. We are morally responsible, culpable for the decisions we make. 100%. Two things can be true at once. We can be morally responsible, culpable for our own decisions, and not know or control the future In fact, that's point two of this sermon. Point one, we presume to know and control the future. Verse 13, point two, we don't know or control it. We don't know or control it. That's verse 14. Yeah, you do not know what tomorrow will bring. What is your life? For you are a mist that appears for a little time and then vanishes. So it's a winter morning, it's 8 a. m. You walk outside in the chill air, you breathe, a mist appears, and then half a second later, it's gone. Now suppose you give that mist self-consciousness. The mist somehow can look around and say, I'm a mist. At 8 a. m. Does that mist, that self-conscious mist, know or control 8 p. m. Or noon? Or 8. 01 a. m. And so James, inspired by the Holy Spirit of God, says to us, What is your life? And we say, I'm the captain of my own ship. I'm the master of my fate. And James says, no, you're amiss. God breathes out. Ah, there you are. God breathes in. You're gone. That is your life. Now, there is a wrong way to fear the future and death and the impermanence of this verse. I can read this verse and think, oh my goodness, everything's impermanent. I'm afraid I need to do something. Some of us might feel consumed with a perpetual fear of cancer, getting into a car accident, or just a general sense of foreboding about What lies before of us? Some of us live inside of a chronic sense of anxiety. And so we spend all of our time trying to wrap ourselves in a cocoon of safety or at least worry about being safe Or our children being safe. Or utterly wrapped up about what we eat, or getting sick, or a hundred different things. In other words, again, we can read this verse, meditate on the brevity and uncertainty of your life, and then respond in a posture of fear. And then that fear leads to an assertion of control. And that assertion of control over impermanence, ironically, is doing the very thing that this verse says not to do. And let's be clear that fear and assertion of control can look, as I said, like a hundred different things. Think of um perfectionism. You want to make sure every email and memo or paper is perfectly scripted. Make sure your kitchen is always spotless and the living room company ready. Make sure your hair, your clothes, your workout plan, your diet are what you think they should be. Make sure you're the perfect mom or dad. Make sure you're getting promotions at work right on schedule or maybe even ahead of schedule. Make sure other people think you're upstanding and respectable. I'm afraid of what's ahead. I'm going to try to control everything just now, the way I think it needs to be. Oh, or think of the hedonist. Oh, we'll go to the party, we'll have a good time, we'll go a little nuts, we'll be fine. Think of the gambler who clings to a kind of naive optimism that, okay, surely the next bet will work, my turn is about to come. Think of the person who is ungenerous or stingy with his money. I don't know what's ahead. I've got to cling to every cent really tightly right now. Trying to control the future and money. Think of the person who gets a flat tire, gets angry. These are my plans. Think of the parent whose children interrupts their schedule and gets angry. Think of the person whose business deal doesn't work out and they suddenly panic. With all of these people, this verse would say, You think you're going to go to this or that city? Was that your presumption trade? And Make a profit? Why did you think that? Why did you think history's in your hands? Who do you think you are? Yet the warning applies not merely to this cavalier businessman, this cavalier merchant. This warning applies to anyone who feels confident about the future, or ironically Afraid of the future, but still thinks they can control somehow, assert control over the future, either by obsessing over health or straight A's or their house or their job or what people think of them. It applies to the person who gets angry because things don't work according to plan. It applies to the person who is depressed. Because the middle-aged version of themselves doesn't quite live up to What the college version of myself planned. I thought it would be this. I'm depressed because I'm not what I planned. Ah Again, the verse. Really? Don't you know? Mist? Interestingly, this verse even applies to the depressed Despairing person who has given up all hope on the future. Maybe they've given themselves over to the self-destructive pattern of substance abuse. In other words, they've convinced themselves, not tomorrow we'll go to this city and make a lot of money, but instead tomorrow we're just going to be sitting here. Life's going to be as terrible as it is today. In other words, presuming the future will be bad is still presuming on the future, just like presuming the future will be good. In either case, you think you have knowledge of it. You know what will happen, what God will do. And to all these fear-driven assertions of control, and to all this presuming positively or negatively about the future, James is saying, let go control. Friends, we're amiss. We don't know it or control it. We don't possess supremacy over history. When I was in high school, I really, really wanted to go to a particular university. And somehow I managed to convince myself I would get into that university, such that when the answer came no, I was shocked. I can't believe this. When I was in university, college, I applied for a certain prestigious scholarship and somehow convinced myself again I would get that scholarship And then the answer came, no. Again, what? When I was graduating, was applying to graduate school, I convinced myself I'd get into a certain graduate school. Again, the answer came nope. But these were my plans. In my early 20s, I was convinced I'd be in the NFL. I'm just kidding. For real, in my early twenties, I convinced myself I would always have long, luscious locks Again, that did not quite work out. Man proposes. God disposes. Some of you might have wasted two hours of your life like I did watching Back to the Future 2. By use of a time machine, a character named Biff, who lives in the 1950s, manages to get hold of an almanac from the 1950s. 80s and he brings it back to the 1950s and this almond act predicts who's gonna win the Super Bowl and well doesn't predict it's from the 80s. It says who's gonna win the Super Bowl and who's gonna win this uh World Series and how the market is gonna go, and of course he invests all of his money to Take advantage of that. And he makes a ton of money. And it's kind of a fun daydream to indulge, isn't it? Like what if in 1950 or what if today I could predict what's going to happen in the next number of years. Man, I could take advantage of that in so many ways. As I say, it's a fun daydream to indulge, but it's not how God set up the world. He very intentionally, deliberately does not want us to know the future. He does not mean to put that into our hands at all. We would still, if we knew the future, we would still be fallen preachers. And we would take that knowledge of the future in order to colonize even that area. With our fallenness. It wouldn't really make a difference. We would still be fallen, sinful people. Just assert that fallenness in new ways In other words, God set this whole thing up called life, this whole thing called history and the passage of time so that we wouldn't know beyond the present. And that requires us just to utterly depend on Him. Remind us of our creaturelyness. Remind us that He alone is God. In other words, friend, every single second we spend, you and I spend, worrying about fearing Resuming upon, thinking we can somehow know or control the future. We are in that second, forgetting we are creatures. Standing before a creator. We are in that very second of worry and fear and panic and anger. Pushing the Creator off the throne and acting as if we are the Creator who have sovereignty over this, over the timeline of history. And robbing ourselves of the joy he means for us. And leaning on him and trusting in him. My daughter Emma and I were texting on Friday She asked in the text conversation, Dad, how can I pray for you? And the first thing I thought was, oh, if she's out christianing me, I should ask her how I could pray for her. And so I asked, and she said, and she gave me permission to share this. Probably just that I'd be able to live in the moment. And be content and not worry about the future so much. Because I feel like it's been controlling me lately and making me unhappy. My first thought when reading that was: that's a great thing for all of us to pray My second thought was, well, that'll fit my sermon. In fact, let me raise the temperature just a little bit To presume otherwise is arrogant, boastful, evil, sinful. That's point three. Point three. Our presumption is boastful, arrogant, evil, and sinful I'm skipping verse 15 for a moment. I'll come back to it. Look right now at verses 16 and 17. As it is, you boast in your arrogance. All such boasting is evil. So whoever knows the right thing to do and fails to do it for him, it is sin. It's easy to see this when we put it in Napoleon's mouth, right? Napoleon proposes, Napoleon disposes. We think, my goodness, that's air to pride before the fall, much, Napoleon? Do you think he's God? It's easy. See it when we put it in his mouth. Sometimes we can't even like that provado and that confidence. So Babe Ruth famously goes to the mound, he gets ready, and he points to the bleachers with his bat, saying, I'm gonna hit a home run. And then he does, and we're like, that's awesome. Is it? A little trash talk's okay. But that kind of boasting Well let's bring it, let's bring it into our world. Some of you guys know the book Alexander and the Terrible, No Good, Very Bad Day. Kids know that book. The day doesn't go according to Alexander's plans. Things happen at breakfast, things happen at school, things happen on the way home, things happen at dinner, it doesn't get what he wants. Every time something bad happens, he says, I think I'll move to Australia. How do you, how do I respond to a terrible, no-good, very bad day? What does that do to your heart? What does that do to your emotions? Do you get angry? You get depressed? Do you say, I have plans? This isn't fair. This isn't right. Notice what you're actually saying. The fact that the universe is not conforming to my plans is an injustice. And I'm right to be angry at this injustice or worried about this. Injustice, anxious. Instead of on the way to the meeting, the flat tire comes Thinking, ah, this is spoiling my plan. But I guess God is sovereign even over this flat tire. I'll be okay. Remind myself, I'll be okay. The Lord is sovereign even over little nails left on the road. I'll be okay In other words, friends, when we make confident presumptions about the future, when we fear the future and seek to control it, when we show our when we assume the future will be bad, and so despair, we show ourselves to be practical atheists. We show ourselves to be living as if God is not on the throne, and that we need to climb onto the throne and start calling the shots. Again, it's easy to see this when we put it in the mouth of somebody boastful like Napoleon, but don't you see that the same pride hides inside of our anxieties? Inside of our fears and depression and anger, when life doesn't work out according to our plans, whenever I think we can somehow control the future. Such pride is boastful, it's arrogant, it's evil, it's sinful, it's unbelieving, it's faithless. It removes God from the universe, as I say, it presumes to be sovereign. I told you about my plans for college, for a scholarship, for grad school. I could also talk about just more ordinary things, my plans for a Saturday, my plans for an evening. My plans for a daughter when I'm helping her with homework to quickly understand it so I don't have to keep doing this so I can get back to my stuff. But she doesn't. It takes a little longer than I thought. My plans for an enjoyable family dinner. My plans not to get sick So many plans. What what plans do you have? What daily schedules Do you have about what you say? Okay, this has to stay on track. I'm planning this party. You said you pick up the balloons. You didn't pick up the balloons. Why didn't you pick up the balloons? Do you see how you could be contending with the Almighty in the certainty of your plans? You're getting anxious or angry or annoyed over your plans. What do we do? Well, that brings us to point four. Point four, we should commit the future and our plans to God. We should commit the future and our plans to God. Verse 15. Look again at verse 15. Instead, you ought to say, if the Lord wills, we will live and do this or that. Notice that the verse presumes that God wills all things. If the Lord wills, these things will happen. He wills, says the Bible, the big things. He wills the rise and fall of nations, Acts 17, 26, and he determined allotted periods in the boundaries of the nations. He wills the little things like the nail on the road or the sparrow falling from a tree branch, Matthew 10, 29, and not one sparrow, not one sparrow Will fall to the ground apart from your Father. He wills the most horrific things, like the death of Christ Acts 4, 27 and 28, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, along with the Gentiles and the people of Israel, did whatever your hand and your plan had predestined to take place. Or we can simply read our verse again, verse 15 again. You ought to say, if the Lord wills, we will live. And do this or that. If the Lord wills, we'll go today or tomorrow. Otherwise, we won't. If the Lord wills, we'll go into such and such a town. If he doesn't, we won't. If the Lord wills, we'll spend a year there. If he doesn't, we won't. If the Lord wills, we'll trade and make a profit. If he doesn't, we won't. Whereas Isaiah 14, 24 says, the Lord of hosts has sworn, as I have planned, so shall it be, as I have purposed. So it shall stand. If the Lord wills, I'll drive tomorrow at 8. 30 to work and keep all my appointments. He wills that I get a flat tire and start a series of dominoes that turns into a terrible, no good, very bad day? Well, then so be it. I get a flat tire If the Lord wills that this new family we invited will join us for lunch after church, it'll happen. But if a good kid gets sick, we can't cancel last minute. That's what he wills. If the Lord wills this coming Thanksgiving, we'll fly home to see the parents, then we'll see the parents. But if he wills that the first flight is delayed and we miss the second flight and we're stuck all night in an airport. And don't get there in time for the turkey. Well, we don't get there in time for the turkey. If the Lord wills that next year I'll retire and be able to live on the the savings account then so it will be. But if the market crashes and I lose all of my savings, retirement plan, well I guess I keep working If he wills that the kids remain healthy. If he wills that I get the husband or wife I hoped for. If he wills that my career plans work out as I hoped. Or if he will to derail all of those things, so it will be And I you will be okay You weren't made to know or control or demand a certain kind of future That's not what a good and loving God promises to his people. That you'll be good if the future turns out this way. We're able as God's people to let go of it being anyway entirely because we know He is sovereign Good, and that he works all things together for good. For those who love him are called according to his purpose Last week, Shannon and I drove to Quakerstown, Pennsylvania, to buy a car. My car's not worked out the way I planned. It's not working well. That's frustrating. Gotta replace it, said the mechanic. So we drive two and a half hours. A really good advertised price on the website, even called the dealer Got up there, took it on a chest drive, I like this car. Let's sit down and negotiate. Well, the advertised price wasn't the real price. I was mad. My tone indicated that I was mad. She said afterwards, your tone got a little heated there As we drove away for 45 minutes, my head was like, that's false. I can't believe they did that to us. I was mad Now was I mad merely at the injustice of what had happened? Well, in part. Was I also mad because it imposed on me? Two hours up, two hours back. That was not my plan. Can't believe this. Practical atheism. Right there. I'm sovereign. That's why I'm mad. Contesting for supremacy over the Almighty right there. Friends, we gather every week as a church because we believe in God. We really actually believe in God. And that means we believe God is God. And that means we believe He is sovereign over all things, and nothing is outside of His hands. I didn't get to Pennsylvania and God is like, oh, didn't see that working out. So sorry, Jonathan. Yeah, they're they're punks. That's not what was happening in the Lord's mind. And so we say, if the Lord wills about everything. We don't panic, we don't fear, we work hard in life because he commands us to. We want to be obedient. We pray and we share the gospel because he commands us to. We we plan for the future because he tells us to, and this is clearly wise. But man knows the plans of his heart. The Lord determines his steps. Man proposes, God disposes. The Lord who is good and loving and wise was God. So we can be at rest We don't need to be anxious or lose our temper with our kids or our spouse, so we don't need to worry when the company starts losing money and we're worried about our jobs. We should make plans, that's wise. We should never hold them with a firm grip. That's unwise. Indeed, worse than unwise, sinful. Here's the practical takeaway. It's really simple. Can I tell you what the verse says? When you speak in the future indicative, this will use the phrase Lord willing. This weekend the family's going apple picking. Lord willing. My daughter will attend university next fall. Lord willing. Invest an apple. You'll get a good return, Lord willing. Friends, I would sincerely encourage you to add this to your speech. It's a way of training our hearts to keep a loose grip on everything. It's a reoccurring. We hear it out loud as we say it. Reminder that the future is entirely in God's hands and that our plans are always provisional No, do not walk out of here policing one another's language. You didn't say Lord willing. Don't do that. But do consider your own language, what you say. It'll serve as a testimony to your friends. It'll serve as a testimony to your children. To your young children, especially. Young children think mom and dad know everything. Mom and dad have control over everything, but when you say to your young daughter or son, Lord willing, it reminds them, it teaches them that mommy and daddy are under God and God's sovereignty too. Mommy and daddy are not God. And you need to trust in God. Friends, if if we really believed our lives were amiss, How would that change? How we lived. Breathe out, I'm there, breathe in, I'm gone. Well, as a Christian, I would I would still love the Lord. I would still want to obey Him. So I I would still want to plan and work hard and make the most of my time. But but frankly, because I I increasingly Understand, recognize, conceive of myself as this mist, this self-conscious, temporary half a second mist in the timeline of history, I know that I can't insist on anything, demand anything, feel entitled to anything. And anything the Lord happens to use me for in between breaths, it's all gravy. It's all goodness, it's all grace, it's all bonus, it's all joy. I'm just a miss. He's gonna use me. That's it's incredible. So we make our plans, but then we commit them to the Lord. We put them in his hands. What does Proverbs 16:3 say? Commit your work to the Lord, and your plans will be established. They're his plans. We'll establish our plans as we delight ourselves in Him. Not only that It's not just that the bad stuff's going to happen and you're going to lose your life in a moment. It's also that the Lord, as we commit our plans to Him, He amazingly sometimes does great things. One old famous preacher said, nothing of significance in my life that has ever happened to me did I plan. And as I think about my own life and the goodness the Lord has shown me in marriage, four daughters, ministry, friends, I didn't plan any of that How many of you, if you had known me as a single man or in college, would have said, yeah, that's a four-daughter man right there. Jonathan Lehman. He is the four-daughter guy. Tender, patient. The Lord had his plans. What a gift, what a blessing. That has been to me every step of the way. How that dramatically has changed my heart. But I didn't plan it. I trust you can look back in your life. I can trust you can look back and see good things the Lord has done in your life, and you're like, yeah, didn't plan that. But God is good. Now, what about us as a church? One year ago, I thought John Joseph would be the pastor here for years And when a few weeks later from one year ago I found out, well, he may not There was some frustration. What? That wasn't the plan. Well, we we just planted, John, a few years ago. This wasn't the plan. God's like, I got this. I know what I'm doing. I love you. I love the congregation. I know what I'm doing. Friends, we're still stuck in an elementary school gym. What's he planning? Don't know, but he's got it. What's gonna happen with calling a pastor? Don't finally know, but he's got it. Isn't he good? Isn't he always been good to us? Even in the hard things, even in the losses and the failures and the hurts and the stumbled again. Even in those things, has the Lord in his perfect sovereignty shown his goodness to us. So Jesus stood in the Garden of Gethsemane several times. He prayed, Take this cup from me, but not my will. Yours be done. Interestingly, Christ was no mist With God, was God in eternity past, no mist, and still Though being in the form of God, did not account a quality with God, a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself. By taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men, and being found in human form, misty form. He humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. Not my will. So the incarnate Son, yours, be done. Jesus did this. How absurd that we would do anything otherwise when the Lord Jesus Christ Himself did this. Your will. I'll go to this city, I'll trade, I'll make a profit, Father God in heaven, if you will, says the Lord Jesus Christ. Committed his plans to God, God established them. Therefore, God has highly exalted and bestowed on him the name that is above every name, so that the name of Jesus every knee should bow in heaven. And on earth and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. We seek to know and control the future. We fret and worry. We get anxious and angry. As if all of that accomplishes anything better than what Jesus accomplished when he said, Your will be done The glory of the Son, the praise of the Father, the salvation of God's people. Man proposes. God disposes. Knowing that living by that is freedom and salvation and joy. My friend, if you're here this morning and you're not a follower of Jesus Christ, I promise you that tomorrow is not guaranteed. Eternity can be if you look to the God of all gods, the Lord of all lords The Lord Jesus Christ. Put your trust in Him. Pray with me now. Father, forgive us for the way we fret and worry and are anxious and presume upon the future, thinking we can somehow control it. Forgive us for such usurpation, for such apostasy For such godlessness. Help us to commit all of our plans to you. Help us to know that our days and our times and our hours and our minutes are in your hands. And to rest there, to take joy there, knowing that you are good and sovereign over all things. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen