Good morning everyone. It's good to see you, family. My name is Ryan, and I am an elder at this church, and I'm pleased to bring the word of God to you this morning. Um before we get started, let's uh go to him and another word of prayer. Heavenly Father, it is so great to gather together as a family in Christ. We're so grateful that we can look into the inspired Word of God, the Holy Scriptures, and be encouraged to be taught, to be instructed. That we can look at your word and not rely on our own human wisdom to ascend to the throne of God and to worship you. And to know you and to fellowship with you and to love and know and fellowship with one another. So God, as we look at the scriptures this morning, we do pray that we would be changed by them. We ask this all in Jesus' name. Name. Amen. Well, this morning we're taking a little bit of a break from the book of Nehemiah we've been going through. And we are going to look at Jesus' coming, his advent. To we are going to consider this Christmas season. You know, Christmas really is a family holiday, and our families play a pivotal role in who we are. You know, the term origin story is kind of entered the lexicon, I think, probably, but I could be wrong because of superhero movies. Every Superhero seems to have an or its own origin story mov movie. And so uh as we think about Christmas, it's an origin story, and it's a family story You know, I have this uh red book up here. Uh it's it's not something I've seen I've taken a lot of time and and dealt through and gone through, but um it is Called uh the title of this book is The I. B. Payne Family of Wynne Parish, Louisiana. Has anyone heard of Wynne Parish, Louisiana? You know, growing up, I I barely heard of one parish, Louisiana, and I was in Louisiana, uh, and that is where is my ancestral home is, at least on my father's side. Um my uh this uh book is the story of my great great grandfather's family. Uh he grew up in or they migrated to at some point at Wynn Parish, Louisiana. His name was IB That was my grandfather's name, IB. There's three IBs on that side of the family. If you're interested in what IB stands for, because this, you know, we got CJs and and DJs, but no one's ever really heard of an IB. It stands for Isaac Bonaparte. Okay, so there you go. Isaac Bonaparte. And a little interesting fun fact, my grandfather wasn't actually given that name. He was given the name Conley. But at some point he said, you know Bonaparte, that's the name that I want to have. So uh I learned years later, I think after he passed away, that he changed his name from Conley when he was about 16 to Isaac Bonaparte and went by IB. So there you go. It's the story of Isaac Bonaparte. My great-grandfather went by the name uh Buddy and his wife Martha. They raised 10 kids in central Louisiana. And it's part of my origin story. And this is just a, it was put together by one of my father's cousins, and it's uh it's this it's the family tree, and it's a book of recollections In uh chapter seven on uh the uh what it was like to grow up in the country, my great aunt Laverne, whom I didn't even meet until I was in college because As you can imagine, with 10 kids, there's a lot of family, and we didn't get together all the time. But I I met her in college, but she wrote this recollection uh in chapter seven on what it was like to live in the country. She said I think it was wonderful to grow up on a farm. We weren't wealthy and we didn't have much, but we didn't know the difference. We thought we were just as well off as the others were. I remember Christmas. Our dad usually bought a case of apples and a case of oranges that was mostly our Christmas But we did like it when our family, Polly and Attress and everybody, would come home. We loved Christmas. Because it was a time for all of us to get together for laughing and talking and just being together. And we managed to get a little gift. But but then it was sorry we managed to get one little gift, but then if you got some fruit, that was good for us You know, years later when I was uh small and would get up at eight five in the morning to go down for my presence. Um I would rush, I would see the presents, but I wasn't allowed to open them until my parents came there. But we could get our stockings. And you know what was in our stockings? Apples and oranges. There were some other things there, but there was apples and oranges. And I remember as a kid thinking. That's not very special. You know, like why is there an apple and orange in my stocking? So I I called my dad after I read the story and I was putting two and two together, and I said, Dad. Is this why you guys put apples and oranges in our stockings? And he said, you know, I guess it is. He said, when they were kids, they always grew up. And when they got up in the morning, his father had put apples and oranges and walnuts kind of all over the table, and that was a part of their Christmas tradition. So actually I have to admit I'm feeling pretty guilty that I haven't carried on that tradition. So uh guys, I think you can expect a couple of apples and oranges in your stocking uh this year You see, that red book tells a lot about my family history, who I am, what it means for me to be the great-grandson of Buddy and Martha Payne. It's got my family tree and it's got my some of my the my family stories. You know last week Tony helped us see from the book of Nehemiah that God's people were defined by their genealogy or their family. trees. That was not new for God's people. Their identity was actually in their family tree for most of them, right? And Tony pointed out that the Bible includes over 20 genealogical lists. And those books like Genesis and Exodus and Numbers, Ruth, Ezra, Nehemiah. They all have long genealog genealogical lists or genealogies. And the purpose of these is not just to record the history of God's people, but it was ultimately to show that God preserved his people and protected his covenant people, and that he was faithful to his promises. Tony also rightly reminded us that a year ago, about a year ago this very Sunday, uh Jonathan Lehman preached on Matthew chapter 1, the geology found there. Now I'm going to take a total aside here and just let you guys in on a blessing that um that I enjoy every year at Christmas, which is is a song of the genealogy. There's a band that you can find, and you can Google. It's called, it's kind of an odd name because bands are supposed to have odd names. But poor Bishop Hooper. Have any have anybody ever heard of poor Bishop Pooper? Well, you should Google it, and uh you should Google um I think it's Christ or Christmas Song or the Genealogy of Matthew. But basically That group has put the genealogy of Matthew to a song and it is awesome. I I know you might not think that sounds awesome, but it is awesome because it is name after name after name after name. But the crescendo is Christ, the Son of God. And it is amazing piece of music. And so I really recommend it this year that you Google that and you find that and enjoy that this year with your family and just Let it be a meditation and a devotion to God. You know, Jonathan reminded us last year that all the genealogies of the Old Testament or all the genealogies of the Bible have their end in Jesus Christ. Well today we're going to examine Galatians chapter 1, I mean chapter 4, verses 1 through 7. So I want you to go ahead and look. And open your Bibles to Galatians chapter 4. If you're using a Pew Bible next to you, it's on page 974. Now the book of Galatians is uh It addresses an argument that some of the churches that Paul planted in the what is now modern day Turkey are having. They're having an argument over how a person comes a part of the family of God. It's basically an argument over what is the Christian origins story. Part of what Paul is confronting in the book of Galatians is the question: now that Christ has come, how is one to become a part of the family of God? How does one become part of God's family tree or his people's family tree? How is God still faithful to his promise to Israel now that Christ has come? Now it was accepted among these Christians, uh these Jewish Christians, especially, that Gentiles, the non-Jews, could become a part of the family of God. Gentiles could now become Christians. But there was a faction of the Jews who wanted to impose Jewish laws on the Gentiles, namely they wanted the Gentiles to be circumcised as a means of receiving grace through Christ. You may have heard these people referred to as Judaizers. They wanted to be fully Jewish and fully Christian. Or you could say that they wanted Christians to become fully Jewish and to submit to God's law, the law of Moses first. Before being counted as part of God's family through Christ. Paul's not having any of this. So he writes to the Galatian Christians to set the record straight. And then our passage today picks up in the middle of that argument about how we join the family of God. So look at our passage today, Galatians chapter 4, verse 1. I'll read it. I mean that an heir, as long as he is a child, is no different from a slave, though he is the owner of everything But he is under guardians and managers until the date set by his father. In the same way, we also When we were children, were enslaved to the elemental elementary principles of this of the world. But when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his son, born Born of a woman, born under the law, to redeem those who were under the law, so that we might receive adoption as son. And because you are sons, God has sent the Spirit of the Son in our hearts crying, Abba, Father. So you are now, no, you are no longer slaves, but sons. And if a son, then an heir through God. Now, I want you to keep your eye on the scriptures here and look at all the familial references in this passage. Verse 1, you see the terms heir and child. An heir is a child who inherits from his or her parents. There are several references to a father, a son, children. So to understand this passage, you must understand how the family works, how property is passed down from parents to children. In verse 5, you see the term adoption is mentioned. Adoption is when a person who is not a part of the family becomes part of the family. This is a legal uh situation where they become legally part of the family and they receive all the rights and the privileges of a natural-born child. Look at verse 6. It says, we are told that those who are adopted into God's family can cry out to God in intimate language, Abba, Father. Look at verse 7. It says, so you are no longer a slave, but a son. And if a son, then an heir through God. To Paul's passion in the book of Galatians is to convince the church that their status with God And to be cr what their status of God as a child of God is, and to be crystal clear on how they become a child of God. It is a fight over the Christian's origin story. It's a fight over my story. It's a fight over your story. It's a fight over anyone who is a follower of a Christ. It is also an argument of what happens to the family tree or the genealogy of God's holy covenant people after the advent of Christ. So we find in this passage that the story is tie is tied to this Christmas story. Now, that might seem obvious to say, hey, this passage is tied to Christmas story, might seem cliche, but actually we can we can forget that. And that's part of what's going on in the book of Galatians, is people are forgetting The gospel. Some of the Galatians have forgotten it that already, and they have been tempted to fall away from the gospel. To remember how they became a part of God's family. Listen to what Paul writes. Listen to this rebuke in chapter 3, verses 1 and 2 Paul says, O foolish Galatians, who has bewitched you? It was before your eyes that Jesus Christ was publicly portrayed as crucified Let me ask you only this. Did you receive the Spirit by works of the law or by hearing with faith? So Paul's challenging them, and he's asking them, what makes you a Christian? And the answer that we find here in our passage, and it is the point of the sermon this morning. Faith in Christ leads to adoption in God's family. Faith in Christ leads to adoption in God's family. So we're going to meditate on this profound truth by breaking the passage down into three parts or three observations. The first observation is our condition, and that's verses one through three. The second observation is God's remedy, verses four through five. And the third observation is our new position in verses six and seven. So observation number one, our condition. Look at verse 1, chapter 4, verse 1. It says, I mean that the heir, as long as he is a child, is no different from a slave, though he is the owner of everything. But he is under guardians and managers until the date set by his father. In the same way, we also, when we were children, were enslaved to the elementary principles So this verse is a continuation of an argument which we see most clearly in chapter 3. And in chapter 3, pretty much begins and ends with Abraham. So kids, can anyone tell me who Abraham is? Actually, I'm not going to call anyone. Just shout it out. Who is Abraham? Anybody? Don't be shy. What's that? Father of Israel? Yeah, he's a patriarch. Right. And he's the father of Israel, the f the Jewish people. Abraham is the father of the Jewish people. Abraham is the beginning of the distinct story of the Jewish people So the Jewish origin story starts with Abraham. And we first learn about Abraham in Genesis, the first book of the Bible. If we look back at Galatians chapter 3, verse 29, just right the last verse of chapter 3, this is what Paul says. He says, And if you are in Christ, then you are Abraham's offspring. Heirs according to promise. The argument is about who is the true heir of the promise God made to Abraham, and thus who are the true people of God. So God's promises to Abraham can be found in Genesis chapter 12, verses 1 through 3, Genesis 15 and 17. And there God promises Abraham that he's going to be a great nation. And all the nations of the earth will be blessed in him. And in Genesis 17, he gives Abraham the sign of the covenant, circumcision. So for the Judaizers, circumcision is required to be an heir of Abraham, to be part of God's people. And if Jesus is the Messiah, then surely circumcision has some part to play in that But Paul is arguing against that. He's saying that it's faith that makes one an heir of Abraham. So if you just keep looking back at chapter 3 with me, just briefly at verses 6, it says Just as Abraham believed God and it was counted to him as righteousness, know then that it is those of faith who are sons of Abraham. And the scriptures, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, preached the gospel beforehand to Abraham, saying, In you shall all the nations be blessed. So then those who are of faith are blessed along with Abraham, the man of faith. You know, when I first encountered this, and I first encountered Genesis 12, this is a bit of an aside, but it was in college. And I can remember laying in my dorm bed and reading this for a class I had on missions. And just being blown away by this connection between Abraham and the covenant people of God, the New Testament people, and that way back when When God set apart his people for himself, he always had in mind everyone in this room. Because until January, to my knowledge, we're not going to have too many Jewish people in here, right? Most of us are not Jewish background. We are Gentiles. Right? And God, when he picked out the Jewish people and made a covenant with them, he did not forget us. He preached the gospel that through Abraham All people of the earth will be blessed. That's you and me Brothers and sisters, the gospel is good news, but please understand it is not new news. The gospel is ancient. The gospel shows up when Abraham hears from God in chapter 12 of Genesis and says it In you all the nations of the earth will be blessed. But what about the law? What about circumcision? What about sacrifice? What about all the feast in the Old Testament? Well, Paul says the law was a guardian. Look back at chapter 3 again, verse 23. It says, now before faith came, That is salvation through Christ alone, we were held captive under the law, imprisoned until the coming faith would be revealed. So then the law was our guardian until Christ came. in order that we might be be justified by faith. But now that faith has come, we are no longer guardians. For in Christ, we are no longer under a guardian, for in Christ Jesus, you are all sons of God through faith So the law was never a means of salvation. Did not make one an heir. The law was a guardian. And as a guardian, it did two things. It revealed sin. to show us our transgression. And it restrained sin. It compelled us to live holy lives. So if you look back at the passage this morning, verses 1 through 3, Paul is bringing greater clarity to what it means to be under the Guardian law. He's saying that. The heir and a family does not have possession of his future inheritance until the father says it's time to inherit. So look at verse 3. It says, the same way we also, when we were children We're enslaved to the elementary principles of the world. So what is our condition? Our condition before Christ is one of enslavement to the elemental principles of this world. That's Jews and that's Gentiles. This is the law for the Jews, the elementary principles of the world. But for the Gentiles, it was the demands of their pagan religions and their philosophies. And really, even their own consciences. What is interesting about the Jewish Christians and the Gentiles Christians in these churches in Galatia here is that they're clearly tempted to legalism. to believing that their entry and standing in the family of God depended on their submission to some parts of the Jewish law, namely circumcision, but also special Jewish holidays and other observances. The problem here is not so much that they had respect for the law, or that they believed that in practicing some aspects of the law might bring honor to God. The problem is they began to practice the law in order to be honored by God. Not to honor God. The object was their own self-glorification or their self-righteousness, self-justification. But in doing so, the Galatian Christians were accepting a yoke A set of rules to be justified by and to be counted as the heirs of God. Yet the law can never justify, and self-justification is always a trap. We always delude ourselves If we rely on our own righteous deeds. Later in the book of Galatians, Paul will say that you are submitting to a yoke of slavery. So, what about us? Can we as reformed evangelical Baptists fall victim to this sort of thing? I think we certainly can. First, I think we can be tempted by theology and doctrine. Now, I know that that can sound strange. We are definitely a church that loves good theology and strong doctrine. But right theology and doctrine does not save. Certainly, there are wrong beliefs that will damn a man, such as denying the divinity of Christ, but intellectual assent to Chevrolet Baptist Church's statement of faith is not a means of salvation. Our statement of faith does not exist to save you, but it exists to disciple you And to help you walk in your faith and to keep you from drifting from your faith as the Galatian Christians have done Do not become proud of any theological acumen lest you trade your faith in Christ for some false assent and confidence in the Westminster Catechism or Calvin's Institutes or some other particular doctrine If you tell me that you're a Christian and I ask you, how do you know, and you tell me that you've memorized the Westminster Catechism. I'm going to point you to Abraham, the man of faith, on my way to pointing you to Christ. Second, I think we can create our own self-righteous laws. We can be hungry for self-justification. You and me. As a younger Christian, I was actually taught pretty well about having a quiet time. So I felt convicted and I developed a, I think, probably for a young man, a healthy habit of having a quiet time. But I noticed something kind of twisted about my belief and desires to have a quiet time You know, you ever say to yourself, oh, you know, this morning, I was in the Word 30 minutes and I prayed for 15 minutes. Man, God loves me. I'm gonna have a great day. Or, oh, I slept in my alarm. And the little bit of time I had, I got sucked into Facebook or a news feed. And I'm getting out the door and I haven't even prayed. Oh, God really must hate me. I I He does not love me today. That is self-righteousness. That is works. We as Christians can quickly construct laws and practices That we put on ourselves and then even judge others by to make us feel right with God. It is the thing that we do. We say, you know, it's the thing that we do that justifies me. Listen, I applaud all the Christian disciplines that you want to practice. We had a whole Sunday school class on Christian disciplines. But you know, God's not impressed with your disciplines. If you memorize Psalm 119, he is not going to love you more. We practice Christian disciplines out of our overflow of the grace that we have received so that we might become more conform to the image of Christ. So I want to just Implore you and to encourage you to check your heart so that you might not fall into the trap of legalism, believing that your standing with God depends on your righteous efforts. Submission to a false faith in religious or spiritual practices, look at what it says in verse 4, is enslavement to the elemental principles of the world. Ultimately, it's oppressive. It will keep you and others from the grace of God. And this separation from God is our natural condition. But God has a remedy. And that's our second observation. Observation number two, God's remedy. Look at Galatians 4, 4 and 5. But God, I'm sorry, but when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his son, born of a woman. Born under the law, to redeem those who were under the law, so that you might receive adoption as sons. Paul's argument at this point were to demonstrate that both Jewish and Gentiles Christians were enslaved to the elemental principles of the world But when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his son, which is to say that when God's purpose of the centuries of training And guardianship at the right time, that bondage and that powerlessness that we found being enslaved to the elementary principle of the world at the right time in Jesus We gain our inheritance. Look at verse 4 and 5. Again, it says Jesus came born of a woman, born under the law, to redeem those who were under the law. So here Paul is introducing the idea of redemption, the idea of freedom from the law, idolatry, and ineffectual religious practices that keep people enslaved and kept people enslaved. The idea of being captive, even captive to the law, is a pivotal to understanding Christmas. We sing about this every year. We sing about it frequently. If you think about some of the songs that we sing, O come, O come, Emmanuel, and ransom captive Israel. That mourns in lonely exile here until the Son of God appears. Come, thou long expected Jesus, born to set thy people free from our fears And sins, release us. Let us find our rest in thee. O holy night, stars are brightly shining It is the night of our dear Savior's birth. Long lay the world and sin in error pining. until he appeared and the soul felt its worth. You know, as I surveyed um Christmas carols and hymns this year, I I couldn't hardly find one that didn't have a res reference either explicitly or impliedly To redemption, the great unbounding of our souls from the sins and perils of this world. And this redemption is trustworthy for two reasons. Reason number one is Jesus was born of a woman. You know, this fulfilled the Old Testament prophecies we meditate on every year. Consider Isaiah 7, verse 14. Therefore, the Lord Himself will give you a sign, behold, a virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Emmanuel, God with us. Amen. Isaiah chapter 9, verse 6. For to us a child is born, to us a son is given. The second reason this is trustworthy is Jesus was born under the law. Jesus submitted to the exacting demands of the guardianship of the law and the elementary principles of the world. Consider what Jesus said in Matthew 5, verse 17. Do you think that I have come to abolish the law and the prophets? I have not come to abolish them, but to fulfill them. Jesus, by submitting to the law, could fulfill the law and put an end to it. One commentator had states, the low estate and great humiliation of Christ shows that as sin came into the world by the woman, the Savior from sin came also the same way. The Son of God submitted himself to the constraints, humiliation, and the sufferings that we are subject to in order, verse 5 again, in order to redeem those under the law. So this happened for a purpose. He came for a purpose, and that purpose is that we might be adopted as son through faith in Christ alone. So I just want to say, let's not get sidetracked to you. I want to encourage you not to get sidetracked by the fact that he's talking about adoption as sons. This really includes everyone. Sisters, you are adopted as sons. I know that might sound strange, but it's actually important because in this culture Inheritance templically flowed through a male heir. And so what is remarkable here is that Paul is saying that all people who before Christ Are trusting in the elemental principles of the world, the do's and the don'ts of the earthbound religion, all of them? are now equally adopted as God's family, as his sons, with all the rights and privileges and the blessing as an heir. Listen to what Paul writes just before this our scripture this morning in Galatians 3, 27 and through 29. He says, For as many of you who were baptized into Christ have put on Christ. There is neither Jew nor Greek. There is neither slave nor free. There is no male and female. For you are all one in Christ Jesus. And if you are Christ, then you are Abraham's offspring, heirs according to the promise. So we're about to see that point a little more clearly in verse 7, which brings me to our last observation, our new position. Galatians 4, 6 and 7. And because you are sons, God has sent the Spirit of His Son into our hearts, crying, Abba, Father. So you are no longer a slave, but a son. And if a son, then an heir through God We are now people of the Spirit. As sons, heirs, children of God, we are indwelt with the Holy Spirit who testifies of our adoption With God with the cry, Abba, Father. Paul says something similar to this in Romans chapter 8, verses 15 through 16. You have received the spirit of adoption as sons. By whom we cry, Abba, Father, the Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God. So working through faith, God sends forth himself in the spirit of his son in our hearts, testifying To our spirit, that we are God's children, and we know that because we cry, Abba, Father. Now I started this morning by pointing out that Christmas is a family holiday, and I know that that actually can sting for a lot of you because your relationship with your father and your family, uh maybe particularly uh, you know, your parent. is hard. You might have experienced an abusive father, a negligent mother. You may have strife with your brothers and sisters or extended family. So to say that Christmas is a family heart holiday actually stings. But I'm I want to suggest and and I want to suggest humbly, hopefully, that maybe that sting can Be a bit of a teacher as well. Because you know the pain of a negligent or abusive parent. And you know that that's not right. Right? You know what that feels like to not have the love that you crave and that you want. That sting can teach us how great the love of our God and Father is. Because you can come to him and all that you are craving and missing in that heavenly uh in your earthly parents and your earthly family, you can find in God the Father in your church family as well. That which wasn't isn't right on this earth, he makes right. Through adoption as sons, as daughters, and becoming a part of his family. So the longing, the affection, the acceptance, the guidance, the protection that you long for from your father and from your fountain family. Provides profound and meaning insight for your adoption into God's family. Because in every way we fail, our Heavenly Father does not fail Because at the proper time he sent forth his son, born of a woman, born under the law, in order to redeem us and to make us his children, heirs to all his promises. So the term Abba Father is an Aramaic word. It just means father, but it conveys intimacy. It's actually the term Jesus uses in the Garden of Gethsemane. If your relationship with your earthly father is strained, remember you have a new position. You have a new family. Through Christ, you have been now adopted. By a heavenly father who gives his spirit and puts in you words of a child that are the most intimate of a relationship with a father possible. Abba, Father. You see, Christmas really is a family holiday, but it's not like what you see at the end of the movies where uh the family, after all the kind of craziness that goes on in the movie, you know, you're sitting around having a fire and exchanging gifts. maybe singing some songs. No, Christmas is about a different exchange. Listen to what Paul writes earlier in Galatians in chapter 2, verses 16 and 20. Did we know that a person is not justified by works of the law, but through faith in Jesus Christ? So we also have believed in Christ Jesus in order to be justified by faith in Christ. And not by works of the law. Because works of the law, because by works of the law no one will be justified. Verse 20 I have been crucified with Christ. I no longer live, but Christ lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. There's no greater love than a father would send his son to give his life for you We come into God's family through Christ, and we are now justified by faith in Christ and not by works of the law. Brothers and sisters, in Christ, we have a new position before God. holy, spirit-filled children of God. So to wrap up, you know, we talked a little bit about the genealogy of the gospel that begins. That's in Matthew. And I want to point out that that genealogy actually begins with Abraham, the father of the nation of Israel, who God promised to bless, to make into a great nation. And in turn, bless all the peoples of the earth. If you are a Christian, you are a child of Abraham because you have faith in Christ. After Christ, there are no more recorded genealogies defining the people of God because the adoption records, can you imagine? The adoption records to carry on the genealogy after Christ, all the nations of the earth, are blessed through Abraham. And there's not enough ink, there's not enough paper, not enough trees on the earth to fill up that genealogy. So I want to end with a few encouragements. First, believe the gospel. Like Abraham, believe God and put your faith in Christ and live according to that faith. And some of you here today, you may not have put your faith in Christ. You may actually be putting your faith in your genealogy, in your family tree. But this morning I want to encourage you to consider what we've talked about this morning, what we've meditated on, and put your faith in Christ. Because faith in anything else is actually enslavement to the elementary principles of this world. It is a yoke. It is bondage. So remember the story I told earlier about my great-grandfather, how he gave the kids apples and oranges. on Christmas morning. Then my grandfather gave his kids apples and oranges on Christmas morning. And then my parents put apples and oranges in my stocking. You know, the interesting fact about that gift is my dad told me as I was calling and checking, getting my facts right, that that actually started during the depression. Uh so they had ten kids. I don't know the exact breakdown, but the first five, they were pretty well off and wealthy and they got sent off to school and stuff like that. The second five after the depression came They didn't have much. This was kind of the only Christmas gift and abundance my grandfather could afford, bushels of apples and orange oranges. It was a treat born of poverty that became a rich family tradition. Brothers and sisters, Our family tradition is faith. Every day we have to get up and believe God's promises and walk in them. Every day. It is a daily tradition. This Christmas, I want to just encourage you, believe God. Put your faith in Christ and walk in that faith Don't wait till December 25th. Do it today. Do it right now. Do it tomorrow. Walk every day in the faith in Christ. Don't take faith for granted. Granted. Lastly, uh second encouragement, cry out to God. So Galatians 4, 6 And because you are sons, God has sent the Spirit of His Son into our hearts, crying, Abba, Father. It's interesting that he sends the Holy Spirit into our hearts with the cry and an exclamation. Right? A cry, Abba Father. It's not just Abba Father. Abba, Father. Right? That's The mission of the Spirit in this verse, right? Come into us and give us that cry. Do you cry out to God? I mean that as a real question, like not like. Metaphor, theoretically, I I I cry out to God because I want his salvation or I know I need him. . But like do you really cry out to God Um and I don't even mean like do you pray? I mean do you cry out to God? Uh I want to encourage you to cry out to God. You know, if You all don't have you there's a lot of kids in here and even if you don't have children, I'm pretty sure you can trust that you've seen kids around at the park or at the store when they want something from their parents, there's usually no inhibition. To crying for it, right? That's the image that we have. I want to encourage you. Some of you, and I'm not going to name any names, many of you need to lose some inhibition in your faith. The spirit is in you to cry, Abba, Father. Be vulnerable with the Lord. Cry out to Him Try out to him with a humble, childlike faith and emotion to God. Of course, this is obvious in prayer. I think it's wholly appropriate to close the door and to cry out to the Lord and cry out loudly. The prayer closet, as my hearsay sometime. But there's other ways that we do that. And one way we actually do it, we do it every Sunday. And I want to take a few moments and encourage you about singing. As a crying out to God. And in fact, I actually want to meddle a little bit here, and I want to talk to the men of the congregation. Do you cry out to God on Sunday morning when we come in here and when we sing? In a few moments we are going to sing come thou long expected Jesus If you believe the truth of that song, I want to encourage you in your heart, through that song, cry out to God. When we sing, we say things to each other and to God. And we say things to ourselves. It is a spiritual act. It is also an act of community. Brothers, sing loudly, regularly. Please don't be embarrassed. Your wives and your children are watching Do you believe the songs? Then sing them. It does not matter what your voice sounds like. I will confess to you. I know that there are many really good musicians and people who can harmonize in this congregation. I don't know what that is. I mean intellectually I know what it is. I know what the word means, and I know something's happening musically, right? But I don't know what it is in like I can't do it. But God hasn't called me to harmonize. There's no, I mean, I don't about to say there's no harmony in the Bible. Maybe there is. I don't know. But that is not my calling. The Spirit of God is in me to cry out to God. So please cry out to God. Yes, I will confess, I'm embarrassed every Sunday I come in here. Truly Because I know there are people around me, and I don't know if they are or not, that could judge my lack of harmony. But here's the one thing I know about this congregation. They ain't doing that. No one here is gonna judge you. I'll tell you why I know that. Because I'm preaching here this morning. And you know, this isn't my day job, right? And there's no lack of encouragement from you guys when I preach People texting me. There's several people this morning, like, you're preaching? And they were so excited. I'm not Jonathan Lehman, I'm not Tony Merritt, I'm not Larry Lazarus. But yet you encourage me. I know that you're not encouraging me because they're like, yes, Ryan, man, he's like the closest thing we have to John Piper. That is not happening. I know it's because you love me. And be honest, for is kind of stumbling and fumbling around I have up here, I don't get nervous Do you know why? Because you don't get nervous in front of people you love. You just you don't So sing, brothers. Sing, because the spirit is in us, in which we cry out to God. So those are my two encouragements. Believe the gospel and sing. And sisters sing to. But you do that faithfully. Brothers and sisters, remember this Christmas But it's a family holiday, and that through faith in Christ, you are a child of God. And Christmas is a family tradition. Walk in the faith like your father Abraham and cry out to God loudly. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, Thank you, thank you that we are all here adopted, all of us We love that. We need that. And God, sometimes we forget that. You know, we can be like these Galatian Christians. I mean, heaven forbid that we become arrogant. I think that, you know, we wouldn't drift away from the faith. Heaven forbid that we would think that we would never become self-righteous or that we have all the answers. And that other people need to be like us. Lord, keep us humble. Help us to be a faithful people. Putting our hope and our trust in Christ. And as we do that, Lord Jesus, we pray that you will help us work out our salvation with great fear and trembling before you And that we would be confident and comfortable with you as our Father, adopted That's like all the rights and privilege of a natural-born child, and that we would cry out to you with no sheepishness, but with intimacy and confidence and boldness. Help us this week as we go, as we think and look forward to celebrating Christ. May truly in our hearts be, you know, may every day be Christmas We ask this all in Jesus' name. Amen.