I don't know that I ever visited an art museum as a kid growing up in Eugene, Oregon. Eugene's not exactly bursting with art museums. In the latter part of high school, however, we moved to Chicago, where our parents took us to the Chicago Art Institute. an amazing gallery, known especially for its impressionist paintings, and especially even among that, Claude Monet. Raise your hand if you have you can think of the paintings of Monet Maybe a few of you. It's light, pleasant, soft colors sort of stuff, right? You've you've you've seen paintings like this. This is impressionism. And in many respects, Monet is a great artist. He was uh for this own our own area. He was painting in the end of the 19th, early 20th century And the impressionists in general started to kind of blur things out a little bit. Fuzzy it up. Wanted to give you the impression of things. Which is to say they sort of stayed on the surface of things. Francis Schaefer pointed out in this time of Industrialization and urbanization, an increase in scientific naturalism, especially Darwinism People's hold on God and who God is and man, who or what a man is began to get a little fuzzy. And we didn't want to look at paintings that made us think, we wanted to think look at things that are pleasant and nice In that sense, Monet was a great artist of that era, reflecting that era. Kind of like our own era. I think there's a reason we we like the Impressionists today. Well, in college, I began to do some traveling, and I spent a year abroad, and I went to Europe and spent a lot of time going into the different galleries and discovered older painters. And began to find an even greater depth of meaning that was in some of their older painters. There's one in particular who grappled with these harder Deeper, darker sometimes themes, and that's Rembrandt. Now, if you visit today in the Alta Pinatech Museum in Munich You'll discover one particular painting by Rembrandt called Raising the Cross. And what it is, is this large canvas, obviously, and you have Christ. Kind of off on the right of the thing, center right, being raised up. He's the brightest thing on the canvas, the thing that immediately draws your eyes. And then around him is all black and darkness, and then these soldiers, also kind of brown, dark colors, black. But here's the interesting thing about the painting. Right in the very center, think of a clock, right? Right right there in the very center of the painting. Is a different color. Blue. Bright blue. And it's the blue of a painter's beret. Anybody know who the figure also in light, this blue beret, painter's beret, anybody know who that is? It's Rembrandt. He placed himself in this painting at the foot of the cross. It's out of place. His bray looks different, his hair looks different, his clothes don't look like they belong in the first century. It feels like he just stepped out of a time machine and stuck himself in this painting. Why would he do that? Well, what's clear is he has a hand on the cross, and there's a sense in which he is helping to raise that cross up. Why would he do that? Well, Rembrandt knew Jesus. And he knew that his sins were in part responsible for the fact that Jesus was placed on that cross. In that painting. Rembrandt said, I'm guilty too. I too put Christ on the cross. It's not softly colored. It's not the aesthetically pleasing fuzziness of a Monet painting It's poignant. It's jarring. It's a little upsetting. Is it true? Right. Friends, turn to John 18, where we read about the lead up to that crucifixion. Last week, Tony helped us look at John 17 and his final prayer for his disciples. Next week, we'll move to the end of 18 and 19 and move towards that Crucifixion scene. This week is the bridge. The rejection of Jesus And I think that, like Rembrandt, we'll discover that we are personally involved in that rejection I'll read verses 1 to 27 and offer a few comments as I go. Verse 1. When Jesus had spoken these words. Referring back to chapters 14 to 17. He went out with his disciples across the Kidron Valley where there was a garden, Yethsemane. Which he and his disciples entered. Now, Judas, who had betrayed him, also knew the place, for Jesus had often met there with his disciples. He presumably would have meeting with them throughout Passover week. Judas would have known that Jesus would go there. Jesus knew that Judas would know that that's where he would go. Verse 3. So Judas, having procured a band of soldiers and some officers from the chief priests and the Pharisees, went there with lanterns and torches and weapons. That word band, band of soldiers, would have referred to 600. Roman soldiers. Now it's possible there would have been fewer, but this was a big group of Roman soldiers. Passover would have swelled, city of Jerusalem would have swelled during Passover's Romans were on high alert. for possible mobs or insurrections, they're not fooling around. And of course, so we have we have the Rome Romans Going to arrest Jesus. We have the Jews going to arrest Jesus. What does that mean? Well, that means, as one commentator put it, the whole world is indicted in the arrest of Jesus. Verse 4. Then Jesus, knowing all that would happen to him, he's not a pathetic martyr, came forward and said to them, Whom do you seek? They answered him, Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus said to them, I am He. Literally the words there are just I am. I am. Judas, who betrayed him, was standing with them when Jesus said to them. I am. They drew back and fell to the ground. How do they fall back? Was there a physical presentation of Christ's power? Something majestic in his voice? That they knew that this one whose miracles had already become the stuff of legend was now there in their presence? Why did they fall back? Doesn't say. Just that these officials and Roman soldiers beheld something, they didn't fall down as in worship, they fell back. What was it? Verse 7. So he asked them again, Whom do you seek? And they said, Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus answered, I told you that I am. So if you seek me, let these men go. This was to fulfill the word that he had spoken. Of those whom you gave me, I have not lost one. Jesus had predicted that back in chapter 6 and 10. Then Simon Peter, having drawn a sword, drew it and struck the high priest's servants and cut off his right ear. The servant's name was Malchus. A couple of very specific details there, right? Not necessarily his ear, his right ear. And the name of the servant is Malchus. This is an eyewitness talking. You don't believe me, talk to Malchus, he'll tell you. Verse 11 So Jesus said to Peter, put your sword into its chief. Shall I not drink the cup that the Father has given me? Peter's act is not just pointless. It opposes the work that Christ came to do. Verse 12. So the band of soldiers and their captain and the officers of the Jew arrested Jesus and bound him. First, they led him to Annas, for he was the father-in-law of Caiaphas, who was high priest that year. Okay, again, so you have both Romans and Jews involved in the scene, but it seems that the Jews are leading because they go first to the father-in-law of the high priest, plus if Jesus had killed or if Peter had truly injured Malchus and Jesus had not put his ear back on, and there'd be no reason for the Romans to arrest him Verse 14. It was Caiaphas who had advised the Jews that it would be expedient that one man should die for the people. John is helping to identify Caiaphas, yes, but he's also rendering this more profound irony. One man would need to die for the people, but not in the way you think, Caiaphas. Verse 15, Simon Peter followed Jesus. So did another disciple Simply as a matter of narrative, it's interesting, isn't it? So we see this in movies all the time. You get one shot And and then and then you and then you cut to another scene, and then you cut back to the first scene, and then you cut to the second scene. That's what we're gonna see here. And then we have this Other disciple, who is that? Well, some say it's John, since he was close to Peter. Others say it seems unlikely that a Galilean fisherman would have been connected to the high priest somehow, even well enough to know the servant girl, which we'll see in a moment. So it couldn't have been John. There's there's arguments on both sides. Personally, to me it does seem like John, the author of this gospel What's important is it's an eyewitness. It doesn't tell us because we don't finally need to know. What we know is it's An eye witness, still verse 15. Since that disciple was known to the high priest, he entered it with Jesus into the court of the high priest, but Peter stood outside the door So, the other disciple who was known to the high priest, there it is a second time. In case it's not clear, the the author is saying. Friends, I was there. I saw this. Or if I I know the person who was there, these are true details giving you. And insofar as he's known the high priest, he he could have walked back and forth very easily between these two scenes. He he saw what happened with Peter in the courtyard, and then he and then he steps into the chamber where where Jesus is going to be interviewed and he can. Testify to those details. He's giving us his footnotes. He's giving us his sources, as it were Verse 16: So the other disciple, who was known to the high priest, went out and spoke to the servant girl who kept watch at the door and brought Peter in. The servant girl at the door said to Peter, You also are not one of the man's disciples, are you? Also, she she knows the first disciple is a disciple. Okay, so Peter, are you the same? Peter, probably his first time in a household of power, begins to get a little nervous. He knows what he did back in the garden. His descent begins. End of seventeen he said, I am not. Now the servants and officers had made a charcoal fire because it was cold, and they were standing and warming themselves. Peter also was with them standing and warming himself. Again, notice the detail. It's not just a fire. It's a charcoal fire. It's cold. You're writing a story about something you're making up. You probably wouldn't say, oh, it's cold. And they're warming themselves by the fire. Verse 19. The high priests then question Jesus about his disciples and his teaching. Notice this is all happening very hastily. It's rushed. They arrest him, they take him to the High priest immediately get to work interrogating him. Notice also, though, that a moment ago we were just told this is the father-in-law of the high priest, but now in verse 19 it says the high priest. And later it's going to say, we'll see, sent him to the high priest. What's well who's the high priest? Is Annas the high priest or is Caiaphas the high priest? Well, a little historical background here is useful. Annas had served as high priest from the year 6 to 15 A. D. And then Valerius Gratus, Pilate's predecessor, had removed Annas from the position of the high priest against Old Testament law. So, presumably, many Jews still thought Annas is the high priest, not what this foreign power has decided. Not only that. Five of Annas' sons would eventually become a high priest, including his son-in-law. So what do you have in Annas? You have this kind of godfather figure over the whole family. Allah he served, and then his sons would serve, and his son-in-law would serve. He was, as it were, the power behind the power from the standpoint of the religious establishment. You can see the same dynamic at play in Acts 4, 6. So he Goes to the high priest, and then he sent to the high priest. Well that's that's what's going. Verse 20. Jesus answered him, I have spoken openly to the world I've always taught in synagogues in the temple where all Jews come together. I've said nothing in secret. It's not that he didn't have private conversations. What he said in private was the same as what he said in public. Verse 21, why do you ask me? Ask those who have heard me and what I said to them. They know what I said. Now, in a Jewish court, the emphasis would fall not so much on the defendant, but on the witnesses. The rules of due process were very clear. The witnesses Would be interrogated, and the witnesses had to agree in what they were saying, and that's what would bring an indictment. Yet, of course, they're not interested in witnesses here Because it's a kangaroo court. Because it's being rushed. And Jesus is like, are you kidding me? Is this are these true proceedings? Why don't you talk to my witnesses? After all, you know that's how so it's supposed to work. Verse 22. When he had said these things, one of the officers standing by struck Jesus with his hand, saying, Is that how you answer the high priest? Jesus answered him, If what I said is wrong, bear witness about the wrong. But if what I said is right, why do you strike me? Striking a defendant, of course, would have been illegal too. Jesus is highlighting the fact that this is not a fair trial after resort to foul play. Verse 24. And this then sent him bound to Caiaphas, the high priest. If there's going to be a formal charge, it would have to be the official high priest who makes the charge verse 25 we we cut back to that scene now now simon peter was standing and warming himself As I was reading through this, I was asking myself, why would John write it this way? Why would he interweave? Why would he go back and forth between these two scenes? Could it be that the author And the divine author would want us to see the contrast between the two. Here is perfect God. Here is sinful man. Here is perfect God. Here is sinful man. Jesus denies nothing Peter will deny everything. Jesus is courageous. Peter is cowardly. Here's the crucifixion. Here's Rembrandt. Here's twenty-five again. So they said to him, You are not one of the disciples, are you? He denied it and said, I am not. One of the servants of the high priest, a relative of the man whose ear Peter had cut off, asked, Did I not see you in the garden with him? Peter again denied it And at once a rooster crowed, just as Jesus predicted The passage is primarily about the resurrection of Jesus, linking the prayers, I said, to Going before Pilate and the crucifixion. But right here in these this first part of chapter 18, we get the pinnacle, as it were, of of people rejecting these uh Jesus Christ. And along these lines, I want to think us about, I want us to think about two things this morning. First, how we reject Jesus Two, the Jesus that we reject. How we reject Jesus, the Jesus we reject. First, how we reject Jesus. There are two basic postures. Any person can take towards the Lord Jesus Christ. We can accept him as Savior and Lord, which we do through repentance and faith, or we can Whatever words we use, however we identify, I'm religious, we can reject him The passage focuses on rejection. Judas betrays him, Roman officers arrest him, the Jewish high priests question and condemn him. The soldier strikes him, Peter denies him. So Rome rejects him, the Jews reject him, the disciples reject him. Notice the universal rejection of Jesus in this passage, taking us back to the very first chapter of John. The true light, which gives light to everyone, was coming into the world. He was in the world. And the world was made through him. Yet the world did not know him. He came to his own, but his own people did not perceive him. It's worth us, friends, grappling with the universality Of Christ's rejection for a moment, there is something in each of us, in our natural state, in our flesh, that rejects our Maker. Rejects our God, rejects the Savior that He sent to redeem us. Sometimes, like Judas We tell others that we're his friend and follower. But given a chance for coin, we take it. Sometimes, like the high priests, we tell ourselves we're religious, but given the chance for control, we take it. Sometimes, like Peter, we tell ourselves, close, no Jesus, yet given our cowardliness and fear of what others think. We abandon him. The seeds of rejecting God are in all of us. What is that seed? Well, the biblical language for that seed is sin What is sin? Well sin in its essence is the fact that each one of us from birth Have shoved God off his throne. We've manufactured our own cardboard thrones. We've put ourselves on those cardboard thrones and acted as if we are lords of the universe. Sin that is to say roots in our pride. In our sense of Godness Our desire for the prerogatives of God and the worship of God. Sin then shows itself as we break God's law and as we oppose others. One more thing about sin. It's profoundly personal It involves breaking God's law, yes, but it also involves rejecting and despising the Son of God. Judas rejects and despises Jesus. The high priest rejects and despises Jesus. Peter rejects in that moment and despises Jesus. Uh I think we know what this like. If you're a parent and you ask your kid to do something, your child to do something, and they disobey. And you say to them, You you disobeyed what I said. You you broke my word. You broke my requirement And at the same time, you as a parent know how profoundly personal that feels. They've gone against you. Breaking your requirement is going against you. And if you're a parent and you've experienced this, you know exactly what I'm talking about. Or any of you who have a spouse who has in some form or fashion been unfaithful, whether in thought or word or deed You know how profoundly personal that unfaithfulness feels. This is the illustration, of course, Hosea grabs onto and employs. Now, if your spouse says to you, all I did was break a little command of God about adultery, it said, It wasn't just breaking a command. It went against me. And you would feel that profoundly, personally. Now we often separate in our minds law and love. But neither the Bible nor reality separate law and love like this. Law, like God's law against adultery. exists to serve love and is a sign of love. Love and law in the Bible work together, which means your sin, our sins, friend, which is a breaking of God's law, is also a rejection of love If you love me, you will keep my commandments, said Jesus earlier in the book. And John places this personal element of sin This rejection of love in bold relief in chapter 18, verse 2. Now Judas, who betrayed him, also knew the place, for Jesus often met there with his disciples, including Judas. Judas has traveled with him and broke bread with ears, for years with him. They sat around the campfire and smoked fish, done ministry together. Somehow Jesus hasn't given Judas what he wants. Well was Judas also looking for a messianic ruler to come in and take over Rome Well, we don't quite know why he did, but at some point, somehow, Judas realized this isn't the Savior I was looking for. I'm disappointed. Might as well cash out. 30 persons pieces of silver. Sure, I only get something from this wasted three years, but at least I got a little something out of it. He was very much rejecting Jesus. Friends, how do you respond when God fails to meet your expectations? How do you respond when work plans, marriage plans, friend plans, school plans, family plans don't work out the way you want? Are you ever tempted to grow a little bit resentful? Frustrated, angry? Are you ever tempted to say to you God I'll show you. I'm just gonna go indulge that right now. Who are you loving all along Let's go to the chief priests. It was an ancient office established by God in the book of Leviticus. The position existed for no other reason than to point. To the mediator between God and man, who the one who would make a sacrifice of atonement year after year to demonstrate the need to be cleansed from sin. You guys know the meme. You had one job to do. There was a one job. The one job was the point to the Christ. And now he thinks he can question the Christ. Tell me about your disciples. Tell me about your teaching. The disciples would have appealed to Rome. Is he starting an insurrection? The teaching would have appealed to the Jews. Are you teaching that you're the son of God? Now, was Caiaphas's concern pastoral ones? There's a pastoral care Well, insofar as we see that this whole scene is rushed and at night and illegal, no. It's about control. He doesn't have pastoral concern. He wants control. That's what's going on here. God, I need control. I'm frustrated right now that I don't have control. And so I'm gonna lash out. I'm going to assert myself. Have you ever thought that way? Could it be that too often we're like the high priest? Even as we think of ourselves as religious, Christian. Let's talk about Peter. Peter's rejection and betrayal is the most dramatically highlighted one by the story. As we said, the scene moves back and forth between Jesus and Peter, then Jesus, then Peter. Peter, of course, has been in the inner ring, the circle of three, who's always mentioned at the beginning of lists of disciples. Jesus, Peter would have loved Jesus. In his mind and heart, surely he would have loved Jesus. Even if I fall away, I will not, he says earlier He is zealous for the Lord. He loves Jesus. Yet, verse 17, this servant girl who would have had little or no standing asks about his connection to Jesus. Then verse 25, he denies it. Then verse 25, others ask, he denies it. I am not In verse 26, a relative of Malchus who probably saw Peter cut off this. Aren't you the guy who? No. Wasn't me. I don't know. I want you to put yourself in Jesus' shoes in regard to Peter. You've drawn close to this man for three years. You've done some amazing ministry together Even in your most private moments, like when you're drawing up on the Mount of Transfiguration, you're like, Peter, come with me. You know what you're about to do. For Peter. You're about to die on the cross. Then you get arrested. And this your friend is like, yeah, I don't know him. Don't know that guy. And then a second time. Wasn't a one-time slip, a second time, and then a third time At that moment, you know who this person most loves. Not you, but themselves. Given the choice between you and themselves, they choose themselves. Which means your place in the relationship very much depends on them using you for what they get. Peter's betrayal of Jesus, like Judas's and the high priests, is nothing if not a personal rejection. And does it not bring into bold relief all human sin? Against you and you alone have I sinned, said King David. What John 18 helps us to meditate on, friends, is that sin involves more than breaking a law. Yes. Uh it involves that, but it's also profoundly personal. Involves the breaking of love. So it's worth stopping and reflecting on your own sin from this past week or some maybe pattern of stin that you continue to struggle with. Whether you consider yourself here a Christian or not. Whether you would consider yourself somebody who's kind of close into the church or somebody who's maybe even despises the church, I want you to reflect on for a moment. What was going on in some sin that you committed even this week? I think about myself A daughter was frustrating me in one particular moment. We were standing outside the car, and my frustration had been culminating, and I just said, fine, and I threw her bag into the car and shut the trunk. I threw this little temper tantrum. Back of the car. A three-year-old. No respected three-year-olds. Disrespect. Three-year-olds. What did I demonstrate in that moment? What do you demonstrate? What do we demonstrate when we choose sin? Well, we demonstrate that we're choosing ourselves over the Lord. Well, we need to personalize our sin, like Rembrandt does. You were rejecting the Lord and Savior personally. You weren't looking him in the eye, but you were. You were saying, not you, but me, in that moment. Sin finally is not about what you most love. It's about who you most love. If you're here this morning and you don't understand yourself to be a Christian, What would you understand your own rejections of God's law to indicate about who you most love? In other words, I don't want to just have a legal conversation. I want to have a love conversation with you. you ourselves okay all of that's part one of the sermon how we reject jesus we reject him personally We reject him because we most love ourselves. We reject him when he disappoints us like Judas. We when he deprives us of control like the high priests, when he we care more about what people think, like Peter We reject him when we're not able to use him for our own purposes, all three. That's how we reject Jesus. Let's be very clear about who we're rejecting. That's part two. Who the Jesus is that we reject. If we're gonna reject him, we might as well take stock of who we're rejecting, right Three things. Number one, these are subpoints under Roman numeral two. A. A. We reject Jesus, the great I Am. The great I am. Look at the end of verse 4. Whom do you seek? They answered him, Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus said to them, I am. Now in the original Greek, the the the words there are just ego a me. Ego, ego, I, a me, am, I, am. Then he says it again, verse 6, when Jesus said to them, I am he or I am to ego and me. They draw back and they fall. Again, why why do they fall? This one in front of them is claiming to be the I am. Do they recognize all of it? I don't know, but it's intense Verse 7. So he asked again, Whom do you seek? And they said, Jesus of Nazareth. And he answered, I told you that I It's too bad the English translators put I am he. I mean that'd be a natural way to translate. It's a natural way to we speak in English, but it misses the power of the moment. Three times Jesus says, I am, I am I am. Why? Why is that striking? Why is it striking for anybody who knows their Old Testament that he would say, I am? Because that's how Yahweh, the Lord, names himself in Exodus 3, I am, who I am, from which we get Yahweh. And if you go to the Greek translation of the Old Testament of Exodus 3, which is the one John would have had, you know what the words are? Egoimi. I am. In fact, if we we keep reading through the Old Testament, we go to the mighty revelations of God in Isaiah 40 to 55, this phrase rings out again and again. Isaiah 41:4, I the Lord, the first, I am with the last, I am he. I am. Ago a me. 42. 6. I am the Lord. 43. 10. That you may know and believe and understand that I am He. 4312, I am God. 4313, I am He. 4325, I am He who blots out your transgressions. 46, even to your old age, I am. To your girl, gray hairs, I will carry you. 47-6. I am, and there is none beside me. 47 10 48 12 I am. I am the first, I am the last. 5112, I, I am who comforts you? I gave you a fraction of the occurrences in those texts. Verse 4: Whom do you seek? They answered him. Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus said to them, I am. They draw back, they fall to the ground. But y you you don't think this is this could could this be It's hard to imagine a more godlike statement of self-identification than I am. He doesn't need a predicate. I am human. I am a man. I am Jonathan. It doesn't need some other reference point to identify who he is, because he simply is. He is existence. He is the grounds and foundation of all existence. Simply I am. He Apart from him, there is nothing created that has been created. Apart from Jesus, there is no universe. There are no stars. There are no galaxies. This is who he is claiming to be. Apart from Jesus, there is no space and time. No moment to moment, tick, tick, tick, tic, that doesn't exist apart from Jesus We live inside it. He does not. So is it any surprise that throughout this passage? He tells them everything that's gonna happen. John's trying to call our attention to this very fact. Verse 4. Then Jesus, knowing all that would happen to him. In verse 9, this was to fill the word that he had spoken. Verse 27. Peter again denied it, and at once a rooster proed. Thirty pieces of silver, Judas? You're standing next to the IM. Thirty pieces, really? And this is who you're gonna betray in front of a servant girl, Peter? This is the one we're gonna betray? For all the little sins we pick last week. The great I am who holds our bodies together, the breath of his mouth, says Hebrews 1. Not only that, number two, he is not just the great I am, he is the sacrificial substitute. He is the sacrificial substitute. Verse 8. Jesus answered, I told you that I am. So if you seek me, let these men go. Placing himself in harm's way, and the disciples don't have to be harmed. Now, this obviously is not the act of sacrificial substitution that would come on the cross, but this is clearly pointing towards and illustrating that act of substitution which was to come. Unless there be any doubt, look at verse 10. Peter foolishly cuts off an ear, Jesus replies, Put your sword into its sheath. Shall I not drink the cup that the Father has given me? What cup is that? Well, we know it's the cup of God's wrath Peter is the one who clearly deserves to be arrested. Peter cut off the man's ear, but Jesus substitutes himself Let these men go. I'm the one who will drink the cup of God's wrath. Peter would be spared from the high priest's wrath. From God's wrath, Jesus would take his place. Friends, if you're here this morning, you would not understand yourself to be a Christian. You're visiting with us. We're so grateful. You're here. If you're interested in understanding Christianity, you know right here we have the heart of it. God became man in Jesus Christ. He perfectly obeyed the law. And then he went to the cross as a sacrificial substitute to pay the penalty. For anyone who would turn from their sins and put their trust in him. He paid the price. He was the sacrifice. He was the substitute in God's In our place. Why did he have to do that? Well, because God is good. God must punish sin. As I was working on this sermon, I was thinking about the lynchings that were at one time common in the South. Imagine a lynching occurs. And then the person does that, who did that, or led that, goes before the judge, and the judge says, you're really sorry? Like really sorry. And the linter is like, yeah, totally sorry, it was wrong. And the judge is like, you're good. All right, you're forgiven. What would you think of that judge? That would be a terrible judge. A deeply unjust judge Sin has to be paid for if God would be just. If the universe would be just. Friends, it wasn't just the lynchings. It wasn't just the criminals. It wasn't just the bad people out there. It's all of us. We're all indicted. I'm indicted. You're indicted. The people you love are indicted. Somebody must pay the penalty for their sin, and either it's going to be you and me. Or this sacrificial substitute standing in our place Paying the penalty of sin. And then conquering sin and sin's power in death by rising from the grave How will the universe be made right amidst all the injustices we know, see, and experience ourselves Well the just the the universe began to be made right when Jesus went to the cross and paid for those sins. And all we have to do now, friends, is grab onto that and follow him. That's the way. Jesus is the great I am. Jesus is the sacrificial substitute. He loves his sheep. Let these men go One more thing we learn about him. He is the good shepherd. Look at verse nine again. This was to fulfill the word that he had spoken. Of those whom you gave me, I have lost none. It reminds us again of something Jesus had said earlier, back in John 10: I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. There's that sacrificial the shepherding being the substitute. My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. My father who has given them to me is greater than all, and no one is able to them to snatch them out of my Father's hand. Judas was never a sheep. The high priest, not a sheep. Doesn't matter if you spend years following Jesus. You reject him. You're not a sheep. Only the one who endures to the end will be saved, says Paul. Well, who will endure to the end? Well, those who Jesus keeps. Jesus is the good shepherd who keeps all of his sheep. Friends, are you worried that your sin may overtake you? Your doubts may overtake you. What do you do? You know yourself. You know how weak your knees are. You know how feeble your faith is. Friends, I I have this thought. Am I gonna make it to the end? Can I do it? Am I strong enough? No, I'm not. So what do I do? I cast myself on him. Jesus, I can't keep myself, but you can keep me I'm just going to keep going to him. Keep him keep me. Lord Jesus. That's what we're all called to do. Teens. Some of you wonder if I if I go off of college. Will I continue to hold my onto the faith that my parents have been teaching me for years? How will you do that? Don't look to yourself Look to Christ. Christ, keep me. You promise to keep all your sheep. Keep me, Lord Jesus. That's what we do. Jesus loves his sheep. This passage, as I said, is the pinnacle of rejection for Jesus like a dark, dark sky. And yet not do we see these stars, who Christ is, shining through? He's the great I am, sacrificial substitute, good shepherd. If after looking at Rembrandt's masterpiece, Raising of the Cross, they're in Munich You were to board a train and start traveling south through Austria, through northern Italy, and then all the way to the city of Rome. It would take you 13 hours to get there But eventually you could walk into Rome, you could visit the Sarasi Chapel, where you would find another masterpiece, this one by Caravaggio. Painted about 33 years before Rembrandt. And this painting is called the Crucifixion of Saint Peter. It's the first painting I remember looking at and tears coming to my eyes. According to early church tradition, Peter was arrested in Rome in the mid-60s and taken outside of the city to the Appian Way. Where he was crucified. Except he didn't think he should be crucified like his Lord and Savior, Jesus, and so he asked to be crucified upside down. And that's what Caravaggio's painting depicts. It's Peter going up, but he's upside down on his cross. Now, was this historical? It's hard to know. It's a long tradition, it's an old tradition. Maybe it's a faithful tradition. What we know for certain, however, is that Peter was executed. Turn a couple chapters to chapter 21, verse 18, where Jesus says to Peter, Truly, truly, I say to you, when you were young, you used to dress yourself and walk wherever you wanted. But when you were old, you will stretch out your hands And another will dress and carry you where you do not want to go. This he said to show by what kind of death he was to glorify God. Many speculate a crucifixion. And after saying this, he said to them, Follow me. Turns out Peter was right to be afraid. And yet he was also terribly wrong. When you're standing with your own creator, with the great I am, when you are standing with your substitute, when you are standing with your shepherd You can follow him into death, into a crucifixion. Friends, we reject Christ And yet, in his mercy, he always shows mercy for those who are his. He draws us back and restores us. He invites us to follow. He commissions us. Stop and think. Just this last week. Where did you sin? Stop and think. Who do you most love? Who do you get to most love? Christian, is it not this Jesus I know it is. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, forgive us for our sins. Forgive us for our trespasses We pray that in your mercy you would continue to lead us in the way of righteousness, that we may follow you, even as Peter did. We pray this in your own name. Amen.