Brothers on the retreat. A number of you told me that you were praying for me. Thank you very much. I'm very grateful for that. You know though I was short on time As one person said, because I was short on time, I've written a long sermon. Had I more time, I'd written a short one. One thing, two things that'll help you. Number one, I'm gonna do my best just to stay on my manuscript. That'll keep it short. That'll help it. I like to wander, I'm not. I'm gonna do my best not. You for your part I'm telling you, I'm going to go through a lot of verses. If you keep your Bible open in front of you and quickly jump to the text I tell you, that will help you for the coming couple of hours we have before us. Uh I want to start with a question. What voices do you listen to? When we were little, we listened to our parents' voices. And friends' voices and the voices of cartoons. As we get older, we begin listening to the voices of teachers and books. Eventually, we start listening to bosses and colleagues. Somewhere along the way, we listen to the voices of media And social media, do you listen to Fox News, Megan Kelly, Rachel Maddow? I subscribe to the New York Times and the Wall Street Journal The Foreign Affairs and the Journal of the Evangelical Theological Society. These are some of the voices I listen to. Who do you subscribe to? What voices do you listen to? Because it's the voices that you listen to that will help you understand what you understand to be going on in the world. Your understanding of what's right and wrong, what to believe, what not to believe, what's worthy, what's unworthy. The trouble, of course, is too often we give our ears The wrong voices. Remember what God said to Adam in the garden after he sinned. And he said to Adam, because you have listened to the voice of your wife. And they've eaten of the tree of which I commanded you, you shall not eat of it. Eve, of course, had listened to the wrong voice. Adam listened to the wrong voice So do all of us. Psalm 119, which is our text for this morning, teaches us who we should listen to you. I'd encourage you to turn there and as I said keep it open. It also points to the one who listened to God perfectly. With 176 verses, Psalm 119 is the longest chapter in the Bible. It has 22 stanzas, and if you could read it in the Hebrew, you would say each you would see that each stanza starts Every verse in each stanza begins with a verse of, well, stanza one, Aleph, the first verse, the first letter in the Hebrew Bible. The second stanza, all the verses begin with bait, this the second letter in Hebrew and then and then Gemel and then Dalit and so forth through 22 letters through the 22 stanzas. This was an acrostic way of helping people to memorize Each of these verses. In English, you don't see that. The entire Psalm focuses on God's word Or law, which is it is his word, is it his law? This week I was texting with my friend Jim Hamilton, who is a professor of Bible at Southern Seminary And we are thinking this through. Here's one of his texts to me. He said, When I preached through Psalm 119, I was sitting at my desk, and my wife could tell I was really wrestling with the passage. She asked me how I was doing, and I said, I'm I'm really working to summarize the message of Psalm 119. She said, I'll summarize it for you. The Bible is awesome. That's basically it. Over and over, we find that the psalmist expresses his delight in God's word and God's law and how he longs to know it. And live by it. Look at the first stanza with me. Blessed are those whose way is blameless, who walk in the law of the Lord. Blessed are those who keep his testimonies, who seek him with their whole heart, who also do no wrong but walk in his ways. You have commanded your precepts to be kept diligently. Oh, that my ways may be steadfast in keeping with your statutes. Then I shall not be put to shame, having my eyes fixed on all your commandments. I will praise you with an upright heart when I learn your righteous rules. I will keep your statutes. Do not utterly forsake me. For our purposes this morning, I'd like to divide it into ten. Lessons for us. Lesson number one: God's word is law Note takers write that down. God's word is law. You may have noticed in this stanza, and if you kept reading every other stanza in this psalm, how Every verse uses one, sometimes two, of the ten different words for God's word erg law. Look at Stanza one again. Stanza one, uh verse one, refers to law, verse two, testimonies. Verse three, his ways, verse four, his precepts, verse five, statutes, verse six, commandments, verse seven, rules, verse eight, statutes What's going on here? Well the psalmist is holding up God's word like a diamond and and seeing it from different angles All the glories that are in it when we look at it from these different angles. When he says his law, the the Jew reading this would not have thought like a set of legal codes like you or I might think. He would have thought of the Torah. Right? The first five books of the Bible, Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy. That was the law. And of course it contained laws But it contained much more than that. It contained instruction for the Israelite. When it refers to God's testimonies, it refers to what he testifies to be his will. His precepts refer to what he's appointed. His statutes, what the law, divine lawgiver has laid down. His commandments, what he has commanded, his rules, what he has ruled to be right. His word, He is spoken. Now the word law is used 25, more than any of the other words in this chapter, 25 times. And as I said, that refers to the word as the Israelite would have understood it. So what is this psalm about? Is it about God's word or is it about God's law? Yes. Because God's Word is law. Everything He says binds us. Everything He says in truth. Look at verses nine. To 11. And notice how it toggles back and forth between word and commandments. How can a young man keep his way pure by guarding it according to your word? With my whole heart I seek you, let me not wander from your commandments. I have stored up your word in my heart that I might not sin against you. Notice how it's Using them interchangeably. Look at verse 16, the same thing. I will delight in your statutes. I will not forget your word. Word and statutes being used interchangeably. Flip all the way over to 172. 172. My tongue will sing of your word or all of your commandments. All right. Everything God says, everything He speaks Because of who he is, is authoritative for us. God speaking is not like human beings God's word does not merely impart information. It imparts information, but that information comes with authority. Again, because of who he is. It's always true. It's always authoritative. Look at verse 142. Your law is true. Look at 151. All your commandments are true Look at verse 160. The sum of your word is truth. And every one of your righteous rules endures forever. When God speaks, it binds. Even when God is telling a story. We tell us the story of Adam and Eve, for instance, in the first three chapters of the Bible. That story comes and it binds us. It says to us, this is how the world got here. This is who you are. This is who God is. This is what has gone wrong with the world. And that should bind and shape our binds. God's word is, as I said, law Jesus, of course, regarded God's word as law and as truth. We read this morning: do not think I have come to abolish the law or the prophets. I have not come to abolish them, but fulfill them In John 17, 70, sanctify them in truth. Your word is truth. So throughout the rest of our time, I'm not just going to refer to law or just refer to Word, I'm going to refer to God's lawful word. His law-filled word Point one, God's word is law. Points two, God's lawful word brings blessing. Bounty, wonder, comfort. God's lawful word brings blessing, bounty, wonder. Comfort. Blessing. Verses 1 and 2. Blessed are those whose way is blameless and who walk in the law of the Lord. Blessed are those who keep his testimony, who seek him with their whole heart. Bounty. Verse 17 Deal bountifully with your servant, that I may live and keep your word. Verse 72 The law of your mouth is better to me than thousands of gold and silver pieces. Look at 162. I rejoice at your word like one who finds great spoil. Blessing Bounty Wonder Verse eighteen Open my eyes that I may behold wondrous things out of your law Wonderful things, wondrous things in the law. Is that how you, is that how we? Typically think. Verse 129. Your testimonies are wonderful, full of wonder. Therefore my soul keeps them. And then comfort. Verse 52. When I think of your rules from of old, I take comfort, O Lord. Verse 76. Let your steadfast love comfort me according to your promise, your servant. The point, the blessing and the bounty and the comfort of God's word here is not the point that you would hear in a prosperity gospel. Sermon. Obey God and you will be blessed. You'll be blessed in your home. You'll be blessed in the sheep and they give wool and cows as they give milk and Your marriages and your children's marriages and money will come rolling in. That's not the point. The blessing, the bounty, the wonder, the comfort that comes with knowing comes from his word is the blessing, the bounty, the comfort that comes with knowing God. Simply knowing who he is and dwelling with him. I think of my friend Joe. Joe worked in the U. S. Senate. He was going places. He was also a womanizer. Then he met Christ. He repented and believed. He began to follow after Christ and Christ's law. He became faithful to one woman. He became a good dad, including to daughters. And today he's impacted many people around the world for the cause of Christ, and his wife and daughters are flourishing. I think of Sean. Sean was a gangster, he sold drugs, he carried a gun, he Was Corny up once in a room was shooting at the police? And he met Christ and began to define himself according to Christ's word and Christ's law. He became a Bible addict, a drug addict like he was to South America as a missionary. Today he pastors in Alabama. The word, the law, blessed him as he followed after. I think of different stories of different women who have struggled with body and image issues, sometimes indulging in self-harm Then they met Christ and began to define who they are according to God's law, not according to social media. And they found comfort. And their lives began to flourish, even as they gave comfort to other women struggling with it. God's lawful word brings blessing, bounty, wonder, comfort. How's this work? Well, thank your friends say God designed the world. Everything works according to his rules. The rules of physics and biology, the rules of chemistry and mathematics, and noting those rules helps you to be A master of your domain, a good physicist can fly a rocket to the moon. A good computer programmer can design a map application for your phone. A good writer. Write a beautiful novel. Knowing the design of the world, knowing those rules and conforming yourself to them gives you freedom Mastery. To live by them. Okay, what's true of the physical universe is also true of the moral and spiritual universe. Look at verse 73. Your hands have made and fashioned me. Give me understanding that I may learn your commandments. He invokes God as creator of everything And so knows that living by the Creator, he will have everything. Verse 90, you have established the earth and it stands fast. The man or woman who lives according to the moral and spiritual design of the universe, as revealed by God's lawful word, is like a tree planted by streams of water, which yields its fruit in season. says the psalmist back in chapter 1. Obeying the command to loving God and loving neighbor will lead to forms of flourishing in your life. living by the fruit of the Spirit, patience, gentleness, kindness, self-control, love will lead to flourishing, forms of flourishing in your own soul, in your marriage, in your parenting, in your friendships. This psalm presents us with two ways. The way of obedience and flourishing and blessing, and the way of disobedience. What's true in our personal lives, friends, is also true in a nation's life. When officers of government obey God's law. That leads to forms of flourishing. So with families and churches Husbands and wives, moms and dads, you get to choose. You can choose flourishing or not flourishing by choosing obedience or not obedience Two ways. Those of you who are looking for a church, what should you look for in a church? Don't look for a creative church. For a faithful church. That's the one that will flourish. Now listen again to Jesus Matthew 7. Everyone then who hears these words of mine and does them will be like a wise man who built his house on the rock. Everyone who hears these words of mine and does not do them will be like a foolish man who built his house on the stand. There it is. Two ways Number three, point three. Not only does it give blessing, bounty, wonder, comfort. Point three, God's lawful word gives understanding and counsel. God's lawful word gives understanding. Counsel. Verse 24, your testimonies are my delight. They are my counselors. Teach me good judgment and knowledge, for I believe in your commandments. Verse 98, your commandment makes me wiser than my enemies. Verse 99, more than all my teachers. Verse 100, more than the aged. Because God's law gives good judgment and understanding, he meditates on it. Verse 15, I will meditate on your precepts and fix my eyes on your ways. 97. Oh, how I love your law. It is my meditation all the day Kids, you know what I've said to my girls since they were little? I'm gonna tell you right now what I've said to them ever since they were little. Whatever you do, get wisdom. However you can, get understanding. How do we do that? We do that by looking to God's lawful word. It's a garland around your neck, says Proverbs, a crown on your head. It even calls it a tree of life. It's tragic, isn't it, that we we we resist knowing and obeying the law? We think that conforming ourselves to God's law will make us sticklers, uninteresting, boring. Not joyful? You think of the person who keeps the law and they kind of look like this? It's not what Psalm 119 teaches It says, do you want to be a person of good judgment? Do you want to be a person of wisdom? People come to you and oh man, that's wise. Do you want to be that kind of person? And obey, seek the knowledge of God's law. You guys may have heard me tell the story of my brother Philip, who felt like he was languishing in the faith and then one day he came to me and said I I gotta read my Bible and so Philip showed up at my doorstep at 6 a. m. for two years every day of the week every day of the week for two years he showed up on my doorstep at 6 a. m And we outline John and then Ephesians and then Deuteronomy and Jeremiah. What do you think happened to Philip? Grew like crazy. I'm his older brother. I like to look down on him. But more and more I found myself spending time, not just because he's taller than me. Looking up to his wisdom. Thinking he's he's outranking me, he's passing me in many ways. The wisdom he has Yet even more than Philip. Think about the one who was prophesied by in Isaiah 50, verse 4. Morning by morning The look showing up. This other one. Morning by morning he awakens. He awakens my ear to hear as those who are taught. Who was awakened morning by morning by the Lord so that he would be like one who is taught? Who's Isaiah 50 pointing forward? Luke chapter 2, verses 46 and 47. After three days they found him in the temple, sitting among the teachers, listening to them and asking them questions. And all who heard him were amazed at his understanding and his answers. And Jesus, listen to this word, increased. In wisdom, and in stature, and in favor with God and man Now, the Son of God was simultaneously holding the universe together by the word of his power. Yes, Jesus did not leave in heaven. The Son of God was in heaven. At the same time, the God man, Christ, was growing in wisdom and knowledge, opening his ears every morning, I want to learn. I want to learn. Tell me more Point four. God's lawful word is eternal and righteous because God is eternal and righteous. God's lawful word is eternal and righteous because God is eternal and righteous. Verse 89. Forever, O Lord, your word is firmly fixed in the heavens. 90. Your faithfulness endures to all generations. You have established the earth and it stands fast. Notice in that verse, those verses, his word is eternal. Forever your word is fixed, because he is eternal. Your faithfulness endures to all generation. And so it is with the righteousness of God. Look at verses 137 and 8. Righteous are you, O Lord, and right are your rules. You have appointed your testimonies in righteousness and in all faithfulness. He is righteous, and therefore his rules and testimonies are righteous. Same thing with verse 142. Your righteousness is forever, and your law is true. And 152. Long have I known from your testimonies that you have bounded them forever. People often say that they want preaching that's very practical, which is good, and preachers feel a right pressure to be practical in their preaching. At the same time, I I tell you, I love it when I hear A good preacher ask me to simply behold God. Because I'm not used to looking at God And when you know God and who he is, you know who you are. And that changes everything. That's practical. Deeply practical. The trouble, of course, is that we cannot see God Ever since Adam and Eve were kicked out of the Garden of Eden, the preacher Mark Dever put it, we live in the age of the ear, not the age of the eye. We know him by hearing, not by seeing. And so when it comes to these glorious truths about God, like his eternality, his foreverness, or his righteousness, we we struggle to find analogies that give us the the the faintest glimpse of of what that must be like. For instance, I I think of a a sermon illustration I've actually first encountered in a in a novel by James Joyce. He was using it to actually make fun of Christianity, but it was a powerful illustration. He said, imagine you you have a a bird on one side of the galaxy that's got a spoon in its mouth, or its beak, and it's holding a This little spoonful of sand and then it flies across the universe to the other side of the universe. How many miles, billions of light years is that? How long would that take? And he dumps that little spoon of sand and then and then he flies back and then gets another spoon of sand and then flies back and and then dumps it and he does this over and over until it fills an ocean. Many oceans. That's the beginning of eternity, the time it would take to do that. Friends, this is who God is. He is He is eternal beyond reckoning. And His righteousness. Never does anything unrighteous, anything not right. No joke, no ambition, no hope, no desire, no word Nothing. That's unrighteous. His goodness is righteous. His love is righteous. Everything about God is righteous What that means when you turn to the Bible is this eternal, perfectly righteous, all the time God. What does that mean when you turn to the Bible? What that means is When you open the Bible and you find a verse and you think to yourself, really? Create the world in seven days. Turn the other cheek. Love your enemies. Man in the belly of a fish. Jesus up from the dead. Really? What that means is you're off. The Bible's not off. That means If this is an eternal righteous word spoken by an eternal righteous God, any deviation between you and the Bible, the air's over here. In you, me, not in the Word. We're seeking to conform ourselves to walk that way perfectly, straight on that line God's lawful word is eternal and righteous because God is eternal and righteous. That brings us to point five. God's lawful word reveals God. God's lawful word reveals God. In the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God. There it is about the Lord Jesus Christ. He was with God in the beginning. Or back to Psalm 119, verse 2. Look at verse 2. Blessed are those who keep his testimonies who seek him with their whole heart. Did you see how it switches? Blessed are those who keep his testimonies who seek him. By seeking his testimonies, I'm seeking him and the knowledge of him. Verse 64, look there. The earth, O Lord, is full of your steadfast love. Teach me your statutes. Your steadfast love, teach me your statutes. Verse 68. Tony said this a moment ago. You are good and do good. Teach me your statutes. His statutes show his steadfast love and his goodness. They reveal him. 135. Look at 135. Make your face shine upon your servant and teach me your statutes. I see his face by learning his statutes What is God like? Well, consider his law. His eternal law defines him. The law of his righteousness, the law of his goodness, the law of his love are who God is. Now there's two errors that we can make thinking theologically about this. On the one hand, I'm not saying there's some eternal law out there and God measures up to that, as if the law precedes him Now, in fact, I'm saying the law is who he is in his essence. God's law, you might say, is like God's DNA. Therefore, to study the law is to study God's DNA, which is to study God. The law defines God and God defines his law. So righteousness, goodness, love are what they are because of him Now, on the other hand, heir to ditch on the other side of the road, I'm not saying that God arbitrarily chooses what righteousness, goodness, and love are, as if he could change them from one day to the next based on his mood. Remember what I said in the last point. His law is eternal. It's forever fixed because you cannot improve upon perfection. You cannot improve upon God. So friends, what do you want to do to encounter God? Well look to his lawful word. Now sometimes these days people like a more mystical approach. to knowing and experiencing God. And every once in a while in evangelical circles, a book will be published in which it's promoting some medieval mystical Roman Catholic. and that'll become popular. What is mysticism? Well mysticism is seeking an immediate encounter Experience with God, like in person, as it were. Not mediated through his word, but immediate together with him. And it makes sense. We want to feel God's presence. That's not a bad thing to want. And not only that, I would say, maybe wrong, but I would say I think God does sometime give such mystical encounters. I'm 51 years old. There are two times where I think I had an almost palpable sense of his presence one time was amidst a provound conviction of sin and the other was in the midst of a life-changing repentance I thank God for these two moments. But you know what I don't do I don't rely on those two moments as inerrant and authoritative. I don't build my faith, I don't look back on them and build my faith on them. I could be wrong about what happened in those moments. It might have been just an emotional frenzy. It might have been indigestion. I don't think it was. But I'm not certain. I'm certain of what the word says. I'm certain Jesus got up from the dead because the word says. I'm going to build my faith on that. Does God give mystical encounters? Maybe. Friend, don't seek that though. If he gives it, he gives it. Seek a knowledge of his word. You can rely on that That brings us to point six. God's people have been saved by God's lawful word in order to keep God's lawful word. God's people have been saved by God's lawful word in order to keep God's lawful word. We're first saved by his word. Verse 25. My soul clings to the dust. Give me life according to your word. Verse 41. Let your steadfast come to me, O Lord, your salvation according to your promise. Verse 81, my soul longs for your salvation. I hope in your word. Okay, so his lawful word gives us life and salvation, and then it enables us to obey his Lawful word. Israel was rescued from Egypt, salvation, and then it was given his law. Salvation first Then obedience. The word does both. Verse one thirty-four. Redeem me from man's oppression that I may keep your precepts. We're look at 146. I call to you, save me. Why? That I may observe your testimonies. Save me that, in order that, purpose, that I may Observe your testimonies. I've often told the story of Richard Elilu, who was born to a Muslim family in Nigeria. A missionary friend gave him a Bible. Crackly, which he appreciated because its crackly thin pages were perfect for rolling joints one day. He tore a page out to roll a joint, stuck it in his pocket, forgot about it, went home, was disrobing that evening, pulled it out of his pocket. Looked at the page, it said this, Psalm 34, verse 8, O taste and see that the Lord is good, how happy is the man who takes refuge in him! Over the next week, he couldn't get that verse out of his head. I want to taste and see. So he went back to the missionary. The missionary shared the gospel with him. He repented and believed. He was a classmate of mine at seminary in Louisville. Wanted to go back and pastor in the nation where he came from. God's lawful word gives us life. And then it teaches us to obey. So friend, if you're here this morning and you would not understand yourself to be a Christian, God's lawful word means to engage you. And confront you. It means to define reality for you. It says that you and I are sinners and that we have broken his law. It says that Christ lived the perfect. Law-keeping, Psalm 119, life, that you and I should have lived. It says he fulfills Psalm one nineteen by living it, yet it also says that in his mercy he brought salvation As Psalm 119 promises to all those who reach out to Him, He provides salvation by going to the cross and paying the penalty for the breaking of God's law. for anyone who would repent of their sins and follow after him. Then it says he rose from the death, dead, defeating death, defeating the penalty of death in sin. So that you and I might live in newness of life, following after his law. That's the good news of Christianity. That's the good news of the gospel. I'd love to Talk with you about it, Moorham, and all of it points us to Christ. Forget Richard Alelu. Think of Jesus. What way did he walk? John 5. 19. Truly, truly, I say to you, the Son can do nothing of his own accord, but only what he sees the Father doing. For whatever the Father does The Son does likewise. John 15, verse 10. If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love, just as I have kept my father's commandments. And abide in his love. The Son perfectly obeying, abiding in the commandments of the Father And abiding in his love. That brings us to point seven. God's people love God's lawful word. God's people, that is to those who are united to Christ. Love, God's lawful word. And since we're on Jesus, let me stay on Jesus for a second. John 14, 31. I do as the Father has commanded me, so that the world may know that I love the Father. I do what he says so they know I love him. Or back to Psalm 119, verse 20. Psalm 119, verse 20. My soul is consumed with longing for your rules at all times. Man, that's not been me. My soul consumed with longing for your rules? But in Christ, it is becoming me, it is becoming you, little by little from one degree of glory to the next Verse 47. For I delight in your commandments, which I love. Verse 48: I will lift up my hands toward your commandments, which I love. Verse 70, I delight in your law. Verse 103. It'd be hard to flip them. How sweet are your words to my taste, sweeter than honey to my mouth. 111. Your testimonies are my heritage forever, for they are the joy of my heart. 127. Therefore I love your commandments Above gold, above fine gold. 159. Consider how I love your precepts. Am I being repetitive? I mean to be repetitive Verse 163. I hate and abhor falsehood, but I love your law. 165. Great peace have those who love your law 167. My soul keeps your testimonies. I love them exceedingly. You get the lesson, don't you? Those united to God in Christ love God's law. It says it over and over and over. You can't get away from it God's law and God's love work together. Too easily we dismiss that. Love is love, we say. Love is whatever you want it to be, but that's not true love, divine love. That's fake love. In the Bible, love leads to obedience, and obedience is the activity and proof of love In the Bible, love leads to obedience, and obedience is the proof and activity of love. They'll tell you me, you love me Says the Almighty in 1 John chapter 4. If you don't keep my commandments, don't obey me Like the Lord Jesus, the person who loves God, loves his law. Because what is the law? Well, the law is, as it were, the DNA of God. And so if I. . Love God and what God is like. . I want to know the DNA. So I studied the DNA. What's this DNA? The DNA is the law. The law reveals him to me and what he is like. It's expressed and articulated. What God is like is expressed and articulated in the law, the lawful word. God's people, therefore, are those who are little by little learning to live in love for God and God's law. God's people are those who fight to help one another to live by his law. Every few weeks Luke and I will meet in Panera to talk about how do we Here's the sins I'm struggling with. How do I better repent of those sins and follow after God in Christ? Brothers and sisters of Chevrolet Baptist, I hope you have people, others, in your life where you're doing something like that. Opening up our hearts, having those awkward, uncomfortable conversations. I gotta tell him this. That's how we live in the light. That's how we follow after him. That's how we learn to love God. Law. Now we need to think hard on this point about loving God's law. There's actually two errors we can fall into with regard to the law. The mistake of the younger brother And the story of the prodigal son who abandoned God's law, as well as the mistake of the older brother who told himself he loved God's law and lived by it. Likewise, some of you might consider yourself or think of yourselves as lawbreakers, some of you might think of yourself as law keepers, some of you, combination of both. Me. The risk for the law keepers is that they Keep the law to feel good about ourselves, to prove ourselves, to put ourselves above other people, to gain control. If that's you, you're as much of a lawbreaker as the rebel who never keeps the law in the first Place because you're using the law in a posture of self-love rather than God love And ironically, the person who keeps the law in the flesh and not in the spirit, who keeps the law for the sake of control and for exalting him or herself above others, is in some ways in a more dangerous position than the rebel. Because they're breaking the law like the rebel, but they don't know it. They're self-deceived. In a way, at least the rebels like, yeah, I know I'm breaking it. And so Jesus says, blessed are the poor in spirit. That is to say, those who weep for their sin. For theirs is the kingdom of God. Becoming a Christian means repenting of our carnal law-breaking and our carnal law-keeping. It means trusting in Christ's obedience to the law, loving that and following after Him. He's the law keeper. I love him. I'm gonna follow after him. Be like him that way. Point eight. God's people weep when God's lawful word is not kept. God's people weep when God's lawful word is not kept. First, look at verse 136. My eyes shed streams of tears. Because people do not keep your law. Oh, we hear what I assume was a Christ Christ's tear-filled lamentation in Matthew 23, verse 37, when he cries out, O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the city that kills the prophet and stones those who are sent to it. How often would I Have gathered your children together as a hen, gathers her brood under her wings, and you were not willing. Hear this this deep-throated lamentation Weeping lamentation from the sun. Friends, just stop and think for a moment. Does our sin, does the sin of the friends we love, does the sin of our neighborhoods and cities and nation cause a profound sadness in you. Your response anger? There's a little place for anger. But is there also a profound sadness? You weep. Because God's laws are not kept. Like the psalmist. Well, what would your entertainment choices suggest? Do you kind of enjoy stories and songs and movies of lawbreakers? What are you coaching your heart to do? What you consume in the media? Now weeping over sin is not merely, he broke the speed limit I don't think that's the point. I think it's more that you see somebody not following the way of the Lord. You see the destruction. Following the folly that does not come with knowing the goodness that you see the opportunity cost. God is so good. I want you to know Him. He's so good, He's so life-giving. You're rejecting that and you're choosing this other path which leads to shriveling up and eventually damnation. No, I love you. No. Verse 120. My flesh trembles for fear of you, and I am afraid of your judgments. In the same way that loving God's law shows a rightly wired conscience, so does grief at the rejection of God wherever it occurs. Yes, friends, there is a place. for joy in the Christian life. But our experience of this world should always be mixed, because this is not our home. Finally, verse 19, I am a sojourner On the earth. Hide not your commandments from me. That brings us to point nine, a major theme throughout this psalm, which kind of grows, kind of crescendoes as you get to the latter half. God's people will be persecuted for loving and obeying God's lawful word. God's people will be persecuted for obeying God's lawful word. Verse 51. The insolent utterly deride me. But I do not turn away from your law. Verse 157, many are my persecutors and my adversaries, but I do not swerve from your testimonies. Verse 161, princes, which is to say the government, persecute me without cause, but my heart stands in awe of your words. What did Jesus say? Chapter 15, verse 23. Remember the word that I said to you. A servant is not greater than his master. If they persecuted me, they will persecute you also. If they kept my word, they will also keep yours. Jesus' entire life, of course, was defined by persecution, from fleeing to Egypt as a newborn, to finally death on a Cross. Why does persecution follow after those who follow God's law? Well just think for a moment what law is. Laws exist to protect something that is worthy, valuable, right? Do not steal because that thing is valuable Now God has his laws, therefore, of things that are precious and valuable, while the world has its laws protecting that which it finds values. And those two sets of laws represent two sets of, you might say, institutionalized values. When you live in accordance with God's law, you live in opposition to what the world finds Valuable and worthy. And if you go against what I value, then I go against you, says the world. I oppose you And so my friend Sharif, who I spent time with recently, now lives in a refugee camp because his Muslim family disowned him when he became a Christian. The local Muslim authorities to this day Are trying to kill Sharif, even to the point of trying to blow up a church just a few weeks ago in Kenya, because that's his last known location. More likely, friends, you will experience subtler forms of opposition at work, home, school, teenagers. You don't join it in the gossip Your friends push away from you because you won't join them in the gossip. In other words, friends, is is where Talking about the bounty and the blessing and the comfort of knowing God's word, a little truth in advertising here. In this world, you will experience opposition. That's Christianity. You are living sometimes at an angle from, sometimes in complete opposition to, the world's values as articulated as expressed in the world's laws. This is Christianity This is what we have signed up for. We are asking you to follow a different way. Verse 14, in the way of your testimonies I delight as much in all riches. In the way of your testimonies I delight as much as in all riches. And friends, that has to be the case because you might be asked to give up your riches. like Sharif has. Or maybe supporting Sharif. He's in this refugee G camp, he's waiting political asylum. He only has the money right now is he can't earn money being sent to him by one church in the Middle East. Meanwhile, he spends all day studying the Bible so they can go back to his country and pastor There, sincerely, if you want to help support Sharif, please talk to me afterwards We persist in this way. Why? Number 10. Sharif persists in this way. Why? Number 10. God's people hope in God's lawful word. God's people hope in God's lawful word. Verse 49. Remember your word to your servant, in which you have made me hope. Verse 74. Those who fear you shall see me rejoice because I have hoped. In your word. Jesus, of course, knew opposition, and yet Jesus endured that opposition because he had hope. Hebrews 12. For the joy set before him, he endured the cross. despising the shame, seated at the right hand of God. Friends, I trust that you've realized by now that Psalm 119 is the prayer The song of our Lord Jesus Christ. Verse 10, with my whole heart I seek you. That's been perfectly true of only one man. Verse 54. Your statutes have been my songs in the house of my sojourney. Only one person is perfectly saying that song. If God's lawful word reveals God, do you want to know what the heart of Christ is like? Read Psalm 119. Then again, again, while the psalm was inspired by the Father and the Son, it wasn't written by the man, Jesus. But we don't know exactly who wrote it. And it finally does leave a little bit of space between the Lord Jesus and the writer. Larry pointed this out to me. Look at the final verse. Verse 176. I have gone astray like a lost sheep. What? Seek your servant, for I do not forget your commandments. Jesus never went astray. It's an interesting final verse, isn't it? After 175 verses of exalting God's law, he admits he's gone astray as a lost sheep. And so now he's asking God to seek after him because he's still remembering his commandments. Is that some massive plot twist in the final verse? I don't think so. Well, throughout this psalm, we've seen him reaching and longing for God's words in ways that indicate he knows he's not there yet. Look at verse 32. Verse 32. I will run in the way of your commandments when you enlarge my heart. My heart isn't large. It needs to be enlarged. I'm going to run in the way of your commandments when you enlarge my heart. Again, if you're here this morning, And you are still investigating Christianity. Let me explain. Christianity says there's two things wrong with us. Number one, through Adam and Eve's sin and our own sin, we have become guilty. We deserve punishment because of God's guilt. But then it also says, in that sin, we are corrupt. So you have a guilt problem and you have a corruption problem. We don't want. What is good? Our desires are corrupted. The good news of Christianity is that the Son came and solved the guilt problem. By dying on the cross for sinners like us. And then he solved this corruption problem by giving us his spirit, enlivening our hearts, giving us new hearts, so that we desire the right things. A corruption problem. We need enlarged hearts with God's DNA, his law Filled DNA in our hearts so that we desire the right things. And that's what Christianity offers Friends, if you know your own sin and your sinful desires, then we say turn to Christ. We don't say work your way out of it. We say turn to Christ. Let Him solve the guilt problem and through His Spirit the Corruption problem. And we who are Christians have begun to experience both the freedom from that condemnation, from that guilt, and the beginnings of those new desires. We'd invite you to it. Still, as Christians, we we ask him to enlarge our hearts so that we obey. I told you there are 10 points. Hey, guess what? A bonus point. Here it is Bonus point. Number 11. Ask God to enlarge your heart with his lawful word so that it becomes your DNA like it's his. Ask God to enlarge your heart with his lawful words so that it becomes your DNA like his. I will run in the way of your commandments when you enlarge my heart. Look at these last verses. Look at this stanza. Verse 33. Look at how every verse in verse 33 and following begins. Each one starts with an imperative. Verse 33, teach me, O Lord, the way of your statutes. Verse 34, give me understanding. 35. Lead me. 36. Incline my heart. 37. Turn my eyes. 38. Confirm your promise. Verse 39, turn away the approach that I dread. What's the sermon takeaway, friends? Well, first it's uh is to pray the imperative verbs of this stanza, teach me, O Lord, lead, incline, turn, confirm. And then we listen to his voice. The second, the takeaway is to look down the road, the way And to see our Lord Jesus walking in perfect obedience, to wonder at him To love him and to follow after him. Let's pray Father God, teach us the way of your statutes. Give us understanding that we may keep your law and observe it with our whole hearts. Lead us, incline us, turn our eyes, confirm your promise, that we might be like our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. In His name. Amen.