Good morning, brothers and sisters. It's good to be with you this morning once again to open up God's word and share it and to live in light of it. Because his word is truth, and we need to be sanctified by his truth. So let me pray one more time, and then we will dive in. Lord, please meet us now. Please help us. Please use your word in our lives and our hearts to convict us, correct us, and change us so that we will look more like your son as a result. And we ask in his name. Amen. Well several years ago, back when Marvel was making good movies. They released a movie called The Black Panther. In that movie you had King T'Challa, who was the king of Wakanda. But he was soon met by a relative turned rival named Eric Kilmonger. And Kilmonger made his way to Wakanda. and challenged King Tichala and his rightful rule of the nation of Wakanda. So a battle would soon ensue And then eventually the stage was set. All of Wakanda came out to see this battle that would take place between King T'Challa and Eric Kilmonger. And the winner of that battle would become the king. But this fight did not go well for King T'shallah. He did not have his vibranium suit on as the Black Panther, was stripped of all his power. And Eric Killmonger was a trained soldier, hence the name Killmonger, and he also did not fight fair. And after a while, King T'Challa, this powerful, mighty king, looked weak. He was beaten up, he was bloodied, and he soon looked like he was defeated. And then after that, Eric Killmonger starts mocking the king He says, is this your king? Is this your king? And shortly after that, he was defeated. Last week in John chapter 18, we saw that Jesus, the King, was betrayed and rejected By Peter, by Judas, by the Jewish leaders, and by all of Rome. He was rejected by all. And today we're going to continue focusing on that trial, and we'll see the verdict, and we'll be left to answer that same question about this king, Jesus. Is this your king? If you haven't turned there, please meet me in the Gospel of John. That's on page 904 in the black Bibles that are around you. If you don't have a Bible of your own, we encourage you to take that as a copy of God's Word, a gift from us to you. Last week we were led through the first half of John chapter 18, and we were led so well by Pastor Jonathan Lehman. Seeing this rejection of Jesus that took place in so many different ways. And we're picking up right where we left off from last week. Where Jesus is already arrested, where he stands bound before the high priest. And will soon be interrogated by Pontius Pilate. Pontius Pilate was the governor of the Roman province of Judea. Because Judea at this time, like many other places, was occupied by the Roman Empire. And Emperor Tiberius was the ruler of it all. Emperor Tiberius was also known as Caesar. And the Jewish leaders wanted Jesus sentenced to death. But they could not carry it out on their own. They could not carry it out themselves. So the plan was now to bring Jesus before Pilate so that Pilate, the governor, could sentence Jesus to death The Jewish leaders wanted this trial to be over and done with quickly, as we heard about last week, so that Jesus could be sentenced to death. Before the Sabbath, the Shabbat, during this week of Passover, when no one could work anymore This all took place during the week of Passover, and Jesus and his disciples had already had the Passover meal of the Last Supper. But now it's Friday morning. And this Jesus, according to the Jewish leaders, had to be done away with before the Sabbath would begin. When no more work could be done. So that's the setting. That's the backdrop. But here's the main idea for our time together in God's Word if you're taking notes this morning. Is what we'll learn from John 18 through 19. Jesus, the King, became our Passover lamb and was delivered over for our salvation. Jesus the King became our Passover lamb and was delivered over for our salvation We'll approach this text, this trial, in two main parts. We'll just walk through the various scenes of this trial, and then we'll focus on the verdicts of the trial. So we'll walk through the passage. We'll see the trial itself, and then we'll focus on the verdict of this trial. So follow along with me as I read, starting in John 18, starting in verse 28. This is God's word. And it reads, Then they led Jesus from the house of Caiaphas to the governor's headquarters. It was early morning. They themselves did not enter the governor's headquarters, so that they would not be defiled, but could eat the Passover. So Pilate went outside to them and said, What accusation do you bring against this man? They answered him, This man were not doing evil, would we not have delivered him over to you? Pilate said to them, Take them yourselves and judge them by your own law. The Jews said to him, It's not lawful for us to put anyone to death. This was to fulfill the word that Jesus had spoken to show what kind of death that he would die. So we'll stop there for now, where Pilate is questioning these Jewish leaders. So we see there in the passage, the Jews could not enter into Pilate's headquarters. So Pilate met them outside in the open court. These Jewish leaders were concerned with not being defiled so that they could rightly take the Passover meal and continue to celebrate in this Passover feast over the next coming days. And Pilate, this Roman Gentile, was not worried about any of that. As the governor of Judea, his job was to maintain order and to maintain peace. During this week of the Passover, you would have had many Jews who were coming to Jerusalem to celebrate. And most scholars estimate that there was around 150,000 extra people that were there specifically for this week. So, Pilate, as we heard about last week, was not trying to have a revolt. He was trying to maintain peace and order. So he goes back inside now, where Jesus is bound, to now question and interrogate him. Let's pick up at verse 33. So Pilate entered into his headquarters, and he called Jesus and said to him, Are you the king of the Jews? Jesus answered, do you say this of your own accord, or did others say that to you about me? Pilate answered, Am I a Jew? Your own nation and the chief priests have delivered you over to me. What have you done? Pilate's trying to figure out what is this all about? Why is Jesus actually here? Why has he been brought? What crime did he commit? He also wants to know, since he's trying to maintain peace, he wants to know: is this guy a threat to me at all or not? Is he a threat to Rome? Is he a threat to our peace? And that's why he asked Jesus: Are you a king? So Jesus, in normal Jesus fashion, answered his question with a question. It's basically like, why are you asking? Did you hear this from someone else, or is this on your own accord? Pilate's like, I have nothing to do with this. Your own people delivered you over. So what have you done? Let's look at verse 36. Jesus answered him by saying, My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, my servants would have been fighting, that I might not be delivered over to the Jews. But my kingdom is not from this world. So Jesus basically says, yes, I am a king, but not the kind of king that you have in mind. Not the kind of king that you are thinking of. I'm not a physical threat. If I were, then there would be a fight right now, Jesus is basically saying. And then Pilate responds to this statement. Starting in verse 37. So you are a king. And Jesus answers, you say that I'm a king For this person purpose I was born, and for this purpose I have come into the world to bear witness to the truth. Everyone who is with who is of the truth listens to my voice. So Pilate said to him, What is truth? Jesus tells Pilate that he is a king But he's not the king of this world. And he has come to this world to bear witness of the truth. And then Pilate asked this most famous question: what is truth? To which Jesus does not provide an answer in the passage. And sometimes I think that's because the truth was bound up in front of Pilate, standing there before him. As Jesus has previously taught in John 14, 6. He said, I am the way, I am the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. Now, lots of people debate what Pilate meant by this question. What is truth? Was he seeking after answers? Was he being polite? Was he just being philosophical? Or was he being indifferent? Like, what is truth? Who can know truth? But Pilate seems to at least conclude that Jesus, this bound-up king before him, is not a real threat to him. So he goes back outside to report to the Jewish leaders. We're picking up at 38 now, starting with the word after After he had said this, he, Pilate, went back outside to the Jews and told them, I find no guilt in him. But you have a custom that I should release one man to you at the Passover. So do you want me to release you the king of the Jews? And they cried out again, not this man but Barabbas. Now Barabbas was a robber. Pilate says he finds no guilt in Jesus. But the Jews have a tradition of releasing one man at the Passover. So he says basically, you could release Jesus, and this whole thing can be over with. Notice here that Pilate calls Jesus the king of the Jews. That's his conclusion. He must be their king. But the Jews say, not this man, but failing to acknowledge Jesus as king, not this man, but Barabbas. A robber, a thief, a man whose name, Bar Abba, translates to son of the Father And this substitution of Jesus for Barabbas is recorded in all four gospel accounts. And this custom of substitution is in line with the Passover that we heard about in our scripture passage. Meaning, someone's going to be able to go free. It happened to honor the night of the Passover when Pharaoh's firstborn son died, so that the firstborn son of God, Israel, in this case. could be released, could be set free, could go out of slavery and out of Egypt Are you catching the irony so far of this whole passage? It's irony everywhere. The Jews want to release Barabbas, the son of the father. But the true Son of the Father, Jesus, is the one who will ultimately be crucified on the cross Pilate now goes back inside, now aiming to deal with Jesus, and he kind of wants to get these Jewish leaders off his back for good. So he has Jesus flogged. That's where we start at verse, chapter 19, verse 1. Then Pilate took Jesus and flogged him, meaning had him flogged by these Roman soldiers. And the soldiers twisted a crown of thorns and put it on his head and arrayed him in a purple robe. They came up to him, saying, Hail, King of the Jews, and struck him with their hands. Remember, Pilate didn't think that Jesus was that big of a threat. He didn't think he was that big of a deal So I think he was trying to appease these Jewish leaders. Maybe we can have them flogged, and that'll be enough, and then we could send them away So these soldiers, mocking his kingship, mocking his kingship as being the king of the Jews, they put a purple robe of him on him and a crown of thorns. Both used to mock Jesus. And that crown of thorns was likely made from what's now known as a spina christae tree. And these trees are all over the Mount of Olives in Jerusalem. I was privileged to go to Jerusalem sometime last year. And that was one of the points where we were just kind of walking around, and I saw that, and it struck me, and I stared at it for several moments. It's like, wow. This is not fake. The crown of thorns was made from the world around them, and it was put on Jesus specifically to mock him And we know they were mocking him because they said, Hell king of the Jews. Like he must be some kind of a king. But look at him. He's bound. We flogged him. He has a crown of thorns on his head. He's bloodied. Whatever king this was, Pilate thought, he's no big deal. We don't need to have him sentenced to death So then Pilate, after this, goes back out to report to the Jewish leaders, starting in verse 4. Pilate went out again and said to him, See, I am bringing him out so that you may know that I find no guilt in him. I don't know what he's done wrong, and I certainly don't think he's a threat. Verse 5. So Jesus came out wearing the crown of thorns and the purple road. And Pilate said to them, Behold the man. You picture this right now? You picture that scene, Jesus being brought out? Now Pilate here says, behold the man, and some scholars think that he's trying to say, just look at him. He's pitiful. Give him a break. He's not a threat. He's not that strong. Behold this poor man. Or kind of like Kilmonger was saying of T'Challah, is this your king? But the Jewish leaders were not satisfied. Let's at verse 6. When the chief priests and the officers saw him, they cried out, Crucify him! Crucify him! And Pilate said to them, Take him yourselves and crucify him, for I find no guilt in him. Again, Pilate wanted this done and over with. He had other stuff to do. And he knew that the Jews could not crucify him themselves. So take him yourself. Do whatever you want. Let's get this over with. I flogged him. That's enough. What more do you want from me? Look at verse 7. The Jews answered him: We have a law, and according to that law, he ought to die because he has made himself the Son of God. And when Pilate heard this statement, he was even more afraid. Pilate was likely afraid for at least two reasons. The Gospel of Matthew records the fact that Pilate's wife had dreams about this innocent man, Jesus. Terrible dreams. And that she went up to Pilate and said, Have nothing to do with that innocent man. Pilate, terrible dreams about him. So maybe Pilate has his wife's voice in the back of his mind. Here's a second reason, though. And it's bound up in that phrase, Son of God. The Jews said that Jesus was making himself to be the Son of God. And Caesar, so Tiberius, the Roman emperor, was the adopted son of Caesar Augustus And he believed, just like many believed, that Caesar Augustus was divine. So Tiberius, or this Caesar, referred to himself. As the, and he guesses, the son of God. Again, that irony should not be lost on us And I think that's why Pilate, when hearing these words, actually thought maybe Jesus is a little bit more of a threat than I gave him credit for. So then Pilate goes back in to interrogate Jesus some more. Look at verse 9. He entered his headquarters again and said to Jesus, Where are you from? But Jesus gave him no answer. So Pilate said to him, Will you not speak to me? Do you not know that I have authority to release you and authority to crucify you? Jesus answered him, You would have no authority over me at all, unless it had been given you from above. Therefore, he who delivered me over to you has the greater sin So Pilate might be trying to play good cop to the Jewish leaders, bad cops here. Like, I'm the one talking to you. Don't you see I'm trying to help you? Don't you know I have authority to release you? But Jesus says, you don't know where that authority comes from, do you? It was given to you from above. And if so, you would not have any authority over me. Jesus is saying to Pilate that his authority, like all authority, comes from God above. And that he who delivered Jesus over, I think he's talking about the chief priest here, has the greater sin. So Pilate here still wants to let Jesus go to kind of wash his hands clean of this At the very least, he didn't want any guilt on his hands. But ultimately, Pilate's allegiance to Caesar and to Rome was greater than any growing interest he may have had in Jesus, or any sympathy that he had in Jesus. Look at 19 verse 12 now. From then on, Pilate sought to release him. The Jews cried out If you release this man, you are not Caesar's friend. Everyone who makes himself a king opposes Caesar. The Jews pointed out that Pilate did have a higher authority, but they didn't say that it was God. They said it was Caesar or Tiberius. They said everyone who makes himself a king, so kind of what Jesus was doing, was opposing Caesar And that's interesting because saying that Jesus broke their law, as he said earlier, as the Jewish leaders were saying earlier, and therefore he was guilty of blasphemy, that's what they were accusing Jesus of, that didn't do anything for Pilate. You have your own law, deal with him yourselves, he was unmoved by that. But now they appeal to Rome and to Caesar And Jesus claimed to be the son of God, meaning if he was indeed a king, he was actually a threat to Rome and to Caesar. And if Pilate did not release King Jesus, then he would be betraying Caesar. And he would be betraying Rome. Look at verse 13. So when Pilate heard these words, he brought Jesus out and sat down on the judgment seat at a place called the stone pavement, and in Aramaic, Gabbatha. Now it was the day of preparation of the Passover. It was about the sixth hour. And he said to the Jews, Behold your king. And they cried out, Away with him, away with him, crucify him. And Pilate said to them, Shall I crucify your king? And the chief priest answered, We have no king but Caesar. So he delivered him over to them to be crucified. The pilot sat down on his judgment seat. To now render a verdict. Pilate asked if their king should be crucified, and these Jewish leaders cry out, Crucify him, crucify him, get him away. We have no king but Caesar That's an absolutely shocking statement. Kind of like Luke was saying yesterday to me. It's kind of like they said it finally out loud. This was the truth of their hearts the entire time. No king but Caesar. These Jewish leaders who were in a rush to get the trial over with so that they could celebrate the Passover meal. These Jewish leaders who were so intent on keeping the law that they would not step foot under Pilate's roof. These Jewish leaders who memorize passages like Isaiah 33, 22, which says, The Lord is our judge, the Lord is our lawgiver, the Lord is our king, he will save us. And they're looking to Caesar now to save them. That reveals what was going on in their hearts the entire time. God was not their king Well Caesar. That over and over and over again, when push came to Chov. The people of Israel chose the kings of this world over God. So it's no wonder that Jesus said things to these Jewish leaders, like he said in John chapter 8, where he says, Your father is actually the devil. God's not your father. He's proving that. And they prove that with these words. So then verse 16, he, Pilate, delivered him, Jesus. Over to them. The Jewish leaders and the Roman soldiers to be crucified. That's the trial What's interesting here is that Pilate doesn't say what Jesus is guilty of But there are verdicts all throughout this passage, and that's what we'll focus on for the rest of our time. So that was the trial. Here's the verdict. And there's three of them, which are basically breaking down our main point for today. Verdict number one is that Jesus is the King. Jesus is the King But not the king that the Jewish leaders wanted. He didn't want him. And Pilate asked Jesus several times if he was a king. And then he started calling him the king of the Jews. And Jesus never denied that at all. And Pilate, much to the chagrin of the Jewish leaders, started referring to Jesus over and over again as the King of the Jews. Even put on a robe on Jesus and a crown of thorns. For the Jews, these wanted to prove that he was no king Pilate wanted to show that he might be a king, but he's no threat to me and no threat to Rome. But ironically, they proved that Jesus was both the king and actually a true threat to Rome and all other kingdoms. Look at verse 7 of our passage again, thinking of that phrase, son of God. The Jews answered him, We have a law, and according to that law he ought to die because he had made himself the son of God. Remember, that's when Pilate was even more afraid. Because by making himself the son of God, that was a veiled way of knowledge, acknowledging that he's saying he is a king. So then the high priest questioned him. It doesn't say this in the Gospel of Matthew in this interrogation passage that was that we went over last week. But in in the Gospel of Matthew, it says That the high priest, when they're questioning Jesus, they say, tell us if you are the Christ, the Son of God. And Jesus says, Yes, it is as you say. The Christ, meaning the Messiah, meaning the Son of God, meaning the eternal son of God. Here's what Jesus also said in Matthew 26. But I tell you, from now on, you will see the Son of Man seated at the right hand of power coming on the clouds of heaven Again, Jesus is saying, yes, I am the true king. I'm the true king that the prophet Daniel saw in that vision In the book of Daniel. The ancient of days who would serve all be served by all nations. The son of man that would rule forever and ever, whose kingdom would never, ever end. The Jewish leaders, instead of bowing their knees in allegiance, they chose Caesar over Jesus. So question for us. Who's your king? Who are you giving allegiance to? That's why sin is not just a lifestyle preference. It's not just something that we want to do. It's not just us deciding to go our own way. It's actually rebellion against God as our king. The Bible teaches we've all sinned. We've all rebelled in some way against this God and King. And that's why the King of Kings, the Son of God, Jesus Christ, came to this world to deal with our rebellion Not through staging o a a war against us, which he had every right to do, but by coming humbly by gathering followers, by going to the cross, by dying on the cross, and then rising victoriously from the grave, and in doing so this upside down king kingdom is ushering people into that kingdom, overthrowing the powers of darkness. And bringing people into his marvelous light. And yes, King Jesus does demand our and your full allegiance and obedience to him And he's worthy of it. And one day, as the Bible says, every knee will bow and every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is indeed the Lord, the Savior, and the King. And if you're here this morning and you don't believe that, just think of the narrative. Think of Pontius Pilate, who seemed to be so sincere. He didn't want Jesus to die. But when push came to shove, he chose Rome over Jesus. Or think of the Jewish leaders who knew about God's word Who talked the talk, didn't really walk the walk, but they could fake it for a while. But when push came a chuck tame to shove, they chose Caesar over Jesus. So who are you choosing today? If you're here and you're not a Christian, you have the opportunity to choose Jesus today. And be forgiven of your sins. And then choose Jesus every single day as you follow him in obedience as your Lord and as your King. And we'd urge you to do that today. My brothers and sisters in Christ, who's your functional king? Who have you been tempted to give your allegiance to lately Are you in the midst of staging your own mini rebellion against Jesus as King? Or Has your suffering discouraged you from following Jesus as your King Remember that Jesus is indeed the King. He's our merciful King. He deserves our full allegiance and obedience. But remember exactly what kind of King that Jesus is. One of my favorite quotes by a late Tim Keller is this, where he says: the only person that can ask a king for a drink of water at 3 a. m. is a son. And we, as God's people, have that kind of access to our King. So don't run away from King Jesus. Go towards him with your sin. Go towards him with your doubt. Go towards him with your anxiety. Go towards him with your frustrations Go towards him with your fears over and over and over and over again, and you will find that he is a good and merciful king every time And we should also be reminded once again, particularly in this election year, that we should not allow the media or politicians to drive us towards either pride or fear. The Jewish leaders were proud Pilate was afraid. Both of them chose Caesar and Rome, and that was a bad decision. Beloved, do not give your allegiance to any rulers of this world, not Trump, not Biden, not any other presidential hopeful. Continue to place your allegiance only in the Lord Jesus Christ. Leads us to verdict number two. Jesus is the King. Verdict number two, Jesus became our Passover Lamb. Became our Passover Lamb. This eternal King, this eternal son of God became the Passover Lamb for us. That's what John the Baptist points out in the first chapter of this same gospel, the Gospel of John. He saw Jesus approaching the crowd. He said, Behold, the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. That's him. He was connecting Jesus to the Passover, which we also heard about this morning. Kids in the room, isn't that strange though, to look at Jesus and call him a lamb? Don't you find that strange? What do you think that he had in mind by calling Jesus a lamb That he was going to be the sacrifice. And all those sacrifices that you were doing, all of the laws you've been reading, all the things you're preparing for. There he is, he's coming. Behold the Lamb who takes away the sin of the world. It's like y'all have been learning through Exodus if you're in the kids' Sunday school class. It's like we heard this morning from our scripture reading. But John the Apostle is making that connection here also to the Passover. And if you notice, the Passover is mentioned three different times in our passage. In John 18, 28, the Jewish leaders didn't enter into Pilate's headquarters. Why? They didn't want to be defiled so they could take the Passover and continue in the Passover feast. Or 1839, the custom that one man should be released at the Passover. But here's the most striking one It's in John chapter 19, verse 14. This reference to the time of preparation of the Passover. Look down in your Bibles there. What hour does it say? In chapter 19, verse 14. For anybody. It says the sixth hour. It happened at the sixth hour. That's kind of exact, right? And some people might say, well, in in Matthew's gospel, it says the third hour. So, like, what's going on there? What time was it exactly? Now people didn't walk around with watches on their wrists like we do. So the timings were approximate. But most scholars say that this might have been around 9 in the morning. But here's the actual point of that reference to the sixth hour, the time of the preparation for the Passover here. Remember that the Sabbath was coming. This was Friday morning. When the sun goes down, that's when the Sabbath starts. Not on Saturday. Sundown on Friday evening. That's when the Sabbath starts, even to this day And no more sacrifices could be made at that point in preparation for the Passover feast. And anything that needs to be done needs to be done Friday morning. At what time roughly do you think, or what hour were these Passover lambs prepared? At the sixth hour. So, John the apostle, through the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, is saying, Look, there he is. He's the Passover lamb. This sacrifice is happening. The stage is being set. Behold him. Believe him. He's going to take away the sin of the world. And now he would do it in just a few hours, which we'll hear more about next week. Sometime last year I was on a flight, uh it was either to DC or from DC, I don't remember, but I was working on a sermon. So I had my Bible out, had my headphones in. Because I don't like talking to people on planes. I don't know if you're like that, but some people see an opportunity. I see opportunity for me to do my own thing for a while. Anyway. Pray for my heart. But anyway, I had to move seats, and this young woman started sitting next to me, and she noticed that I was working. She noticed I had my Bible out, so we had a brief conversation I found out that she was Jewish and that she was actually leaving home from celebrating the Passover with her family. So we started talking about the Passover. And we started talking about Easter. And that was kind of the Lord's way of saying, like, you need to say something to her. We had a good conversation. She was pretty nominal in her faith. She was also pretty respectful of my faith. But that's about it. It didn't really go that far. It didn't go that deep. And if you're like me, when you get into those spiritual conversations, you might tend to overthink it And the whole time I'm thinking, how can I press further? What can I say? How can the light be turned on for her? How can I get to the heart of the gospel? I tried, but it didn't seem to go that far. But if I had another chance to talk to her, I think I would simply just land here and say, Jesus is the Passover Lamb. Everything that you are doing, everything you've been doing, that all points to him. Here's what he says in John 19. Here's what it says. Here's where it says about the sixth hour. Here's what the apostle John is trying to point out. He's the Passover lamb. Nothing else will do. He's the savior of the world. And this season, as we are getting ready for Easter, we have the opportunity to be watchful and prayerful about those types of conversations we might enter into. We can invite people to Easter. We have the invitations now out on the tables. Invite neighbors or coworkers, and you might think they've already said no. Invite them again Use this time of year and pray for opportunities to press a little bit further. Like, hey, I know you came to church. I know you heard the sermon. Do you know what this means? Are you connecting those dots? Do you have any questions? Why do you even celebrate Easter? What's the eggs and the bunny about? Like this there's more to this We should pray that the Lord will bear fruit through these conversations. And if you're like me, where you sometimes struggle with those conversations, you think I've gotten it wrong, I've said everything wrong, keep going. The Lord can use you just like he can use me. Who doesn't say all the right things at the right time. So that other people can see that he's truly the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. And also, if you find me later, I have a couple copies of this booklet, The King, the Cross, and the Meaning of Easter, which might be a helpful tool to hand out to someone, or better yet, sit and read with someone If they have questions about what this whole season means. So Jesus, the King, became our Passover lamb. And lastly, the third verdict, he was delivered over for our salvation. He was delivered over for our salvation. Back to John 18, verses 34 through 36, just to summarize it, Pilate tells Jesus that your own nation delivered you over to me. Jesus said, if my kingdom were of this world, then my servants would have made sure that I wasn't delivered over to you Chapter 19, verse 11. Pilate says, whoever did, or Jesus says to Pilate, whoever delivered you over to me has the greater sin. And then verse 16 of chapter 19, so he, Pilate, delivered him, Jesus, over to the Jewish leaders and the Roman soldiers to be crucified. Now, as we may know, the Jewish leaders didn't literally crucify Jesus. They didn't have the authority to do that. They already said it. Pilate did not crucify Jesus himself. He ordered his Roman soldiers to carry it out. But Jesus being delivered over, Basically means that he was judged by several groups of people. He was rejected over and over and over again. He was handed over. Let's think back to last week. Judas delivered Jesus over to the high priest. The high priest delivered Jesus over to Pilate. Pilate delivered Jesus over to the Jews. The Jews delivered Jes over to the Roman soldiers so that he could be crucified Everybody's guilty of rejecting and delivering Jesus over. They're all effectively saying, we don't want him, you can have him. But this language of being delivered over is used all throughout the scriptures, and it's language of judgment, and it's language that's usually being carried out or referred to as God's judgment. So think of Nehemiah chapter 9, for example, when the people are recalling the history of God's people of Israel Nehemiah 9, verse 30, says many years you in this prayer that they're praying to God, you bore with them and warned them by your spirit through your prophets. Yet they did not listen. Therefore you gave them into the hands of the peoples of the lands. You handed them over Or Romans 1, where Paul is talking about God's work in the world. Where he says in verse 24, therefore God gave them up to the lust and impurity of their hearts. Verse 26, God gave them up to dishonorable passions. Later he says, God gave them up to a debased mind. Which means that God was executing judgment on them. So this judgment that happens in John chapter 19 was no surprise of God. In fact, it was his very will. It was his good purposes. And that's why John, the apostle here, says in verse 32 of chapter 18, this was to show the kind of death that he would die. This was not a surprise. God knew it. In fact, God orchestrated it It was his plan. And if you're here and you're not a Christian, that's part of what you need to grapple with this morning. As we're in this Easter season, as you're reminded again of the sacrifice of Jesus and him going to the cross. It's Factual. It's historical. But what's the reason? Did Jesus just really get tied up with the wrong people Did Jesus really just talk too much? Did Jesus just really make the wrong set of enemies? Did that lead to his death? Or was this the very will of God so that we can be saved and made right with him? And we can either accept that, or we can say, like Rome, like Caesar, like Pilate, like the Jewish leaders, I don't want them, you can have them. And brothers and sisters, remember if you're here today, and as you're recalling what Jesus has done for us, you might think of your own suffering, your own circumstances. Remember to look beyond your suffering and your circumstances. Remember to look even beyond the people that might be causing you harm right now. And look to Jesus. Look to him as the sovereign ruler of all. Look to God and remember that he still loves you. He's still with you. He's for you. And he's already taking care of your greatest need because he would soon go to the cross for you. And as Paul says in Romans 8:32, he, God, who did not spare his own son, Jesus, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things? And those all things are what awaits you as God's child. So we should remember verses like that. We should put it to remember to memory. We should apply it to our seasons of suffering, even right now. And maybe also in this season as we're leading up to Easter, as you want to think and reflect on what God has done through Christ. Again, remember he's sovereign. Read through the Gospel of John and see how many times Jesus refers to his death before it happens. He's no sympathetic martyr. He knew what was happening, what he was doing, and he did it for you. And we get to reflect on this sacrifice weekly, just like we'll do in a few minutes, as we reflect on the Lord's supper. Do not let that become just routine for you or just part of our liturgy. And like that's just what we do at CBC. Think deeply. Marvel at the Savior's marvelous love for you. Marvel at the fact that Jesus the King Became our Passover lamb, and was delivered over, was judged for our salvation So now at this point in the narrative, the stage is set. And all of Jerusalem would see. And just picture Jesus standing at the end of this trial, looking weak, flogged, badly beaten, his body's bloodied, he looks defeated. And there's still a cross that awaits him. The crowds looked at Jesus and they chose Barabbas. The pilot or pilot looked at Jesus and he chose Rome instead. The Jewish leaders looked at Jesus and they chose Caesar instead. But what about you? Is this your king? Let's pray together. We thank you, Lord Jesus, for your sacrifice for us, and we pray that we would acknowledge you as our King and as the Lord of our lives. We pray that we would continue to believe in you. We pray that we would place all of our hope and all of our allegiance to you. And Lord, I do pray for anyone here who has not placed their faith in you that you would give them faith, that you would give them eyes to see that they should truly choose to believe in Jesus over the rules of this world. We ask all this in Jesus' name, Amen