My apologies. Please turn in your Bibles to Matthew chapter 18. Matthew chapter 18. What we had been doing in the first few weeks of this new year before we started our journeys around to local church buildings. Uh we'd begun to take a few weeks to think about the work of ministry, specifically occasioned by uh the installation of a couple of new elders. We did a sermon considering the work of elders and how we as a congregation are to respond to that work. We did the same thing then in thinking about the work of deacons. And this morning, uh I want to talk with you about the work of church members. Uh we have a members meeting today after uh I I really think it's happening today after a few postponements Uh and it seemed a good occasion for us to to be thinking together about what is this work of church members that we give ourselves to. We I I think Maybe more than the average church in the DMV or even in the United States. We we maybe talk about membership in the church a little bit more than the average church. And so I think it's important that we are instructed from the Word of God about why that is. And if you're a visitor with us today, uh maybe unsure of what it means to be a member. I hope this message is clarifying. If you're here with us and you don't even consider yourself to be a follower of Jesus, I think this will still be a helpful message for you to understand what is this thing we call the church And how are we called to represent to you what Jesus is like? That's what we're wanting to think about this morning as we consider these verses in Matthew chapter 18. Hear God's word this morning. If your brother sins against you, go and tell him his fault between you and him alone If he listens to you, you have gained your brother. But if he does not listen, take one or two others along with you, that every charge may be established by the evidence of two or three witnesses If he refuses to listen to them, tell it to the church. And if he refuses to listen even to the church, let him be to you as a Gentile and a tax collector. Truly I say to you, whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven Again I say to you, if two of you agree on earth about anything they ask, it will be done for them by my Father in heaven For where two or three are gathered in my name, there am I among them. This is God's word Thanks be to God. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for this word and for bringing it to our attention this morning. We pray that you would help me to speak. From it clearly and accurately and faithfully in accord with the intentions of our Lord Jesus in giving it to us. Pray that you'd help us to respond faithfully. Make us not mere hearers of your word, but make us to be doers of it. We know we need your help for that. It's the Spirit who gives life The flesh is no help at all. And so we ask for the blessing of your spirit upon us as we consider your word now. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. One Friday night, back in the fall of 2023, I was at a high school football game with my family. And I I received a text message from a member of our former church, something to the effect of, hey, I just got a weird email from you asking me to give you some money Is that really from you? I thought that was a little weird. It was not for me Then about a minute or two another text and then another and then a phone call. Altogether it was probably 20 or 30 One of them suggested the obvious, which you're, I think you've been hacked. Uh I had been. Someone who uh was not me was claiming to be me. They created an email address which was not actually mine. But looked so similar to mine that it was hard to tell the difference. And they had sent an email, they'd actually uh hacked our church's online member directory. This is not ours. Understand. This is a former church. But they had hacked that and they were sending out emails to the members of my church, and it looked like it was from me, but it was not. And it was for me very unsettling. I did not like it, to put it mildly. Someone who was not me or associated with me in any way was claiming to represent me To speak on my behalf and were deceiving other people's about me and my intentions. Now, thankfully, on that occasion, no damage was done Uh we discerned that it was the church's online directory that had been hacked. We changed passwords. The church was notified in an email that this was not actually me, don't exchange any money, and thankfully there wasn't any damage that actually occurred. It just became a sermon illustration. Sometimes real lasting damage though does take place. With this sort of thing. I'm sure I don't need to tell you that. Maybe some of you have experienced that. Thankfully, there are agencies that exist to look into such situations and rectify them. uh set the record straight and to protect our identity. Now situations like that are are they unsettling. It was unsettling for me, it was frustrating for me. It can be even deeply painful when real damage does occur, say to someone financially. But how much more? How how much more damage, how much more unsettling and frustrating for the name And the identity of Jesus to be stolen, to be misrepresented, and defiled. How tragic and unsettling that would be when someone confuses or deceives other people about who he is by claiming to represent and speak on his behalf. But does so fraudulently, either in how they live or in what they say on his behalf. My sense from reading the Bible is Jesus does not like that. This is a deception. This is an identity theft of eternal consequence. I trust that many of us can think quickly of people in our lives who say that they are followers of Jesus. But whose lives or whose actual beliefs are so obviously and habitually to the contrary that it seems hard for you to believe their claim to be a follower of Jesus. It's very sad. It's very prevalent in our society. We speak of the we sort of speak lamentingly of the degradation of values and of Christianity in our country, we do still live in a country where roughly two-thirds of Americans, around 250 million people, identify themselves as Christians. That's a pretty sizable number. And yet in a in a lifeway and ligoneer study last year This was a study just of evangelical, those professing to be evangelical Christians. The statistics showed that 53% of the 80 million evangelical Christians in this country believe that all people sin a little bit, but most people are generally good at heart. Forty-seven percent believe that God accepts the worship of all people equally, including Christians and Jews and Muslims. So this this issue of confusion is a prevalent one. What can really be done about that though? How do we stop identity theft against the Lord Jesus? Well, this side of heaven, I don't think that we can fully eradicate this uh problem. But we can do our part to reduce these sad instances We can do our part to work to protect his name and reputation in the world. Because just as there are agencies and institutions that exist that we can turn to if our identity is stolen. Jesus has established an institution to address identity theft of his holy name. And that institution is the local church I think that makes the work of church members an urgent work. That's why you have that word urgent on the front of your bulletin to describe this work of church members. I think that's what we're going to see this morning as we think about these verses in Matthew 18 for a few minutes. I I want to give to you what I understand to be the main idea if I was to just answer the question simply, what is the work? What is this urgent work of church members? I'm going to give you an answer to that question, and then I hope to show you that answer from the teaching of Matthew 18. And then I hope to work out five commitments that we can make together to engage in this good and urgent work. So, main idea, what is this work of church members that we're talking about that's so urgent? It is this: to protect and to represent Jesus' name on earth. That's the work, protecting and representing Jesus' name on earth. How do we do that exactly? By uniting in accountable fellowship with those who confess Jesus as Lord. And excluding from its fellowship those whose lives contradict that confession What is this work of church members? It is to protect and to represent Jesus' name on earth By uniting in accountable fellowship with those who confess Him as Lord, and excluding from our fellowship those whose lives contradict that confession. I hope to show you that. And I'll probably get around to saying that again at some point later in the sermon if you didn't catch all those words. But I want to show you that from Matthew 18. Before we look at Matthew 18, though, I do think it's important that you see a little bit of the contextual backdrop of these verses in Matthew 18. That takes place a couple of chapters earlier in Matthew's Gospel in chapter 16. So if your Bibles are open, and I think that's a good thing, you'll be helped if your Bibles are open to look at God's Word. Turn back to Matthew 16. And in the context here of Matthew 16, there's been a lot of buzz about Jesus. He's teaching with great authority. He's doing miracles. He's confronting the religious leaders of his own day and exposing and addressing their hypocrisy and there's a buzz. Who is he? What's going on? And so Jesus in Matthew 16 asks Peter, what's the word on the street? What are people saying about me And Peter gives them, they say you're a prophet, you're John the Baptist, or Elijah, or another prophet like Jeremiah. And Jesus says, well, Peter, what do you say about me? And Peter, for the first time in Matthew's gospel, in the clearest way, he identifies who Jesus is. He is the Christ, he is the Messiah. The Son of the Living God. And then we're told in Matthew 16, 17, Jesus answered him, Blessed are you, Simon Barjonah. For flesh and blood has not revealed this to you, but my Father who is in heaven. And I tell you, you are Peter. And on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven. And whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. Now you get the sense, I get the sense when I read those verses, this seems important. This seems like a big deal You have this blessing, Jesus pronounces this blessing on Peter. It's not your own flesh. You didn't figure this out on my own that this is who I am. It was my Father in Heaven who revealed this to you. And I'm going to build my church The gates of hell won't prevail against the church. And I'm I'm giving you the keys of the kingdom And your actions, these actions of binding and loosing, they're reflective of realities that are happening in heaven. I mean, this seems significant. It's a little hard to understand what he's talking about. I don't know if you ever read these verses in your devotions and was like I don't know what that means. Let's move on. And you just read the next paragraph. Maybe there's something a little bit more that you can understand there. Well, I think these verses in Matthew 18 that I had read a few minutes ago, you could turn back there now. I think these verses in Matthew 18 really shed light for us on what Jesus was saying, in fact, in chapter 16. So Look there at Matthew 18. Notice in Matthew 18, verse 17, this is envisioning, this is Jesus envisioning what we call today a local church. This isn't envisioning the universal church, which we understand to be all God's people everywhere in the world through all time. This is what we would call a local church because Jesus is envisioning when something is told to the church that this is a group of people who know this wayward brother, this one who's been sinning, and they can come together to actually deal with it. So the church there in Matthew 18, 17, is a visible and identifiable known group of people. When you bring a matter to the church, when you tell the church something. We we have a sense of who that is. We know who we're talking about. Notice also here in the passage that what necessitated, what required the church's involvement in this matter was the sin of this brother. He's called a brother there. We could say, we could, it's all conjecture. We could say maybe he's living in adultery. or in habitual drunkenness or ongoing outbursts of anger. There's sin. He has committed sin. And we're told there in the passage, he's privately, verse 15, it's a one-to-one thing. He's being privately admonished and urged to repent, but he doesn't. He persists. He won't listen. And it's important that we see that, that the issue is that he's unrepentant. We understand that Christians do still struggle with sins. And I don't have any expectation that we're going to make it all the way to heavenly glory whenever that time comes, either in our death or when Jesus returns. I don't think we're going to make it till then without ever committing a sin in our lives. But the issue here is that Christians, followers of Jesus, real followers of Jesus, not imposter identity thieving professors of Christ, but real Christians repent of their sin. They turn from it. They're not content to live in it. So even before we talk about more about the church, just examine your own life individually. Is there any sin that I've been unwilling to repent of? Are you acting like that's just normal? Well, I'm saved by grace. So it doesn't really matter how I'm living. This is a concern because this matter this man won't turn from his sin So what happens in the context here is a couple of others are brought along to corroborate and substantiate this offense. Yes, the the conclusion of these two or three, this is sin. You need to repent, but we're told here in the passage he won't. He still refuses. He won't repent. And that's when we're told this matter is brought to the church. Tell it to the church You see, this is the work of church members. This isn't it doesn't say tell the elders. It doesn't say tell the senior pastor or tell the brothers small group. It says tell the church. And if, after all these warnings and urgings to repent, this one who claims to Follow Jesus, still won't let go of his sin. Jesus says that the church is to render a judgment, a verdict on this man's character, on his identity. It says there in verse 17. Let him be to you as a Gentile and a tax collector. In other words, in this Jewish audience that Matthew is addressing, that means treat him as an unbeliever No longer regard him as a brother in the Lord, but treat him like an unbeliever. And it's at this point After commanding the church to make and to render this judgment and to exclude this one from the church's fellowship Declaring that this individual is no longer to be regarded as a fellow believer, it's just at that point that Jesus invokes this metaphor that we saw in chapter 16 about the keys of the kingdom to bind and loose. Now he doesn't actually mention in Matthew 18, he doesn't use the phrase keys of the kingdom. But the function, the purpose of the keys to bind and loose, that's what he says there in verse 18. Truly I say to you, whoever, or I'm sorry, whatever Whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. But we actually see in this passage that the whatever is a whoever. This is a person we're talking about. This is a brother. At least a professing brother. Let him be to you as a Gentile and a tax collector. This is you binding on earth what's bound and loosing on earth what's loosed in heaven. So Matthew 18 here is an instance of the church excluding someone from its fellowship, right? They're saying we're not treating you anymore, we're not regarding you anymore as a believer, as a fellow brother. And they have, notice they have Christ's own authority and backing to do that, right? He says, truly, I'm saying to you. Verse 19, he says, again I say to you. In verse 20, he says, where two or three of you are gathered. Doesn't need to be a great big church, even two or three gather together. He says, I'm with you And this is an instance of the church excluding someone from its fellowship, regarding them now as an unbeliever, because his life is contradicting the confession that he's made that Jesus is his Lord. He's claiming to be with Jesus. But his life, multiple warnings to turn from serious sin, but refusing to do so, shows that he's not walking worthy of the name Jesus. He's not truly representing Jesus. And so in reliance upon God's word, and with Jesus' own authority, this local church declares that this professing brother is not truly to be one who represents. Heaven's kingdom or heaven's king. They have determined, in so much as they've been able to discern it, that he's guilty of identity theft. You are misrepresenting Jesus, and we need to call that out as such. Now, the church, this is why I said just a second ago, in so much as they've been able to discern The church may be wrong. We're not infallible. We don't search and know perfectly the human heart. We need great wisdom and care and attention to God's Word as we carry out this calling. God forbid that we should Kick out of the fellowship a bruised reed or a faintly burning wick who's clinging to Jesus but is struggling We need great wisdom in the exercise of this responsibility. But understand here that it is intended to be an act of love. Our culture has a hard time understanding it as love because our culture has adopted a view that the highest virtue in the world is that I get to define who I am and nobody really can call me out or tell me anything different. Our culture takes the words that are spoken of the very name of God, I am who I am, Yahweh, and basically takes those words for ourselves. I am who I am, and none can tell me contrary. But in this self-loving and self-defining and self-determining world that we live in, it is a somewhat audacious thing, but it actually is a loving thing to say. to someone who is acting, who says that they're a Christian, but is not acting like it, to say, after repeated warnings, you aren't what you say you are. But the authority to do that, to remove someone from its fellowship whose life contradicts his profession, to do that. It presupposes the authority to unite someone in accountable fellowship in the first place, someone who has confessed that Jesus is his Lord And I say accountable fellowship, because again, the church's exercise of authority in verse 18 Truly, I say to you all, whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven That authority implies that this brother, who's now unrepentant, at some point had made an agreement. He'd entered into some kind of an agreement with this group of Christians to follow Jesus together and to keep certain commitments. And this brother now had fallen short. He was abandoning those commitments. Are you tracking with me? You seem very seriously inquisitive. I hope I'm making sense. They must have entered into some kind of an agreement together to follow Christ in a shared way. Otherwise, it'd be really strange to bring a personal matter of sin to the church. Right? Like d like verse 17 really is kind of surprising if you think about it. Tell it to the church. Like what Why? This is not some public scandal that's hit all the social media outlets. This is a private thing. It starts as a very private thing. Why tell the church? What business is it of theirs? Well, it's not really not their business unless This church, this group of Christians, and this person, this man in this passage, brother, had bound themselves together in mutual submission to Jesus To agree about Jesus and to agree to oversee one another, to look out for each other, to care for each other. And now this one, as I said, was abandoning that commitment This is the work I hope you can see. Remember that wretched instance of identity theft And having your name misrepresented by somebody hacking your email address, let's say. This is the urgent work of church members To bind on earth what is bound in heaven and to loose on earth what has been loosed in heaven, to declare, to recognize what is a true confession of Jesus, the way Jesus said to Peter, when he said, You're the Christ, the Son of the living God, said, Praise God, amen. My Father revealed that to you. What is a true confession of Jesus? Who is your Jesus? Is he is he Jesus who uh was a good ethical teacher? But he's really wrong when anything that is said in the Bible contradicts the ways of our culture? Is that your Jesus? Is your Jesus the loving example to mankind so that if we would work hard to imitate him, we could be loved and accepted by him? Is that your Jesus? No, no, no, no, no. I believe Jesus is the Christ. He's the Messiah. He's the one who was sent to redeem, to rescue a people from sin He's the one who came, truly God and truly man, and he came from heaven to earth to live a perfect life, to that I that I haven't lived, and to to complete that perfect life by dying on the cross. And bearing the punishment that I deserve for my sins. And He's the one who's risen from the dead to show that He can give life and salvation to all who who trust in him and I have trusted in him. I've seen myself to be a sinner and I have trusted wholly in Jesus and in his name and in his righteousness. And it is now my longing in the spirit strength that he would give me. I want to serve and follow him. Oh that That's your Jesus? Praise God, that's my Jesus. Let's walk with Jesus together. Let's help each other to not fall short of our heavenly home. Let's keep on walking together. That's that's what It means to be a church actually. Like it's not just coming and hearing a sermon and singing songs and having some companionship. I love all of those, by the way. But this it's this relationship of affirmation and submission and accountability and care and encouragement as a group of Jesus followers agreeing together about who he is and how he's called us to live in submission to him, seeking to honor and represent the name of our King as we give ourselves to observing all that he has commanded That's the essence of what makes a church a church. This is Jesus' ordained way Of protecting his name from the wretched reproach that identity thieves bring to it That every one of his professing followers would self-consciously and publicly humble themselves And protect themselves from the dangers of hypocrisy and self-deception by saying to a group of Christians, that is a local church I'm here. And I want you to know I'm here and I belong to Jesus. And this is what I believe about Jesus That's why this church, when you pursue membership, we have a statement of faith. This is what we believe about Jesus and his gospel and the Bible and the Christian life Here's what I believe. And these are the commitments that I'm making in terms of how I will resolve to live in submission to him. We have a church covenant. We'll uh members read it aloud together in a little bit when our members meeting starts. Here are my commitments. I'm here. I believe what you believe. I want to follow Jesus and I want to be held accountable. So help me, oversee me, protect me, and I'm going to give myself to doing that for you as we journey on towards our heavenly home. This is not just about administrative mumbo jumbo. This is not administrative red tape. This is about helping each other get to heaven. That's not my line, actually. That's Omar Johnson, friend of this church I know, and of many of you. Omar Johnson, when he preached through the Gospel of Matthew a few years ago, his sermon on this passage was titled Helping Each Other to Heaven. It's not just about church politics. This is about helping each other attain to glory. Kids Want the kids to listen to me. I have a feeling some of your parents might be listening now too. But kids. Playing pretend. Do you do you do you ever enjoy prank playing pretend? Maybe even when you go to bed tonight after watching some of the Super Bowl, maybe you'll pretend that you were uh Not Patrick Mahomes. Some of the players that are playing in the game tonight. Do you enjoy playing Pretend? Maybe it's sports stars, maybe it's princes or princesses. It's fun to play Pretend. But it's not cool, kids. It's not cool when someone pretends to follow Jesus, but they're not really following Jesus Jesus loves his people. Kids, Jesus loves you. And he he died for all of us so that whoever would believe in him. Not whoever would become a church member, but whoever would believe in him would have eternal life. Like we sang earlier, it's finished on the cross. There's nothing that we have to do. There's nothing we can do to earn being loved and accepted by him. He did it all on the cross. And you can follow Jesus right now today. Even if you're not a church member I hope and pray that you will. I hope you'll see the love that Jesus has for you and that you'll want to follow him right now today. It's not just a grown-up thing to follow Jesus and to love Jesus. And as you as you grow, as you get older, uh your parents are the primary ones. Right now in this life, your your parents are the primary ones who are helping you. We're love that you're here. I would always love to Hear you ask me convers uh questions about the Bible or tell me about what you're reading or what you're thinking about the Bible or your faith in Jesus. But it's in your home where that's primarily getting worked out right now. As you get older And some of your parents who are listening really carefully are wanting me are really listening right now. When I say as you get older, I don't mean when you move out of the house and have a full-time job. But when you get older and you're experiencing some more independence, and when you think that you understand what I'm talking about with this membership thing, and you actually want that. And you believe, and then we as a church believe that you have the ability to actually do these things that we're talking about, then it would be our greatest joy to have you stand before the church. And tell Jesus, uh tell the church that you love Jesus and you want to follow Jesus and that you want to be accountable for that. And then we would baptize you and we would devote ourselves as a church to teaching you to obey everything that Jesus has commanded. That's something wonderful for you to look forward to. And again, I know that myself and the other pastors here, we'd love to talk with you if you have questions about what that means for you to follow Jesus right now. We would love to talk about that with you. We're so glad that you're here. And we want you to love and trust and follow Jesus. Beloved, there's a whole lot more. That's the closed parenthesis to the kids. There's a whole lot more that we could say from other parts of the Bible about The plan and the vision. We have a it was in the call to worship this battle. We're being built up as a spiritual house. You see this back in the Garden of Eden. There was an in and there was an out. There was in the Garden of Eden and then there was exclusion from the Garden of Eden There was in the Ark and there was outside the Ark in the days of Noah. God gave his people Israel, his law and the covenant of circumcision, so that it would be clearly marked off. These are my people, these are not my people. This is this is not just some niche passage in Matthew 18 that you know Mark Dever got a hold of a few years ago and made a big deal about it. This is a whole storyline of the Bible thing that God has a concern for his temple, for his holy dwelling place, and for the people who would bear his name being known and recognized as his holy people So that our witness to the world could be protected. Again, this is what makes a church a church. It is the urgent work of church members. And I'm wondering if you, most of the people here, you are members of Chevrolet Baptist Church. So maybe you didn't feel like you needed that whole thing. Because you got it, you're a member of the church. But this is important as people come and they're like, what's the membership stuff that people are talking about? I hope that they don't just have to come to me to hear what all the membership stuff is, that you could share with them and that's why I've belabored in this passage to help you understand from God's Word what it is that we're doing and why. But I want you members to recognize That the purity and the holiness, as Jesus would describe it in Matthew 5, the saltiness of this church It's not only my responsibility, it's not only the pastor's responsibility, but it's actually the responsibility of every single member of this church to Uh help us to do your part to ensure that we are walking together in a holy way and that we are weeding out sin and not committing identity theft against the Lord Jesus. Now, what does it actually mean to do that? Five commitments. I'll be brief Each of these, boy, I want to say a lot more about all five of these things than I'm going to, so it's worth more when I send out discussion and reflection questions later. There'll be some particular ways to press in and consider these. But just very briefly and broadly, five commate. What does it look like for you to get to work? I convince you that maybe hopefully you could see the church membership, even though that word isn't used, that phrase isn't used in the Bible. It's a thing that Jesus envisions. What does it actually look like to engage in that work? I have five commitments, five aspects of that job description sketch. First uh show up to church. Come to church. And don't just come to church, but come with a particular focus on who you might encourage and how you might encourage others. And I'm taking that from Hebrews chapter 10, the classic come to church passage. Let us consider how to stir up one another to love and good works Not neglecting to meet together, as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another, and all the more as you see the day drawing near. And the the context of that passage is an urgent one. It's about the danger of drifting and falling away from the Lord and the way that we're to hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering. And then the writer says, and consider how to stir up one another to love and good works, and don't neglect gathering together, but encourage one another. So job description part number one is gather thoughtfully, consistently, regularly to Be an encouragement to others. Yes, we are worshiping the Lord, but this is a way that God means for us to be helping each other to hold fast to our hope in Jesus. Secondly, study, give yourself to personal, individual study of God's Word Especially the word of the gospel and the person of Christ Himself, so that you are able to faithfully encourage and admonish and protect and build up your brothers and sisters here in Christ. If you are not taking any pains, if you're not making any effort, and I understand that the at we we're all at different seasons of life and we have different educational levels and we're not all going to do this the same way But if you are not growing in your own understanding of God's word, how will you do this work of guarding and protecting and speaking and encouraging if you have no idea what to say or what God's word says That's true personally in our relationships, and it's true in your protecting the work of this church. Uh I have happen to think, I'm no historian, but I think Caleb Morrell, who's a pastor at Capitol Hill Baptist Church, might back up this statement. And now you may have heard this before, but bear with the repetition. I'm not sure that this gathering exists. I'm not sure that Chevrolet Baptist Church exists. If it was not for the faithfulness of a member named Agnes Schenkel at a members meeting on June 14, 1944, at what is now called the Capitol Hill Baptist Church, because that woman Agnes Schenkel in a members meeting after the deacons of the church had prep had recommended to the church a uh a pastoral candidate who was known, by some at least, by Agnes Schenkel, to be a compromiser, someone who was not firm on the authority and inerrancy of Scripture And she stood up in the members' meeting and flagged that and said, I hear, I have understanding that this man has liberal tendencies in his regard for the Word of God. And a couple of other members then piped up and they said, Yeah, I we've heard this too. And they ended up high calling a different pastor. And if they had called that one pastor, again, I'm no historian, but it's quite possible that Th what is now called the Capitol Hill Baptist Church is like so many liberal churches in the district, uh maybe with the name church on a building but waving a pride flag out front. But praise God for a member who knew her Bible and had a pulse on what was going on and said, I think this is wrong. That happened through the work of church members. A woman who knew her Bible and was not afraid to say it in a members' meeting. That leads to a third priority. Okay, so uh show up for church, gather with the church for worship, study God's word, prioritize, attend regularly the members' meetings of this church. This is not small work that we're going to do later. When we when we vote in, when we present to you someone as a as a candidate for membership And you give, and we say we do a little bit, we say a couple things, and we ask if there's any questions, and you say, you give your affirmation, I. Or if you are duty-bound in your conscience to say, nay, what we're not, this is not, these are not small things. If you think the difference between a Kamala Harris and Donald Trump is a big thing, how about a big thing is the difference between being recognized as a citizen of God's kingdom and being recognized as one who's not. These are big weighty matters that we're dealing with and they require your attentiveness. That's why, frankly, I'm a little convicted and I want to do better of ensuring that you get members meeting packets sooner than you've been getting them. I'm not saying that's a rebuke of any previous leadership. I'm just personally convicted. These matters are such consequence you should know about them a little bit more than just showing up and being put on the spot to Give your I or your nay to such significant matters. So I want to help us make sure that you're prepared for those member meetings because they are significant. Fourth, pray regularly for all the members of the church How do you actually work for the we we there are right now, if I'm not mistaken, 102 members of Chevrolet Baptist Church. Lord's willing, the end of the day, we may be voting in two more members Let's just say right now 102, how do you how do you get to work meaningfully for a hundred and two people Well, start with praying regularly for every member of this church by name. That is why, that's the main reason why we have a member directory. It's not primarily an administrative tool, though it is helpful for that. It is a spiritual tool to help you pray for your brothers and sisters and to be reminded even as you see those pictures. I I know what you all look like, but when I see your faces In that directory, as I'm praying for you, move with fresh affection for you. Pray regularly for every member of this church. And as you gather, as you see each other at these gatherings, or if you want to send an email or a text message, not to say, hey, I think you've been hacked, but actually to just say, I'm praying for you. And here's a verse, or here's something that was on my heart as I prayed That's a part of the work, an urgent part of the work that he's given us to do. Fifth, last pursue relationships with other members of the church in which you're seeking to build each other up Even when that building each other up is the hard work of admonishing one another or correcting sin. That is the context we have in Matthew 18, is of one lovingly going to another and saying, hey, this is sin and you need to deal with this. Work to pursue relationships at Chevrolet Baptist Church where you are giving and receiving that kind of care and encouragement and counsel and even admonishment when you need it. We want to give thought especially to those members that are newer members. We want to make sure that they are folded into these kinds of relationships. It can look like all kinds of things. It could look like Uh uh sorry to put you on the spot again, Susan, but it could look like a desire. I want to read this book. I'm gonna just send an email out to the ladies to see if anybody else wants to read this book with me and commit to gathering on Monday nights for an hour to read some of uh Jeremiah Burroughs' rare jewel of Christian contentment, talk about it, pray about it, confess sins. Wonderful. I know of another group of guys in this church that wanted to do a study of they're reading David Pallison's Good and Angry. And they're just reading through it, talking about it, processing it together. walks, play dates, uh morning fellowships to ask pointed questions about whether your eyes have been roaming in inappropriate places There's all kinds of wonderful ways that you're already involved in that, and I'm just saying that's an important part of your work. There's no way that we can be well knit into the lives of a hundred plus people, but we can each do our part Each member of this church, with 102 members, it's literally the case that each member of the church has around 1% of the responsibility For the other members of this church to ensure, to work, to see that those members are cared for and encouraged and walking in a holy way, faithfully representing Jesus. That may feel like a small part. 1%? Boy, here all you're saying is I'm 1%? Well, that's just it may feel like a small part, but it's It's a big part. It's a small part that feels like a big part. Because if every part was as committed to their part as you are to yours, how healthy and holy would Chevly Baptist Church be Are you available to do your part in ensuring, as Hebrews 12, 15 says, that we would see to it that none would fall short of the grace of God But that we would make it to that heavenly homeland. Well Since I mentioned Mark Dever already, I'm reminded of his famous words. We should conclude. And I'm gonna do it in a mark I didn't intend this, but it's I'm gonna mention uh an old figure from church history. In 1647, John Owen, one of the esteemed as maybe perhaps the greatest British theologian Uh John Owen published a book in 1647, which is today titled, I brought one up with me here. It's a short little book. John Owen was prolific and he wrote some deep stuff, but this is a little thin book. It's called, today it's called The Duties of Christian Fellowship It sounds pretty plain. Unremarkable. If I handed this up at the prayer service, hey, anybody want the duties of Christian fellowship? It's like, uh no thanks. His original title for the book was not plain. Here's what it was. And I will explain. It was Eshkel, a cluster of the fruit of Canaan, brought to the borders for the encouragement of the saints traveling to the land with their faces toward Zion Or, you see, you thought I was wordy, or rules of direction for the walking of the saints in fellowship according to the order of the gospel And the reference there to Eshkol is a reference to Numbers chapter 13, where the spies are sent to explore and investigate the promised land and then bring a report back to the camp. And it says that the spies came to the valley of Eshkol and cut down from there a branch with a single cluster of grapes, and they carried it on a pole between the two of them. They also brought some pomegranates and figs, and that place was called the Valley of Eshkol because of the cluster. The word Eshkol, the Hebrew word eshkol is the word for cluster. The place was called the Valley of Eshkol because of the cluster that the people of Israel cut down from there. Now do you understand what's going on? What John Owen is thinking when he titles his book that. Eshgol was like a a sneak preview of life in the Promised Land, the place where God gave his assembled people their first taste. of the sweet fruits of Canaan, that promised land. A taste that was intended to spur them on in their journey till one day they enjoyed their inheritance in full. And so Owen titles his book that to make the point that the local church is like Eshkol. It's here, it's in the local church that we are intended to have a preview of the heavenly promised land, the sweet And satisfying fellowship that will be our eternal inheritance that day. We're just supposed to know the first fruits of it right now and here in our midst It's a reminder to us that what we experience as a local church is a foretaste of the joy that the saints will have in one another and ultimately in the Lord for eternal joy. Life. So, brothers and sisters of Chevrolet Baptist Church Let's not regard the work of church members as a small thing or a light thing to walk together affectionately and accountably as a local church This is intended for us to be an appetizer of heaven As we preserve and promote the reputation of Jesus here so that this place would feel for each other and for those who would yet join us so that this place would feel like a little taste of heaven. May each of us humbly and faithfully and eagerly and diligently engage in this urgent work in view of that awesome privilege. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you. For the it is an awesome privilege to walk together. Not just to kick someone out of the church if we need to. But to help each other to keep on pursuing the holy way as we seek to journey on towards that promised land together. We pray that you would help us to carry out our responsibilities and our commitments faithfully, not as a way of attaining righteousness with you. But as a way of expressing the love that we have for you, which is rooted in the enjoyment of your love to us in Christ And we pray that if there's any here who are unsure about this commitment of membership, that you would Help them to have wisdom as they discern your will for their lives. Again, we pray that you would help us to so honor you and to so love each other that Chevroly Baptist Church would increasingly feel like a little taste of heaven here on earth. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.