Good morning. Good to be with you. New year, new pastorate, uh, new resolve to track how long I'm preaching. Okay, so let me just get this started. So that you know I am attentive to such things. It's wonderful to be with you. I love you all. It's amazing what love God has given in such a short time. It's a pleasure to be with you. Let's pray and ask for the Lord's help as we come to the Word. Heavenly Father, we do we we pray what we just did pray in song. We come back to it. We pray that this would be the sincere longing of our hearts, that we would have our minds renewed, that you would help us to grasp the heights of your plans for us. We pray that your unchanged truths would echo down through eternity. Father, we resolve with the help of your spirit to stand on your promises. And to walk by faith as you walk with us, Father, we pray that you would speak this morning till your church is built and the earth is filled with your glory. That is what we long for. And so we need your help, your grace to supply it. It is the Spirit who gives life. The flesh is no help at all So meet us now by your spirit and speak for your glory and for our good. We ask this all in Jesus' name. Amen. Sometimes hello is more than just hello. Sometimes a very simple greeting can pack a lot of weight and significance to it. So last March, March 15th, I received a text message from someone that I'd never met before. It was a it was a a a hello. And this is what that greeting said. Quote, hey Larry, this is Jonathan Lehman. Any chance you'd be interested in a phone call today after 3 p. m. about pastoring a 100-plus member Baptist church without a building outside of Washington, D. C. , in hard-hearted, tough soil Maryland? That was the message. That was the greeting. And it it told me something. It was a hello, but it told me something about the sender of that message. He's not one to mince words. He's a straight shooter. It showed me that little simple 30-some word greeting. It showed me something about the sender's values and priorities and character, just in a simple hello. And we're going to see this morning as we open up God's Word together a similar dynamic where a very short greeting. Tells us a whole lot about the person who is sending this greeting and his values and his character and his priorities. I do invite you to turn in your Bibles to the book of Ephesians If you are going to use one of the Bibles that's provided for you, you can find Ephesians on page, I believe it's 976. Uh if you happen to be with us and you don't own a Bible, we'd be delighted if you would take that Bible with you as a gift from us. We'd love to help you learn about what the Bible says and its message to us and how it all centers on Jesus Christ. Would love to help you get acclimated in Bible reading if that's new to you. So we're looking at Ephesians this morning, where we have a hello from the Apostle Paul. It is a holy hello. It packs a lot of spiritual weight telling us about the writer of this letter and how he regards the recipients of the letter and what we can expect to find in this letter. As we give ourselves to studying it over the next several months together, Lord willing. In Ephesians, Paul casts a vision for God's people. There's a temptation in the heart and mind of a new pastor to want to come and in the beginning and the first sermons that he would preach to cast vision for you. Uh this is this is where we're going, church. This is how we're going to do it, this is what we're going to do. And as I thought about starting my pastorate here I didn't really want to go down that road. I just simply wanted to present to you God's vision for his people, God's vision and plan for all of history and for the entire created cosmos which reaches its apex in the person of Jesus Christ. Jesus was raised from the dead and he was exalted to the right hand of our God with all power and authority. Paul says at the beginning of this letter, this is in verse 9 of chapter 1. That God has made known to us the mystery of His will according to His purpose, which He set forth in Christ as a plan for the fullness of time. to unite all things in him, things in heaven and things on earth. And we'll get to those verses, Lord willing, in a few weeks, but the bottom line is God's doing something really, really big in the world. Like uniting all things. And if we thought maybe he's exaggerating, though he doubles down things in heaven and things on earth. He is uniting the whole cosmos in a symphony of praise and renown to the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ. And we, the people of Christ, have an integral part to play in the outworking of that plan. Because that same power that raised the Lord Jesus up from the dead is now at work around the world in all nations, raising people like you and me from spiritual deadness. And uniting us to the risen Christ, making us alive in Him so that we become a new people A new humanity who live as a display to the watching world and even the heavenly hosts of the power and wisdom of our God in being able to renew all things And we live that out in our life together. We live that out by the unity that we know as brothers and sisters in Christ, by the way that we love each other. By the way that we relate to each other in our homes, as husbands and wives relate to each other, in the way that we raise our children, and the way that we engage in the workplace as employers and employees, and in the way that we face our spiritual conflicts with the forces of evil in this world, the way that we aspire to and pursue conformity to the likeness of our Jesus. That's the vision that Paul drives home to us in the book of Ephesians, that Jesus Christ is raised in triumph. That he is ruling over all evil powers and that he is protecting his church as we advance his name and renown in all this world. The book of Ephesians teaches us, we as the people of Christ, we are not on defense. We are on offense The gates of hell will not prevail against Christ's church. The book of Ephesians teaches us we are not an impoverished people, we are a rich people in him. We're not alone in this world, but we are empowered and filled with his own spirit. We're not irrelevant. We're not on the wrong side of history. We are the treasure chest of God's saving grace. We may be marginalized in this world. But we are the body through whom Christ is making known the manifold wisdom of God to the rulers and authorities in the heavenly places. That's the vision that Paul wants to impart to this little body of Christ in this pagan city of Ephesus. to lay hold of. And it is still so even in this unremarkable elementary school gym where we may find ourselves, with the snowmans on the side No snowflakes this this week above us. Even in this unremarkable meeting space that we happen to be inhabiting. We, when we gather together in Christ's name, we transform this building. God, in his grace, transforms this little humble meeting place into a very embassy of heaven and the dwelling place of God. by the unsearchable riches of his grace and kindness to us in Jesus. And all I love, amen to your amens. Brian said that two weeks ago Praise God. Let's go. One thing about me is when I get excited, I get loud. I will try to subdue myself at times, but I do get loud at times too. That's alright. Okay, praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. All this wondrous glory starts in this very simple, but I would say spectacular Hello, this holy hello that we have in Ephesians 1, verses 1 through 2. You've had plenty of time to get there by now Hear God's word this morning to us, Ephesians chapter one, verses one and two Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, to the saints who are in Ephesus and are faithful in Christ Jesus Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. This is God's word, brothers and sisters. Thanks be to God. Thanks be to God indeed. I think the aim or goal, the end point that the Holy Spirit has for us today in bringing these two verses to us. Is for us to grasp who it is that is addressing us in this letter and who we are because of what God has done for us in Christ. I think that's where the Holy I think what the Holy Spirit is wanting to do in our lives as we look at these two verses today. He's wanting us, he's wanting you, Christian, to grasp who it is that's addressing us as we open up this letter and as we give ourselves to studying it in the months to come. And he wants us to grasp who we are because of what God has done for us in Christ. To help us think about that a little more, want us to observe from this passage. First, I just want us to note and observe something about the author of this letter. That is, who it is that's addressing us. I want us to note the recipients of this letter. That's going to help us to see who we are. And then I want us to observe briefly the blessing that is pronounced upon those people. That's going to remind us of what God has done. for his people in Christ. So author of the letter, recipients of the letter, blessing pronounced upon them. Kids. If you want to track, sometimes I'm loud, sometimes I use big fancy words, but if you want to pay attention to something in this sermon, you could just count how many times you hear me say the word Christ. You can just take notes and count how many times you hear me. I would love it after the service if you came and told me how many times you heard me say the word Christ. That's number one. I mean I've said it before, but starting now, okay. So we're told right from the start who it is that's addressing us as we open this letter, as we open the book of Ephesians. Paul, verse 1 says, Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God. That's who's addressing us And there's two things that I think we observe that we should think about for a few minutes together from just that statement. We see, first of all, who is it that's addressing us? This is a man who speaks with authority, and this is a man who is a walking miracle. He's he speaks with authority because he tells us clearly he is an apostle. He is someone who has been specially chosen and called and sent. That's what that word apostle comes from. The Greek word meaning to send or to be sent. He's a sent one to teach with authority. Jesus had taken to himself twelve disciples, and he had endowed them with his very own authority. to declare his words and his will to the ends of the earth. And Paul is saying here in this introduction, hey, I'm Paul, an apostle of Christ He is saying that he's among that number, one who has been appointed by the risen Lord Jesus Himself. That's why he says he is an apostle of Christ Jesus. He has been chosen and commissioned and sent by the Lord Jesus. He is one who is ruled and owned by Christ. He's not his own. He's an apostle of Christ. Not his own, but he belongs to Christ and he has been authorized by the Lord Jesus. to receive from Jesus and then herald on behalf of Jesus his words. And so these words as we as okay I'm quiet now. As we open up, as we open up the book of Ephesians We are not reading words of just any man or any woman. It is the risen Christ Himself Who is addressing us through his authorized spokesperson when we take up this letter and when we read its contents? That's a big deal. That's true of all of Scripture. I mean, all Scripture is God-breathed, we understand. I'm not saying that's unique to the book of Ephesians in the Bible. But it's good for us to be reminded when we pick up this book, we are reading God's very own word. This church has a habit, a practice. I think it's a good practice, but it's one of those practices that become co it can become cold and mechanical, and we ought to labor with the Spirit's help to not let that be, is because after a scripture is read, we say, this is God's word. And you say, thanks be to God, and that's a good thing to do. Let us be careful to not let it become a cold and mechanical thing that we don't even think about When we open up the book of Ephesians, we are hearing the words of the risen Christ. I was reading in Matthew's gospel earlier this week. About the transfiguration. Somebody mentioned the transfiguration, I think, in the Sunday school hour, if I'm not mistaken. I was reading about the transfiguration in Matthew 17. And the way that Jesus' face shone like the sun, and it's and that voice came from the heavens. This is my beloved son, with whom I am well pleased. Listen to him. And it says there in the moment that those apostles who were on the mountain with the Lord Jesus, they fell down on their faces and they were terrified. And it's that Christ who is addressing us when we open up Ephesians. This is Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus We ought to tremble when we open up this word from the risen Christ. Paul's an apostle of Christ Jesus And he also emphasizes in these opening words, in this hello, that he has received this calling Not through his own initiative or merit or doing, but it is by the will of God. You see that there in your Bibles. Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus, by the will of God. That's not a throwaway statement. That puts Paul's apostleship in the atmosphere of God's grace. This man, Paul, is a walking miracle. Because if Paul had been left to his own will, he would have just continued on in his murderous rage against the Lord and against his Christ. We're going to sing a song after the Lord's Supper about a man about running a hell-bound race. As I ran my hell-bound race, indifferent to the cost. Here's a man who was running a hellbound race. And he never got tired in his letters, in his ministry, as he would go, he never got tired of telling people about this story So he wrote to the Galatians in chapter 1 of Galatians, he said, You've heard of my former life in Judaism, how I persecuted the church of God violently. and tried to destroy it. When Paul stood before King Agrippa, this is recorded in Acts chapter 26, When he stood before King Agrippa, he said, I myself was convinced, this is Acts 26. 9, I myself was convinced that I ought to do many things in opposing the name of Jesus of Nazareth. And I did so in Jerusalem. I not only locked up many of the saints in prison after receiving authority from the chief priests But when they were put to death, I cast my vote against them, and I punished them often in all the synagogues, and tried to make them blaspheming, and in raging fury against them I persecuted them even to foreign cities. This man, Paul, was on a Christ-hating mission to terrorize the churches. But then something amazing happened to him. And that's something we call grace. Because he would go on to tell the Galatians: But when he who had set me apart before I was born. and who called me by his grace, that is, by the will of God. When he was pleased to reveal his son to me in order that I might preach him among the Gentiles. When he was hating the church, when he was hating Christ, when he was in raging fury against the church, trying to kill the church, God had set his eternal favor and love upon Paul and said, This will be my chosen instrument to bring the gospel to the nations. And the greatest enemy and hater that the church has ever known became its greatest missionary. Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus, by the will of God. That is Paul's way of giving praise for the grace that caused a terrorist to be transformed into an apostle. And so every time we pick up this letter, we're reminded of what an awesome power grace is. And of what the Lord can do with the hardest, most stubborn, obstinate soul. Is that not what he's done for you and me, beloved? As I've been here getting acclimated to CBC, I've been having a number of meetings with you, and I'm eager to hear. Every time I'm sitting with you, I want to know how did you come to know the Lord? And it's been wonderful to hear the stories and there's there's variation in those stories. Everybody has their own story of how that happened, but really If you're here and you've come to know the Lord, there is something that we can all say, no matter how different our experiences have been, it's God who did it. We know the Lord because God did it. It is by the will of God, Sarah. It is by the will of God, Nate and Akeel. It is by the will of God that you have become, not apostles, but that you have become saints. In Christ Jesus. Not our own doing. Not anything we could contribute or earn or merit from Him. By His grace, we have become united with Jesus. We are the recipients of His grace. And we're reminded of that every time we open up Ephesians and hear Paul say, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, wow, is grace amazing. I think that gives us hopefulness too about our mission and what we do and what the Lord might yet be pleased to do, even here in hard-hearted, tough soil, Maryland. It's not I I I I was gonna pray for it this morning, and it's gonna be something we pray for regularly. It's something you already pray for, that the that God would be pleased to give us conversions through our evangelism. I didn't pray for it this morning. Okay, we're going to pray for it, and we are praying for it. But let us be reminded right here that hard hearts and tough soil, that's all God has to work with. That's all we are in Maryland and everywhere else. I'm sure there are distinctly Maryland-ish tough soil spots The human heart is a human heart. But if he can do it for Paul, if he can change Paul, it's what he has promised to do in the new covenant, which we're going to celebrate when we take the Lord's Supper together. He he what he's promised to do is take out a heart of stone and put in a heart of flesh. And if he did that for Paul, and if he's done that for you and me, then surely he can do that with he can raise the dead and consecrate guilty dead, vile worms, rebels to his will. He can consecrate them and make them his own, even in Chevrolet, and in Bladensburg, and in Bowie, and in Laurel, and in College Park. He can do that because that's what he does. That's who he is. And all that's there for us in Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus, by the will of God. This man's God, who is our God, he raises the dead. And that conviction, that confidence, is only reinforced as we consider the recipients of this letter Paul, okay, back to the passage, Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, to the saints who are in Ephesus and are faithful in Christ Jesus. I think it'd be very appropriate to call Ephesus hard soil. Ephesus was a place. It was a culture. Where that was really able to tolerate just about anything other than the exclusive claims of Christ and those who were upholding those exclusive claims. The forces of spiritual darkness were very real forces in Ephesus. A big hub of the whole city was the temple and the statue of the goddess Artemis or Diana. Huge temple. It was a tourist attraction. And it was it was regarded as one of the seven wonders of the ancient world. The occult was rampant in Ephesus And the worship of Artemis was, I mean, you can imagine all kinds of lewdness and immorality and debauchery that characterize the worship of this false God. We get a sense of how vehement and hostile this city was to the claims of Christ by the the riot that we see. If you go in your Bibles this week and you read at the end of Acts 19 You see that when Paul showed up there and started preaching the gospel there, it was a whole riot in this city. They wanted to tear Paul apart, literally, just as he was trying to once ravaged the church. Now they were trying to ravage him and destroy him because their worship of Artemis was being disrupted. They hated the claims of Christ. But again, here we have all praise to the God of grace. Here we have in Ephesus, in hard-hearted, tough soil Ephesus, we have saints inhabiting that godless city We have faithful ones in Christ Jesus, in the city of Ephesus. God has made saints for himself, even in vile, perverse Ephesus And it is important that we understand this word saint. It's a favorite word that Paul uses. You've heard me say it a few times already in this service. This is a very frequent way that Paul addresses Christians. He uses it nine times in this letter. And I want to make sure that we understand what that means, because it has been misrepresented, particularly by the Roman Catholic Church. In the Roman Catholic conception, a saint is a a special elite class of Christian who's noted after the time of their death, who's noted for doing many wonderful things. At least one miracle needed to be performed by them. And they are then canonized by the church as a saint. That is not at all the way the Word of God uses the word saint. The word saint in the Bible Means one who has been called by God out of their sin to trust in the Lord Jesus, one who has been made holy. That word saint has to do, it's the same word as the our word holy. And it means one who has been set apart for God, one who has been possessed by God, one who has been consecrated and devoted to the service of God, set apart not just from sin, but set apart for God. And that is not something that we earn or attain to by ourselves or our own virtue. That is a status That we receive because of the eternal gracious choice of God in eternity past, because of the work, the gracious sacrifice of Christ. And applied to us when we graciously were sealed with the Holy Spirit. The whole Trinity was involved in making this dirty, defiled people into the saints of the Most High. So next week, Lord willing, we'll move on to verses 3 and 4, and we'll see that God chose us. If your Bibles are open, you can see this. God chose us in Him, in Christ, before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy. That word there, holy, is the very same same word translated saint in verse 1. He chose a people before the foundation of the world. What did you contribute to your becoming a saint? Nothing, he chose you before the world existed, that we should be holy. And then in the course of time, we're told in chapter 5 that Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her that he might sanctify her. That's a verb, same word, holy, that he might, we don't have the word holify. That sounds awkward, but that's what he's saying here, that he might make a holy people, that he might Sanctify for himself a bride, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word. It's not something we did or do, it's something he did And then in the course of time, when that word of Jesus and his self-giving love came to us, it says in Ephesians 1:13, when you heard the word of truth, that good news, that gospel of your salvation, and believed in him. You were sealed with the promised Holy Spirit. The Father and the Son and the Spirit who has made a holy people. When we receive Christ, We are consecrated to him as his holy people for his holy purposes. And out of that new status that we have received as a gift, we begin to endeavor to put holiness on in our daily lives. And so we're going to see in the second half of Ephesians, Paul speaks of how we are to put off the old self with its practices and to put on the new self. Created after the likeness of God in true righteousness and holiness. So let's understand that about is not an arrogant thing when you think of yourself. I mean it could be, okay, it could be, but You're a saint. Saints? If you've trusted in Christ, you are sitting here today. I don't know what your week looked like. I don't know what your week is about to look like. But if you're trusting in Jesus, leaning upon Jesus, resting in Jesus, you are a saint. That's not arrogant, that's not presumptuous. That's you believing what God says to be true of you Sometimes we say, well, I'm no saint. Well, if you're trusting in Jesus, you are. If you're here this morning and you're not trusting in Jesus, You don't maybe understand yourself to be a Christian or a follower of Jesus. You might think, well, I'm no saint. Well, that is true in the sense that you Just like all of us have lived in rebellion. You've ran a hell-bound race against the Lord. You were living in disregard of God. Maybe you are currently coming in here today living really in disregard of God. Indifferent to him. That's sinful. That's evil. That's rebellion. And you deserve to be punished because of that But God, in His kindness and love, sent Jesus to bear the punishment for all sins, of all sinners who would turn from their sin and trust in the goodness and kindness and mercy of Jesus. And if you would turn from your sin today, right now, you could know what it means to be a holy one, a saint, set apart for God and his holy purposes. If you want to know more about what that would mean for you to trust Christ today, be glad to talk with you after the service. I say this often to my former church in New Jersey. I will not yell at you like this. If you want to come talk to me after the service, I will speak in a very civil, calm. Welcoming tone of voice. But you can come and trust Jesus and become a saint even today. Christian brothers and sisters, do you know yourselves to be saints? Who are you? That's an important question we should all think about from this passage. Who are you? Like at the core. What is the most formative reality that shapes how you view yourself, your identity I see some of you today wearing some some commander merch. It's good. God here, all of a sudden the commanders are good. Look at that. That's cool. And we we we like to, and I I know this from experience, we like to rock the gear of our team because it's a way of saying I'm I'm a part of them. Their success in some way, it's I'm I'm attached to that. It can be very powerful. I've seen that in my own life. I've I I have to chill out on sports a little bit because I can get too attached to my favorite sports team. I'm not gonna tell you who that is. I think you already know. I think you already know who that is. Uh be great if they're playing the commanders next week Or two weeks. But we can take something like a sports team and make that the defining reality of our identity. We could take something like our marital status, or whether we have kids, or how well our kids obey, or our physical health, or our appearance or our career, whether our career is going well or whether it's it's not going well, our social media presence, the amount of money that we have. car that we drive, the house that we have, our political affiliation, and how our political party is doing well or not doing well, our ethnic or cultural identity. We can attach ultimate significance. I'm not saying any of those things are necessarily insignificant, but we can attach ultimate significance to those things But the Word of God wants you to know that if you're a Christian, if you've trusted in Jesus, what ultimately defines who you are, the most important thing that you can attach to your identity is I'm a saint. I'm a saint of the most high God. I'm a holy one. Not because of my works. Again, not that this makes us all uppity about ourselves. I'm a saint. I'm a holy one before a holy God because of his unfailing and eternal kindness to me in Jesus. That's the defining reality of who we are. I'm sure many of you, I I was watching the inauguration uh this past Monday. And it's so I mean again whatever your particular thoughts are about our new president, you can and this was exactly true four years ago with a different president who was inaugurated, you can see by the whole proceedings This is a solemn and dignified and weighty thing. Even, I think we might even use a there's a glory to it in some way. But I thought as I was as I was looking at all the coverage of that, I thought about this kind of obscure verse in the book of Daniel It says in at the end of Daniel 7, it says, and the kingdom and the dominion and the greatness of the kingdoms under the whole heaven. Think about all the proceedings and festivities for one man becoming the president of one nation. Daniel 7 says: The kingdom and the dominion and the greatness of the kingdoms under the whole heaven shall be given to the people. of the saints of the Most High. That's our position in God's gracious kindness. So there is no need to run around Christians frantically pursuing significance or status in anything, whether it be a sports team or something a little bit more than that There's no reason to be running around searching for significance and a status. We have obtained, by God's grace, a status that is incomprehensible to be saints of the Most High God. And Paul wants us to know that. He wants us to grasp that. Even in Ephesus, these brothers and sisters, they were saints. Living in Ephesus was hard. Those people that had a riot, they they rioted against Paul, they drove him out of town, they were still there hating the way of Christ when the Christians in Ephesus started gathering in Jesus' name. They understood, I imagine, what it's like to be unpopular, to be a minority, and have minority views on uh things like marriage or things like uh the sanctity of human life or our understanding of gender and male and female. These people understood what it was like to be a persecuted minority. They were unpopular. They experienced opposition and temptations and tribulations But they were being reminded by Paul, even in Ephesus, even in this godless city that you live in, remember you are saints. You are set apart for Christ even in this guilty and corrupted world. Now, how do we, how do we get on and live in a world that is so against Christ? How do we keep on persevering in love and fidelity to Christ? Well, we've got a whole series of sermons to answer that question. But for today, let's just look ever so briefly at this word of blessing, which gives us a pointer that I think is meant to inform us the whole rest of the way through this letter. Paul says to the saints who are in Ephesus and are faithful in Christ Jesus, he says there in verse 2: Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. How are we gonna live? How are we gonna stand for Christ in a world that is against Christ? Grace to you, Saints, at Bladensburg Elementary School. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Grace, the undeserved favor of God Bringing us into peace with God. By this pronouncement of grace and peace I think Paul is setting us up to understand that everything he's about to say to us in the rest of the letter is intended to help us take us deeper and deeper into grace. And enjoy that grace and experience that grace and that peace more and more and more. When he says at the very beginning, grace to you. And if you are familiar with Paul's letters, he says this in every one of his letters. He starts every one of his letters with grace and peace. I think there's one where he includes mercy in there as well, but every letter from Paul, grace and peace to you. I think what he means for us to understand is that everything about to come to you, everything I'm about to say, that's true of chapters 1 through 3, which lift up all the glories of what God has done for us in Christ. That's all going to be grace to you. And chapters 4 through 6, where Paul's going to talk to us about the implications of what it means to live worthily of that gracious calling. All of it is grace. The promises and all the reminders of what he has done, and even the way he calls us to walk in newness of life. That's all grace because Jesus' rule is a rule of love. All the commands, grace. All the promises, grace. And He will equip us With everything good that we might do his will, working in us that which is pleasing in his sight through Jesus. Grace to you And peace to you will come. This is what we should pray for, brothers and sisters. This is what we should expect as we open up God's word, week after week after week, in the book of Ephesians: more of that grace. More enjoyment of that peace that we all might be filled with all the fullness of God. Someone who experienced that grace In the book of Ephesians, there's a man named John McKay. I don't know if any of you know that name. John McKay became the president of Princeton Theological Seminary, when that was actually meaning something. And when when John McKay was a 14-year-old boy in 1903, maybe there's some 14-year-old, you wouldn't want to be called boy, but maybe there's some 14-year-old young men in here today. When he was 14, he wandered out into the hills of the highlands of Scotland with his Bible in his hand, and he read through the book of Ephesians. And at 14 years old, it was a life-changing experience for him. So kids, you may be listening, maybe you're like, well, I'm not 14 yet. You don't have to be 14. You don't have to be twelve. You could be twelve, you could be eight, you could be seven. If you're hearing me and you can read. Understand, kids, that you don't need to wait until college or until you move out of the house to get serious about your relationship with Jesus and to experience and enjoy God's grace to you, kids. John McKay was 14. And he read the book of Ephesians, and he said, he said, God captured his heart with what he called a boyish rapture. It it kindled a fire in his heart and made this young man give his life as a wholehearted commitment to Christ. That night, right there among the rocks and the hills and the starlit sky, he gave himself to Jesus reading through the book of Ephesians. So what did he see when he read that he tells us about his experience? He says, I saw a new world. Everything was new, he said. I had a new outlook, new experiences, new attitudes towards other people. I loved God. Jesus Christ became the center of everything. I had been quickened. I was really alive. We call that conversion or being born again. And that joy that John McKay experienced as a 14-year-old in the book of Ephesians, it just stayed with him throughout his life Forty-five years later, he was invited to give lectures at the University of Edinburgh, and he chose to lecture on the book of Ephesians. And he said in those addresses, again, 45 years after God met him so powerfully in the book of Ephesians, he said, This letter is pure music. What we read here is truth that sings. Doctrine set to music I love that phrase, truth that sings. I don't know if you do series titles here. That'd be my series title, I think. The book of Ephesians, Truth That Sings. May God be pleased to do that for us, brothers and sisters, as we dig in and mine the treasures of this marvelous little letter trusting. That our God is the one who is able to do immeasurably more than all that we could ask or think, according to the power at work within us. To him Be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations, forever and ever. And all God's people said. Amen. Let's pray Father, we do. We want to sing. We want to sing. Give to our God immortal praise We are astounded at your grace to us. He sent his son, we sang, with power to save. From guilt and darkness and the grave, wonders of grace to God belong. Repeat his mercies in your song. Father, we pray that as we would study this little letter together in the weeks and months to come, that you would put many such songs in our souls, that you would save, that you would Continue that work of making us holy, of making us to experience in our lives what you have declared to be true of us in Christ. We pray that you would increasingly conform us to the image of Jesus, that we would be increasingly astonished at the deep riches of your grace and kindness to us in Jesus. And we do pray that even as we would study this book of the Bible, that we would see men and women and children converted out of darkness and into your marvelous light. through the proclamation of your life-giving word, with the aid of your life-giving spirit, Father. Be pleased to do more than we could imagine or dream. Because of Jesus and for his glory and renown. Amen