You can go ahead and open in your Bibles to the book of Ephesians, Ephesians chapter three, if you're using one of the Bibles provided uh around you that will be on page nine hundred and seventy-seven of those Bibles. One of the things that our family enjoys doing from time to time. It's been a while since we did this, but we enjoy sometimes watching the TV game show Jeopardy. Anyone enjoy Jeopardy? A couple years ago, there was a pretty remarkable moment on that show. At least it was remarkable to me. I felt it was illuminating about the spiritual climate of our nation. In the first round of the show, and if you're unfamiliar with the show, the first round is generally where you're going to get your easier questions. First round of the show in the first row of questions. And those are the easiest questions of the easy round. There was a clue, the category was dajectives. Not adjectives, but dagtives. That's what Jeopardy does. But the clue was this Matthew 6 9 says, Our Father which art in heaven, this be thy name Does anybody know the answer? Hollowed. Cooper could have gotten two hundred dollars in that round of Jeopardy. And Cooper actually would have been the only one who was on that show that day to get the right answer It it surprised me because the people who play Jeopardy, they know all kinds. I'm not necessarily saying they're really, really smart people, because you can have a lot of information and not necessarily be smart, but they're they're like they know a lot of things And not one of the contestants knew that the answer to that was hallowed. In fact, this was the part that was actually more surprising to me. None of the contestants even buzzed in to guess. So they these three people they were confident that they did not know the answer. And you know, I don't want to draw too much cultural analysis from ten seconds of a television game show. But it struck me as somewhat of a commentary on the soul of our nation, the spiritual pulse of our nation. Reverence for esteem for the name and glory of God, because that is what it means to hallow his name, it's just not normal. It's not thought about. That's so many that's the Lord's Prayer. I would thought somebody might have made a guess, but nobody. It's was not even on the radar. Psalm 115, 1 Is just an alien concept. Not to us, O Lord, not to us, but to your name give glory. That just doesn't compute in our world. And so this passage that we're going to look at this morning in Ephesians 3 might land, at least in our society, with that same sort of strangeness. We've reached in our study of Ephesians, we've reached a big turning point in the letter. Since it is a turning point, let me just remind you a little bit of the context and what we've been thinking about together over the past months that we've been studying. this letter. Remember, I hope you remember that the heart of this letter is a pastoral one. It's not primarily an academic one. It's not primarily to teach us systematic theology, though it does have some wonderful biblical doctrines to teach us. But it's a pastoral letter. The Apostle Paul was a missionary and he traveled the known world telling People about Jesus and when he arrived in the city of Ephesus, the city of Ephesus was a pagan city full of idolatry and immorality. It was home of the temple to the false god Artemis, one of the seven wonders of the ancient world. And through the preaching of the gospel, even in this pagan, immoral city, God gave birth to Christians, and churches were established in the city of Ephesus. But the people who were turning away from idol worship to worship the true and living God, that aroused the anger of the people who were making profit off of the idolatry in the temple. They would be they would sell statues and figurines and and bus the idol factory was literally business was being disrupted because all these people didn't care about those Idols anymore they were worshiping Jesus. You can read about this if you want after the service. You can read about this in Acts chapter 19 And so they wanted Paul dead. It says a riot broke out, and they wanted Paul dead. And so Paul was rushed out of the city, and he carried on his missionary journeys, but a church remained there in Ephesus. And that church would have still been under threat. They were aliens and strangers in a godless city where it would have been difficult for them and costly for them to follow Jesus. So not long, maybe a couple of years after that church was established, Paul wrote them a letter to ground the believers there in the truth of Christ and to exhort them to live in a manner that was worthy of Christ. And so as we've studied chapters 1 through 3, we've just seen beautiful mind-blowing exposition of some of the profound and immeasurable spiritual blessings that have come to God's people in Christ. That's the big refrain that comes through the first three chapters of Ephesians. It's in Christ, in Christ, in Christ. And so Paul has expounded upon those blessings in Christ. But Paul Uh realizing that exposition alone cannot change a soul, we've also seen him praying that the Ephesians would be strengthened by God's Spirit to lay hold of in their inner being to grasp something of the truth that he's been communicating to them. We considered one of those prayers last Sunday. Now Having done gospel exposition and having prayed for spiritual illumination, Paul is about to move into an extended exhortation We see this in chapters 4 through 6. He's going to begin to tell them now, in light of all that God has done for you in Christ, here's how we live in a way that's worthy of all that God has done for you in Christ. But before he gets there, before he gets to all the practical exhortation and instruction as the bridge From all the gospel doctrine to the gospel culture, the gospel way of life that he's about to teach them, Paul praises God That's a really good lesson for us, even before we read the text, actually. That all of our doctrinal study is meant to lead us to doxology, to praise to God. And all of our praise to God should be rooted in sound doctrine and sound teaching. Paul's got doctrinal exposition, he's about to give ethical instruction, but in the middle, it's praise to God. That's where we are in Ephesians chapter 3. So listen as I read this short passage to us, and then I'll pray that God would help us as we think about these two verses together. Ephesians 3, verse 20 The apostle Paul writes this, now to him who is able to do far more abundantly than all that we ask or think, according to the power at work within us. To him be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations, forever and ever. Amen. You see, amen is a biblical word. It's a biblical thing. We'll get to that, perhaps. Let me pray for God's help Heavenly Father, we can't see anything of value here in this passage without your Holy Spirit moving among us. It is the Spirit who gives life But the flesh is no help at all. My enthusiasm, the volume of thy voice cannot change a soul. We rely upon your spirit. Using your word to bring about change in the lives of your people, and even for some perhaps here among us to Raise some who are currently in spiritual death and give them new life. Even today, Father, would you do that for your glory and for our good? We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen. I think we'll get an idea of what this passage is teaching us and the effect that I believe the Holy Spirit intends to have in our lives through this passage by considering it in three steps. It shouldn't be hard. It's a short passage. I hope you could just see these three steps right here in our text. Step number one, to him be glory Step number two, for his inconceivable power. Step number three, in Christ's church forever and ever. I think that's what the Holy Spirit is wanting to do in our lives, in our life together, as a congregation, as we think about God's word together this morning. What he wants to do in us is he wants from the soul for us to cry out to him be glory for his inconceivable power in Christ's church forever and ever. So step number one, to him be glory. See that right at the beginning of our passage. Now to him, Paul begins. And then he says some things about him, about God, and then he completes that thought. To him what? Verse 21, to him be glory. Now I used this word a moment ago. This is what we call a doxology, an ascription of praise to God, recognizing and acknowledging God as the one who is the glorious one. So Paul comes to the end of all this expounding of all these spiritual blessings that the church has in Christ, and he prays for the church, and the consummation of it all is praise to God. Praise God. Now and maybe that sounds like religious jargon. Praise God. Glory to God. Sometimes, sadly, those words can be used in a sort of trite and irreverent way. The glory of God, praise to God, really is the ultimate goal and point of everything. I mean, we we sang What was called there in your bullets in the title was the Romans Doxology. That comes from one of the doxologies the Apostle Paul wrote in his letter to the Romans from him. And through him, and to him are all things. To him be glory forever. The glory of God is the point of it all. The glory of God is the point of the whole creation. Think of Psalm 19 and King David saying, The heavens declare the glory of God. God made a a a talking world, if you will. And what it says, see, in all that it's communicating. In in blueberries and barracudas and beaches and any other bee things that you could think about. Is God is amazing. God is great. The pinnacle of that created glory was mankind, who was made in God's image. Even that communication of being made in God's image is a communication that we exist for his glory. There's a big image of Abraham Lincoln in the city, right? It's called the Lincoln Memorial or the Lincoln Monument, and it's it's there Not so that we would primarily be excited about the sculptor, but it's there to draw attention to the greatness of the being, the person, his character, his nobility, his honor. And so God created people, all the billions and billions of people in the world, his image bearers, to call attention to his greatness and his honor. The glory of God is the point of creation. The glory of God is the point of God's salvation In his rescuing a sinful people from their rebellion against his good and wise design. Sin is making God look bad. When we hear God give us a commandment and we do the other thing, that makes God look unwise. Unreliable, unfaithful. And so sin is making God look bad. That's what we do when we go our own way. And all of us are guilty. We have all sinned and fallen short of the what? of God. The glory of God. We've sinned. Sin is falling short of the glory of God. It's failing to proclaim him as the glorious one. But God had a plan from before the foundation of the world. Paul spoke about this in Ephesians chapter 1. He had a plan to bring sinners to salvation. And that plan was an in Christ plan, and that plan was to the praise of the glory of his grace. You see that in look look at look back in your Bibles at chapter one. And you'll see this in verse 6 of chapter 1, and verse 12 of chapter 1, and verse 14 of verse 1. Do you see there? I know I'm not looking at my Bible, but you could look at yours if you want to see it. You never trust the volume of my voice that I'm telling you what's true. You look at the Bible. It's there to the praise of his glory. To the praise of his glory. To the praise of his glory. And now having expounded further, having expounded through chapter one and into chapter two and into chapter three, on all these rich spiritual blessings that we have that have come to us in Jesus Paul just can't help in joining in on what all of creation exists to do. And he he he bursts out in praise to God now to him who is able to do far more abundantly than all that we could ask or think according to the power at work within us, to him be glory. It's not jargon. It's not religious jargon. It's the point of everything. And I you're a well-taught congregation. I just got here. I'm not saying that's a testament to me. You're a well-taught congregation, Chevrolet Baptist Church, so you know that. I don't think I said anything that's new to you just then But that doesn't mean that it's unimportant just because you've heard this before. Doesn't mean you don't need to hear it again. As the whole point of everything. It's why we exist. This bulletin says Chevroly Baptist Church, glorifying God. That's first. I think that's biblically ordered. Glorifying, it's what we're here for. And so I do think it is worth pausing. It's good to do this from time to time. We can overdo it. But it's good for us to pause and just, I think, take the temperature of your soul this morning. I think this is a good time. At the end of chapters 3. Having studied all this glory and all that is to the praise of the glory of God's grace, it's just a good time, I think, to examine the temperature of your soul. Is it a glow with love for the glory of our God in Christ? You stick a thermometer in your mouth and you're looking for 98. 6-ish. What we're looking for if we had a thermometer of the soul, it's not a number that we're looking for. But is is the central passion the preeminent longing and concern and commitment? Is it Is it what we declared there at the beginning of the service in our scriptural call to worship? Not to us, O Lord. Not to me, but to you, to your name, give glory. Is the is the preeminent prayer in our lives. There's lots of things to pray for. We're to bring all of our needs and concerns and anxieties to him. Is the number one concern In your soul, the number one concern that Jesus thought it was to give to you when he taught his disciples how to pray, our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. Do you love the thought that you exist, like you're alive today, so that God would be seen as glorious in you? Do you love the truth that all of creation, all of history Is designed by God to one day be a completed canvas that displays in the best way possible the greatness and beauty of God Do you love the fact that Jesus Christ came into the world to secure for you Christians at the cost of his own life? He secured for you untold and unimaginable blessings, and he did that all so that the glory of his grace would be praised eternally. That it would not be your awesomeness that would be praised eternally, but that God would be eternally praised for his grace in saving wretches like us. Do you love that? This is why God ordained history. This is why God sent his son Jesus into the world. It is why Chevrolet Baptist Church exist. It's why every gospel preaching church exists, to see and to celebrate and to spread the glory of Christ who is the image of the invisible God. And so I believe it is an appropriate application question as we move on from Ephesians 1 through 3 and as we prepare to look at the ethical teaching in a few weeks. Pastor Tony's going to start a series in Exodus next week. We'll come back to Ephesians in a few weeks. But this is a great time to stop in light of all that we've seen from the first three chapters of Ephesians to say, do do I, I'm asking you Had to ask myself this. Do you embrace this calling to be a glorifier of God? Do you see that? Do you embrace that calling as the greatest privilege and joy of your life? Our modern society does not. And that was illustrated in sort of a trivial way in the fact that no, you know, three really smart people couldn't even begin to have an idea of what hallowed might mean or how our Father in Heaven would be affected. But in a thousand ways. Our society is is tragically and wickedly teaching us all just the opposite. And we all need to be attentive because in our sinful nature, which is still right, we we know Christians, we have the Holy Spirit in us, but there's still this sin nature that wars against the Holy Spirit. And in our sinful nature, we can still love to have it so. Our society is telling us the point of everything is about the display of you. Sometimes even people can use religious activity and religious commitment. To basically be all about displaying the glory of you. There's a story about that in the Gospels, actually, when this that prodigal son went and was wild and reckless, and then he came back, and that older brother Who was all angry at the Father's grace? Well, that was a religious man who was all about himself. Didn't think he was getting the glory that he deserved. Be careful that we can even use religious activity. We can use Bible memory. We can use we can use IWANA. We could use VBS. We could use having the answers when I ask the kids for a question And those are good things. I'm not saying those things are bad, but we must be mindful that even we don't take religious things and make them about ourselves. I can make preaching about, I can make it more about you, what you perceive of me, than whether you are delighting in God. And in a thousand ways our society is feeding into that. That you exist to display yourself, that your finding your happiness and joy is going to be in you being true to yourself. Sin makes us, as one author has uh put it, sin makes us glory thieves, robbing from God what is rightly his. And to the degree that you embrace that, that idea that the point of everything is you and the display of you in all your you-ness. You are at war with the God who made you and to whom you must one day give an account for your life. And we all need to be thinking this morning, this week, do you embrace this calling to bring glory and praise to God in everything you do, right? Whether we eat or whether we drink, in all that we do. Is it our greatest privilege and joy that we might be able to go out and do everything for the glory of our God? Now if if your answer if you just know your answer is no to that, that's not what I'm most happy about. If you know that your answer is a no. Or, and I trust this is maybe more likely in the crowd that I'm addressing right now, if that question just sort of discourages you a little bit because you see like yeah but if you feel it yes but I I I feel like I fail so miserably In my esteem for and reverence for such a joy and privilege of glorifying this God who has saved me. My love, as we sing from time to time, my love is oft times low. And my joy still ebbs and flows. I feel so weak in my resolve so much of the time to bring glory to God with my every breath and my every bite of breakfast. If that is you, if you hear that like I want it to be, but I'm discouraged because I see so much weakness in me, that's you. This text has a whole lot of encouragement for you. Because it tells us that the God who is worthy of all glory One of the reasons he is so worthy of glory is that he has inconceivable power to fulfill his purposes in you And that brings us to step number two. To him be glory for his inconceivable power. See there in verse 20, now to him who is able, that word able could be, not sure if there's other translations that you might some of you might be looking at, it could be also translated as powerful. I think it's actually helpful to think of the word powerful there because it's the same word used in verse 16 when he talked about being strengthened with power in your inner being. And it's the same word that he's going to use in verse 21. When he talks about according to the power at work within us. To him who is able or to him who is powerful to do, far more abundantly in all that we ask or think. I love this. Paul just he get he keeps getting himself in this kind of a quandary where he's he runs out of vocabulary to say the to communicate the thing that he's wanting to say about God. Like this has happened several times already in Ephesians. He talks about the immeasurable greatness of God's power and the immeasurable riches of his grace and kindness toward us in Christ Jesus, and he talks about the unsearchable riches of Christ. And and here he's just stuck trying to describe the indescribable This this one word translated there in our translation far more abundantly. I was doing some s research on that word and the The the lexicons, a basically Greek dictionary that explains to you the hit the the word, it said it that this word far more abundantly refers to an extraordinary degree Involving a considerable excess over what would be expected. Another dictionary said it was the highest form of comparison imaginable But actually, just to say far more abundantly was not enough for Paul. Because he actually prefaces it with, and this doesn't show up in our English Bibles. I think it's inferred in the words far more. But it actually says, if I was to literally woodenly translate this for you, it would say, to him who is able or to him who is powerful above all things to do far more abundantly than all that we could ask or think It's running out of language. Anyone ever remember or read the that the version of the Bible called the Amplified Bible? It's they just take every they take a Greek word and they just put it they just dump the whole kitchen sink that they could think of. It's it's not really a a Bible translation that I would say it would be helpful to use in your everyday Uh Bible reading because you know one particular word doesn't necessarily have every shade of meaning in that one use of the word, every place But I think it actually helps us here to get a feel for what Paul is trying to convey. In the Amplified Bible, it says to him who is able to do superabundantly, far over and above all that we dare ask or think. Infinitely beyond our highest prayers, desires, thoughts, hopes, or dreams. That's what is taught. That actually is a really good translation of what Paul's trying to do in Ephesians 3. Spurgeon said, God is able to bless us beyond what our souls have yet learned to wish for It's as though I should pray. Lord, make every every driver in and around the DMV safe and prudent and Really selfless and cautious. Beyond your wildest imagination. Now that's a trivial, that was a humorous thing, you know, but Paul's not pray when he when he says this, he's not expecting okay I can imagine $10 million, so I think it's going to be even greater. That's not what Paul's concern is here. Remember the context. In which this doxology, this praise to God is happening. Paul's just prayed for the Ephesians to be strengthened with power in their inner being, so that Christ would dwell in their hearts through faith, that they would have strength to comprehend. With all the saints, what are is the immeasurable dimensions, right? The unsearchable dimensions, the breadth and the length and the height and the depth. To know the love of Christ that surpasses knowledge, that they would be filled with all God's fullness. And so if you hear Paul pray that, and you just think, Paul, really, Paul? Did you just get a little carried away Have you seen me? I have these thoughts this past week. Struggling with uh a murmuring spirit and anxious thoughts Discouragement. Do you see, do you see in me, Paul? Do you see the on do you see the weakness? Do you see the sluggishness? The dullness of soul and the way that feelings and circumstances can so often animate me and drive me more than biblically rich truths that I proclaim to you. Do you I mean do you Really, Paul? And it's it's almost when Paul gets to this point in the having prayed what he just prayed and then moving to this doxology, it's almost like Paul is eavesdropping on my thought life and saying I don't need to see you or hear you, Larry, talking about your feelings and experiences because I know the God I'm praying to. I'm talking about the God who is powerful to do immeasurably, exceedingly beyond anything that you're able to even imagine. Who said this anything had anything to do with how you're feeling or what you're perceiving about things? It's about the power of God. And Christians, which I know is so many of us here, Christians, the Lord has already shown you just how able he is, just how powerful he is. All the proof that you need, that God is in fact able to do far more abundantly than anything that you could ask or imagine when you pray, God fill me. with all of your fullness. Make me make me more like Jesus. Make me to experience what Peter wrote about in 2 Peter 1 when he said that we are Through faith in the promises of God, we're partakers of the divine nature. When we pray that, all the proof you need that God is able, that He's more than able to do it, is power that is already in you. Did you catch that Paul said that? To him who is able to do far more abundantly than all that we ask or think according to In other words, if this power, this ability to do beyond what you could conceive of, it accords with, it's in harmony with the power at work. Already, right? Already at work within us. What expression of divine power would you grasp for to seal this argument? Of the far more abundantly power of God. I just was thinking about it for a minute. I thought of those chapters at the end of Job, when God shows up. To Job and it's like, Job, let me you want to see? You're you're you're questioning? Were you there when I laid the foundation of the earth? Were you made what were you there when I made this? When I made that? I would be thinking, if I wanted to prove, he's far more abundantly than you're able to do, or I take someone to Job 38. Paul says there's something Greater than that, there's something more spectacular than that, there's something more personal than that, and that is the power that raised you from the dead, Christian. That is all the proof that you need of his ability to do beyond your wildest imagination. Is he's already, if you are a Christian, he's already raised you from spiritual death and given you life in him. Have you thought about that this week? The the degree, how do you degree, how do you measure out the divine power that it took? To give you life when you were dead. Kilowatts or pounds of pressure or something? This is what Paul has already expounded upon for the Ephesians in chapter 2, right? You were dead in your trespasses and sins. To be dead in sin, and we covered this a few weeks back when we were in chapter two, to be dead in sin, it doesn't mean that you can't breathe. It doesn't mean that you can't think. It doesn't mean that you can't pour yourself a bowl of cereal. What it means is that your heart and mine and all humans, because that's what Paul says, it's like the rest of mankind, all of us were dead in sin. It means that all of us walked around with With hearts, we walked around amongst all the glory of God, and we were unmoved by it. Like a deaf man being given earphones to listen to Beethoven. Nothing there We were dead in sin. And yet have you have you not known, Christian, in your own life? I know I've known it over the 25 years that I've been trusting in Christ now, that he stirred when I was dead, that he awakened me He gave me life. He opened my blind eyes and unstopped my deaf ears and made me to see something of the glory of God in Christ. In ways that I have desired. By the power of the Holy Spirit to resist sin and to love the way of holiness and to pursue Spiritual fruit and to engage in the good works that God has prepared for me and to forgive others who have wronged me and to confess my sin and repent when I have wronged others. And and to persevere through the myths of adversity and to keep telling people about Jesus when we are opposed. Have you seen any of those kinds of things in your life, Christian? How could any of that have happened? The answer is the power of God The only answer is the power of God. This is the very power by which God can pour out his own love into your hearts filling you with all of his fullness so that you would behold him and be changed into his image from one degree of glory to another. And all of it is because of Jesus. All of this because he emptied himself, because he took the form of a servant, humbled himself, became obedient to death, even death on a cross. Who could have imagined? Who could have imagined that power That when we were delighting in our rebellion against God, that God would send Jesus into the world, that Jesus would willingly come. That he would leave the splendor of heaven to suffer and die on the cross to reconcile us to God and make us his children. Who would imagine that power? Who would imagine that love? So if you're doubtful, if you if you if we're getting into a new week and you're thinking, I don't think he's got the power to pour out his love upon me in such a way that I am filled with all the fullness of God, go back and think about what God has done in your life. Spend some time. We're gonna be spending a lot of us are gonna be spending some extra time together this week at the American Legion building. Spend some time talking about that. This isn't to praise yourself where you were dead. But if you've seen signs of life, share that with others. If you have seen those evidences of life in another brother or sister in Christ, tell them about that. Encourage each other and build each other up with this truth that our God is powerful above all things. So we can in fact count on him to do immeasurably, exceedingly more than all that we can ask or conceive. And as you would do that together, as you would step out to do that, even this week, whether it's after the service or at lunch this week or throughout the week. Uh at the American Legion, as we as we serve together in VBS, as you step out to do that, we're beginning to touch on the third and the final step of this doxology because the hub The locus of all this praise to God is the church. See that there in verse 20. Well, twenty-one. To him be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations, forever and ever. I had this I had this video pop up on YouTube the other day. You know, these algorithms on YouTube. They're tracking my searching and they they they they showed me this video From a ministry called Dial In Ministries. I don't know if anybody's familiar with that ministry. I was unfamiliar with the ministry. That's a pretty like I have my friend Brooks Buzer was in an interview with the guy and I was like, okay, this is a okay ministry. But Brooks Buzer's there, you know And the the title of the video was 13 life-changing books that every Christian should read. And there were some brilliant solid books, the books that I have handed out and read with other people But you know what you know what was one of those things that like it surprised me but didn't surprise me not one of those thirteen books had anything to do with the church Nothing to do with the importance of a church in the life of a Christian. And it reminded me of an article that I'd seen a few years back from uh John Piper. And I don't want to be disparaging of John Piper. I I've benefited what I was sharing earlier about the glory of God and that being the ground and the centrality of God's glory, the purpose of everything. John Piper was influential in helping me to understand some of those things in the Bible. I don't want to be critical of him. I guess I will be critical on this one point, hopefully constructively critical. John Piper suggested on his webs, on the Desiring God website, 25 Christian books that he loves to recommend. Nothing. Not one. That said anything, that was really anything about a church at all. And that just strikes me as wrong. That strikes me as off Because the church is ground zero of cosmic praise to God for his manifold wisdom and his mighty power You were here a couple weeks ago. We talked a little bit about chapter 3, verse 10, how God's manifold wisdom is displayed even among the rulers and authorities in the heavenly places, through the church, in the church. And here he says, to him be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus. So for all of the grace, all of the glory that is displayed in The created world. Psalm 19, the heavens declare the glory of God. Paul is saying that the heavens pale in comparison To the glory of what God is doing, what he's showing about himself in the church, in and among his people whom he is saving and uniting together and bringing them together in worship of him, though they are different, different backgrounds, different cultures. Different preferences and tastes, but he's uniting this people. In Ephesians 1, or Ephesians 2, it's Jew and Gentile, but he's uniting different people in praise to God so that we get together, that we worship together, we recognize each other as followers of Jesus. We confess the truth about Jesus together. We build each other up. We do outreach. We do evangelism together. We do missions together, and God says, this is my power on display in the church. For two thousand years now, to all the generations of the age of the ages. That's my wooden literal translation of that last phrase. How does it actually read? Throughout all generations, forever and ever. For the last 2,000 years now, from generation to generation, throughout all ages, God is getting glory for his own power and wisdom in the church. And it was far more abundantly than these Ephesians could have asked or imagined. I don't think they could have foreseen. I do not think they could have foreseen what was coming. I wonder how many of them might have been in this room, this this church receiving this letter from the Apostle Paul. We don't know if there was one church in Ephesus or there was maybe multiple smaller churches throughout the city. But in what were there maybe, you know, forty or fifty of them perhaps scrunched in a a house somewhere in Ephesus, hearing this letter read in a in a Lord's Day gathering, just like we're gathered here on the first day of the week, because this is the day that Jesus rose from the dead. Could they have imagined? Just a a few years later, maybe a century later, after they were reading this letter, wondering what are we gonna do about these all these people that hate us and they just want Artemis to be worshipped. Could they have imagined that a century later or so there'd be an eighty-six-year-old man named Polycarp, and he would be brought before the Roman consul, and they would tell him, Renounce Christ or die And that Polycarp would say something to the effect of, I've served the Lord Jesus Christ for 86 years and he has never done me harm one time. How could I possibly reject him now? And he would die for Christ. Could they have imagined that? Could they have imagined that perhaps maybe fifty years or so after Polycarp, two young women, Perpetua and Felicitas Two young women, Felicitas carrying a child, taken captive, tortured by the authorities, wanting them to renounce Christ. And they would give, they would not renounce. They could have gone free. Felicitas could have gone and raised her child in freedom if she had renounced Christ and she said, I will die with Jesus. Could they have, could they have Conceived of that. Church history is really sweet. I mean it's like it's a uh there's one podcast I've listened to. It's got the church history is like it's like our family history Imagine the family videos that will loop throughout eternity as we think about the people of God, having suffered and glorified God. Could they have imagined the coming of a St. Augustine or a John Calvin or a Martin Luther or an Amy Carmichael or an Ann Judson or a Helen Rosevere or George Whitfield? This great hosts of Christian martyrs and and preachers and missionaries. Could they have imagined a David Brainerd working amongst Native Americans in northern New Jersey in the 18th century, writing in his journal? Listen to this Writing in his journal, Lord, in light of your infinite power at work in me, do you think maybe he was meditating on Ephesians 3. 20? Lord, in light of your infinite power at work in me, let me make a difference for you that is utterly disproportionate to who I am. And his journal is still being published today, being bought and read and spurring on and propelling missionaries still to parts of the world with no witness to the gospel. They couldn't imagine today the Ephesians. They could not have imagined that there would be billions of people around the world professing the name of Christ And that great temple Artemis, that great temple of Artemis that was that was so uh wondrous and so intimidating in that day, so arousing the passion and fervor of that pagan city. It's not there anymore. I mean, there's one pillar that's there now. Just kind of as an ongoing witness to what once was. The earth earthly glories, they fade. Earthly glories fade. Mick Jagger. Judy Garland, Google, the NBA Finals, the Roman Empire, the United States of America These things fade. Here, the writer of Hebrews says, here we have no lasting city But we seek the city that is to come, that city where the praises of Jesus Christ will never cease. We will bless the Lord from this time forth and forevermore, is how Psalm 115 ends. Not to us, O Lord, not to us, but to your name, give glory. And at the end, we will bless the Lord from this time forth and forever. And the gates of hell will not prevail against the church in carrying out that mission. Amen is right. That's my contribution from the last word there. Amen. It's good and right. Even Paul put it in the Bible. Amen. So that you would know sitting here in the 21st century, when someone in prayer or in song or in a sermon says something that resonates with your soul This is a God-appointed way of you contributing that in the life of the church is to say amen. I will never just ask, I will never just say, can I get an amen for that? I will not do that. Not saying it's a sin if somebody does do it, but it's just that it's there that we would give our amen To God's commitment to get praise for himself in his church through the generations forever and ever. Now I should move us on, but let me just land the plane in maybe a little bit more of a practical way It's not my forte. Practical. Here we are, one little church in an elementary school gym, and we've got VBS this week. And we're praying. We prayed in the service. We've been praying. We're praying that the Lord would use it, that He would plant the Word of God in the lives of these children. And we're praying that they're going to be safe. That they're going to be healthy, that they'll have a good time, that the workers are going to have patience and energy. And as Bryce said, we got over a hundred kids signed up. And we're praying. Think think about the trajectory. Think about the trajectory of 100 or so little souls. Stretching out over the next 75 or 80 years. Think of the thousands and thousands and thousands and thousands of lives That are going to be touched by the children that we're going to be spending time with this week. Think about what God is going to be planting in them. The gospel, which is the power of God for salvation to all who believe. That word is potent. If you're here and you love Jesus, it's because that word working with the Spirit was potent in your life. Think about all the effects on young people's lives that can happen in these four days at the American Legion building for generations to come. Maybe the next Polycarp will be among us. Or the next Elizabeth Elliot. Or the next William Wilberforce, or the next Johnny Erickson Tada. Or maybe nobody that well known, but just some people who will live lives of simple, ordinary faithless for the glory of God and be one little unknown contribution in the now, but in eternity will be part of that forever and ever praise to the Lord Jesus. Only eternity really will show that. So as we venture out into this week To serve these kids at VBS and in all the ways that you will be going out to serve him, in your vocations, in your callings, in your home, in your neighborhoods, your workplaces. Know this, beloved. We pray to and we serve a God who is able to do far more abundantly than all that we could ask or imagine. And a God who is committed to getting glory for himself from weak and needy clay pots like you and me. So let's pray, brothers and sisters. Let's pray really big prayers because we've got a really big God. I'm reminded of a hymn written by John Newton, and I'll just close with this and then pray He we know him for amazing grace, but he wrote lots of hymns and this one hymn, there's a verse in it that says, Thou art coming to a king. Large petitions with thee bring. For his grace and power are such, none can ever ask too much. Let's pray, brothers and sisters. Heavenly Father, thank you. Thank you for your great power that is at work within us. If we've sat here, if we've gathered, if we've prayed from the heart, if we've sung praises to you with a heart that is sincere and cares, it's because of your power at work within us. And so we pray, Father, in accord with that power by which you have raised us from the dead We pray that you would be pleased to do exceedingly abundantly more than we could ask or imagine. For VBS, for this church, for the DMV, for our nation, For the whole world. We pray that you would be pleased to use weak people, foolish people, people that are low and despised, even the things that are nothing. So that none of us might boast in ourselves, but that we might boast in you through Jesus Christ. In his name that we pray. Amen.