All right. Acts chapter sixteen. I'm actually not going to read it right away, but you've had time to read it. Um In this sort of nomadic season of church gatherings, I have not been doing the sermons that I'd been planning to do. But last week and now today, a couple of sermons, a couple of words that have just been on my heart, thinking and praying for you. So last Saturday evening we talked about fellowship with Jesus from John's Gospel and Uh just as I was experiencing the last few days, this portion of God's word was on my heart. It's a passage that Uh has become sweet to me over the past two or three years and I hope it'll be uh become sweet to you as well. It's It's sort of a cinder block, if you will, on that firm foundation that we uh sang about earlier of being able to stand firm in the Lord. uh when our worlds are are shaking. At least it's been that kind of passage for me. I hope it is for you as well. I wonder if you can recall a time in your life uh in which your will, your desires were crossed. A way in which God said no to something that you sincerely believed and had submitted to him as a good thing. Only to look back then with the benefit of hindsight and see what a profound blessing God's know actually was. I can remember as a brand new Christian, three months or so into my walk with the Lord, really well equipped at that point to discern the Lord's will Being quite confident that God had provided for me the woman who I was going to marry. She, however, informed me after I told her what I was thinking That I was not discerning the Lord's will quite properly. I was I was really heartbroken. I mean I was really crushed. I was confident that she was actually thwarting God's will for our lives because I just knew this was from the Lord. And I'm so thankful, thankful with every year, even more thankful that I was so obviously and badly mistaken about that in the summer of 2000. I have a far greater woman who has been delighted to allow me to have her as my wife than that woman. And I don't mean that disparagingly about her, but God knew a whole lot better Than I did in that moment. Now that that anecdote illustrates an important principle about God's providence Which is articulated, I think, memorably by the seventeenth century pastor John Flavel He wrote regarding God's providence. Some providences, he said, are like Hebrew letters. They must be read backwards. And what he meant by that, because I'm assuming not all of you on realize this, but the the Hebrew language is actually read backwards from our perspective. You read it from right to left. So what he's saying is that God's providence can only be understood when we get down the road and we can look back on it. That's how the providence of God works. Now, we've been using that word providence a bunch, and I don't want to assume that everybody knows what that even means. So when I'm referring to God's providence, I I love the answer. I forget who it was that uh raised their hand a few minutes back and got the Heidelberg Catechism, but Uh I love the answer of the Heidelberg Catechism on what is God's providence. It says providence is the almighty and ever-present power of God by which God upholds as with his hand, heaven and earth and all creatures, and so rules them that leaf and blade Rain and drought, fruitful and lean years, food and drink, health and sickness, prosperity and poverty, all things in fact come to us not by chance but by his fatherly hand. I know that's a lot of words too, but basically providence is the idea that God is in all the details of life And he's in them not just as some remote, distant tyrant overruling the world, but actually for his people as a loving and wise Heavenly Father. He's in all the details. Providence is the way that God guides and directs all things To be able to actually make good on that sweet promise in Romans 8. 28 that he will work all things together for good to those who love God and are called according to his purpose. And what John Flavelle is saying, and what I'm wanting to commend to you tonight, is that we can't read all of that In real time as it's actually unfolding in our lives. Sometimes it's only when you look back that you can see how in fact he was working all things for your good So there's one song that the Lazarus family loves to sing. We actually have not sung it in a while, but it's called Further Along. And and the the song just speaks of how it's got a got a Psalm seventy three feel to it where like And so it the first verse says, tempted and tried. We're oft made to wonder why it should be thus all the day long While there are others living about us, never seem troubled, though in the wrong. And then the refrain You know, if Tony was preaching, he'd sing this and it would sound good, but I'm not going to sing it because it won't sound good. But the refrain goes further along. We'll know all about it Further along, we'll understand why. Cheer up, my brother. Live in the sunshine. We'll understand it all by and by. And I think we're going to see that reality illustrated for our encouragement in this portion of God's Word that I asked you to turn to in Acts chapter 16. I hope by thinking about these verses for a few minutes we will experience a satisfied contentment in knowing that God knows what he's doing all the time and one day we'll be able to agree with him. In the context here, I'm I promise I'm gonna read this passage really soon. Because you've been waiting and waiting and waiting. In the passage, the Apostle Paul has set out on what we now call his second missionary journey Paul was traveling the known world, bearing witness to Jesus. And Luke, in the end of chapter 15, had chronicled a rather bitter providence. in the life of the early church as two dear brothers and ministry partners, Paul and Barnabas had a sharp disagreement and parted ways. And we're told that Paul took along Silas for this trip, and they were visiting those places where Paul had previously preached the gospel, strengthening, if you look at verse 5 in your Bibles, strengthening the churches as they were going along their travels. And that's where we pick up in verse 6 of Acts chapter 16. And they went through the region of Phrygia and Galatia, having been forbidden by the Holy Spirit to speak the word in Asia. And when they had come to Misa, they attempted to go into Bithynia, but the spirit of Jesus did not allow them. So passing by Mysa, they went down to Troas. And a vision appeared to Paul in the night. A man of Macedonia was standing there, urging him and saying, Come over to Macedonia and help us. And when Paul had seen the vision, immediately we sought to go on into Macedonia, concluding that God had called us to preach the gospel to them. So, setting sail from Troas, we made a direct voyage to Samathros and the following day to Neapolis, and from there to Philippi, which is a leading city of the district of Macedonia, and a Roman colony. We remained in this city some days, and on the Sabbath day we went outside the gate to the riverside, where we supposed there was a place of prayer, and we sat down and spoke to the women who had come together. One who heard us was a woman named Lydia, from the city of Thyatira, a seller of purple goods, who was a worshiper of God. The Lord opened her heart to pay attention to what was said by Paul. And after she was baptized and her household as well, she urged us, saying, If you have judged me to be faithful to the Lord, come to my house and stay. And she prevailed upon us. This is God's word, brothers and sisters. Thanks be to God. Let's pray and ask for His help as we think about it. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this word. We pray that you would uh bless us with understanding. And application to our lives. Help us to grow in our appreciation of your wise and good and faithful providence in our lives. We know that it's your spirit who gives life. The flesh is no help at all. And so we pray that your spirit would be working among us to Give life to your people that perhaps even for some for the very first time this evening you would open their heart the way you did for Lydia here and help some in this very room to give heed to the good news of Jesus for the first time We ask your blessing upon our consideration of your word in Jesus' name. Amen. And this is I don't really have an outline, I just have this sentence, and I'm just going to try to show you this sentence as we walk through the narrative of the passage. The main idea is this. God perplexingly provides everything needed for the advance of his unstoppable gospel. God perplexingly provides. Kids, if you're like, what is the word perple if you're if you're perplexed, you might be confused. What does the word perplexingly mean? To be perplexed means to be confused. To not know what. . I don't know how to make sense of this. God provides in perplexing ways everything that is needed for the advance of his unstoppable gospel. And I hope that has some application to your personal life too, and not just our ministry and mission together as a local church. So verse six, they went through the region of Phrygia and Galatia. And very briefly, even there, it's this is a part that's particularly sweet and personally meaningful to me. I just wanted Draw your attention to that little word they at the beginning of verse six. That in itself, that word they is an expression of God's perplexing provision Because what we see from verses 1 through 5 is that a part of this they now, it's a new member of the they, and that is Timothy. Timothy has joined this ministry team. And so here's a sweet provision of God in the midst of this very hard, painful no, this very strange providence in God's life, where Paul and Barnabas, these Brothers who had sacrificed, who had risked their lives together for the gospel, they have this sharp disagreement, and now they're going separate ways in the midst of that bitter, painful no God says yes to a brand new co-laborer who will become very dear to Paul and a very faithful laborer in the advance of the gospel. In Paul's letter to the Philippians, he he s speaks of uh Timothy as one, he says, I have nobody like him who will be genuinely concerned for your welfare. Read in 1 and 2 Timothy, these two letters that bear his name, we can see the deep affection that Paul has for his son in the faith. And yet this provision happens in the midst of some real painful circumstances, with Paul and Barnabas separating from one another. I think we've we've seen that in our own congregation over the past few years. You all have taught me the phrase, hugging the parade. We see some people, we live in a transient part of the nation, and we see a lot of people come and a lot of people go. And some of those goodbyes, they're all hard, but some have been a little bit more pleasant in the goodbye and understanding, and some have been more painful and more perplexing. But hasn't it been true that even in the midst of those hard goodbyes and some of those bitter providences that the Lord has shown himself kind and faithful in providing more laborers for the work here? Has not God been kind and faithful in providing Tony and Erlene Merritt to this congregation? Or Devin and Sam Wilkins or Aaron and Maria Campbell, and I could go on It's personally sweet to us because I can remember in the not too distant past, in the fall of 2024. Feeling like my whole life there for two or three or four months was one long, painful, confusing separation from people who I loved, who I thought I'd be laboring together in the Lord with for a lot longer. And it was hard, and yet you, in the midst of those hard, painful goodbyes, goodbye Dan and Tracy Bowers. You don't know these names, but they mean a lot to the people up here. Goodbye, Steve and Pat Mosley. Goodbye, Jason and Celeste Tyrell. Goodbye, Steve and Joy Lescure. And Brantley and Jace. In the midst of those painful goodbyes, wow, what a kind provision you all have been to us. To show us personally and meaningfully what I actually said to my congregation in New Jersey on the last Sunday that I was with them. Which was to quote another hymn that I love called Be Still My Soul, leave to thy God to order and provide. In every change, he faithful will remain. He has been that for Chevrolet Baptist Church in the last eight years, and he will continue to be so all by his grace. God provides laborers for the work. And now what we see in this text as we keep on moving is with Paul and Silas having added Timothy to the team, now we really begin to see God's perplexing providence at work. They went through the region of Phrygeia and Galatia, we're told, having been forbidden by the Holy Spirit to speak the word in Asia. That's very strange to me. That's very Confusing, that's perplexing. They wanted, we're told right there, they wanted to speak the word in Asia. Do we think that's a good thing? Speaking the gospel, speaking the word of Christ in Asia? I think that's a good thing. But they were forbidden from doing that. And when they had come to Misa, verse 7, they attempted to go into Bithynia. I'm assuming they want to go to Bithynia for the same reason to speak the word. That's what Paul was all about. And the sp they attempted to go into Bithynia, but the spirit of Jesus did not allow them. When I say perplexing, that's what I'm talking about. Now we're not told how that no was made known. We don't know if it was a subjective impression that the team had collectively, that it just wasn't the Lord's time or will to go there at that point. Maybe there was some sort of a prophetic word. Maybe there were just travel obstacles or illness or some other circumstantial uh hindrance that kept them from bringing the gospel to these places. But what's clear to me as I look at this passage Is that the team had plans, but God had other plans We can write across this passage the truth of Proverbs 19:21, where Solomon says, Many are the plans in the mind of a man. But it is the purpose of the Lord that will stand. These missionaries had good plans. Good gospel ambitions, lots of hard work and labors just to get doors shut. It says in verse 8 that they went down to Troas. Now from Lystra Where they had picked up Timothy and some of you maybe have bib uh maps in the back of your Bible and it some of those maps even will trace out Paul's missionary journeys. Uh so you know I don't have a map to project on the screen or anything. Is there a screen? No, it's not a screen Still some memories of my former life when there was a screen back there. You could find it in a map. If it's not in the Bible, you could Google this and find it online later, not now. Uh but it's from Lystra where they picked up Timothy to this place was probably four or five hundred miles. They didn't have automobiles They're not making a quick flight. This was mountainous, difficult terrain, four to five hundred miles they're traveling just to have the door shut And I think we can gloss over that. When we are reading portions of scripture like this, we see this travel catalog of places, and we just sort of read right past it because we're looking for the action. What's going to happen? We're excited to get to the riverside where Lydia gets saved. But this is what was happening. No, in the midst of trying to get here, trying to get here. And we can gloss over that. But it's t to to not do to actually sit down and think about it for a minute is teaches us a valuable lesson. It is good for us to make plans, to honor and serve the Lord. But it's always good and right after we've made our plans to submit our plans to the Lord and say, Lord, nevertheless Not my will, but yours be done. I I have a a a dear friend, you know him as well, Brian uh Davis who I I I've heard him talk about this, he says sometimes we treat our lives like a whiteboard and we write in our plans and then we give God a marker and we'll say, you know, we've we've left some margins for him. If you want to write something in, Lord, I'm I'm wide open to you doing that. But what I've heard him say is, no, it's actually better. That's right. Write some plans on the whiteboard, but then give him the marker and the eraser and say, Lord, you could shut all of it down and write something entirely different if you want. For Paul and this missionary team sitting with their thwarted plans, the Lord chooses, he's got he's gonna erase that whole thing. He's gonna actually well I'll I have a correction about that to make in a second. He he For the moment, he erases their plans and he says, I've got a different plan. I'm taking you somewhere else you haven't been thinking about. Macedonia. Modern day Greece. And so in this in this puzzling and perplexing no God is taking the gospel for the first time to European soil. And a big step closer to our own nation, actually. Because he has his saving sights set on a wealthy merchant hanging out at a prayer meeting by the river in a part of the world that has never heard the name of Jesus before. Verse 9. And a vision appeared to Paul in the night. A man of Macedonia was standing there, urging him and saying, Come over to Macedonia and help us. And when Paul had seen the vision, immediately we sought to go on into Macedonia, concluding that God had called us to preach the gospel to them. Now I'm not saying necessarily that you should be looking for or waiting for a vision like this to direct you in how to discern the Lord's will. The book of Acts chronicles around twenty-five or thirty years of the church's history, and we only see a very small number of times where this sort of thing happens So I'm not saying this is the normal way that you should expect God to work in your lives. Am I saying it would it could never happen? No, I'm not saying that. I'm just saying I don't think it's normally the way God is directing people. But that's what happened here. And I love I love it that they just it just says they just go. And I love that word immediately. No pouting No grumbling about their thwarted travel plans. Have you ever been tempted, saints? With a flight cancelled. Or s a traffic jam keeping you from where you need to be. Ever the impulse to murmur and fret or be discouraged or embittered. It does not seem, I mean, we the script we know the scriptures don't whitewash away the mistakes and the sins of the people in the Bible. We don't see that. We don't see pouting, we don't see grumbling. They just are ready to go. Here I am, Lord. As we sing sometimes, O Father, use my ransom life in any way you choose. Do you think that could happen for you? Like, are you actually open to that? That God could have something for you, that he could have something for Chevrolet Baptist Church in 2026 that we've never thought about before. A trajectory for your life entirely different than you've been thinking about that has ever come into your mind. Could he be doing that? They don't pout, they don't travel. They just get to it. Okay. We don't know. I don't know how it was made so clear to them, but they they were convinced this was God's will They're going and then they travel a couple of hundred more miles by boat. And immediately they went Right? Immediately they went, and when they got there, I wonder if they were still a little bit puzzled when they got there. Because if you remember, uh if you've read through the book of Acts You you'll remember that in chapter ten, Peter has this kind of a vision about uh this these this food coming down on sheets and this guy Cornelius has summon Peter to come. And when Peter gets there, there's a house full of people just clamoring, waiting to hear Peter's message. But it when there doesn't seem to be anything going on when they get there actually Paul and his team arrive in Philippi. There's no fanfare. There's no Macedonian man gathered with his household, begging for the gospel to be brought to them. It says they're there some days. They're just there, like uh what are we doing here? They couldn't even find a synagogue in the city, it seems, which is why they probably are going outside of the city, and they find some women there who'd come to pray And the Lord fixes our attention on one particular woman named Lydia. Apparently she's a woman of some means. We're told there she's a seller of purple goods, which was rare and costly in that day. She's a worshiper of God, which means like Cornelius from back in chapter 10, she knew of and she had some regard for the God of Israel, but she was not a full Jewish convert. And did you notice where she was from? Kids, help me out. Anybody can tell me where was Lydia from? Thyatira, that's right. You know where Thyatira was? Thyatira was a city in Asia. The very Asia that Paul and his team had been trying to get to in verse 7, but were forbidden by the Holy Spirit from getting to. They're trying to get to Asia, but they couldn't. They take this big long winding detour around Asia, then they get onto a boat and go even farther from Asia. Can't really find much going on even in the city, ended up at a little seemingly insignificant prayer meeting, and there's a woman happening to be there, and she's going to be the first ever convert to Christ on the continent of Europe, and she happens to be from the region that they were trying to get to in the first place, but were hindered from doing so. This is what I'm- Are you understanding what I mean by God's perplexing providence? Now before we see this this conversion take place, I just mentioned it. Before we just press in there for a moment. Can I can I just point something out that might be practically useful for you? And this involves actually you picking up even though you maybe you're looking on a device, but if you have your Bible, chapter 16, and it's open They couldn't get right into we're here in chapter 16, couldn't get to Asia. God said no. And if you just I want you to just do it in your own Bible, like flip a page, or it might be for two Pages to chapter 19, verse 10. Look at Acts 19:10. Paul's there in Ephesus now, and he's preaching, and it says this continued, his ministry in Ephesus. for two years so that all the residents of Asia heard the word of the Lord, both Jews and Greeks. So in Acts 16, they don't know that's coming. They're just, they have good aspirations, gospel aspirations. God saying no. What they don't realize at that point is all we gotta do is flip a page or two and there it is God was doing the thing they were wanting to do and I would just submit to you I would commend to you thinking about your life that way You might have to wait till eternity to see it. But in view of the eternal mourning of his mercies, you will be your your most bitter, difficult, painful providences. That seem to be going on forever, it it will be like turning the page and seeing the result. And I'm not just making that up because Paul actually says in 2 Corinthians 4 that these afflictions are light and momentary in view of the eternal weight of glory that God's preparing. So back to Lydia here. God's provided co-laborers. He's provided Timothy in the pain of losing out on Barnabas. He's provided dis direction through disruption of plans, and now he's going to see him provide fruit. From this very strange travel itinerary that the missionary team has traveled on. Verse 14: one who heard was a woman named Lydia from the city of Thyatira A seller of purple goods, she was a worshiper of God, and we're told the Lord opened her heart to pay attention to what was said by Paul. So here we are through this strange providence, the Lord led Paul and his missionary team to bring the good news to Lydia. And even after all of that. She didn't have the resources in and of herself to even receive the good news God, we're told, opened her heart to pay attention to the word, to receive the word. So God, after all of this work of getting them there He's the one who had to provide fruit from the work by opening the heart of this woman to give heed to the word. Apart from him, we preach the word in vain and we hear the word in vain Which is why I'm so often driven to those words in John 6 that it's the Spirit who gives life and the flesh is no help at all. That's what we sang about earlier. Twas the same love that spread the feast that sweetly drew us in, else we had still refused to taste and perished in our sin. We'd rather, in and of ourselves, we'd rather starve than come to him and the feast of his salvation. Lydia could not come to God without the Lord opening her heart, but he did. And she believed and she was baptized and she became a hostess for this missionary team. And thus was birthed, with very small beginnings, a little outpost of God's saving activity on the continent of Europe. the first fruits of a church that would become very dear to the Apostle Paul, the church in Philippi. Right, you read through the letter of Philippians, did you see this affection? Right, I I thank God in all my remembrance for you. I yearn for you all with the affection of Christ, he says to the Philippians. And it all started when God said no to some good plans that his servants had. God perplexingly provides everything needed for the advance of his unstoppable gospel. That's I think the teaching of the passage. One concluding application or something. Something that I hope is practically useful. I hope I've already said some things that have been practically useful, but let me base press down on it for a few more minutes I would commend to you that you labor and if that'd be a great thing to talk about over dinner tonight or in a small group this week or as you interact with each other, how do you actually do this? Like what does this look like Uh John Flavel in his book on providence commends the discipline of journaling as a way of doing this, but labor to read God's perplexing providences through the lens of his saving providence to you in Christ. This is applicable not just for church ministry. I I'm talking about I mean I'm talking about that. I'm talking about buildings. And members' meetings and difficult and apparently fruitless evangelism, but also frustrated career aspirations or estranged. relationships with loved ones or illnesses that will not seem to go away. Labor to read God's perplexing providences through the lens of his saving providence to you in Christ. And here's what I mean by that, if that's not entirely clear. I don't need to tell you, I'm sure, that whether it's right now what you're experiencing or sometime down the road, you will share, you'll know your share of painful and perplexing providences. The secret things belong to the Lord, we're told in the scriptures. And there's no trite thing that I or any pastor or church member could say to alleviate or remove those burdens But on the basis of this text, I would encourage you to ponder and even to share with other people the providential ways that God moved to bring his message of salvation to you. and to give you a heart to pay attention and hear it. Reflect on the very fact That God's overriding and thwarting your plans is the way that He actually brought to you the greatest good in your life, which is eternal life. Maybe that's why we have no record of Paul grumbling, contrary to what we saw the people of Israel, in Exodus chapter sixteen. Maybe this is why we have no record of Paul murmuring about all these frustrated plans of his, because he had learned a secret, the rare jewel of Christian contentment He had learned that the greatest way that God showed his kindness and faithfulness to Paul was by shutting down his plans. That's how Paul got saved. If we go back to chapter 9 of Acts, he was running a hell-bound race. Paul was on his way. His plan was to go to Damascus to harass and arrest followers of Jesus. And thank God God frustrated his plans and saved him. And that's what he's done with all of us if we're here in Christ. I once was lost in darkest night, yet thought I knew the way. The sin that promised joy and life had led me to the grave. Well, how on earth did we get here then? How did we get here singing about Father all glorious? Or all victorious, come and reign over us, ancient of days. How could we be here singing that? I mean, did you mean that when we sang that earlier? You are the glorious one, you're the victorious one. Come and reign over us. If you sang that and meant it, how did that happen? It was not because you and God worked together, like collaborated together, how to had to devise a plan. You were dead, you were hardened, you were alienated, you were obstinate. When you were dead, God chose to make you to present you holy and blameless and above reproach before Him through the sacrifice of Jesus. Jesus made a very long and arduous journey with apparently fruitless ministry in his life. He came from heaven to earth And lived a life of poverty. Foxes have holes and the birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head, and he did that in love. His love moved him to give of himself, and all that happened at the end of his life was that everybody. ran away from him, mocked him, taunted him, crucified him, but this was God's mysterious providence to bring salvation to the world. That by his resurrection, men and women and children might be drawn to him and be forgiven and give their lives so that he might reign over us and that we might joyfully tell of it. And even once that had happened, he still had to work in your life and mine to give you a heart to hear that and actually make you say amen like you're saying. If you came to faith as a child, in a home where you were taught the Word of God and brought to church Praise God for that. You did not put yourself in that family. That was the kind provision of God's providence to you. And you couldn't make your heart open. I'm speaking to you kids right now who are listening to me. If you are here today, it is a kind providence of God to you that you have a family that brings you to church and cares for you and speaks the word to you. But you need to understand, kids, that your just being here and hearing those words does not make you a Christian. You have to receive the word. And you actually need God's help to do that. You can't do that on your own. But you should, if you don't know that that's happened to you, pray and ask God, help me, God, to believe this word. And this is a very kind providence of you that he's put you in a family and in a church where this gospel word is held before you. Come and believe in him today, even kids. If you came to faith later in life, oh praise God for his providence and ponder and reflect and tell others about the mind-blowing set of circumstances Your plans that were thwarted, your desires that were stifled, the different turns and choices and desires and setbacks and apparently random acts by which you came to hear this word. I I was I was uh two Saturdays ago, I was sitting at a hotel right across from the campus of University of Maryland talking to my friend Joe Crispin, who's a basketball coach at Penn State University. And we were just talking. He was talking about just how unlikely it was that he even ended up as a student and as a basketball player at Penn State 25 years ago See how the he was just chronicling the set of circumstances. It makes no sense that I'm even at Penn State. And all as he's talking the whole time I'm just hearing, if you're not at Penn State, I'm not saved. I mean I know there's God has other ways, but I'm just saying he was the All the circumstances, it would blow your mind if you were to conceive of all the different Ways that God was orchestrating events to bring you into contact with that word and to open your heart to hear it. So rejoice what I'm commending. Rejoice in all those little things that you never could have seen coming or planned your own way. And remember. If God so ordered and governed those circumstances so as to bring the gospel to you and to open your heart to receive it, what good thing would he possibly withhold from you? Amen. Rejoice today in a savior who, having used his providential oversight to transfer you from darkness into his marvelous light, will never, no, never, no, never Use that same providence to do you harm. He will never use his providence to do harm to you or to Chevrolet Baptist Church, even on Sunday afternoon at Greenbelt. You may not have all the answers that you want about what the Lord is doing in your life. I'm in fact I'm sure you don't have all the answers. That you want about what the Lord is doing in your life, why he's not using you maybe the way you thought you'd be used, or why this or that person that you've been praying for or speaking to hasn't come to faith in Christ, or why this professional door keeps shutting or why this affliction has come or why this comfort has been denied. But in the gospel, beloved, if you're here in Christ, you have a rock solid assurance in every perplexing providence that He is absolutely sovereign over every weapon formed against you. and that he is unwaveringly, almightily for you, that he will be committed to doing you good in all the details and circumstances of your life. every day with all of his heart and soul. And he will continue doing that until that day, that day we're gonna sing about very shortly, when we sing with all the saints of old, blessing and glory and wisdom. And thanksgiving and honor and power and might be to our God forever and ever. Amen. Turn to the book of Revelation. Go through it column by column. You will not find a member of that heavenly assembly. Who is the slightest bit dissatisfied with God's work in their lives when all is said and done? You could put that whole heavenly assembly, Joseph. And Naomi, and Paul, and Job, and Johnny Erickson Tada, and Helen Rosevere, and John Bunyan. Do I have time to go with John Bunyan? Probably know John Bunyan. He wrote what? Pilgrim's Progress. John Bunyan wrote Pilgrim's Progress. Do you know where John Bunyan was when he wrote Pilgrim's Progress? He was in jail. For preaching the gospel. Because it was a re it was an illegal religious meeting where he was actually preaching the gospel from the Bible. And he was in jail for 12 years, separated from his wife, his children, his dear daughter Mary Who uh was blind and his heart just broke for her, but he would not waver in his commitment to the gospel. And then the laws changed, and he was freed after 12 years. But it was during that time he wrote what is the most widely published book real uh in the history of the English language, other than the Bible. And I think it's beyond historical doubt that John Bunyan's life and ministry have had an impact on Christ's church that would have never happened if he was never put in jail in the first place. I don't believe. I've never met him. I look forward to getting to know him in the new heavens and the new earth, but I don't think he would have the slightest measure of dissatisfaction with what the Lord did in his life. Now that he's around that throne. The journey may be tumultuous, it may be exhausting, but our faithful Savior and our Almighty Provider will see to it that we make it safely home. All who trust in him will never be put to shame. So cheer up, my brother. Cheer up, my sister. Live in the sunshine. We'll understand it all by and by. Heavenly Father, we pray that you would help us. Help us to trust in you when we can't really make sense of what you're doing in our lives. When your answer to our prayers is no or not yet In the difficulty of waiting, in the temptations to grumble and to murmur, to be discouraged, or to be angry, or anxious Would you help us to remember who you are and how faithful you've shown yourself to be in our lives personally, in the life of our church? And would you help us To hold fast to that coming day when we will declare with all of your people gathered in eternal bliss, blessing and glory and wisdom and thanksgiving and honor and power and might be to our God for ever and ever. We ask this all in Jesus' name. Amen.