To borrow an illustration from a pastor friend of mine, some of you have may have seen that movie that science museums were featuring a few decades ago called Powers of Ten. It starts with a photograph of a of a couple sitting on the beach on Lake Michigan next to Chicago. And you're looking at them, and then it pans back by a power of 10. So now you're looking at the couple together with some of the neighborhood. Then it pans back again and you see all of Chicago and more of Lake Michigan. Then it pans back again and you see Illinois and Wisconsin and Indiana, and then another ten and the United States and then the whole globe and then A solar system and eventually the Milky Way showing you different things at each of these different perspectives, right? And then the camera comes racing back in, and now you're looking at the the couple again, except now it it then moves in by power of a tin and you're looking at the man's hand. Moves in more and you're looking at like a hair follicle. And in further, and you see cellular structure, and then in further, and you see atomic life. The point is clear, I think. At each of these different levels, you see And you learn different things. And I think we do the same thing when we are looking at the Bible. We see some things when we look at the Bible's what are called natural literary divisions that might be a psalm or a story or a parable that's the couple on the beach right but then we can move in and look just at a sentence Or move in even closer and just look at a word. What is that word saying? Or we can move out. We can look at that that natural literary division, that couple, in the context of the whole book. or a whole genre, or a whole testament. And there's value from time to time switching the order at which you look at things. because the Lord has wonderful things for us all. And from time to time in the life of this church, I have preached whole books of the Bible. uh Deuteronomy, Ruth, Ecclesiastes, 1 Thessalonians, and a number of others. You could you can go to ChevrolyBaptist. org and see different ones that I've done. This week, next week, and in early March, I'm going to preach 1 Timothy, 2 Timothy, and Lord willing early March, Titus. To get a view, a global view of those books. To get a global view, you might say of the three books that are called the pastorals. Titus, 1st and 2 Timothy, called that because it's the words of an older pastor, Paul, to a younger pastor. Timothy and Titus. And the goal of an overview sermon like this is to take the weight of the book as a whole and rest it on our hearts. Oh Lord, what would you have for us if we were to sum up the message of 1 Timothy? Now, when you're doing a book as a whole like this, you can't get down and explore all the valleys and ridges and canyons that you might want to explore. So I'm gonna say some things, read some verses, and you're gonna be like, oh, can we talk about that? And I'll be like, yep, we're moving on. And if you have further questions, you'll have to maybe come up to me afterwards or talk to me or one of the elders throughout the week. There's going to be a number of that. But again, we're trying to get a weight, a sense of the globe of 1 Timothy. That's what we're trying to do. And as I said, it's a personal letter to Timothy. It's all of Paul's letters are to churches. Except for four. First, Second Timothy, Titus, and Philemon, which means it's a very personal letter. Turn to 1 Timothy. And let me just encourage you to keep the Bible on your lap open. Through the course of this term sermon, I'm going to point again and again, and it'll just help you see and remember and follow along and kind of Keep inside the sermon as as we go along. Look at the first couple of verses of our book at 1 Timothy. Paul An apostle of Christ Jesus by command of God our Savior and of Christ Jesus our hope to he doesn't say a church, Corinthians, Galatians, Philippians. He says to Timothy. My true child in the faith, grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father in Christ Jesus our Lord. And if we were to look at some of the other letters of Paul in the New Testament, we would see Timothy's name show up six different times, not to him, but in these cases from him. In other words, Timothy had traveled around with Paul from city to city doing ministering at one point in their gospel partnership together they go to Ephesus and then Paul leaves Ephesus to go to Macedonia and he leaves Timothy there in Ephesus to do further work. Look at chapter 1, verse 3. As I urged you when I was going to Macedonia, remain at Ephesus So that, he's got a job for him, so that you may charge certain persons not to teach any different doctrine And I think this relationship between Paul and Timothy presents our first application, first lesson for us. The question for us is: friends, who are you pouring into? Who is your Timothy? I mean, none of us are Apostle Paul's, but we have to start somewhere, right? Following Jesus means helping others follow Jesus. So think around the room. Who are the people you're praying for? Who are the people that you're looking particularly as you have occasion to invest in? Teens, if you intend to follow Jesus, this applies to you too. Teens, you're not too young to be doing this. Who are you helping, trying to help follow Jesus? Look at verse 3 again, because I think we see the point of the book as a whole right there. As I urged you when I was going to Macedonia, remain at Ephesus so that you may charge certain persons not to teach any different doctrine, nor to devote themselves to myths and endless genealogies which promote speculations. Rather than the stewardship from God that is by faith. The aim of our charge is love that issues from a pure heart, good conscience, a sincere faith. Timothy is charged. What's the burden of book? Timothy is charged not to teach different doctrine. And the aim of this charge, verse 5, is love. A pure heart. Faith. And then look at verse 18. This charge I entrust to you, Timothy, my child Now quickly flip to chapter 6. Look at the very end, the last couple of verses of the letter, verse 20, chapter 6, verse 20. O Timothy, guard the deposit entrusted to you. Avoid the irreverent babble in contradiction of what is falsely called knowledge. Or by professing it, some have swerved from the faith. Grace be with you. So if we're looking at the book ends of the letter. We can see what the letter is essentially about. I placed it on the top of page nine of your bulletins for note-taking Off of page nine. Amidst all the challenges and temptations to swerve, here's the point for us. Amidst all the challenges and temptations to swerve, we must fight. Keep the church, God's pillar and buttress of truth and the family of God, fixed on right gospel doctrine And I want you to write in there and write living. Write gospel doctrine and write living. And notice as I sum this up, I'm using that word fight. Well, that's because Paul uses the word fight. Uh look at 118 one more time. He tells Timothy to Timothy to wage the good warfare. Look at chapter 6 verse 12. Chapter 6 verse 12. See, I told you I'm going to point you a lot. Keep your eyes down. Fight the good fight of the faith. Now, more than once over the years, I've said to my daughter, daughters, I want to grow some fight in you One of my jobs as their dad is to cultivate a right sense of fight in them When they're encountering difficulties and challenges and temptations in life. Even just yesterday, one daughter was uh dealing with a very difficult homework assignment and was tempted to me a little wither a little bit and I said sweetheart what what what I want what do I want you to have and she's like fight That's right. I said, okay, say it after me. I'm gonna crush this. And she's like, uh I remember when another daughter was younger and playing softball for the first time and stepping up to the plate and a little nervous about the pitch gumming. I'm like, okay, this is what you're gonna say. I want that ball, give me that ball. I want that ball. Give me, that's right. Say that again. If you go up to the plate, I want that ball. And so Paul is speaking to a younger man in the faith, son in the faith. And he wants that bite, that gurr. Friends, that's what we want. Ourselves, the challenges and the temptations come after us To work that gurr, a fight, to remain faithful, to guard the good deposit, right doctrine and right living in each other Paul is commending to Timothy. Now, insofar as I'm trying to show you the globe, summarize the point of 1 Timothy as a whole, there's five temptations that you see in your notes. Five temptations that I see together with a charge that follows temptations. And you can you can write in the temptations as I give you give them to you. Number one, man-centered theologizing. Write that down. Man-centered theologizing. theologizing, building doctrine through our speculations, you might say He charges Timothy with guarding right doctrine and a right view of the law. You see in chapter 1, the beginning, in the middle, chapter 4, chapter 6 at the end, it's the focus of the letter. Look at 1-6. Certain persons, by swerving from these, have wandered away into vain discussion, desiring to be teachers of the law, without understanding either what they are saying or the things about which they make confident assertions Now we know that the law is good if one uses it lawfully. And a right view of the law, look down at verse 11, a right view of the law will be in accordance With the gospel, the glory of the blessed God with which I have been entrusted. We've been entrusted Now, some people in Ephesus were shipwrecking their faith because they weren't fighting with a gur in guarding good doctrine. Look at. 19, verse 19, chapter 1. By rejecting this, some have made a shipwreck of their faith. Among whom are Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I've handed over to Satan, that they may that they may learn not to blaspheme. Uh flip over to chapter four. Chapter four. Verse 1. Now the Spirit expressly says that in later times some will depart from the faith by devoting themselves to deceitful spirits and the teachings of demons. Look at verse 6. If you put these things before the brothers, you will be a good servant of Christ Jesus, being trained in the words of the faith and of good doctrine that you have followed. I mean he's he's he's trying to fasten us down in the words the words of the faith I want to get the right Words and my sentences and paragraphs that declare what I and you believe that will fasten us down in the faith and keep us from shipwrecking our faith Look at chapter 6, verse 2. Chapter 6, end of verse 2. Teach and urge these things. If anyone teaches a different doctrine and does not agree with the sound words of our Lord Jesus Christ and the teaching that accords with godliness, he is puffed up and With conceit and understands nothing. And finally look at verse twenty. Timothy guard the good, deposit, and trusted to you. The temptation to swerve is perennial. It belongs to every time, every era. You know, we don't know a lot about the false teachers and uh that were in Ephesus and can And challenging the believers in Ephesus. They seemed to have adopted certain views of the Jewish law that were leading them astray. Hard to know exactly, but it was leading to vain discussions. speculations. Okay, I know Paul said these things, but let's let's think about this. Well what if speculating And how easy that is to do, how easy it is for our doctrine to become man-centered. It depends on our works. Or it depends on our speculations, as opposed to God's truth. Let me give you an example, a recent example of what I mean, and I choose it precisely. because it's so subtle. I'm not trying to pick on this particular individual, but I I think there's something there worth observing. Last week a prominent evangelical leader tweeted For the life of me, I don't get the appeal of Jonathan Edwards to many. And the person went on to quote that line in a famous Edwards sermon, Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God, about Our lives being like spiders hovering over an eternal fire. Edwards is contemplating the final judgment. And hell. And the writer shares her experience of coming to Jesus. She says, what drew me to God was merciful, beautiful Jesus. I guess what I'm trying to say is I'm no big theologian, but I don't think you're a spider, and I don't think God abhors you. She also observes, I got nothing if I don't have strong feelings. I'm happy to discuss Edwards and whether or not he's faithful to the Bible. In some ways, we know he was not. Clearly not. Let's look at the Bible and then let's look at Edwards. Let's do it that way. Yeah, what struck me about the tweet, the reason it caught my attention, is because she didn't argue from the biblical text. She argued from her feelings, what she liked. Didn't like. To be candid, I don't like I tend to like spiders. I mean real ones like granddaddy long legs and riding spiders, Charlotte and all. It's a form of reasoning that philosopher Alastair McIntyre labels emotivism. It's in some ways the reigning philosophy of our day. We know we can't trust truth as people present it to us. Or as God supposedly revealed it to us, therefore, we look inside, we look deep inside to our deepest emotions and intuitions and feelings. It's the sort of thing you hear when somebody says, Well, I tend to think God is like In which you know that whatever words the person says next will tell you more about that person than they actually tell you about God. Our culture is awash in emotivism, and even Christians like this tweeter can pick up the habit. I mean, after all, didn't we all growing up listening, you can't. Students in my classroom, you can't finally trust the pastors or the philosophers or the policemen or your parents. Look to your heart. What is your heart telling you? We learned. Doesn't this lead to speculation about what I know must be true And then the eventual shipwrecking of so many people's faith. See it all around us. Now sometimes our hearts are right. The Bible is always right. You need to have a about that. Let's not speculate For to guard the good deposit God has given to us in the gospel. Look at what Paul calls the church. Look at chapter 3, verse 15. What is the church? It's the pillar and the buttress, the foundation of truth. It holds the foundation, the pillar holds the house, right? The church is the pillar, the foundation of the truth. The nations rage against the Lord and his anointed ones, says Psalm 2, but it's the church, and we're the ones to hold on to it. Rest of the world, the rest of the nations, but oppose it. Look at chapter 1, verse 15. Chapter 1, verse saying, the saying is trustworthy and deserving of full acceptance. The Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I'm the foremost. But I receive mercy for this reason, that in me, as the foremost, says Paul, Jesus Christ might display his perfect patience as an example to those who were to believe in him for eternal life. This is the good news that above all else we're to protect with a gur. Right? Christ Jesus, the Son of God, came into the world To save terrible sinners like Paul, murderer of Christians. That's why Jesus came into the world. That's the good deposit at the very heart We're to guard. So if you're here this morning, you don't understand yourself to be a Christian, this is the wonderful good news of the gospel. Jesus Christ came to save terrible sinners like you and me, like Paul, the murderer of Christians. Or let me let me follow Paul's example and point to myself. I was opposed to God. I grew up hearing about Christianity and even some sense believing it from the child time I was a young age, yet and then high school, college, I wanted the world, so I pursued the world. I hurt myself. I hurt others. I broke God's law. And yet, Jesus. to demonstrate his perfect faith came to save me. A testimony to that And so is every other member of this church who could share the same testimony as Paul. You have more questions about this, friend, I'd be happy to talk to you afterwards. The second temptation Paul is concerned with, which we discover in chapter 2, the despising of authority. The despising of authority He responds by charging us to pray for and respect God-given authority. First, he he talks about the authority of government. Look at chapter 2, verse 1. First of all, then I urge that supplications, prayers, intercessions, and thanksgivings be made. for all people, for kings, and all who are in high positions, as as as Luke did this morning in his pastoral prayer. Why why do we pray for kings and so forth and presidents and and Joe Biden as he Did. Well, that we may lead a peaceful and quiet life, godly and dignified in every way. Well, why do we want that? This is good and is pleasing in the sight of God, our Savior, who desires all people to be saved. And to come to a knowledge of the truth. Why should Christians pray for good government? And insofar as we have stewardships Whether as a cupbearer to the king or as a voter, why should we work for good government? Well, because government, when it's doing its job rightly. Provides the necessary conditions for the work of making disciples and salvation. That's what we see in these verses here. The government's job is to Clear the path, smooth the road, set the stage, build the platform for the work of the church and disciple-making. We don't want a government that thinks it can offer redemption, but one that views its work as setting the stage. Acting as a prerequisite for the work of redemption. In other words, it builds the streets. So that you can drive to church. It protects the womb. So you can live and hear the gospel. It strives to keep interest rates low, to prevent usury, says the government of the Old Testament over over, and a stable currency As even Jesus alludes to when he says this belongs to Caesar, so that we can make money and our money can then be given to the work of missions, rendered to God. What is God's? It insists on fair lending practices so you can own a home and offer hospitality to non-Christians. It seeks to treat all people equally in these ways. It so often hasn't. It protects marriage in the family by not redefining marriage or by kicking strip clubs out of the city so that husbands and wives can better model. Christ's love for the church. It polices the streets so that you are free to assemble as churches Friends, who should you vote for in the next election? Well, vote who whoever has a right understanding, the best understanding of government's prerequisite work to the work of the church. Now a few verses later Paul turns from authority in the nation to authority in the church. Look at verse 12, chapter 2, verse 12. I do not permit a woman to teach or to exercise authority over a man. Rather, she is to remain quiet. Some argue that this only applied in Paul's day, but it's hard to maintain that insofar as the grounds he gives for this in creation. Look at verse 13. For why that? For Adam was formed first in Eve. And then look at chapter 3, verse 1. The saying is trustworthy. If anyone aspires to the office of overseer, he desires a noble task. Apparently, it is a noble task to be an over. And finally, in the first verses of chapter 6, Paul offers a similar word to those who are stuck, can't get out of slavery Get your freedom if he can, he says elsewhere, but if you're stuck, well, this is how you do it. Incidentally, this is Clearly one of the canyons we'd want to kind of bring our plane down into and look around. Look at John's sermon from Colossians 3, verse 22 to 401. Go to the website, John's sermon from a couple of years ago Colossians 3, verse 22 to chapter 4, verse 1, it is an excellent treatment of slavery in the New Testament and how we are to regard it. at the beginning of chapter 6. But the larger point right now is that a healthy church apparently is one where authority and the members respect authority. Clearly, this is a tough message in our day. Maybe you think especially so. Especially puff and Paul's, too. That's why he's addressing these matters. What do we make of it? Well again, since we're trying to get the whole globe, as much as we we should I'd love to spend more time here, let me make three quick comments for now. Number one Authority, as God intends it, is not given for the good of the one in authority. It's given for the good of the one under authority. Authority, as God intends it, is given for the purpose of authoring life. It authors, authority Life, as God Himself did in creation with His authority. He authored a world and then He calls us to do the same. You are pouring yourself out for the good to create life and growth and prosperity. The ones that you are leading. The ones you are leading should be stronger. And protected by virtue of your good leadership because good leadership is the one to bear the costs. Bad leadership pushes costs down Good leadership, good authority, draws costs upward into itself and bears those costs. For the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve and to give his life as a ransom. Or many. A very simple illustration of this. One time I was sitting on my couch and my sweet nine-year-old was in the room. I said, sweetie, can you go get me a glass of water? Because I knew the nine-year-old would be happy to get Daddy a glass of water. Now, we can debate whether or not that was a selfish or unselfish thing. of me to do. But notice what I was doing then and there in my heart. I was pushing costs of getting up out of the chair downward. Because I knew I could. Now there might be other good reasons for me to teach my daughter to honor her father in those ways. Still, I know my heart That was a wrong use of my authority instead of drawing costs upward for the sake of those I lead. Second, I said three things to observe. Second, why the restriction on women as elders? Well, Paul ties it here pretty clearly to marriage And to a husband's headship over a wife. Again, in verse 13, he says, for Adam was formed first, and Eve was deceived first. He says in verse 14, what's going on here? Well, in creation and the fall alike, in creation there was to be a headship, and in the fall there was the reversion. of that headship. And Paul is just alluding to that fact. Yet he calls the husband to serve him by acting as the head and the wife to serve him as acting as the body. And in this, in turn, we learn elsewhere in Paul that this represents Christ, the church God had theological lessons to teach, theological purposes for this ordering. Neither husband nor wife is better or worse. They're both created equally in God's image entirely. Neither of them should use their station as head or body to serve themselves. Instead, both serve the other. And God, albeit from different roles. And husbands, if they are doing this right should be undertaking the harder, more costly job. Again, that's what authority means. So notice Paul's rationale starts in marriage and the family, and yet then he transfers this to the church. I don't permit a woman to teach, for Adam was formed first. So first in creation and the marriage, and then transfers this to the church. Well, why does he do that? Well, the church is the household of God, the family of God. Look at chapter 5, verse 1. Do not rebuke an older man, but encourage him as you would a father, younger men as brothers. Older women as mothers, younger women as sisters in all purity. In other words, God intends for the ordering of marriage to be reflected in the church. Now that doesn't mean all women in the church submit to all men in the church by no means. It does mean That God intends for elders to assume a husband-like role of watching over and leading the church. And He limits this to men, therefore. A third comment. It's worth observing, and this is not specifically from this text, but I think we see this when we pan back and look at the Bible as a whole. It's worth observing the unique nature of a husband And an elder's authority. The Bible as a whole teaches there are two types of authority, authority of command and authority of counsel. Parents and governments possess an authority of command. That means they are given a tool for discipline, an enforcement mechanism. Parents have the power of the Fraud. Governments have the power of the sword. Implements of enforcement. Husbands and pastors also have authority, but the charge is given to the wives to submit. What charge is given to husbands or elders? Are they given an enforcement mechanism? Are they given the power of discipline? Scan your eyes over the Bible. Think of one instance where that occurs. Husbands do not have, elders do not have the power of discipline or enforcement. What this does is dramatically change the nature of how that authority is to be used. It's never to be used with a threat like you might with your three-year-old, go to bed now because I said. Husbands and elders should never talk that way Instead, they employ the power of love, trust, patience, forbearance. Playing the long game. Live with your wives in an understanding way, says Peter to husbands. Teach with all patience. says Paul to elders. We work to win the congregation, win our wives. through our gentle, loving, tender example. That's how husband authority, elder authority is to work So if a husband ever, or an elder ever, begins to raise his voice, emotionally manipulate Certainly raise a hand. He is doing what is unauthorized. He is becoming a God unto himself at that moment. And he will receive the judgment of God. God even warns, husbands, you do this, I'm not even gonna listen to you. Listen to your prayers. And the solution to bad authority is not no authority, but good authority. And good authority should leave those under it saying, yes, I'm so grateful. Or this man's authority in my life. Strong because of it. I got gurr because of it. Husbands? Ask your wives sometime, how are you doing there? Do they feel stronger and protected because of you Or do they feel taken advantage of because of how you use your authority? Give me some water. Much more to say here, including what we find in the third temptation, temptation three, an undue emphasis on charisma and talent and leadership an undue emphasis on charisma and talent and leadership. Paul doesn't actually refer to charisma and talent talent and leadership as such. I'm just using those words as stanzens For anything that might draw our attention away from what he does emphasize, what does really count. Character, look and look at the charge there. character and godliness. In other words, prioritize in the church, Timothy, character over charisma or competence. That's what I'm looking for in the leaders. Character. These other things are kind of sparkly. They grant grab our attention. Man, listen to him preach. He's so charismatic. Oh, he's incredible. No, don't look for that. That's fine. Nothing wrong with that. Look for character. Sometimes Christians are surprised when they search for an elder's job description in the Bible. Only to discover that the authors are much more systematic in describing an elder's character. Look at chapter 3, verse 2. Therefore, an elder overseer must be above reproach, the husband of one wife, sober-minded, self-controlled, respectable, hospitable, able to teach, not a drunkard, not violent, but gentle, not quarrelsome, not a lover of money. He must manage his own household well with all dignity, keeping his children submissive. I think also interesting is the fact that these descriptions of an elder's character point to attributes that, well, really should Characterize every Christian. He's sober-minded, self-controlled, respectable, hospitable, not a drunkard, not violent, but gentle, not quarrelsome, not a lover of. . I mean, shouldn't we all be that? And it's like, really, that's what you're gonna call for? Sober-minded? I mean, okay. Seems like we could aspire a little bit of sober-minded. Why why why that? Well, Paul doesn't require something extraordinary of elders. He deliberately is not doing that. Started seven orphanages, spearheaded a revival that thousands got saved at. Why the ordinary, does he emphasize, as opposed to the extraordinary? Well, because an elder's job is to demonstrate the ordinary. To be set forward as an example. He does the ordinary, extraordinarily well, you might say. Elders don't constitute a separate class. of Christians, aristocracy, peasants, medieval priests, lady. They aren't that. They're just Christians Christians who are faithfully following in the way of Christ and before whom we can hold up in front of the church and say, hey, Christian, is he following Christ so You follow Christ. There's a sense in which you said you might say an elder is one who holds a hammer and saw and uses it and then places the hammer and saw in your hands. Or he he sits down and plays the piano scale and says, Okay, now you set down. and sit down and you play that scale. Do as I do. There's a sense in which an elder's whole life is show and tell. You guys remember show and tell? Here's my bear, touch my bear. Well that's that's an elder's life. Here's what it's like to be dedicated to the Bible. Here's what it's like to endure a season of suffering. Here's what it's like to love your wife and children. Here's what it's like to be generous and interested in justice. Here's what it's like. Do you guys remember Tom Bennett, who we were planning on nominating as an elder? Here's what it's like to die well, slowly from cancer. That's the elder's job. In other words, the New Testament small spends far more ink on elder qualifications than on a job description because the qualifications are the job description His job is to live out the Christian life before the church in word and deed so they can follow. And the fact that Setting an example is central to an elder's work is one reason why you want a plurality of elders. If if the work is to lay down a way of life that every Christian can follow churches benefit from having more than just one. We can learn from watching from men in different vocations and different Personality types and different strengths and weaknesses, you friends, would be robbed, I guarantee it, if you had to look to just me. Instead, you have a number of men, different kinds of men. And we got John and John and Jonathan and Jonathan, real diversity. Luke and William. But how different are these men? None of us perfectly Again, you'd be robbed by having any one of us, but as you take them together, hopefully it's beginning to come into view kind of through the fog Okay, this is the life that we are to follow as a church, right? Look at chapter 4, verse 15. Chapter 4, verse 15. Practice these things, immerse yourself in them, Timothy, so that may all may see your progress. There's your show and tell. Keep a close watch on yourself and on the teaching, yourself, your life, and on the teaching. What you're saying, your word, your deeds and your words. Persist in this, for by doing this you will save both yourself and your hearers. Elders, persist In guarding your words and your life, for by that we will save ourselves, and in some sense, salvation depends on our persisting in us. Lest people be led astray. They shipwreck their faith. Church, pray for your elders. Men in the church, do you aspire to be an elder? Paul says, men, if you aspire to be an elder, you desire what's good. So why wouldn't you? What selfishness is holding you back? Aspiring? To set an example? Shepherd? Block Not all men will be louders. It's a good thing, a desire. Temptation 4. Autonomy and selfishness In our natural fallen selves, we don't want to submit to anyone, we want to be autonomous, we don't want to serve anyone, we want to be selfish, yet just as the church is to be a pillar and buttress of truth, so the church is to be the household the family of God. Our charge therefore is to stop being autonomous and selfish and treat one another as family, especially the vulnerable. Look at 3. 15 again. We are the household of God. And that's why chapter 5, Paul exhorts us: do not rebuke an older man, encourage him as you would a father, younger men as brothers, older women as mothers, younger women as sisters. And then notice, look at chapter 5. Paul talks about widows from chapter verse 3 all the way to 16. Uh widows in that setting wouldn't have had social security checks or retirement accounts. They needed someone taking care of them. Ideally, family, and if not family, Paul says the church. Church, we should be looking for ways to care for the most vulnerable among us. I asked you at the beginning, who's your Timothy, let me ask you this, who's your widow Who are the people in this church who you have a mind to pray for, to care for, to give to as you can? That's what being a Christian is. Temptation 5. The seductions of power and wealth. The seductions of power and wealth. Our charge therefore is to watch for the challenges of power and wealth He's concerned with the temptations of power in the second half of chapter 5 with elders, and he's concerned about the temptations of wealth for most of chapter six. Notice notice the careful balance Paul has in this letter. He tells the church to care for the vulnerable, but then he does charge widows to do good works and to care for others and sit of not just sit around, as it were. At the same time, he tells us to honor authority, but then he also warns against the temptations of authority. Look at 517, chapter 5, verse 17. He says to honor the elders, but now look at verse 19. Do not admit a charge against an elder except on the evidence of two or three witnesses. As for those who persist in sin, rebuke them in the presence of all. Hold them up as an example. Rebuke them in the presence of all, so that the rest may stand in fear. Look at verse 22 of chapter 5. You not be hasty in the laying of hands or take part in the sins of others. Well, why shouldn't we be hasty in making a man an elder and laying on of hands is what he means by that. Well look at verse 24. The sins of some people are conspicuous. Going before them to judgment. But the sins of others appear later. And they look good in the beginning. Just wait. Your sins show up Be hasty, making a man an elder. But improve his character, because an elder with bad character can do terrible damage. Too often do. Therefore, Paul says when an elder does this, he's to be held up in front of the church. Be rebuked publicly. All loves good authority. All Jesus hates bad authority To keep our eyes on both. Always be aware. Both. Spider the good. Hate. Work against the bad. The bad lies about God. How he uses his authority. Then the bulk of chapter 6 is devoted to the temptations of wealth. Look at verse 3, chapter 6, verse 3. Paul's concern about those who teach a different doctrine. But then look at the verse into verse 5. This ultimately roots, he says, in a desire for financial Game, wrongful game. Look at verse 8. He commends contentedness, even if we have a little. Verse 10, look there. Warns the love of money is the root of all kinds of evil Verse 17, charge the rich not to be haughty and set their hopes on uncertainty of riches, but on God, who richly provides us with everything to enjoy. Instead of money, of course, our minds are to be fixed on God and His righteousness. Look at verse eleven. Pursue righteousness. Not money, guys. Pursue righteousness and godliness and faith and love and steadfastness and gentleness. What you picture two people. Person one, lots of money, wealthy. Not righteous, not godly, not faith-filled, not gentle. Picture person two Not able to provide for his or her own needs, has enough to live on, and be generous as occasion allows And yet righteous, faith-filled, loving, gentle. Which of those two persons, friends, do you want to be? Which of those two people are you working for, working toward in your job, in your family? Love of money, subtle sneaks in Doesn't feel like the root of all kinds of evil. Uh get a little bit more and then I can. Doesn't feel like the root of all kinds of evil, does it? Of course, that's another reason not to trust our feelings, our emotions about what's true. Well, how do we combat such misdirected love? Well look at verse 18. They are to do good. To be rich in works, to be generous, be ready to share. Or to practice giving. More than that, we're to be generous. I kind of want more Oh, do I just pray about it? Okay, pray God, help me to get rid of wanting more. Yes, you do that, but you gotta do more. You actually got to go in the opposite direction. If you're gonna kill this wrongful love, you actually have to walk in the opposite direction And give. I'm gonna be generous. As I'm generous, I'm writing a declaration of independence from greed. That's what I'm doing. Fighting against it. See? In general, the elders of this church would commend you start with 10% of your income. That's not an exact rule. It's just a general practice that I think is wise. But then I think we'd also say, above and beyond that, as you can. Practice spontaneous giving to others. Give a little bit more than you think you can, even. Ask the Lord to provide for you Remember the gr or the have. There it is, friends. There's a global shot of 1 Timothy. Amidst all the challenges and temptations to swerve We must fight to keep the church, God's pillar and buttress of truth, and the family of God, fixed on right gospel doctrine, right living. First Timothy is a very practical letter. Do you know how much practical things kind of came out? In his letter. Yet it also, I hope you noticed, it roots in deep, big God theology. Look finally at chapter 6, verse 12. Fight the good fight of the faith. Take hold of the eternal life to which you were called and about which you've made the good confession in the presence of many witnesses. I charge you in the presence of God, who gives life to all things, and of Christ Jesus. Who, in his testimony before Pontius Pilate, made the good confession to keep the commandment, unstained and freed from reproach, until the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ, which he will display at the proper time He, who is the only blessed and only sovereign, the King of Kings, Lord of Lords, who alone has immortality, who dwells in inapproachable light Whom no one has ever seen or can seen to him be honor, eternal dominion. Amen. And Paul's not finally concerned with our lot in this world. Instead, we're to fight the fight of faith. There's the gurr. How do we do that? Well, we do it by taking hold of eternal life. I'm going to grab eternal life. How do we do that? Well, notice where Paul in verse 13 places himself. He says, I charge you. In the presence of God and of Christ Jesus. Okay, here I am standing here in the presence of God and of Christ Jesus. They're behind me, looking over my shoulder. Okay, standing there With eternity on the line, says Paul, I charge you. Keep the commandment. Keep this good deposit. This gospel, everything I've instructed. I'm standing before God, I'm charging you. Being really careful with my words, because they're they're right there. I charge you. Keep this gospel, keep all these words of instruction I've given you throughout this book. Like Jesus before Pontius Pilate. High stakes Is Jesus not careful with his words? Who is he standing before? Who are we standing before? Well he verse 15. He's the blessed and only sovereign. He's the all-powerful ruler. It says King of Kings and Lord of Lords. That is to say, he's over presidents And prime ministries. He's over commanding officers and employers and husbands and elders and parents. King of kings and Lord of Lords. Take hold of eternity, he says, by realizing that he alone is immortal. He is eternal. None of us are eternal. He is eternal. Take hold of that He dwells in unapproachable light. Think of the cherubim in Isaiah 6 covering their eyes, these fiery ones, covering their eyes, because he is so resplendent. Can't even look at him. Don't casually walk up to him. You're standing before him. Keep the command that I have given you. Guard this deposit that I have given you, Chevrolet Baptist Church. God is the one who deserves honor and eternal dominion. How do we take hold of eternity? We place ourselves at the feet of Him who alone is immortal and possesses eternal dominion. How else will we as a church be a pillar and buttress of the truth? We live, we sit, we worship before Him Who alone is God. Let's pray. Father God, we give you thanks and praise for this little letter written a long time ago by a man named Paul to a man named Timothy. And yet, through your spirit is perfect and errant, authoritative, instructive for us Apply it to our hearts. Help us to walk in the truth. Live in the truth. Protect the truth. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.