And the men were indignant and very angry, because he had done an outrageous thing in Israel by lying with Jacob's daughter. He just hit pause right there. And we see in verse 12 how lucrative this could have been for Jacob and his sons, because Shechem, the prince of the land, basically says, name your price. God made a covenant with Abraham, Jacob and his sons, the forefather of Jacob and his sons, and he made a covenant with Abraham that he would be Abraham's God. They don't care about the people of Shechem coming to know the one true and living God. But the sons are basically saying to their dad, You did nothing. Is that God's grace is greater than all of our sin. When God comes to extract the cancer of sin from the world, he will not only have to extract sin from the people out there, he's going to have to extract it from the hearts of his very own people. They mattered tremendously to God. So what happens in Genesis 34 is terrible, and God judges it on the cross if they believed in Jesus And if something like what happens in Genesis 34 has happened to you and your life, and you're wondering if God cares about it, if God sees it, if he's going to do anything about it, the good news for you is that he is. And the men of Canaan would marry the women of Israel, and together they would become one people. to be transformed in their romantic relationships by not marrying non-Christians. That we would live in a way that honors you, to your glory and our everlasting good. But if you take up what the world is offering, you won't receive any of those things. Amen. If you're using the Bible that we've provided, you'll find the passage on pages 28 and 29. And of how God was using them to bring about the redemption of the world. Came against the city while it felt secure, and killed all the males. Canaan. whatsoever that they even think they've done anything wrong. You know, we're left hoping that maybe they're going to bring some light to this dark chapter, but Moses wants us to know that they are not the heroes we are looking for. And Abraham and his offspring would be his people. Want you to look at what they say in verse 21 and following. And he is pronouncing divine blessings on each of his children. Kill me. Which is why it's not surprising that Simeon and Levi respond the way that they do. You have Shechem and Hamor hiding their greedy intentions from Jacob. As they would later read and hear stories about their forefathers, they would have heard of stories of heroic deeds, like Abraham rescuing Lot. Leading to Absalom taking revenge on his very own family. And that what Jacob's sons do here and think, I have never done anything like this in my life. Which is perfect obedience. By fearfully not standing up to others when we ought to. So that on the day of judgment, when God's righteous wrath is revealed, it will not be poured out on you. I'm guessing that wasn't an application that you expected from this chapter, but I think it's there nonetheless. are being tempted to give up that distinction and that relationship with God by intermarrying with the nations around them. The word, let's pray. And I want to encourage you to keep your Bible open because we're going to be looking often at the passage this morning. See in him your glory revealed to mankind, and that we would cast ourselves fully upon him as the Savior of mankind and as our Lord. And I'm sure if we did, we'd find all sorts of interesting things. It's a story of the forefathers of Israel, of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. But more specifically, it's a human a family history of the nation of Israel. Peace until they came. But Hamor spoke with them, saying, The soul of my son Shechem longs for your daughter. You shall dwell with us, and the land shall be open to you. Let me find favor in your eyes, and whatever you say to me, I will give. They said to them, We cannot do this thing to give our sister to one who is uncircumcised, for that would be a disgrace to us. Now he was the most honored of all his father's house. And we will dwell with you and become one people. Let them dwell in the land and trade in it, for behold, the land is large enough for them. At the end of that chapter, it reads, And Jacob came safely to the city of Shechem, which is in the land of That's not the case. We see there that Dinah, one of Jacob's daughters, goes out to see the women of the land. We see the same pattern multiple times in Genesis, referring to sins that people commit. And Genesis 3, where Eve sins. Things like what happened to Dinah here. more than Leah, and he loved his son Joseph, who came from Rachel, more than his children through Leah, Dinah included. In verses 8 to 12, Hamor and Shechem come to negotiate the marriage of Shechem and Dinah. They tell Jacob and his sons to basically become one people with them, right? They think it's just okay for them to take women whenever they want, to seize them, to lay with them, and to humiliate them according to their good pleasure And the offer they're about to make is a large-scale, deceptive plot to exact revenge on Shechem for what he's done. Of what was supposed to be an inward reality, the inward reality of devotion to and trust in God and his promises. We can't give our sister to someone who's uncircumcised, technically true. And then Simeon and Levi, Dinah's brothers, proceed to kill all the men of the city. And here we see the interconnectedness of sin, don't we? in order to protect people from going above and beyond and exacting bloodthirsty revenge on people who have wronged them. chapter here. And Levi, what they do here is terrible. Self-interest and fear. What would have happened is that the belief would have begun to settle into their hearts that there was something in them that was special. over the nations like the nations of Canaan and the Parizzites and Hivites and Hittites and Jebusites. Good golly, Jacob and his sons are messed up. We have lost the plot. And the darkness of this chapter serves to highlight the staggering glory of the gospel. Scripture is clear. Through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. If you don't understand yourself to be a follower of Jesus or a Christian, that might sound offensive to you. When was it earlier this year? that they have a it's a water park indoors, really fun. Fills up with water. Jacob responds to this display of grace by telling his family to put away their foreign gods that they used to worship. signals to you that the bucket is about to be poured out. Go goosh, just tons of water. He pours that thing out and you get overflowed, knocked down. And for those who have trusted in Jesus, God's grace is to be a transforming grace. to put on new garments, signifying that a transformation is taking place in their lives. Because the last time we saw it was when the one people of the world built the Tower of Babel and were judged by God for it. And by walking away from God. But hey, just think about this in the future. God made to Jacob. Daughters in marriage, through whom you'll have children, the land to dwell in, and material blessing. Because Hamor and Shechem would have taken it. Maybe you've given in to temptation. We might learn of stories of contraptions being invented that changed the world, or heroic deeds being done by people who've gone before us in our family. So Israel's family history had dark chapters. It's a chapter entirely devoid of God. Now Jacob heard that he had defiled his daughter Dinah, but his sons were with his livestock in the field. That you will become as we are by every male among you being circumcised. Their words pleased Hamor and Hamor's son Shechem, and the young man did not delay to do the thing, because he delighted in Jacob's daughter. When every male among us is circumcised as they are circumcised, will not their livestock, their property, and all their beasts be ours? And all who went out of the gate of his city listened to Hamor and his son Shechem. The sons of Jacob came upon the slain and plundered the city, because they had defiled their sister. My numbers are few, and if they gather themselves against me and attack me, I shall be destroyed, both I and my household. Should he treat our sister like a prostitute? So let's go ahead and take a look at the text together. That God's grace is greater than our sin and what that means for how we should live in the week to come. That had been 20 years in the making. And bless him and ultimately bring him back to the land of Canaan, which he promised to give him. Jacob came safely to the city of Shechem, which was in the land of Canaan, and took up residence in it. Yet we also read of the puzzling aftermath in which Shechem falls in love with Dinah and tells his father that he wants to marry her. The very intentional wording that Moses uses. The world is still under the curse of sin. That he would spring into action to defend his daughter's honor. they came. But that's not what Jacob does at all. Wisely restraining himself from doing something foolish in anger, we're gonna see that he never does anything. Amor, Shechem's father comes to Jacob to discuss Shechem's marriage to Dinah, and that conversation continues from verse 8 all the way to verse 24, and not once. And I think that's why you go ahead and look back at verse 1 of chapter 34, that Moses introduces Dinah as the daughter of Leah. They are rightly indignant and very angry at what had happened. This dark chapter is only going to continue getting darker and darker. You can marry our daughters. And then Jacob's sons respond to their offer, and things go from bad to worse. The sons of Jacob answered Shechem and his father Hamor deceitfully. They tell Hamor and Shechem that they can't give their sister to uh to someone who is uncircumcised. And so it marked off the nation of Israel from the surrounding nations, like the nations of Canaan, and it also served as an outward symbol. In either case, they are liars. This chapter is just sin upon sin upon sin upon sin. Our sins have effects on the people around us and may at times cause them to engage in sin. Our sins happen to real people who will at times respond to our sins with sins of their own. But because he didn't, Simeon and Levi, Dinah's brothers through Leah, exact a sinful and terrible revenge on this city But it's not just Simeon and Levi. This dark chapter ends on a dark note. You have made me stink to the inhabitants of the land. Dinah was treated like a prostitute and you just stood by and did nothing. You have Shechem sexually assaulting Dinah. You Shechem and Hamor completely unconcerned about acknowledging the sin that Shechem has committed? That apart from God's grace, they were no different than the nations around them We even see the events of this chapter repeat themselves later in Israel's history. The only difference is that it no longer involves Canaanites at all. As David's son Amnon rapes his sister Tamar, and King David, righteous David, does nothing to defend Tamar. It's not just the nations who are under the curse of sin, but Israel is under the curse of sin. Or thankfully, we have progressed as a people. To die for people like Jacob and his sons, and to die for people like you and me. Whether or not we've done things like what Shechem has done, or vengefully murdered others, according to Scripture, that makes no difference. Because God does not judge us based on our relative holiness to one another, but according to his holy standard. Or dishonored our parents by disobeying them, or by gossiping about others, or sinfully judging others in our hearts, or self-righteously thinking we're better than others, or Friends, you might be tempted to think, wait, so is the message of Christianity that what happens in Genesis 34 doesn't really matter because God just forgives and God's love, right? That's only half true. Sin is so grievous to God, so heinous to God, that his own son died to bear the just wrath against sin. He has appointed a day when Jesus Christ is going to return and he will hold everyone accountable for every sin they have committed. So if anything like that has happened to you, God does care. Has sinned. We may have sinned, but God's grace is greater than all of our sin. Where God reappears on the scene and reaffirms his promises to Jacob. Those who've experienced God's staggering forgiving grace are to be transformed in their thinking and living And one particular area that I see in Genesis 34 that we should think about being transformed in is in our romantic relationships. to make a new nation of people through him, uh to make a new nation of people through Abraham who would be distinct from the nations around them. Which happened over and over again in the Old Testament. side of the cross when a a believer marries an unbeliever. Our romantic relationships should be brought under his light. people. The world's going to offer to you its joy. You'll also forfeit the glorious grace and blessings of God. Isaac failed to protect his wife Rebecca. They say, make marriages with us. Don't take up the world on its promises. Look again at chapter 35. Hasn't this been what we've seen already in Genesis? And I'm guessing that most of us, if we had the opportunity, would love to sit down with a book full of stories from each of our own family's history. And his soul was drawn to Dinah, the daughter of Jacob. And with the time remaining, what I'm going to do is walk us through the text, explaining it as I go. of his very own daughter. That inward reality has taken effect in Jacob's sons' lives. Verses 25 to 29, Jacob's sons hatch their plot. If Jacob had led the way in defending his daughter and pursuing actual justice, he in all likelihood would have prevented this injustice. And that they say that they are examples of holy zeal and protecting the purity of God's people. And still is the lesson for us today. There was something in them that made them better than the nations around them, something in them that caused God to choose them. That God sent his son into the world to live the perfect life that we should have lived and to die in our place, bearing the punishment that we deserve for our sins. Later in Scripture, God would forbid the intermarriage of Israelites with the nations, not because of prejudice. Or racism or anything like that, but because God knew that if his people married with the nations, they would end up turning away from him. In that case, you remain married and you honor God and your spouse in the midst of that marriage. Is going to try and offer to you what only God can give. At the same time, I'm also sure that at some point in each of our family histories, we'd encounter genuinely evil acts. I bring that up because Genesis, the book of Genesis, is a family history of sorts. The sons of Jacob answered Shechem and his father Hamor deceitfully, because he had defiled their sister Dinah. Then Jacob said to Simeon and Levi, You have brought trouble on me by making me stink to the inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites and the Perizites. Is that God's grace is greater than all of our sin? But what I want you to also notice is what Hamor and Shechem never say. Abraham and all of his male offspring, children and grandchildren, throughout the generations, were circumcised to show that the God of Israel was their God and they were his people. Amor and Shechem were like Bet. Let them dwell in the land and trade in it. Only on this condition will the men agree with us to become one people, when every male among us is circumcised as they are circumcised. In their anger, they hamstrung oxen. included the promise that they would bring blessing to the nations. So when you take a step back and realize, wait a second. Or David beating Goliath. It's not just the Canaanites who sinned by defiling Dinah. That God would send his beloved son into the world to die for people like Shechem and Hamor. That it wouldn't be too hard to convince you of that. What partnership does righteousness have with lawlessness? Only God and his promises can give us what we truly desire. God calls Jacob to renewed worship, to put off his sin again, and to receive again the promises of God. And yet the other pattern that we see is that God's mercies are new every day. I've always been very interested in my own genealogy, my own family history. I'm gonna go ahead and read the passage for us now. All their wealth, all their little ones and their wives, all that was in the houses they captured and plundered. But I do believe that there is a surprising lesson in it for us. Seized her, lay with her, and humiliated her. She seized the fruit or took the fruit, then she ate the fruit and sinned. never says anything, never confronts the man who did this to Dinah. Not once does Jacob say anything to them about what Shechem did. Uh but I just don't think that's the case at all. He's apparently forgotten that God has already promised to be with him and to protect him. He's forgotten that God has promised to protect him, and he's still completely unconcerned for his daughter and what has happened to her. A pattern that appears again and again throughout the rest of Scripture. Good morning. Lord Jesus, we pray that you would grant us grace to trust you more through this time. And when Shechem, the son of Hamor the Hivite, the prince of the land, saw her, he seized her and lay with her and humiliated her On the third day, when they were sore, two of the sons of Jacob, Simeon and Levi, Dinah's brothers, took their swords. God's grace is greater than all of our sin First, Shechem saw her, then he seized her or took her, then he sinned against her. Same wording, same trajectory is used of Eve's sin in the garden. Now Jacob heard that Shechem had defiled his daughter Dinah. They never apologize. Will not their livestock, their property, and all their beasts be ours Or they lied to Jacob and his sons by hiding their true intentions. I mean it's just like an unbelievable way to end the chapter. The glory of God's presence filling the temple among them, showing that he was their God and they were his people. Right? All have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God All of us has failed. lusted, or taking things that aren't ours, or angrily murdered people in our hearts, as Jesus taught about anger But as we think about our romantic relationships, we want to think about how has God called his people throughout Scripture to conduct themselves romantically. You are never beyond God's grace. As we're going to sing in our final hymn in a bit, marvelous, infinite, matchless grace Power, material goods, sexual pleasure, self-expression, none of these things brings the fulfillment our hearts long for and we were made for. freely bestowed on all who believe, all who are longing to see his face, will you this moment his grace receive? In the end, we'll learn a very important lesson that I hope we all lean into today. One would think that now that he had finally come to live in the land that God had promised him, that everything would be smooth sailing from here on out. Not interested enough at this point to take action and to start actually tracing my family history and learning about the people who went before me, but I assume that's something I'll do at some point. Jump in. Not only that, their revenge is wildly out of proportion to the sin committed. So you might be wondering how on earth the main lesson of Genesis 34 That's what? Right? Heavenly Father, pour out your grace on us to give us hearts to hear, eyes to see. We don't need to linger long on this account to grasp the wickedness of it. Jacob's sinful favoritism has manifested itself in a calloused, hard-heartedness towards the well-being. Jacob, the deceiver, has raised sons who are deceivers All their wealth, all their little ones, and their wives, all that was in their houses, they captured and went not to be equally yoked as Paul would have. God's grace also transforms our spiritual eyes to see the temptations of the world around us. We learned in earlier chapters that Jacob did not love Leah. As we finish, I know some of you may hear about the way that God's grace is to transform us, and you might see the ways that you've failed this past week, where maybe you've bought into the world's lies. Notice what's going on here. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your grace. God. The type of acts that make us close the book or avoid bringing attention to that specific person that we are descended from. Now Dinah, the daughter of Leah, whom she had born to Jacob, went out to see the women of the land. And however great their sins may be, that if they would repent of their sins, God would take the biggest bucket you could ever imagine. Drop that with the teens here. Their revenge is wildly out of proportion to the sin committed. Alright, friends, I want to invite you to turn with me in your Bibles to Genesis chapter 34 They don't just kill Shechem, who was guilty. I have no idea how many gallons are in this thing. We find this next chapter in Jacob's life is exceedingly dark. It's not just the nations who are in need of God's grace, but Israel who is in need of God's grace What does Paul say in 2 Corinthians 6? You would expect at this point that when a father hears about his daughter being raped, that he would be livid, to say the least. That verse is far more significant than it sounds because it constituted the fulfillment of God's promises to Jacob I mean I I I've been reading this passage and I'm looking for light and there is no light. They mattered so much to God that He sent His Son into the world to bear the judgment for them, so that if you and I trust in Him, we would no longer have to bear the punishment for our own sins. You might hear that God's grace is greater than all our sin and think that it's not greater than your sin, that somehow you have failed one too many times. God promised to give Jacob numerous offspring, the land of Canaan, and material blessing, and here Hamor is offering what appears to be the same thing. Was it earlier this year? These men are at peace with us. A very small number of commentators have said that what Jacob's sons do here is commendable. And yet we find that the people who were to bring that blessing have instead brought the sword in a bloodthirsty rage and have pillaged and plundered the city. The message of the gospel and of Christianity is not that the events of Genesis 34 don't matter to God. And Hamor, the father of Shechem, went out to Jacob to speak with him. He didn't do anything. All have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God and are justified by God's grace as a gift. Genesis 34, transforming our romantic relationship? Well, you receive it. They also would have forfeited God's blessings. It's a pleasure to be with you today and to have this opportunity to open God's Word with you. All of Jacob's sons plunder and pillage the city Not only that, there will be financial incentives too. If Genesis 34 teaches us anything, it's that all have sinned. The list of possible ways that you and I have sinned is endless. Look at verse 5 again. Look at verses 27 and 28. I'm confident that if you took some time to think about your life and to think about the things that you've done in your life and thought in your life, whatever it may be, Now, obviously, that doesn't apply to a situation in which both spouses are non-Christians and then one becomes a For behold, the land is large enough for them. Jacob has failed to protect his daughter Dinah. God's people fail, and God shows them more grace. Either Hamor and Shechem are lying to their own people to get them to go through with circumcision by making the deal sound better than it is. They are a pitiful replacement for the true and lasting hope, joy, peace, and pleasure that are found in God alone. But if you will not listen to us and be circumcised, then we will take our daughter and we will be gone. After the darkness and sin of chapter 34, you would think that Jacob and his sons were beyond grace. He loved the young woman and spoke tenderly to her. So Hamor and his son Shechem came to the gate of their city and spoke to the men of their city, saying, These men are at peace with us. Perfect obedience. Kids go flying because it's so much water, and you're just standing there like this is amazing. God doesn't appear at all in this chapter. Uh I commend it to you wholeheartedly. I mean there must be an Olympic pool of water in this bucket. Hamor and Shechem are as hard-hearted as Jacob is And the sign of that covenant to show that you were participating in that covenant was circumcision. They would have heard about victories in battle and the building of temples and the God will judge sin. Give your daughters to us and take our daughters for yourselves. Dwell and trade in it, and get property in it. None is righteous. All have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. The world's going to offer to you its peace. He wants us to see the effects of that first sin working themselves out here. Look at verses 30 and 31. If they gather against me and attack me, I shall be destroyed If you've ever been to Great Wolf Lodge, I think they're all the same, then you know In their anger, they plundered the city. Not only is Moses clear that they deceived the men of the city, and and he wants to see their deception in the line of Jacob's deception, who was also sinning, when he deceived the people who went before him. And at first glance, devoid of any redemptive value. Shechem never pleaded for Jacob to forgive him. Note this carefully. Right? What maybe in the next 15, 20 years, 30 years, if your dad is listening? So here's what we'll do. Done deal. And then all the kids bum rush to the area. Now some of you may not get married and may not want to be married, and that's fine. And we no longer do the barbaric things that they did in Genesis 34. The same pull that existed in the Old Testament on that side of the cross exists in the New Testament on this side. Twenty years earlier, while Jacob was on the run for his life, God promised Jacob that he would protect him That he would go and bring justice, justice in right measure to this man who did that. They wait until the men of the city are incapacitated because of the circumcision. I mean, you see, as the nation of Israel would later learn about their friend family history and the people who went before them. As much as we might like to think we can be the means of pulling that person towards God, the opposite usually happens and we get pulled towards unbelief. If you're following Jesus and you're you're committed to to walk with him, God's calling you to look for a spouse who's also a believer. They're just caring about carrying out this plot against them so that they can get revenge. You did not you didn't do anything to protect her. No matter how many times you stumble, fail, and sin, God's grace will always be greater than your sin. And unfortunately things get even worse. You have Jacob's son's bloodthirsty and greedy rage, and you have Jacob's You know who isn't mentioned once in this chapter? Let us take their daughters as wives, and let us give them our daughters. The first thing I want you to do is look with me at Genesis 33, verse 18. Now he's shown up by his sons, who in verse 7 hear about what's happened to Dinah and immediately come home from shepherding the flock. How dare you compare me to them? Even using the same language from this chapter that what they had what Amnon had done should not be done. Or those Canaanites, terrible people. Then we will give our daughters to you, and we will take your daughters to ourselves. His grace abounds to you and me in Jesus Christ. That's why in the New Testament, believers are commanded What does darkness have to do with light Ask for me as great a bride price and gift as you will, and I will give whatever you say to me. And we see that clearly in the rest of the chapter. But the call for you today is to turn from your own sins and to put your trust in Jesus Christ. I want all of us to think about this, but especially the teens and younger kids as we think about the world around us. We pray that you would help us to believe and live as though your grace is greater than our sin and transform us by your grace. Our sins, friends, don't happen in a vacuum Jacob's sin of favoritism and failing to stand up for his daughter has resulted in Simeon and Levi's atrocity. And we'll see later in Genesis 49 when Jacob is at the end of his life. Look again at verse 2. Using this moment to get across some political gain for themselves. And at this point in Israel's history, Genesis 34 is the darkest chapter of all. But his sons were with his livestock in the field. No, not one. One of my favorite things and definitely one of my kids' favorite things is the gigantic bucket of water that rests upon the castle that everyone plays on. In Jesus' name, amen They kill all the men of the city. But our forefather Jacob sinned, and our forefathers Simeon and Levi sinned, and all the tribes of Israel sinned. But in light of God's grace, What the world promises is ultimately an illusion. So Shechem spoke to his father Hamor, saying, Give me this girl for my wife They killed Hamor and his son Shechem with the sword, and took Dinah out of Shechem's house and went away. Unless we think it's because he was So they go to the city of the city gate to tell the men of Shechem about the deal they've just struck. Let us take their daughters as wives, and let us give them our daughters. He recalls this event, and he explicitly condemns Simeon and Levi's actions. What are you talking about, John? We'd probably find stories of chance meetings that changed lives. This is God's word. And in a world under the curse of sin, terrible things happen But less we think her brothers will be the heroes we need, we're gonna see that their anger quickly metastasizes into bloodthirsty revenge. We just have to remember that the promises God made to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob How this chapter ends. But I think ultimately that was the lesson for the nation of Israel If you and all your men get circumcised, then we'll give our daughters to you and take your daughters as our wives, and we'll become one people. And according to that standard, friends He's forgotten that now. You have Jacob not caring that his own daughter has been raped? Then we'll consider how this passage is fulfilled in Jesus Christ and the good news of the gospel, and then we'll spend some time considering. Look at what they say in verse 21. God is clear later in his law that I for an eye. Should he treat our sister like a prostitute? In verses 8 to 12, Hamor offers Jacob and his sons the ability to freely marry the women of Canaan. And we should seek to obey God as we think about potential spouses. You can live in the land and you can trade here and you'll become prosperous. But in an inappropriate way in one sense, because of how dark this chapter ends, or that how dark this chapter is that it would end this way. The entire thing involves Israelites Please give her to him to be his wife. Don't believe the world's lies It's a family history of the entire human race, yes? The sons of Jacob had come in from the field as soon as they heard of it. And that's his promise in the gospel, that whoever. Jacob responds in self-interested fear. But when they came to Genesis 34, they would have faced the cold hard fact. That is the good news of the gospel. The world's going to offer to you its pleasure, its riches, its hopes, its dreams. And if you're taking notes, I think that surprising lesson that Genesis 34 teaches us. Nor are Jacob's sons concerned about the inward reality being true for Hamor and Shechem and the men of the city. All of Jacob's sons. A perfect example is this You have Jacob's sons walking in his own footsteps, deceiving Hamor and Shechem with their plot? And it fills up and fills up and fills up. You shall dwell with us, and the land shall be open to you. But if Jacob and his sons took what Hamor offered, it actually would have resulted in them losing everything. We'll marry your daughters. Oh, keep my soul from ever coming into their council. That description, one people, should catch our attention. You notice the pattern? I think Moses wants us to see a connection between this account This chapter establishes a theme of sorts. It's a story of how they came to be and who they came to be through. They would be the ones to declare God's They stand underneath the bucket and it's just like How does that possibly here? And just as every family history surely has dark chapters in it There's no indication Which is that, yeah, you guys come and marry us, we'll get circumcised, but what we're not telling you is that we are gonna take all your stuff. And I get that. The world is going to offer you things that sound strikingly similar to what God offers. Abraham failed to protect his wife Sarah twice. And every male was circumcised, all who went out of the gate of his city Jacob hated Leah. And it gets worse As always, I want to encourage you to open to the passage so that you can follow along when I read it in a few moments. And if you haven't done anything like that in your life, I'm glad for that. Look in verse 6 Oh no, they aren't. Just got to understand a bit of the backstory of what's going on there. Now that there's trouble that you've caused me, I don't know what's gonna happen. What are we supposed to do? This is the first chapter in Genesis where God has not appeared even once. No, I recognize, friends. This is a dark chapter indeed. All of which makes the good news of the gospel all the more unbelievable. And in verse 2. After reading that Jacob's sons were angry about what happened to their sister, They took their flocks and their herds, their donkeys, and whatever was in the city and in the field And the same is true of us, friends. And if you take what the world has to offer, you will not only not get what you're chasing. Go ahead and look with me at verses 1 to 4 now of chapter 34. And as she's going, Shechem, the prince of the land, saw her. But I do want you to notice. God gives the gift of singleness to some Every day. Shechem also said to her father and to her brothers, But subtly I want to direct your attention briefly to chapter 35. She saw the fruit. It's only darkness through and through. God will lavish his grace on you, and his grace is greater than all of your sins. We see the same theme bear out in the New Testament. I want you to notice again what Hamor and Shechem offer Jacob and his sons. Only on this condition will we agree with you I get that. All of us have lied God then called out of that one people, Abraham. I want to invite you to join me again in a brief word of prayer before we look at This is what we would describe today as sexual assault or rape. Like father, like sons. And now, 20 years later, that promise had come true. Look at what Shechem does. Look at verse 13. This chapter is sin and darkness through and through. For such a thing must not be done. He only cares about how their actions have affected him. Make marriages with us. He loved his wife, Rachel. You might look at Shechem Look at verse 5 and following. And that will become clear very soon But unfortunately, They never say, sorry. Bear with me. Only on this condition will the men agree to dwell with us to become one people. So Jacob held his peace He does nothing to defend his daughter Dwell and trade in it and get property in it. Friend, that is the reality for you today if you are in Christ. They simply lie to them and tell them, listen If that's how we walk away from this chapter, then we have missed the point. Which doesn't at all excuse what they've done. But that's only at first glance. Men who had nothing to do with what happened to Dinah. And then you start to hear this alarm bell going off, which is But they said That is what God's grace is like in the gospel. And here the people of Israel So Jacob held his peace until But it doesn't seem These people are gonna attack me and But nothing could be further from the truth. Only let us agree with them, and they will dwell with us 40 years, not while I'm living, right? That is an outrageous thing that should not occur in Israel. Back in Genesis 17. Now notice what they say I'll give you whatever you want for Dinah. That's you. We might look upon the Lord Jesus Christ and see. We pray this in Jesus' name Give your daughters to us, and take our daughters for yourselves. But if we if we walk away today thinking Wealth. That's a good thing. We went to uh Great Wolf Lodge Only give me the young woman to be my wife. I think that's all that's applied uh implied here. That's what Jacob says about Simeon. All their stuff is going to become ours. But it's like punching him in the face. I want to point you to the text. But according to Scripture, The world Really? And that bucket