Good morning, brothers and sisters. Is it okay if I do it again? Christ is risen. Okay, we could just keep doing that. We could do that every Sunday. We could do it. We could do it every day. It would be good. Praise the Lord. Open in your Bibles, if you've not done so yet, to the book of 1 Corinthians, chapter 15. It's a joy, as it always is. to open up God's word with you and especially on this Sunday to think a little bit about the resurrection of our Lord Jesus and its implications For our lives and for eternity. First Corinthians chapter 15. Uh, if you're using one of the Bibles that we have provided, you'll find that on page 962. I'm gonna begin reading in verse 50 of 1 Corinthians 15, and I'm gonna read to the end of the chapter. If you're unfamiliar with looking at a Bible, the uh big bold number there is the chapter number. That's actually on page 961, 15, then the smaller verses after that are the, or the smaller numbers after that are the verse numbers. So we are in 1 Corinthians chapter 15. I'm going to read verses 50 through 58. Hear God's word this morning. I tell you this, brothers. Flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God, nor does the perishable inherit the imp the imperishable. Behold, I tell you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet. For the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised imperishable, and we shall be changed. For this perishable body must put on the imperishable And this mortal body must put on immortality. When the perishable puts on the imperishable, and the mortal puts on immortality, then shall come to pass the saying that is written. Death is swallowed up in victory. O death, where is your victory? O death, where is your sting? The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law. But thanks be to God, who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Therefore, my beloved brothers Be steadfast, immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that in the Lord your labor is not in vain. This is God's word, brothers and sisters. Could you join me in prayer once more? Heavenly Father, thank you for this opportunity to open up the scriptures and to think about them together. We pray that you would give us understanding. We pray that you would help us to make application to our lives. And we know that we need your help to do that this morning. It is the Spirit who gives life, and we thank you that it is so. The flesh is no help at all. So we pray that Our weakened flesh would not be an obstacle this morning to the truth of your word going forth. We pray that you would do a good work in our souls as we consider the scriptures today. We pray for all of this in Jesus' name. Amen. On Thursday morning, May Falvey died Now that doesn't mean anything to you, I don't think. Uh only a very small number of you know who May Falvey is, only the people really sitting in that row there Uh Mae Falvey died on Thursday and there were no headlines on national news outlets about it. It's unlikely that she's going to have a biographical sketch preserved on the Gospel Coalition's website the way, say, R. C. Sprohl or Tim Keller have when they died. But her death struck me as significant. I got a text message on Thursday afternoon from my former fellow pastor Jason Tyrell telling me May Falvey entered into glory this morning. I met May in 2003, when she had already been a widow for many years. Uh May was she was a frail lady, skinny. She suffered. I just found this out a couple of years ago. She suffered for many years from ulcerative colitis. She had this very ho always as long as I knew her, this very raspy, hoarse voice, like it was difficult for her to speak. The whole time that I knew her, uh, she lived with Her children for a long time with her daughter and son-in-law. Her son-in-law was an elder in our church in New Jersey. Then she moved to Lancaster for a few years and then back to New Jersey. She spent the last several years in a nursing home in Pittman, New Jersey. And for the last three or four years, she was physically unable to come to church. She was a shut-in. And on Thursday, I received a message that she had died. And it's made me think. Since getting that message and thinking about the passage of scripture that I read to you Is a life that matters. I think it's something that we all do want. Regardless of your religious affiliation, regardless of your age, if you're hearing me this morning, I think you want your life to matter. And we can get very discouraged, even in simple trivial ways, when it seems like what we're giving ourselves to isn't really mattering for anything. So say if you're in your middle ages and you realize you you get on a scale maybe at the doctor's office and you're like, whoa, I I need to take off 20 or 25 pounds. And you decide that you're going to watch every calorie, you're gonna exercise, you're gonna exercise rigorous self-control to not have those late-night snacks, and you work really hard for three months to lose a few pounds and at the end of those three months you've dropped two pounds. That might feel vain and it might feel worthless. Or maybe that young mother who finds herself overwhelmed constantly in a tornado of diapers and disrespect and lost socks. Or maybe a Christian who resolves in their youth to serve God with their lives, but then maybe a decade or two later they find themselves too sick. Even on many days to get out of bed. And perhaps we wonder, we labor in a career With big aspirations. We moved to DC to make a difference. And you're doing work, you're gainfully employed, and you're thankful for that, but it doesn't seem like you've made the impact that you hoped that you would And we may be tempted in that sort of George Bailey, it's a wonderful life kind of way to question, like, what am I doing? What good is there? Does it any of it even really matter? And then of course there is death. I mean we've got to think about that. It's difficult to celebrate Easter if we're not going to think about that a little bit I've said it to you before, I've no doubt I'll say it to you again. Death separates us from everyone and everything we love. You could actually give yourself to some things that matter. You could enjoy some meaningful work and some meaningful relationships But even if you live a useful life, that's not going to stop you from being placed in a box into the ground just like the village idiot And in a hundred years, sorry to say, but in a hundred years, even your descendants will have a very difficult time remembering what your name was. And that's what drew me to these verses in First Corinthians. Specifically the very last word that I read in that passage. It'd be good if you still have your Bibles open. for this time, that very last word in verse 58, the word vain, empty, meaningless We can go through our earthly lives having that sense that things are vain. And then in the end, death, if that is actually all there is, death renders everything to be in vain. Uh if you're if you're here as a guest with us today and you're not accustomed to hearing the Bible talked about Uh I am really glad as it's already been said. I'm thrilled that you're here. We do value being open with you. There's a lot of in our culture, there's a lot of a clamoring for authenticity and being genuine and real, and we want to be very authentic and genuine with you, that if if there's nothing beyond the grave, then really everything finally is meaningless. You might feel like, well, at least my legacy lives on in those I loved and cared for. But if they die too, then everything is forgotten, and everything really in the end is meaningless. And one of the great purposes that the Apostle Paul has in writing this long passage, I just read a portion of it from 1 Corinthians 15, but really this whole chapter. of the letter to the Corinthians is about the resurrection. And one of the reasons why Paul wrote this passage is to give the people of Christ encouragement to press on and to persevere and to be resilient in their calling to serve Christ. And so at the end of the passage, he says, therefore, in light of what he has told them about Christ's resurrection and its implications for their own resurrection. Therefore, my beloved brothers, be steadfast, immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. Knowing that in the Lord your labor is not in vain. There's a way to go through life living so that you can have confidence that in the end none of it is in vain. And that's what I want to talk with you about this morning. The charge here in this passage is to be resilient in the Lord's work. And that charge is built on Because of that word, therefore, at the beginning of verse 58, it's built on a very radical change that Paul says is coming. And Easter bears witness to it. The resurrection of Christ announces a radical change is coming. And as a result You Christians, you Chevro Baptist Church, should give yourself to resilient labor in his name because none of it is in vain. The risen Christ wants you to know that today. He's not wanting you to focus this morning on how you're feeling about what I'm saying. Or whether or not your circumstances conform to what I am saying. He wants you to hear his word coming through his apostle, not me. The Apostle Paul, he wants you to hear his word as he communicates to you a radical change is coming, so resiliently labor in his name And those are the two points that I want to draw to your attention from this passage. A radical change is coming. That's point number one. And secondly, so give yourself to resilient labor in his name. A radical change is coming. That's what this text is about. You see it there in verse 51. Behold. I tell you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed. Easter is the celebration that in Jesus Christ change is coming Now that that statement alone is a little too vague to be helpful to us. So let me probe a little bit into the specifics of this change. Let me try to help you see what this change actually is and why it's needed and how we can be sure that it's coming. What exactly is this change that he's talking about? Well, I say it's a radical change because what he's talking about in this passage is the complete and final overthrow. of all suffering and pain and death and vanity. All of it overcome. In a moment, Paul says In the twinkling of an eye, we would probably more colloquially say, in the blink of an eye, in an instant, it could happen while I'm preaching The trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised imperishable, and we shall be changed. For this perishable body must put on the imperishable and this mortal body must put on immortality. That sounds pretty radical to me Perishable means our bodies decay and wear out and run down, like May's was doing, year after year after year, like some of yours are doing. Right now. Mortal means that our bodies die. And we yearn, do we not, for both imperishability and immortality What has struck me over the years of being a pastor and engaging with many of you and many in a former church In prayer is how many of our prayer requests relate to our physical bodies, our physical health And you know, frankly, when I was younger, I thought that was sort of like carnal. Like, we should pray about spiritual things. Like what I'm learning now is that that's a really dumb way of thinking. Because Paul says right here that this this perishability, this mortality is a grievous thing, and we all long for it to be different. And what Paul is saying here is that there's a day coming when the trumpet sounds. We know from other places in Paul's writing what he's talking about when he says the trumpet sounds is Jesus coming back. Jesus descending from heaven back to earth, bringing heaven to earth, when the trumpets sound, our our bodies Both the dead in Christ who will be raised up and those of us who are still alive and hoping in Christ at the time of his return, every one of us Who is trusting in Christ will have their bodies changed so that there is no decay, no wearing out, no running down, no death. No Crohn's disease, no osteoporosis, no Parkinson's disease, no diabetes, no cancer No celiac disease. I'm looking around the room and I'm just seeing more need more physical needs. All of it, every prayer for healing that you have prayed, when that trumpet sounds, it will have been answered. That's a radical change. On that blessed day, Paul says, we're still thinking about what this change is Verse 54, When the perishable puts on the imperishable, and the mortal puts on immortality, then shall come to pass the saying that is written. And he's referring here to two passages in the Bible, one from the prophet Isaiah, one from the prophet Hosea. Death is swallowed up in victory. Oh death, where is your victory? Oh death, where is your sting? So what's this change gonna be like here? Paul tells us it's gonna be like victory. And that's a word that gets me excited because I like sports and I like to talk about sports. But I try to restrain my sports illustrations because I can get carried away and I know everybody doesn't like sports. But this is a Sunday where I can roll with a sports illustration because the passage is about victory And I think that is why sports excite me. If you are a sports fan, I think this is the deepest reason why we get into sports, because every victory celebration is a little preview, it's a little taste of the coming triumph over the greatest enemy that we have, and that enemy, Paul says, is death. And the victory Will actually be all the sweeter for having gone through the pain and the sorrow and heartache that that enemy and its horrible shadow has cast over everything in this world. So years ago, get this Simon, years ago, I was an Eagles fan. And I'm gonna tell you a story about it. I know Simon is not the only Eagles fan. He's just the one who gives me the hardest time that I'm not anymore. And Mike Clauser. Wherever Mike is. In 2010, my beloved Philadelphia Eagles, coached by Andy Reid at the time. They played an amazing game where they were down midway through the fourth quarter. They were down to their rival, the New York Giants, 31-10. And they came back and scored 28 points in the last half of the last quarter to win the game 38 to 31 on a touchdown on a punt return with no time on the clock. None of many of you don't care about that, but stay with me. The day after the game, a newswriter for the Philadelphia Inquirer wrote, of this game, there is no fourth quarter ecstasy without three preceding quarters of agony. And he was right. That is why I'm still thinking about this game sixteen years later, fifteen and a half years later The thrill of that victory was deepened by how that victory had been snatched away from the jaws of what was an obvious and evident defeat But the pain of that first three quarters, and so much as you could talk about watching a sporting event and feeling pain, okay, you understand what I'm saying. The pain of that first three quarters was swallowed up in the victory And became a part of its glory. And I think that's just a dim picture of that day when death. is swallowed up in victory at the blasting of that trumpet on the final day. That's what this change is going to be like. When Jesus comes again, Death will be swallowed up in victory so that all sorrow and pain and futility that you have tasted now in death and all the pains and misery that you experienced before death will be swallowed up into your future glory and joy and make it infinitely better than if you'd never experienced pain or sorrow or loss or futility in the first place. That is, I believe, what Paul was speaking of when he wrote in his second letter to the Corinthians, that our light momentary afflictions are preparing for us. an eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison. Even the worst things that you have experienced in life, and I know in this room there are some really horrible, painful things. Even the worst things that you've experienced will actually, in the end, because of Christ, make your eventual eternal joy all the greater when God brings that promise from Isaiah to pass. On this mountain, this is the fuller context of that passage that he quotes from Isaiah. On this mountain, the Lord of hosts will make for all peoples a rich a feast of rich food, a feast of well-aged wine. of rich food full of marrow, of aged wine well refined. No food allergies or sensitivities on that day, brothers and sisters. I will be over at that table instead of that one. Although that one's pretty good too, actually. Right? Yeah He will swallow up death forever, and the Lord God will wipe away tears from all faces, and the reproach of his people will be taken away from all the earth For the Lord has spoken, it will be said on that day, Behold, this is our God. We have waited for him that he might save us. Let us be glad and rejoice in his salvation. And that is what we all need. We need salvation. We need rescue. We need deliverance. Why is this change needed? Okay, it sounds ra radical and great and joy and Imperishability and immortality, why is that needed? It's needed because Paul says there in verse 56: the sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law. It's needed because of what Paul says at the beginning of the passage that flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God, by which he means our corrupted flesh stained still with sin. The king is coming. That's what Jesus' return is all about. The king is returning and he's going to establish his kingdom. And he's going to, when he comes back, he is going to rid the world of everything opposed to his reign. Jesus said this of his own return. The Son of Man, that was a kingly, majestic title Jesus said in Matthew 13 that the Son of Man will send his angels, and they will gather out of his kingdom all causes of sin and all lawbreakers. And throw them into the fiery furnace. And in that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. That's why there's a change needed Because every one of us in this room has been a lawbreaker. The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law. The wages of sin is death. That was the curse that God put upon mankind when the very first sin happened in the Garden of Eden. Death is terrible because of sin. Death is an enemy because of sin. And in the end, it's not just physical death, but it's being banished away from God and from joy into a misery that never ends. That's why Jesus, this is not my word, this is Jesus. You could look it up in that Bible. Loving, tender, compassionate, meek and lowly, Jesus says, In that day when he comes, he'll remove all lawbreakers and he will throw them into the fiery furnace where there's weeping and gnashing of teeth Again, we want to be honest with you if you're here and you've not heard a Christian teaching ever given. This is what we believe. We want to be honest with you about that. There may be you may need to grapple with this more. The implications are great And we'd be delighted to talk with you. And I do like to say that when I talk to you casually at the table with a donut, I will not yell at you. But it's very important. This is the sting of death. And it has power because the law of God tells us what to do and renders God's curse upon us if we rebel, which all of us have done. We all are lawbreakers. And so it really is remarkable, being lawbreakers that we are, that this kind of hope could be held out to anybody. I mean, God could have planned any future for us that He wanted. It would have been eternally righteous if the moment we ever committed a sin against him. The moment we ever disregarded him, or dishonored him, or loved something or someone more than him, or refused to give thanks to him, it would have been very appropriate for him to sentence us immediately to eternal misery and condemnation. But instead he promises us a feast? How could that be? It can be because of Jesus Thanks be to God who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. 2,000 years ago, the Lord Jesus came into the world to bear God's curse upon sin for all who receive him. He himself committed no sin. He was perfectly obedient to every one of God's laws, but Jesus himself willingly, for the joy set before him, took the sting of death. A sting that he did not deserve to bear, but he endured it in the place of sinners so that people like us could get victory that we do not deserve through him. Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law, Paul said in his letter to the Galatians. He redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us For it is written, cursed is everyone who is hanged on a tree. And that is what Jesus endured on that day that we call Good Friday. Thanks be to God that when we should, I mean, is it not amazing that we could sing that song happily when judgment day is drawing nigh? Where shall I be? Like we're excited for it How could that be? Only because Jesus took the judgment that we deserved and was raised up from the dead, and that's how we can be sure that this change, this very radical change, really is coming. Because he got up from the dead 2,000 years ago, ish. And in fact, according to one scholar, and I could give you a link to this if you want, one historian and scholar has traced out that actually It was, and this, I don't know this for a fact, but he's got the scholarship and the dates from the Jewish calendar and the days of Passover and so forth to back this up, that it was actually today April 5th, 33 A. D. Today, 1,993 years ago, a man got out of the grave. Jesus was buried in that tomb, and then on that third day, we heard it read from Matthew 28 at the beginning of the service, he was not there, but he had risen as he had said. As if if a if if a prisoner is sentenced to say 10 years in jail, how do you know when that when that prisoner has paid in full the sentence? that he was was charged with. Well, you know, because he walks out of the prison. The wages of sin is death. And Jesus took those wages and he proved that those wages had been paid in full for all who believe in him because he got up and walked out of the grave. Death lost its sting for Jesus. He had absorbed it perfectly, rose in majestic glory, and he rose, Paul says in the first part of this chapter, as the first fruits of a coming harvest of all of those who have trusted in Christ. And that's the last thing I need to communicate to you about this change. Maybe it's a fourth question. Who's this change for? I need to be clear with you that this change is for those who have trusted in Christ. It's not just for everybody who happens to be living all around. It's for anybody who wants it. Another buzzword in our culture is inclusivity. Christian faith, very inclusive. It says every single one of us is a guilty sinner before God because we've rebelled against him. Very inclusive. And it says every single one of us can come and receive mercy in Jesus Christ by acknowledging I'm a hell-deserving sinner who has rebelled against God's law and I need something outside of me to forgive me. And if you would trust Jesus, he will be your king. He will trust, he will save you, he will cleanse you, he will wash you, and you will have the hope of entering into this radical change that we've been talking about this morning. But please do not presume upon his kindness and generosity and patience. If you've come here today not trusting Jesus. If you've come here today and this idea of a man bodily rising from the dead 1993 years ago seems far-fetched, I would just appeal to you. Please consider that I don't want the volume of my voice to emotionally manipulate you into making a decision about that. But please examine the facts. Please examine the history. And ask her because this the stakes are too high. I mean what you stand to gain if it's true and you put your hope in him, and what you stand to lose if it's true and you resist him and reject him, it's too high for you to not think about it So if you're not ready to commit to him today, at least speak to me or someone else that you've seen up here and say, I'd like to think more about this. Could we do that? And we would be delighted. To give you some resources, to talk with you, to help you understand why we believe our hope in the risen Christ and the radical change that is coming is rock solid and reliable to stand on. Now most of us here we have we have hoped in Christ and for those of us who have this hope of radical change coming This hope is not meant merely to afford us the occasion to partake of some sweet treats after the service and have an enjoyable afternoon around the dinner table with family and friends. I'm pro all those things. If you would like to talk with me after the service, you will find me over there with a donut, and I'd be glad to talk with you. I'm pro-treats. But this whole point of expounding upon this radical change that is coming is not just so that we can enjoy those things. It is meant, and this is moving us to point number two, there's a charge here, there's a radical change happening, but there's a charge here in verse 58. It's meant to fuel our obedience to this charge upon our lives if we are trusting in Christ, if we are endeavoring to follow Christ. Christ says to us through his apostle, give yourselves to labor resiliently in his name. That word resilient has just been on my mind and heart as it pertains to Chevrolet Baptist Church since even before I moved here. Because when I on December 2nd, I am a geek and I looked up the date, because that's just how I roll December 2nd, 2024, I was in the home of Dave and Tammy Orm. We had not moved yet, but I was having dinner with Dave and Tammy Orm. And on the on the board there in their dining room where they were doing some schooling was the word resilient. And I said, that is a wonderful word. Resilient. Kids, do you know what that word means? Resilient. To be resilient means to not give up when things get hard. That's the simplest way to say it. To be resilient is to not quit, to not give up, to not be so tired and sad that you stop what you're doing, but to keep on going and keep on trusting even when it's hard. And Jesus calls his people to labor resiliently in light of the radical change that is coming. Therefore, my beloved brothers Be steadfast, immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that in the Lord your labor is not in vain. Now there's an awful lot I would love to tell you about that verse, but let me just draw it to a close because you want donuts and I can see that you're hot. As hot as you are, I'm a little I'm hot I'm hot up here too. So I'm I'm Two two things, semi-briefly, to help us think about this because the the there's a soul-strengthening realism That this verse shows us about the Christian life that I want to commend to you as we close. This charge is soul-strengthening, at least it is to me, and I hope it will be to you, because of how it acknowledges honestly that laboring for Christ is going to be hard and can make you feel exhausted. Right? Why would there be a call To be steadfast and to be immovable, if there wasn't a threat or a temptation that these Christians in the first century might have been feeling, and we might be feeling it right now in the 21st century, to lose heart. To be shaken, to be a little wobbly and tossed around in our resolve to labor for him. I love the honesty of this verse. Sometimes, as we labor for the Lord, you feel like you just can't keep doing it So if you're feeling that way, if you have felt that way, if you are right now, if you do next week, here's good news. You're not just some loser Christian. That, like, no one's ever struggled with this before. If you find yourself in need of an impassioned exhortation, don't quit Don't throw in the towel. Stay firmly established. Hold on tight. Busy yourselves in the service of the king. Keep going. If you find yourself struggling in need of that, you're just a Christian. You're not a lousy Christian, you're not a second rate Christian, you're a Christian. And that's why I love this verse. I mean it's one of the reasons why I love this verse. Keep busy in his service though. Be abounding in the work of the Lord. And I think that labor is very broad It's church work. It's it's preparing services and doing the setup here and getting this in place and laboring over awana lessons for the kids and preparing a prayer of confession and teaching a Sunday school class and leading a small group Bible study and in supporting the work of cross-cultural missions through your financial giving. It's those things, for sure. But I think it's more broad than that because Paul's very clear in his ministry that every single thing that we do That comes from a heart that knows that he is the ruler and king of everything and we owe him our service. Every single thing we do is to be done in his name and can be done in his name. Colossians 3. 17 says, whatever you do, in word or deed, do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him. So when prayers seem to be going unanswered, and the deterioration of your physical body and the increase of pain and fatigue Is threatening to wear you down, but you keep on going. That's good labor in the Lord When you experience pain and sorrow and heaviness because you're engaged in bearing and sharing the burdens of other people. When you're cleaning up after kids unendingly. Or struggling to lead a little Bible time after dinner that seems to just fall flat on the kids' ears Or whether you're you're working a job for NSA or the State Department or the FAA or Whether you're standing over a sink washing dishes or carting your kids back and forth to Rockbridge or Unitas or Granite. Whether you're caring unendingly for an aging loved one that is only thankless and critical of your care. Whether you're providing a ride or a meal, whether you're pursuing reconciliation to a fractured relationship. Paul, it's a work of the Lord that Paul could call these brothers beloved if you know something about Paul's relationship with the Corinthians. But pursuing reconciliation, keeping your mouth shut when you're tempted to say something that would be harmful or unhelpful, or speaking up when you are tempted to stay silent because a hard word might not be well received. Forgiving and forbearing, pressing on in all these ways, these are useful, these things matter. But Engaging in them day after day after day can be hard. And so Paul says, keep going, be steadfast, and be immovable. It's not a matter of if you're going to be tempted to grow weary or faint-hearted. It's a when and how often. So here Christ's apostles say to you this resurrection morning, keep going, beloved. The struggle is real. But that is not an excuse to get faint-hearted and be blown away So don't take your eyes off the resurrection of Christ and the radical change that He's promised to you. Because here, second point that I really love that gives me strength of my soul when I think about this particular promise. I love this promise because it sets our gaze beyond this temporal life to measure the true value and worth of our labors. It it tells us when he spends fifty-seven verses chronicling triumph over the grave, resurrection. Death of death, every enemy defeated, Christ kingdom over all, transformation at the sounding of the trumpet. And then he says, Therefore Keep working because your labor is not in vain. The point is you're not going to see. You should not expect to see all the fruit of your labors right now in this life. The primary promise of the Christian life is not earthly right now. If you think that way, if you think, because you're laboring to be chaste and pure in your singleness, That God will just definitely reward you with a spouse in time. We can pray that He will. We want that to be the case, but you can't know that. You don't have a promise of that. If you think I'm going to give to the church so that God will bless my finances and I won't have any needs when I retire, you don't have a promise of that. And if you think that you do, you're going to get very wobbly in the Christian life. It's not right now, this day, that the true worth of our labors will be revealed, but it's that day when he comes. And Paul knew this, and Paul spoke of this to the Corinthians actually in chapter 4 of this letter. He said to the Corinthians, and this is one of my favorite passages, as you If you think about praying for me, which I know a lot of you do, you could just pull out 1 Corinthians 4 verses 1 through 5. You could pray that for me any day. That would be a help. Thank you. The Corinthians are being critical of him, and he's like, listen, I don't actually really care what you think about me, and I don't even it really doesn't even matter what I think about me. What matters is what the Lord thinks. And he says, don't pronounce judgment before the time, before the Lord comes, who will bring to light the things now hidden in darkness. and will disclose the purposes of the heart, and then each one will receive his commendation from God. That day, when he comes, each one who has given themselves to serving Christ will receive his commendation. The word is praise. That's stunning. That's a rat that Jesus will come and he will actually commend his people for their labors. But it's not gonna be seen now. And it's hard for us to believe this. It's hard for us to remember this because our culture loves outward appearances. We want to see big things now. And in a culture like that, in a climate like that, whether it's our secular culture or even our church culture, it can discourage the sort of quiet, patient plodding. That tends to produce the truly great fruit that will be revealed on that final day. That's what the little tree there is That's what it's there for on your bulletin. I've not really had a chance to address this uh very much publicly since that tree. It's very small this week. It'll be bigger, Lord willing, next week in the middle of that bulletin, but on the front, that little tree down there is intended to communicate to you something about my heartbeat and longing and passion for Chevrolet Baptist Church if the Lord gives us 10 or 20 or 30 years together. And that is that I am committed to doing with you small things slowly for a really long time. And I'm hoping that when we all get to glory, it's going to look like a redwood. It's gonna that's not a redwood. I know that tree is not a redwood. It was intended initially to be a mustard tree. It's not really a mustard tree either. It's not a redwood. It's it might be an oak. It's a tree, and the principle stands either way If you what's that? That's right. If i if if you took a mustard uh not a mustard, if you took a uh redwood seed I was checking this out yesterday. If you took a redwood seed, you could take a redwood seed is so tiny, it would take four or five or six of them to cover the size of a dime. That's how little those seeds are To get a pound's worth, you'd need about 125,000 of them in your hand for one pound. But you plant that seed in the ground And in in 20 years, you might get a tree about 50 feet high. And in 200 years, you're going to get a tree that's over 300 feet high. But I'll tell you what, you plant that red that redwood seed in the in the garden and you come out the next day excited to see it, that's not gonna be very glamorous or exciting. But what the Lord calls his people to is slow, plodding, simple, ordinary, often unremarkable looking faithfulness. with the promise that when it's all said and done and when this radical change takes place, it's going to look like glory that you can't conceive of. That's the way it was for Moses. I know that exit uh uh Deuteronomy 34 is kind of an obscure passage on Easter Sunday, but Is there anyone who walked closer with God that we see in the Bible than Moses? Who was also treated more unjustly and harshly and criticized by the people who he was leading? And he labored and he interceded for them. He pleaded with God not to destroy them when God was ready to destroy them. And all they did was criticize and grumble and murmur. And then he gets the he He gets there and God's like, there's the promised land, you're not going. But you know what we're told about Moses He did not uh he he did not count the reproach of Christ greater wealth, or he counted he counted the reproach of Christ greater wealth than all the treasures of Egypt, for he was looking to the reward. He's got his reward now in part, and it will be fully revealed when Jesus comes and that trumpet sounds. I was thinking about John the Baptist. I I'm almost done, but I was thinking about John the Baptist Jesus himself said, There is no one greater than John the Baptist. Of all people born of woman, no one greater than John. John is a faithful prophet, bearing witness to Jesus. He gets imprisoned. Herod's stepdaughter Dance is a dance and gets the guys going and he says give me anything you want or I'll give you anything you want. She says, I'd like John the Baptist's head on a platter. So he sends soldiers to get John's head I and I again we're not told this particular moment, but I I could envision two soldiers going in with a sword and him saying what what is going on? The king's daughter did a dance and she wants your head, so get down. And if you squirm, we'll bind you. This is the man who Jesus said is the nobody greater. You see, sometimes serving the Lord feels like a waste. Emphasis feels like a waste. Because on that day when the trumpet sounds and the dead are raised and John gets his head back and Jesus makes all things new You will see, John will see, Moses will see, and you and I will see that the labors that we gave to have a glory that we could not even conceive of now. And it's not just those quote-unquote great people like John the Baptist or Moses, but Jesus says to his disciples, whoever gives even one of these uh little cups of cold water to a disciple will not fail to lose. reward. And that's why I'm renewed in my confidence that May Falvey lived a great life. She lived a life that mattered. Because what I know about May, beyond what I told you already at the beginning of the service, is that there is not a woman in New Jersey. That prayed for me more than May Falvey. And with that raspy hoarse voice, she would tell me exactly what she was praying for me And until she wasn't able to come to those services anymore, she would tell me every single Sunday, specifically, this, you said this and this was helpful to me And she affirmed and she encouraged and she prayed for me. And I trust that it's beginning to show what will only be fully revealed on that last day, what a valuable life she lived. Our world doesn't really have a category for that kind of greatness, but the risen Christ does. So do not measure success today. By your own sense of how it's going or by other people's sense of how it's going. You wait, you measure success by his definition and with his eyes as it's revealed on that day Hope in that final day. Know that day is coming. Because Christ died, because Christ rose, because he ascended, he will come again. That day of radical change is coming, and it's on that day that the true measure of your labors will be revealed in all their glorious splendor. The risen Christ will see to that, beloved. So remember him and rejoice in him and be very busy in his service. Because none of it could ever possibly be in Heavenly Father, we pray that you would help us to take these words to heart. You have given us a glorious hope. And we pray that you would help us to keep ourselves busy in your service. We thank you for all the tireless work that has even gone into Our setup this very day. We thank you for faithful service that has been given to you. And we pray that as we think more in the week ahead And the month ahead, in the year ahead, and the lifetime ahead, as long as we each would have it. We pray that you would help us to not measure success. by how this world defines it now, but by how you will see it on that final day. And help us, Father. Help us to be steadfast and immovable. and always abounding in your work, knowing that in Christ our labor is not in vain. We pray for all of this in Jesus' name. Amen