Go ahead and open in your Bibles to Ephesians chapter 2. You're using one of the Bibles that are provided there in a seat around you. That's going to be on page 977. 977, not nine seventy six. We've moved on. A page. We're on page nine seventy-seven now. We're getting there, brothers and sisters. We're getting there. Page 977 of your Bibles. We've been studying the book of Ephesians together, and we're going to resume in verse 19 of chapter 2. If you're a guest with us, if you don't own a Bible, we'd be delighted for you to take that Bible with you. As a gift from us, we'd love to get to know you and uh help you to know how you can study the Bible for yourself and learn its fundamental key message and central message in the good news of Jesus Christ. So please let us know if we can be of help to you in that. This past week, as uh a lot of you or maybe all of you know, Tony and I uh were in Dallas for the annual meeting of the Southern Baptist Convention. And we arrived in Dallas on Monday morning and we got a ride to our uh to the convention from the airport to the convention center. We got a uh we had a lift driver. His name was Andres. And it's always good in those kinds of settings or you're in a confined space with somebody. See if we can sow some gospel seeds. And the fact that we were in town for the Southern Baptist Convention made it somewhat easy to at least connect the conversation to spiritual things, but uh Andres was not was not really feeling this Uh he was a little rough around the edges, I would say from the moment I saw him and he greeted us. He looked he seemed a little little rough But when we began to talk about the church, when we began to talk about Jesus, he became uh somewhat agitated, I would say, maybe even a little argumentative. He was saying things like I don't need a lecture about Jesus. I'm not I'm not a rookie. He had a he had a tattoo, uh a little cross. I think it was right here, or maybe it was on his hand. I can't remember. But a little teeny Cross there. He's I'm not a rookie. I don't need to talk. I'm I'm fine with Jesus. I don't need you to lecture me about Jesus, but I'll never set foot in a church again. Church is man-made. I don't need a church to follow Jesus. It's a bunch of hypocrites. I don't need anything to do with that. He just kept going on and on. And uh and I just as an aside, I was so encouraged by Pastor Tony's Uh his gentle persistence because I've kind of like I I was early on like I don't think this is going anywhere and I'm I'm I'm not gonna press this anymore. But Pastor Tony was just he was gentle, he was not argumentative, but he kept He kept now he kept sowing gospel seeds, praise the Lord. And uh towards the end of our ride, uh Andre shared a bit more uh about some of the pain that he had experienced earlier in his life. by a church. Now it's hard to know in a situation like that whether this hurt that he experienced was because of people in the church who really did harm to him and his family or maybe he just didn't like His own sin being addressed even in a loving and gentle way. It's hard to know. But uh either way, Andres clearly saw a sharp disconnect. between living for and relating to Jesus and living for uh among and relating to the people who are called and commissioned by Jesus to represent him on earth, that is the church. And and Andres is not alone. I I trust that you know people, perhaps you live around people, you work beside people who May claim some sort of devotion to Jesus, but not want anything to do with this institution, the church, that bears witness to Jesus. The phrase church hurt is an increasingly common one in our society And so it causes me as a pastor to want to make sure that those of us here, and it is uh the overwhelming majority of us here, though those of us who are happy to identify as sheep As members of a local church, that we know how to uh relate to and answer the questions of people like Andres. Uh especially those who maybe aren't quite as combative as he happened to be in that car. But important questions. Like what exactly is the church? What's it for? What's its purpose? Where did it come from? How important is it to living life as a follower of Jesus? Well those those are questions that are addressed in uh the portion of scripture that we are looking at this morning as we continue to study this letter to the Ephesians, as as we moved on from our time in Dallas, and as I moved into my study of God's Word in preparation for our time together today, I was just I was so struck at how pertinent this passage is. to the the conversation that we had in that car ride with Andres and I'm sure you have or will have conversations maybe along those lines with people. So listen along as I read Ephesians two, beginning in verse nineteen I'm going to read through the end of the chapter, Ephesians 2, verse 19. So then And we'll come back to explaining that's a so then is a conclusion that's being drawn from something that was previously said. So I'll make that connection for you hopefully here in just a minute. But Listen along. So then you are no longer strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God. Built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets. Christ Jesus Himself being the cornerstone In whom the whole structure being joined together grows into a holy temple in the Lord In him you also are being built together into a dwelling place for God by the Spirit. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we do ask for your help as we look at these verses, this short passage with a very powerful Message to us, we pray that you would do a good work in our souls by your spirit. As we consider these words, help me to Teach what's here plainly and faithfully, exposing the meaning of this passage, not adding my own ideas and preferences, but being faithful to teach this word. And to the degree that I'm faithful in doing that, would you help us to submit to it and learn from it and be more conform to the likeness of Jesus through our examination of it today? We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen. Main idea I see in that short passage that I read to you, I'd sum up in this sentence. God has gathered to himself a people. A people with a high calling and a deep foundation If you're a note taker, that's a sentence that you can write down. We'll spend our time thinking together about the the parts of that sentence. God has gathered to himself a people. A people with a high calling and a deep foundation. God has gathered to himself a people. Look again at verse 19. So then, you are no longer strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens. With the saints and members of the household of God. Again, this is a conclusion that Paul is drawing, so then Notice the words there in verse 19, no longer. That's calling attention to The dramatic transformation that has taken place in the lives of these Gentile Christians that Paul has just been writing about. He says they are no longer strangers and aliens. Which they were at one time. Do you see that in verse 11, the phrase, at one time? Verse 12, it says, at that time, those Gentile uh Christians now christians but at one time they were uh strangers they were separated from the Christ they were uh aliens to the commonwealth of the nation of Israel And they were strangers to God's covenants and his promises. They were without hope and without God in the world. We talked about uh those verses last Sunday. But now, verse 13, Paul writes, but now they who had been far off have been brought near By the blood of Christ. That's the good news that we gather to celebrate every single Lord's Day. That we all Jew and Gentile, all, all of us have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God by our sinful rebellion against God. But because of Jesus, because of his blood shed, because of his sacrifice on the cross, we who were guilty and estranged from God can be brought near. We can be brought into his family, come behold the wondrous mystery we sing sometimes. That that the eternal joy and delight that Jesus the Son knew in the bosom of his father from even before the foundation of the world that Jesus would freely lay that joy down, that he would lay that intimacy aside, and that he would come And that he would subject himself to being the object of his father's greatest reproach and scorn that Jesus would be struck and afflicted and forsaken, that he would even cry out on the cross, my God, my God, why have you. forsaken me, so that we who were far off, who were who had treated God like he was an alien and thus estranged ourselves from him, that we might be brought near again to him in love and in fellowship. And that's what Jesus did for his people on the cross. He he writhed in agonizing pain. Yes, physically, from the nails that were pierced through his skin and from his body hanging upon. that cross, but even more in the spiritual abandonment and estrangement that he knew with his father on the cross. He endured all that As the punishment for our sins, so that all who are repentant, all who would turn away from their sins and would rely upon Jesus alone Whether Jew or Gentile, whether black or white, whether male or female, so that all who would turn to Jesus would find forgiveness and a place in his family. If you're here this morning and you've never heard the message of the Christian faith, that's it in a nutshell. That's what we Call and invite you to to turn from your rebellion against God and rely upon Jesus and you can be welcomed into his family. We'd be delighted to talk with you more about that if you want to understand more of what that would mean to become a part of God's family. But it is God's family. That we are made a part of. God is gathering to Himself a people, not just a collection of unconnected individuals. I said this last Sunday that the you, as we are reading in the book of Ephesians, and even there, as you see the word you in verse 19, and then again in verse 22, the you is actually a y'all. This reality of God gathering to himself a people is all over this short passage that I read, not just in the obscurity of the Greek language, which distinguishes between a singular U and a plural you. Look at the passage. It says, we've been made fellow citizens. That's plural. A heavenly nation. Our citizenship is in heaven, Paul would teach in another of his letters. But we're citizens. He says we're members of the household or the family of God. He says this this body of people is like a structure, it's like a building being joined together, he says And then he says again, you're being built together into a dwelling place for God. Perfectly fitted together. Uh kids, I don't know if you enjoy doing Legos, uh, but if you imagine a massive Lego project and then getting every piece just right so it fits together so That's a little picture of what God says he's doing in uniting this people together in him. So the the Westminster shorter catechism asks famously, what is the chief end of man? And I wonder if you know what the answer to that is. To glorify God and enjoy him forever. Thanks, Sabrina. You were eager to give me that. Well, the that's a good answer. I mean that's good. That is the correct answer. But in the there's a 20th century Australian uh minister named David Broughton Knox And he actually proposed, audacious it is, because that's a pretty well-known and famous answer, he actually proposed a short revision, a slight revision. He answered the question, the chief end of man is to glorify God and enjoy him in the company of his people forever. And I think he got that right. And that's a point that is driven home right here in our passage and in the book of Ephesians and really throughout the entire Bible. It was not good for Adam to be alone, but a helper suitable for him needed to be made. family to be the nation through whom all nations would be blessed. You see throughout the entire Bible, God is gathering a people. The predominance of that phrase one another in the New Testament. If you did a search for one another in your New Testaments this afternoon, you would see how integral this fellowship, this people, this togetherness is in the lives of those who call themselves Christians. The the solo approach to following Jesus is not what we see in the days of the church's birth or in the decades after the church's birth. What we see in Ephesians 2 Is that when the Holy Spirit begets a new Christian, when He makes us alive together with Christ, as it says there in verse 5, He births in us, He ensures that that new child loves the family that he's born into. The Apostle John would put it this way: we know that we have passed out of death into life because we love the brothers. This is one of the ways that we know that we are alive in Christ is that we love his family. The call of the gospel was not and is not, go follow Jesus on your own. But it's come follow Jesus together with us. And so Andres was wrong. And I I maybe it was didn't have the guts to do it. Maybe I should have, I don't know, thought the dude might at some point just pull over and just get out. leave with our our bags. But Andres was wrong. You cannot be cool with Jesus and fly solo, removed from his people. The church is not man-made, it's God birthed We are, we are, it says there in chapter 2, verse 10, we are his workmanship. And as his workmanship, God has invested his church, his church is. The universal church takes shape in time and space in the presence and existence of local churches that assemble in his name He has invested his church, and his church is, with a high calling. Point two affords me to take a sip of water. This people that God is gathering to Himself have a high calling. Let's go back to that question that I posed at the start of the sermon. What's the point of a church? Like what's it for? Uh in our day-to-day lives, we understand the point of things. Like if you drive by a bank, or a fire station or a movie theater or a restaurant. You know, like you know what that's there for. You don't drive by a restaurant and be like, I wonder what that's all about. Like I wonder what they're doing there. But if if someone was to drive down Annapolis Road this morning and see that sign out front saying Chevroly Baptist Church with an arrow And if they were to wonder, what's going on there? What's this about? I wonder what you would say. We should know what to say. And uh I don't think there's only one way to say what we should say. There's lots of different ways you could say it. But one way that you could say it is what we're here for, the point of this thing, is to reflect or to show off the character of God We're here to be a display through our declaration of the good news of Jesus And through the way that we live and relate to each other in a way that is becoming or befitting of this wonderful news that we have received in Jesus, we're called to be a people who reflect, who demonstrate. the character, the loving and wise and holy and righteous character of God And I'm I'm grabbing at that idea because of Paul's statement here that this this people, this household family, this citizenship that God has gathered to himself is also a building. Lots of different metaphors for the church in the New Testament. That's just a few of them. There's there's sheep and and there's a body. I mean there's all kinds of different metaphors because you really can't depict the glory of this thing with just one image. But he says here that this gathering, this family, this people, this citizenship, they are a building. And that building is none other than a holy temple, he says. And then he says it in verse 22, a dwelling place for God. Which means, I think this at least. Uh the excitement that people may have in traveling to the Holy Land. Anyone, I'm just curious, show of hands. Anyone been to Israel to walk around and see A number of you have maybe you went where the the temple mount was and maybe you saw uh stones that were understood or maybe thought because of architecture to uh or uh archaeology, you know, to Be maybe some of the original stones of that temple that existed in Jesus' day. And people like to go there and they see the sites, and it's a fine thing to do. But I would say on the basis of this passage that really going to the Holy Land and seeing the sites and seeing the places is actually quite boring compared to what I'm looking at right now when I look around and see you all. We are the dwelling place of God. Where two or three are gathered in my name, Jesus says, there I am with them. I'm looking at this room and I'm thinking, this is where God dwells. Does that not stun you? What God intended from the very beginning for the Garden of Eden to be. This is a whole big story. I'm a little over my head right now. Because I could spend it we could spend a whole long time and if you want to read a book on this it would be I a book that I would recommend though it's a thick book would be called The actually I forget what it's called now, not in my notes. The Temple and the Church's Mission? Does that sound right? By Greg Beal Uh I mean he he spelled it I can only barely scratch the surface, but what God intended from the very beginning in the Garden of Eden was that Eden was a temple, that God was dwelling with man And God had given Adam and Eve a call to be fruitful and multiply and fill the creation with image-bearers of God. They would, as they dwelt together, with God, they would image forth God and extend that image into the entirety of creation. But we know Adam and Eve, they sinned and they were separated from that holy dwelling place. But God was not done. He was not going to relent in his plan to have a people who would be his display people in all the world. And so he made a covenant. He he made a covenant with Abram. And he called the nation of Israel. He called them to be a people and a name and a praise and a and a glory. And he, after delivering them from Egypt, he had them gave them very specific details for how to construct a tabernacle for their wanderings in the wilderness on their way to the promised land. And then once they were in the promised land instructions on building the temple. And and Beal in that book, he would draw out ways that even the construction of the tabernacle and the temple were to reproduce uh Eden in a certain way. They were to have traces of the very Garden of Eden because it was as though the tabernacle and the temple would be the place where man and God would meet in fellowship. But we know the story of Israel is that they failed. They were faithless again and again. They broke God's law. They were exiled from their land, but still the prophets made promises. Oh, the last several chapters of Ezekiel is one big promise of God re-establishing a temple. And centuries went by and then Jesus Christ himself, the perfect image of God, the exact imprint of his nature, God incarnate, came. And it says in the beginning of John's gospel that he tabernacled or he dwelt among his people. In Jesus, God was reuniting man and God. And he said in chapter 2 of John, when they uh when he saw the uh The lawlessness in the temple. He said, destroy this temple, and I will rebuild it in three days. And he wasn't talking about that physical. structure, but he was talking about his resurrected body. The resurrected body of Jesus would be the way in which man and God could dwell together again. And Jesus went to the cross and he rose from the dead, and now God, through the ministry of Paul and others, he's saving people. People are hearing that good news and they're being united with Jesus, and they become the dwelling place of God. On earth. Even as we look forward to that day when God will make all things new and there'll be a new heavens and a new earth. Where God's dwelling place is with us and fills the whole creation, we now, the church, united to Jesus, raised with him, we are the place in the world where people can go to meet God. It's just amazing that the Gentiles who couldn't even go in, they were barred. We talked about this last week, this dividing wall. They couldn't even go into the inner court of the temple, but now they are the temple. There's no need for a building now because the church, the people of God, are where God's glory dwells. So picture a people changed and continuing to be changed by this good news of Jesus. They're characterized by, Jesus would put it in the what we call the beatitudes, they're characterized by poverty of spirit and mourning and gentleness and hunger and thirst for righteousness. Brothers and sisters in Christ, don't show up week after week feeling like they're healthy, but feeling needy, feeling weak, boasting in a cross. And they know that everybody else who's coming as their brothers and sisters of Christ is feeling that way too. And so their conversations with each other are not marked by triviality and keeping up appearances. They don't pretend to be holy, but they are quick to confess their sins. They're accustomed to transparency in their conversation. And that confession of sin isn't met with shock or disdain, but with empathy and with tenderness. Because we're all stumbling forward in our love for and allegiance to Jesus. A picture of people marked by by genuine spirit-wrought yearning for righteousness which produces in us a willingness to gouge out an eye or Cut off a hand if necessary in obedience to Jesus. If you're new here to the church, I don't mean literally cutting off your hand or your or gouging out an eye. I mean being vigilant and earnest in our war against sin. And we are helping each other to do that. Maybe we're waking up real early. for a walk or a Bible study where we're confessing and where we're holding each other accountable and asking tough questions of one another Maybe, maybe it's reaching out to a sister late in the evening and telling her, I'm at the end of my rope. I need you to pray. I need you to give me a word from the scriptures. We long to help each other reflect him faithfully. A picture picture a people marked by mercy and purity of heart, by peacemaking, even in the midst of persecution, even when we are reviled and slandered and hated because of our devotion to Jesus. Of people aiming to be the aroma of Christ everywhere they go, spreading good news about Jesus on the streets and in their schools or at their swimming pools or in restaurants or cubicles or lift rides. And sometimes there's opposition. Angry parents. or lost friends or lost jobs or financial insecurity. But this is a people who loves each other They love each other as they've been loved by Jesus, and so they're committed to caring for each other's needs and bearing each other's burdens. What is it that's happening among these people? They're being built together into the very temple of God by his Holy Spirit. Oh, that's a glory more spectacular than any structure on earth could be. The uh the first century historian, uh Jewish historian Josephus wrote of that temple that existed in Paul's day, the Jewish temple. He said The outward walls of the temple, they were covered with so much gold that they were blinding in fiery splendor at sunrise. And that's nothing compared to the glory that is on display in Christ's church This is why, just as a little aside, this is why one reason why we take membership in a local church seriously. It's why even our own statement of faith attaches our practice of church membership with our practice of the ordinances like baptism and the Lord's Supper. How are we to recognize the ones in a particular place Who are being built as these living stones and being cemented together into the very dwelling place of God. That's a very high, as I said, a very high, serious, weighty calling. Can we just assume that anybody who happens to show up at this gathering on a Sunday morning is going to is going to be joined with us in that kind of way? Who who who how do we know who we are responsible for to oversee and look after their holiness? Since one of the other images that the scriptures give of the church is not just a temple, but actually a priest, a priesthood, guarding the purity and the holiness of that temple. How are we going to know who that is? It's a weighty responsibility. This is this is one of the reasons why we don't want to rush children and and young teens prematurely into membership in the church, which is what we do through baptism, not because we hate children by the way, because we love children, we care for children, and we want to make sure that they're properly trained and cared for so that they can enter into that high and holy calling responsibly. It's a weighty calling to be the dwelling place of God. And oh, may it be that here at Chevrolet Baptist Church, we might live together, that we might so reflect the character of God, that even here we could be a place where the sparrow can find a place. Like, what in the world did you just say? What does that have to do with anything? Do you remember Psalm 84? Even the sparrow. How lovely is your dwelling place, oh God. And yes, we think about the fellowship and the joys that we know of communion with God. And we think, as Dave reminded us, we think of the heavenly home that will be ours. But right now, we've just been seeing in Ephesians, right now we are the dwelling place of God. And could it be that a sparrow, when you read sparrow in the Bible, you should read insignificance. Tiny, what is it, a sparrow or two sold for a penny, is what Jesus would say. Oh, might it be that even a little sparrow would flourish here, would find the very nature and character of God as they would come in here? That maybe somebody married three times and now divorced and living in a one-bedroom apartment on their own who knows that their life is a moral disaster. that they would be able to come in here and be loved and shown the image of God in his people. That may be a person who's become a real religious snob because he's so puffed up with how much he knows And he's a little bit arrogant and annoying to be around because he always wants to show off how much he knows that we'd be able to love him so with the humility and gentleness of Jesus that maybe some of those rough edges could be knocked off his big arrogant head. So as to make him a happy and fruitful member of the body of Christ. Could that happen here at Chevrolet Baptist Church? Could it? You see, our our culture right now, this is not going to be a show, this will be the least shocking thing I say. Our culture is a mess in so many ways right now It's it's chaos in so many ways. It doesn't matter what your particular allegiances are or conviction. You just look around a society. I just I just happened to open up my web raptor this morning And I just looked at the at ABC News and I just looked at the headlines and it's like it's just absolutely chaos. There's no way to turn on the news, no matter what is your news outlet, and not just think, oh, this world But you know that's that's a phenomenal opportunity for the church. To be a billboard Advertising a heavenly city with foundations whose builder and architect is God What a joyful privilege it is to live together in such a way. When we come together, but even as we scatter, we are still, though scattered, we are still representing God, we are still imaging Him forth together. in all that we do, that we might live in such a way that we give people a little taste of heaven, the ultimate forever dwelling place of God, right here in Prince George's County. It's a high calling. Who is sufficient for these things, we might wonder Well, I'm so glad you asked. Because I have one final point, and it is the church's deep foundation. God's gathering himself a people. That people has a high calling and a deep foundation. Verse 19, that foundation, church answer, it's Jesus. Look at verse 19 again, and you'll just see how abundantly he's The star of this passage. So then, you are no longer strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets. We're going to talk about that phrase next week specifically. I have another week to figure out what the heck it's talking about because it's in the passage next week as well. You think it's simple, but it's not as simple as you think. Anyway, built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus himself being the cornerstone. In whom the whole structure being joined together grows into a holy temple in the Lord. In him you also are being built together into a dwelling place for God by the Spirit. Did you see in that brief passage? Four places where Jesus is mentioned, right? Jesus himself is the cornerstone. It's in him that the whole structure is growing into a holy temple. In the Lord, that's Jesus. And in him, you also. In Jesus, you're being built together into a dwelling place. for God. And and we might, you know, we could talk about the me the nature of what a cornerstone was in terms of its placement and the Foundation of a structure that was being built. I don't know much about archite architecture. I don't know much I don't know anything about actually architecture or construction But I know what Paul's trying to say is that Jesus is the foundation. He's the deepest foundation that makes everything else hold together. It's Jesus Apart from Jesus, you and I can do nothing. Apart from Jesus, we cannot be a faithful representation of the image and glory of God. We're we're done now, Jonathan Stockland, since you're here this time. We're done chapter two this morning, and Lord willing, next week we will begin chapter three, not five years from now. All right I love him. I love him. I just had to say it with you here. We're through two chapters, and do you know how many references there are to G if you go through and count. Not just Jesus' name explicitly, but all those in whom or him or he himself. If you just were to count all those up, take a guess at how many times in the first two chapters. This is always dangerous when I say take a guess How many times did you say think it was it came up in the first two chapters? Alan? What I can hear what you said. Ten? A little bit more than ten. I'll just tell you. Okay, Simon will let you Simon 40. Still higher. 47 times in the first two chapters. Now you maybe your translation is a little bit different. Maybe I miscounted, but I counted 47 times in 45 verses. It's all about Jesus. He's the cornerstone. We're faithful in Christ. He says grace and peace from God in and through Christ In Christ, we have every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. We've been chosen in Christ before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before Him. We've been adopted as sons through Jesus Christ. We have redemption through Christ's blood. God has a plan. He's made known to us this mystery to unite all things, things in heaven and things on earth in Christ. In Christ, we've obtained an inheritance. We have hope in Christ. We who are believing on Christ have received the promised Holy Spirit The very power that God worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead is at work in him. And if we wonder more about that power, he's Deliberate to tell us, Paul, that Christ was raised and he was seated at God's right hand far above all rule and authority and power and dominion And above every name that is named, not only in this age, but also in the one to come. All things have been put under Jesus' feet, and Jesus has been given as head over all things to the church, which is his body. When we were dead in sin, God made us alive together with Christ. He raised us with Christ. He seated us with Christ with the sure hope that we will know immeasurable riches of God's grace and kindness towards us throughout the coming ages. In Christ. We've been created in Christ for good works. Jew and Gentile are turned into one new man in Christ. We are being built together into a dwelling place. of God, for God, in Christ. Are you getting tired of hearing about Christ? I sure hope not. Maybe you're getting tired of hearing me. But I hope you're not getting tired of hearing about Christ. And if we were to go into chapter 3 and beyond, we could talk about how we have boldness and access to approach God as our Father in Christ. We would be taught about how we are loved by Christ with a love that is so wide and long and high and deep that it's beyond knowledge. But we're praying, he prays that we'll know that love of Christ that surpasses knowledge. Oh, and we could maybe even go out the book of Ephesians. He is the head of the church. He is the Alpha and the Omega. He is the chief shepherd of the sheep. He's the beginning and the end. He's the upholder of the universe by his powerful word, and he's the one who invites the thirsty to come to him and find drink. Jesus is the one who is before all things, and in whom all things hold together, the one who gives rest to all who are weary and heavy laden. He is the heir of all things. He's the one through whom all things were made, yet he did not count equality with God, a thing to be grasped. But he emptied himself by taking the form of a servant, and being born in the likeness of men, he humbled himself by becoming obedient even to death on a cross. He's the one in whom all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge are found. In Jesus was life. In him he he was the light of the world. He's the one who has all authority in heaven and on earth. And yet he is able to sympathize with us in our weaknesses. He's the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. He will destroy the lawless one with the breath of his mouth, but he will not break a bruised reed or quench a faintly burning wick. He commands his army of angels, and he catches every one of our tears in his bottle. He's the lion of the tribe of Judah, and he's the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. He will shatter kings on the day of his wrath, but he will grant his ransomed ones to sit with him on his throne. Why would we want to build on anything or anyone else in that? It's Jesus. And I just barely scratched the outer surface of what are his unsearchable riches of glory. Oh Chevroly Baptist Church, let us look to Jesus. And let us learn from Jesus. And Let us rest in Jesus and build on Jesus and hope in Jesus and abide in Jesus and walk in Jesus and be imitators of Jesus and And let us determine to know nothing among us except Jesus and him crucified. Let us boast only in the cross of the Lord Jesus. Let us wage war against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places with the armor of Jesus Even as we wait for our blessed hope, the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior Jesus. It's all about Jesus. He's the foundation. In Christ alone our hope is found. It's only in Christ That we could ever hope to be faithful to this high and holy calling of reflecting God's glorious character to the world. But in Christ we can be assured that it is a high and holy calling which we've been fully equipped for. Do we not have everything that we need in our Jesus? I mean that'd be another thing I could have said about Jesus. We are filled or we are complete in him, Colossians 2. 10. We'll look forward in a few weeks to celebrating our nation's independence. Even as we anticipate what I expect to be a really big celebration next July 4th. for the 250th anniversary of our nation. Not bad for the great experiment, as George Washington put it. But you understand the church is no experiment. Its destiny and future is not a matter of uncertainty, but of everlasting triumph and success. I will build my church, Jesus said, and the gates of hell will not prevail against her. Only if Jesus could be pulled out of heaven and replaced in that grave would we have any reason to doubt that maybe the church's mission of reflecting his glory would fail. But that's not going to happen, brothers and sisters. His triumph is as sure as his tomb is empty And I I wish I knew what that meant for Chevrolet Baptist Church. I don't. But maybe we're called to a Celestia Ferris-like Slow plodding unknown faithfulness that just perseveres and steady with not much to show for it for a hundred and twenty years. Do you know who who Celestia Ferris is? That's amazing that most of you don't. You just mentioned it, I think, a few weeks ago. Celeste Ferris is a woman who was, I believe, 23 years old in the 18, around 1850, 1867, I think it was She had a heart to see a Baptist church planted in uh Capitol Hill, on Capitol Hill. And she began to pray with her husband and maybe two other couples, I think. And they prayed, and after 11 years Uh a church was established. That church is still going today. It's got a different name, but it's called Capitol Hill Baptist Church. They planted this church a little over seven years ago. But nobody knows Celesteferis. I read this, so I read all about Celestia Ferris and the history of this uh church in this book, Light on the Hill, by Caleb Morell. And uh And I I every time I read this page, I've read it a number of times and it braced tears to my eyes. I don't know that's gonna happen now in front of everybody, but he talks about Celestia Ferris, and there's a picture of her grave in the book. This is her tombstone And he says she lived what George Eliot has called a hidden life, spending her days performing unhistoric acts and being buried in an unvisited tomb in Arlington. Her name, however, has not been forgotten. And her legacy continues in the lives impacted through the ministry of the church she started. That's you. That's you. That's you. That's a lot of you. But she's unknown and forgotten. It's possible that Chevrolet Baptist Church might have such a ministry. To just slowly, patiently plod along. Loving Jesus and loving each other. And maybe in 120 years, our great-grandchildren will see an explosion of kingdom fruit for his glory. Like celestial maybe getting to look down upon right now in heavenly glory from our labors here. I don't know what the future will hold for us. But I know that we should not allow the allure of observable measures of success To obscure our vision from the awesome dignity which the Lord Jesus has bestowed upon this church right now, that we would be a dwelling place for God by the Spirit. Now to him who is able to do far more abundantly than all that we ask or think according to the power at work within us. To him be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations, forever and ever. And all God's people said. Amen. Heavenly Father, we pray that you would help us to be faithful. None of us are sufficiency for this task. Whether in our own life individually, to be your image bearer, or as a congregation together, we cannot do anything apart from Jesus. We pray that you would work in us what's pleasing in your sight through him, and that you would help us to increasingly be marked by love. By unity, by holiness, in a way that would commend the gospel in our communities right now. And until Jesus comes back. We ask for all this in his name. Amen