Good morning, brothers and sisters. Good to be with you to share God's word with you. Before we do that, I'm going to pray once more, and then we will dive into our text Oh God, we need you. We thank you that from the songs that we've sung so far this morning, and the prayers that we've heard. I'm crying out to you for various reasons, for praising you and for thanking you. Even from the scripture reading that we've heard this morning, we are reminded that we need you. In fact, even right now, we need you to hear your word, to apply it, to do what it says. But we pray that you would be with us in this time. But use your word to convict us, to correct us, and change us so that we will look like your son, Jesus Christ, as a result. We ask in his name. Amen. So pretty soon my son and I will be taking a trip together, which I'm really excited about. Because I really enjoy traveling. I enjoy everything about it. I enjoy going to airports, seeing where other people are gonna go and where they might end up Walking in and going to the screen and then getting through and then figure out okay what am I gonna eat and I I enjoy all of that in traveling. Going to a new place, experiencing a new or familiar place But what I don't like at all is packing. And that's because I am a serial overpacker. It's just built into the merit DNA. And as much as my wife has tried to change that, that hasn't changed a whole lot over the past several years I pack things that I need, and then I have a category for the the just in case. But I end up overpacking. But carrying around your book bag and your carry-on and your suitcase when you're in an airport, I trust many of us have experienced that before. After a while that becomes burdensome, right? It's heavy. Eventually, you want some relief. And eventually you might get some relief when you go to that counter, you give them your suitcase, you pray that it's not over 50 pounds And then they take it away. You get to travel light and roam freely. That luggage, that burden is still yours. But you're not carrying it around. You get to travel light. I wonder if you are traveling light this morning If you traveled lightly to get to church. And by that I don't mean all the things that you brought with you. By that, I'm talking about your burdens that you may be carrying with you. If you come here this morning with your proverbial carry-on, your backpack, and your suitcase filled to the brim with all of your various burdens. Job loss or financial questions. Maybe in our marriage series that we've been going through, you've been reminded of all the ways that you failed as a husband or as a wife And maybe you feel like your marriage is still stuck in Genesis 3. Or perhaps you're carrying the burdens of a family member or a loved one or in some leadership role that you have. Maybe it feels a bit unbearable for you this morning. Or maybe you've even fixated on some local or global news events. It's become all-consuming for you. And you are trying to figure out in your own strength what the solution should be. Have you been filling your bags with burdens? The question before us all this morning, the same that was before the prophet Habakkuk. And here's the question: What should we do with all of our burdens? Your copy of God's word, please meet me in the book of Habakkuk. That's on page 785 of those black Bibles provided around you. Today we'll begin a study through this minor prophet, Habakkuk. Next week, Lord willing, we will follow up with our the final sermon in our marriage series, and then we will continue through the book of Habakkuk for the month of May, Lord willing. So Habakkuk is one of the last few books of the Old Testament. So if you flip over to the Gospel of Matthew and flip back several pages, you should be able to find Habakkuk. It's one of the so-called minor prophets, which is really an unfortunate name. It doesn't mean that it's less important than the other major prophets, like Isaiah or Jeremiah, for example. It just means That those prophecies, those books, are much shorter. So it's one of the minor prophets. Aback is not mentioned anywhere else in all of scripture outside of this book. But Habakkuk is believed to be a contemporary of prophets like Jeremiah, Zechariah, and possibly even Daniel and Ezekiel. But the book of Habakkuk is unique compared to some of the other prophetic books in the Bible in that it does not direct address Judah, meaning the nation of God's people, directly. What we get in Habakkuk is a dialogue between God and Habakkuk. So it's kind of more like a prayer journal, if you will. And there are two cycles of these kinds of prayers, which are better named laments, and God's response to them. Which are basically chapters one and chapter two, where the prophet laments to the Lord. God responds, he laments again God responds, and then chapter 3, Habakkuk prays a prayer of praise to the Lord. But in our time today, we're going to focus on the prophet's burden His response to these burdens, and I think we'll learn about how we should be responding to our burdens as well. So follow along with me as I read our passage, Habakkuk chapter 1, starting in verse 1. This is God's word. The oracle that Habakkuk the prophet saw. Oh Lord How long shall I cry for help and you will not hear? Or cry to you violence and you will not save? Why do you make me see iniquity? And why do you idly look at wrong? Destruction and violence are before me. Strife and contention arise. So the law is paralyzed, and justice never goes forth, for the wicked surround the righteous So justice goes forth perverted. That's our passage for this morning that we're going to focus on But here's our main idea that we'll, by God's grace, cover in our time together. Here's the main idea. God's people demonstrate faith. Through giving their burden their burdens to him and lament. God's people demonstrate faith through giving their burdens to him and lament. And as we unpack this brief section in Habakkuk chapter one, we'll focus on three main parts The prophet's burden, verse 1, the prophet's lament, verses 2 through 4, and then we'll think about our response, our burdens, and how we can bring them to the Lord. So first of all, the prophet's burden. Let's look again at verse 1. Habakkuk starts with by saying the oracle that Habakkuk the prophet saw. And that word oracle can be translated to mean burden. And that gets to the heart of this prophecy. It also informs the rest of this dialogue between the prophet and between the Lord. And verse 1 also says that this oracle or this burden was what Habakkuk saw. And that word there saw is getting to the heart about what it means to be a prophet. Prophets were also known as seers, meaning the Lord would communicate with them. He would give them clear words, clear instructions, or even a vision. They would see it, and then it would be their job to communicate that or to share that burden with God's people or even with God's enemies at times. But in order to better understand the burden of a Habakkuk, I think we need to understand a little bit more about the time period and the context that God's people found themselves in. And as we should know, God made the world and He made people to follow His rule. But if you know the Old Testament, you should know that God's people eventually wanted to be like other nations. Where they wanted a king that they could see to rule over them. They demanded it. And God eventually gave the people what they asked for. So he gave them Saul. Who didn't rule well. And then you have King David, who was a flawed man, but a man after God's own heart And then you have Solomon, who had a divided heart, and his his heart was often seeking after idols. It took him away from the Lord. And after the death of King Solomon, again King David's son, you have Rehoboam, who became the king over Israel and over these twelve tribes. But due to the rule that he was leading with, there was a rebellion where ten of those tribes, ten of those nations split This split led to two different kingdoms, kids and teens in the room. What two kingdoms am I talking about? Yes That's right. What's another name for them? Direct think directionally. The northern and the southern kingdom. Excellent. So the ten tribes in the north rebelled against Rehoboam and they became the northern kingdom, otherwise known as Israel. And the southern kingdom became known as Judah. Now in the north, their kingdom was riddled with sin and sinful leaders, who for the most part did what was evil in the sight of the Lord. And as a sign of God's judgment, they were invaded by the Assyrians in 722 BC. Now the southern kingdom did better for a while, at least for longer than the northern kingdom did. They had some more stability They had some kings that did what was right in the Lord's sight, but then you had others who did not For those of us going to the men's retreat next weekend, we're going to spend more time learning about some of these kings, and we're going to contrast them with God's help. With our greater king, the true and better king, the Lord Jesus. So we'll learn a little bit more about some of these rulers. But you had this back and forth of good leader, bad leader, good, evil, following the Lord, following their own ways. And that eventually led to the people of Judah being invaded. In 586 BC, that led to the destruction of the temple. So as we situate Habakkuk, Habakkuk is located again, he was living in Judah And this prophecy that he's receiving, these words that he's receiving from the Lord, it's before this invasion of the Chaldeans or the Babylonians takes place. So it's on the horizon, but it doesn't happen yet. We know Habakkuk lived under the godly rule of Josiah And he led God's people and the people in Judah to a spiritual renewal and revival. But he had a son who did not lead in that way. Josiah was overthrown by the Egyptians. Jehoiakim was appointed, and he was a wicked, a wicked ruler. Listen to how Jeremiah puts it in Jeremiah 22, where he's talking about Jehoiakim and also the sons of Josiah and how they were ruling. It says, woe to him who builds his house by unrighteousness and his upper rules by injustice, who makes his neighbor to serve him for nothing. And does not give him his wages, who says, I will build myself a great house with spacious upper rooms. Who cuts out windows for it, paneling it with cedar, and painting it with vermilin? Do you not think that you are a king, you compete and setter? Did not your father eat and drink and do justice and righteousness? Then it was well with him. He judged the cause and the poor and the needy. Then it was well. Is this not known to me, declares the Lord? But you have eyes and a heart only for dishonest gain, for shedding innocent blood and practicing oppression and violence. So again, to recap that, that's the Lord telling Jehoiakim, you are not like your father. Your father ruled with justice. You are ruling with injustice. And there will be punishment for that injustice. That should remind us that God holds rulers accountable for their leadership and for their sin. And that's why we often pray for our local leaders, for government leaders, for world leaders, that they would rule with justice. But God also cares about how we respond to those leaders. Are we going to go and do likewise with our realms of leadership? Are we going to obey everything that they say, even if they are leading us into wickedness? We also need to pray that we are not led astray by these rulers in our world. So things in Habakkuk's day were good at one point, and then they got very bad. And then the Lord told Habakkuk that things are only going to get worse before they get better. That's basically the story of Habakkuk. And as we'll learn over the next several weeks, the Lord would use this predicted invasion of the Chaldeans to punish Judah for their sins against God. There was evident sin among God's people, not just the rulers. God's people were in sin as well. The rulers were in sin as well. God's word and his ways were being put off to the side and trampled over. And a sovereignly ordained invasion of Judah would lie on the horizon. It's no wonder that this is described as a burden, right? All of this is what Habakkuk is living through and what he's going to experience in the future. My family and I w recently went to the Museum of the Bible and we saw an exhibit there called The Prophets. Hope amidst despair, which was a really great exhibit. You had an artist, Jacob Barrison, who found comfort in reading through the prophets as he lived through the Holocaust. As he lived as a Jew during the Holocaust. And he was in hiding with a Christian family who took him in and they encouraged him to read the scriptures. And while he was comparing his own burdens to the burdens of this, these prophets, that led him to eventually paint these portraits of all of the prophets that we have in the scriptures. If you see these portraits, you see that these prophets are burdened, they are weary, they are tired, they are seeking relief, every single one of them. Are you seeking relief in some way this morning? Are you tired? Are you burdened? Are you weary? If so, what are you doing about it? If you're here and you're not a Christian, I'm sure that you experience grief and sorrow and hardships as well. What are you doing about it How are you coping with it? And Christians, have you found unhealthy ways to cope? With your suffering, with your grief, with your sorrow? Or have you been giving your cares to the Lord instead We can either find our own ways to cope, or we can find the God who cares And give our griefs and sorrows to him. And that's exactly what Habakkuk does in this prayer of lament, which leads us to point two: the prayer of lament. That prayer starts in verse 2, where he says, O Lord, how long shall I cry out to you for help? And you will not hear. Or cry to you, violence, and you will not save. We think about this prayer in its entirety. We can break it up in a few different ways. He's basically saying, Lord, are you listening? Lord, when will you save us? Lord, where is your justice? Look at verse 2 again. Oh Lord, how long shall I cry to you for help? And you will not hear So Abakad has been crying out to the Lord repeatedly for some time. He needs help. He knows his people need help. He's crying out to the Lord on behalf of his people who are living in sin, who are walking in darkness. Who are being led by wicked rulers. And also, he's praying because he's been hearing about from other prophets like Jeremiah that it's going to get worse. There's an invasion that's going to be coming There are issues among God's people. There are issues with the leadership in the nation. There's been destruction and violence, Habakkuk says here. And he's pleading to God for help. Now maybe you haven't been in a situation exactly like Habakkuk is in that we've just been going over. But have you prayed a prayer that sounds something like, Lord, are you still listening? Have you heard us? Have you heard my cry for help? Now some of us might be very uncomfortable with that kind of prayer. With even uttering those words. It seems irreverent. It seems disrespectful, doesn't it? I mean, just think about in our own relationships. How does it feel when you're talking to someone and they say you're not listening to me? That's not endearing. That's not encouraging. Most of us might immediately get defensive if we hear that. But God is not like us. He's not. But if we think about it, why is Habakkuk praying in this way and why is this prayer even in the Bible? Habakkuk is praying a prayer of lament. That's why it's here. Now even think about the irony of Habakkuk praying and saying to the Lord, are you listening? In doing so, he's still talking to the Lord He's still demonstrating trust in the Lord. He's still demonstrating faith in the Lord. And that's what it means to lament. To take your grief, your hurts, your burdens, your confusion, your sorrow, even your doubts, and giving it to the Lord. Or as Pastor Mark Vrogot puts it, how he defines lament, he says, lament is prayer in pain that leads to trust. So lamenting here is different from grumbling, right? Kids, you're still learning, you're still going through Exodus You still would have heard about stories about God's people grumbling against him or grumbling against Moses and his leadership. The difference is when we grumble, when God's people grumble. They go away from the Lord. They talk about God. They question God away from his presence. But that's not what Habakkuk is doing here. He's going to the Lord directly. And that's the difference between grumbling or just complaining and lamenting. The difference is faith and where you are going with those burdens. Babak does believe that the Lord will hear him. That's why he's praying. But the emphasis of how long means that he's been waiting for a while on the Lord to respond. I wonder if you've prayed a how long prayer Maybe something like, oh Lord, how long will I remain single? How long will I struggle with this sin? How long will our marriage remain broken? How long will I grieve the loss of this loved one? How long will I wrestle with anxiety? How long until my loved one returns to the Lord? How long, O Lord? If you have that prayer this morning, dear brother or sister, keep praying. Because that kind of prayer is a prayer of faith. Keep bringing it to the Lord. Second question that Habakkuk has for the Lord is Lord, when will you save? Look at verse 2 again, the second section. This or cry to you violence and you will not save. His people are in need of rescue from these wicked rulers. And that's why he uses the word violence. In fact, in verse 3 he talks about destruction and violence are before me, strife and contention. So he defines this what this violence looks like Yeah, violence, destruction, strife, contention. That's what he's experiencing in Judah Perhaps that's what we experience as well. Any scroll through your news feed, what might you see over and over again Violence, destruction, contention, strife over and over again In fact, according to the Geneva Academy, there are currently over 45 armed conflicts happening right now in the Middle East and in North Africa. Right now, there are currently 21 armed conflicts happening in Asia. Right now, there are currently seven armed conflicts happening in Europe. And we might know well about the specifics of Israel and Iran, but that's not all that's going on in our world, even right now. Do you ever see and hear about this violence, the strife, contention, and you wonder, oh Lord, when are you going to save? Now will be a good time. When are you going to intervene? Cory Ten Boom, who lived through the Holocaust as a Christian, and that's written and reflected about her experiences very much. I encourage you to read her, is one thing that she says. Jesus, when a train goes through a tunnel and it gets dark, don't throw away the ticket and jump off. You sit still and you trust the conductor. Beloved, as we experience and see various trials and the darkness in our world, sit and be still and trust the conductor. God is still in control. And that's what Habakkuk is aiming to do in this prayer. He receives this burden, he's puzzled by it, and he laments And again, even in praying this prayer, he's demonstrating the fact that he believes the Lord can actually save. That's why he's asking him, when are you going to save? He's saying, I see a sin in Judah. I see a sin going on around us. I know you can do something about it, but when are you going to intervene? Look at verse 3. He says, Why do you make me see iniquity? And why do you idly look at wrong? Destruction and violence are before me. Strife and contention arise. He's saying, I see this. I know you see this. I can't do anything about it. You can do something about it. When will you do something about it? When will you save? Habakkuk believes that the Lord sees everything. But Habakkuk is lamenting because he does not see the Lord responding. On his behalf, at least not yet. What about you? When you see sin that's rampant in our world, what is your initial response Do you think that God is asleep at the will? Do you think that he's off the clock? Do you think that he will not eventually respond? We can all struggle with that at times. Another question that Habakkuk seems to raise, look at verse 4. He's asking, where is your justice? So the law is paralyzed, and justice never goes forth. For the wicked surround the righteous, so justice goes forth, perverted. Now, by law here, Habakkuk is talking about God's law, God's word, God's rule, and God's way. These rulers didn't care about that At this time. And in fact, God's people, many of them, did not care about God's law anymore. That's why he said, your law is paralyzed. It's ineffective. Justice never goes forth. Evil seems to be winning. There's examples of that in our world too, isn't there? Like the recent bishop in Australia who was attacked while he was preaching. Or that pastor in Miami that I referred to in the pastoral prayer who lost his life trying to help someone. Or even in late 2023, where you have police who arrested Christians in Laos for building a church building. They didn't tell them why. They didn't tell their family anything. They had them away for months. And while they were away, they destroyed that church building. So now Christians can't, they don't have a place to gather. That all seems unfair. That seems unjust. And specifically for God's people, it seems misplaced. What about those who lead and teach people of God's who are supposed to be trusted authorities and yet they use that authority for evil. They abuse others It's easy for us to respond with that same question, Lord, where is your justice? I see this, don't you see this? That's all burdensome. All of these questions, Lord, are you listening? Lord, when will you save? Lord, where is your justice? They are appropriate to give directly to the Lord. Because in giving them directly to the Lord, we are demonstrating faith in the Lord that He is just That he will save, that he is listening, even if it feels like he's not at the moment. So lament, therefore, is how we give our burdens to the Lord. And that's because the Lord does indeed hear and answer prayer. The Lord does save. The Lord does not look idly at wrong, but responds to sin with his justice. How do we know this? Because at the fullness of time, God's word says that God sent his son, born of a woman. Born under the law, to redeem those of us under the law so that we could be adopted as sons and as daughters. The Lord Jesus did this by coming to this world, by going on the cross, and from the cross he cried out, My God, why have you forsaken me? And that prayer of lament was met with silence. He cried out due to the violence that he endured. He did no wrong, yet all of our sin was laid upon him. All of our destruction, all of our violence, all of our strife, all of our contention. He saw the law being paralyzed, and he saw religious leaders not following God's law. And on the cross, the wicked surrounded the righteous one and mocked him and ridiculed him and thought that they actually were winning God's wrath that we deserve for our sin was laid on Jesus And this happened so that by faith in Jesus, we, the unrighteous, could become the very righteousness of God. So the Lord Jesus came not just to deal with that sin out there, he came to deal with sin in here, in us. And he dealt with it on the cross. And this morning, if you've not trusted in Christ by faith, know that God is just and God will punish sin. Not just the sin out there But the sin in here as well, your sin, my sin. But Jesus came and took our sin so that we don't have to bear that sin anymore. If you put your faith in Jesus Christ, He will forgive you. He will be merciful to you. And you will not have to bear the penalty that you deserve for your sin. Please turn to Christ today. You will save and he will be merciful to you if you do. Brothers and sisters in Christ, if you are burdened this morning with the sin and suffering in the world around you, or the sin and suffering that you are experiencing. If you are praying how long, oh Lord, remember that those prayers can go directly to God every single time. But one of the wrestles that we have with our suffering, with injustices that we see in the world, with prolonged and challenging seasons, is that we want to speed through them. We want to get to the good stuff. You might have a favorite streaming service, for example, and maybe even a favorite TV show. Now you might think, I love these two seasons, but season three, uh I don't like that one. So we'll skip that one and go to season four. That's when it gets good again And as we even think about the book of Habakkuk, the verses that we've covered today, some of us might know of the verses that you have in Habakkuk 3:17 through 19 that are some of the most glorious verses in the Bible. It's like Let's just get there already. Let's get to the good stuff. We may want to do that in our own lives too. Let's speed through these seasons of suffering. Let's get to the good stuff. Grief is like that too, isn't it? Where you think you've grieved the loss of a loved one or grief in other sorts of ways. And you're like, I'm done with it. I've skipped that season. I've passed that test, so to speak. And then you're reminded of grief all over again. Then you're overwhelmed with grief all over again. Think about that with the loss of a good friend of mine, Alex. Sometimes it just takes seeing someone that looks like him. And it's like all over again. We want to speed through those things. Life is just not like that in this fallen world. We do live in a fallen world. And we don't get to just speed through our fallenness. Or the sin that we've experienced, or the grief that we've experienced in this life. And spoiler alert, neither does Habakkuk. Turn over to chapter three. Look at verse 16. I'll quickly read it. He says, I hear and my body trembles, my lips quiver at the sound, rottenness enters into my bones, my legs tremble beneath me. Yet I will quietly wait for the day of trouble to come upon the people who invade us. So this invasion that's predicted is going to happen. But Bakik's lamenting is not going to stop it. It's like, what do we do with that? At the end, he's still waiting. There's no bow to put on top of it. Life is often like that. And I think we can learn from that. So what do we do? We don't have a bow to put on top of our suffering. That brings us to point three. How we can respond with our burdens and our lament. So God's people demonstrate faith through giving their burdens, burdens to Him and lament. God's people demonstrate their faith in Him through giving their burdens to him and lament. Talk about three ways we can do that as we close. Number one, give your burdens to Jesus. Give your burdens to Jesus. In prayer, we are giving him our burdens. It's like we're taking our luggage We're giving it to the person who's working at the counter and we're handing it over to them. Except when G with Jesus, when we give it to him, we don't have to pick it up anymore. We know that he's got it handled. And we can receive his light burden instead. But in order for that to happen, we need to be honest about our burdens. Are you honest with the Lord in prayer? If the Lord were to ask you, how are you doing today? Would you respond how you might usually respond to anybody else who asks you? I'm good. I'm fine. Everything's alright. Growing up, when I would try that with my dad, he would say, son, I know you better than you know yourself. Now I kind of rolled my eyes, but I would know that he was right. Listen, God knows you. He loves you. He knows you better than you know yourself. You don't have to hide your grief from him. Be honest with him in prayer. We can go to him with the hard questions, with the grief, with the doubt, with the suffering, not just once we're done with it, but even in the midst of it. As Jesus says in Matthew 11, 28, come to me all who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. My yoke is easy and my burden is light. Which means Jesus, come to me. In what circumstance? When you're weary and when you're tired. So if you're tired, go to Jesus with your burdens. And I think sometimes we might want to do that, but we don't really know how to do that. We don't want to be irreverent. We don't want to be disrespectful to God. We don't want to seem ungrateful. I mean, if we compare our sin and our suffering or the suffering that we've experienced in our life and we compare it to somebody else. It's like, I think I'm doing better than some of these other people, so why should I lament? I don't struggle the way that they struggle. I'm not struggling like Habakkuk is struggling or persecuted Christians in Nigeria or India. So why should I take my small grief to God? We should take it to him because he cares for you, beloved. Big and small. He cares about you and he cares about what grieves you. So secondly, we need to learn the language of lament. We need to learn the language of lament. And these prayers of lament, they fill the pages of scripture. This thing about Jeremiah, who we talked about earlier. He was known as the weeping prophet. He said things like, Lord, why are you allowing me to experience suffering and sorrow all of my days? In fact, he's believed to have written Lamentations. And again, we want to skip to that verse where it says, Great is thy faithfulness, right? In Lamentations 3, that's not the only verse in that book Even think of the Psalms. A third of the Psalms are different Psalms of Lament Like Psalm 3, for example, or Psalm 12 and Psalm 13, like we heard in our scripture reading, or Psalm 25, or Psalm 31, Psalm 86, or Psalm 90. Even think of the Lord Jesus Christ when he was in the Garden of Gethsemane. He didn't say, I'm fine. He said, My soul is sorrowful even unto death. And he prayed to the Father, if it's your will, please take this cup away from me. Or think about Paul in Romans 8 when he teaches. About the work of the Holy Spirit. Says Romans 8:26. Likewise, the Spirit helps us in our weaknesses, for we do not know what we should pray for as we ought. But the Spirit Himself intercedes with us with groanings too deep for words Jonah Truth, the former slave, turned activist, captured this groaning too deep for words in her famed I have uh I ain't I a woman speech. Where she said, after seeing so many of her children sold off into slavery, she said, when I cried out with my mother's grief, only Jesus heard me I think she's explaining her tears. I think she's explaining her groans that no one can understand but her Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus understands the groanings that are too brief for words. They're too deep for words. Or as we think about lamentations, think about the very last prayer of the Bible in Revelation 22. 20. Where it says, He who testifies to these things says, Surely I am coming soon. Jesus says that. And the very last prayer of the Bible is: Amen, come, Lord Jesus. I think that's a prayer of lament. Jesus understands the prayer of lament. We can give these prayers to him If you don't know how to pray those prayers, I suggest you spend time in God's Word, in one of those Psalms, or maybe even Habakkuk, using those words and praying those back to the Lord. Or maybe going on a prayer walk and just talking to the Lord honestly, or start journaling and being honest about what you are experiencing internally. God knows and He understands. You can go to him with your grief and with your tears. Because he not only understands, but God's word says that he gathers them up in a bottle. And as you see and hear about violence and destruction in the world and sin that's running rampant and wicked rulers, you can pray John's prayer in Revelation chapter 22. Come, Lord Jesus. Today will be a good day for you to do that. As you hear about this, we can also invite our brothers and sisters. Into our grief. So this is the last sub-point. Bear one another's burdens. Some of us might have a hard time listening to others as they share their grief without trying to quickly fix it. Might be in our marriages or that might be in friendships, or even some of us as parents. But some of us might struggle with giving our burdens and our griefs honestly to a brother or sister in Christ because we think they have enough going on. I don't want to burden them. We might love to receive other people's burdens and try to help them, but we might be reluctant to share our burdens with a brother or sister in Christ. Because we'd rather keep it to ourselves. Or sometimes in our pride, we think we can just fix it all on our own. But we should bear one another's burdens. Listen to how John Stott puts it Says I sometimes hear old people, including Christian people, who should know better, say, I don't want to be a burden to anyone else. Any of you said that before to yourself? I don't want to be a burden to anybody else. But he goes on by saying, this is wrong. We are all designed to be a burden to others. You are designed to be a burden to me, and I am designed to be a burden to you. And the life of the church family, including the local church, should be one of mutual burdensomeness. As Paul says in Galatians 6. 2, carry one another's burdens and in so doing fulfill the law of Christ. If you feel burdened, please share that with someone before you leave today. Perhaps share it with one of your small group leaders or share it with one of your elders or trusted friend. If you feel like you need counseling, talk to one of your elders about that as well. We have resources as a church where we can offer that for you. But remember, the Lord does not want you to carry those burdens on your own. Together, we can go to that proverbial airport counter with all of our grief And all of our luggage and all of our stuff and all of our burdens and all of our cares, and we can give them to the Lord Jesus and trust that he knows how to handle them better than we would. May the Lord give us grace. May He give us faith in Him to respond to the burdens that we have. With faith. The burdens that we have and that we see in the world around us with faith by going to Him in prayer and in lament. Let's pray together. Lord, we thank you that you can carry all of our grief, all of our sorrows, all of our burdens. We pray that you would help us to grow in our trust for you and that we would trust you with the things that hurt us so deeply. The things that confuse us the most, the things that doubt us, the things that grieve us even right now. Lord, we need you. We ask you to hear us. We ask you to look to deliver us. We ask you to save. We ask you to intervene. And we ask because we know that you've already done all of those things for us in Christ. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.