Well good morning, brothers and sisters. Good to see you, good to be with you. Share the share the words of power, the words of life that we have in God's Word. All of it is good and true and profitable for us. And that includes our passage for this morning. But we need God's help in order to hear it, to understand it, and to rightly apply it. So I'm going to pray one more time. Before we get into James chapter 3. Please pray with me. Well Lord, speak to us through your word Renew our minds, renew our hearts, give us wisdom, give us clarity, give us faith to believe it and to do what it says. We pray that you would use your word today through your Holy Spirit to convict us, to correct us, to change us, and make us look more like your Son Jesus Christ. We ask in his name. Amen. So several years ago, I went to a teacher's conference in Warsaw, Poland. And during one of the sessions, they did what organizations often do for teachers. They wanted to give them and reward them with food So there was a raffle, and I actually won that raffle. And I was able to take home a box of chocolate-covered wafers. They looked good, and I was eager to get them home to my wife and our young daughter for us to try them And I'm sure Erlene asked me, have you looked at the label? Have you looked at the packaging? Is it alright? For our daughter to eat, Olivia, if you're wondering. I'm like, yeah, yeah, that's fine. Um the words that I saw were in Polish. Which I can't read or understand. So I thought it was alright. If I would have looked more carefully though, I would have saw that there were English There was an English translation of those Polish words on the other side. And if I would have looked more carefully, I would have seen that it said may contain peanuts. The warning label And yes, you guessed it, our daughter was and still is allergic to peanuts. Thankfully, she ended up being alright. But warning labels are meant to warn us. They're meant to give us guidance and instructions, right? Whether it's proceed with caution, Or swim at your own risk, or beware of dog, or may contain traces of peanuts. To heed these warning labels, however they come to us, is wise. But to ignore them, to overlook them, can have really serious consequences And in our text for this morning, we're gonna see a giant warning label that the Lord gives us for a small and yet mighty and powerful member of our bodies. That member our tongues, as in our words or our mouths. The warning use with great caution Please meet me in James chapter 3 if you have not turned there already. You'll find that on page 1012 in the Bibles Provided. If you're new to reading the Bible, the book of James is towards the end of the Bible. So if you turn all the way to the back and then flip over, you'll eventually fall, five, find it. It's a letter written to Christians who were persecuted and scattered abroad. And the purpose of this letter written by James, one of the leaders in the early church Was to help encourage these Christians to understand how faith works. And faith basically matures and it endures And what we've been studying over the last several weeks through the book of James are the various ways that faith in Christ matures and endures. It's meant to do that The Lord uses lots of things in order for our faith to mature and endure in Him. But in James chapter 2, James gives one of the key verses for this entire section, and I think one of the key verses for this entire letter, which says in James chapter 2, verse 12. So speak and so act as those who are going to be judged by the perfect law of liberty If you were here last week, then you heard Johns and Lehman lead us through James 2, 14 through 26. Which is about our words and our actions and the fact that our words and our actions should be integrated. They should be whole. They should be one. So starting in James chapter 3, though, he alludes to something else that he's already talked about before, again, related to the speaking and acting. So last week was more about the acting, how we're living. This week is more about our speaking. Follow along with me as I read our passage. I'm going to just read the whole thing. I'm going to summarize it for us, what I think the main idea is, and then share with us how we're going to walk through the passage together. Let me read James chapter 3, starting in verse 1. This is God's Word. Not many of you should become teachers, my brothers, for you know that we who teach will be judged with greater strictness. For we all stumble in many ways. And if anyone does not stumble in what he says, he is a perfect man, able to bridle his whole body We put bits into the mouths of horses so that they obey us. We guide their whole bodies as well Look at the ships also. Though they are so large and driven by strong winds, they are guided by a very small rudder, wherever the will of the pilot directs So also the tongue is a small member, yet it boasts of great things. How great a forest is set ablaze by such a small fire And the tongue is a fire, a world of unrighteousness. The tongue is set among our members staining the whole body, setting on fire the entire course of life, and set on fire by hell, for every kind of beast and bird, of reptile and creature, and sea creature can be tamed and has been tamed by mankind, but no human being can tame the tongue. It is a restless evil. Pool of deadly poison. With it we bless our Lord and Father, and with it we curse people who are made in the likeness of God. From the same mouth come blessing and cursing. My brothers, these things ought not to be so. Does a spring pour forth from the same opening, both fresh and salt water? Can a fig tree, my brothers, bear olives or grapevine produce figs? Neither can a salt pond yield fresh water If you're taking notes, here's the main point of our time together in God's Word Faith in Christ matures and endures as we use our words with great caution. Faith in Christ matures and endures as we use our words with great caution. Now, as you may have already heard, and as we're going to explore as we go through this passage, there are lots of warnings in this passage which is going to make up the outline for our time together. We're going to see five warnings about our words in this passage. Here's warning number one. Our words will be judged. Our words will be judged As I mentioned already, James was a teacher in the early church, using this letter to instruct Christians, many of them who would have been facing Persecution and more than likely poverty, and all of them various trials. These Christians lived in a fallen and broken world just like we do These Christians were tempted and they were tried, just like we are. And in the midst of that, in the midst of this letter, James writes them to basically watch their mouths And be careful about what they say. We need those same kind of warnings, don't we? James has already spent some time talking about our words in James chapter 1, for example. He says that we are all called to be quick, to listen, slow to speak, and slow to get angry. Because our anger does not accomplish God's righteousness. Or even James 1:26, where he says, if anyone claims to be religious or claims to worship God, but does not bridle or control his tongue. His religion is worthless, and he deceives himself. But here in James chapter 3, starting in verse 1, he starts with a warning specifically to teachers. And then that warning spreads to the rest of us. Look again at verse 1. Not many of you should become teachers, my brother. For you know that we who teach will be judged with greater strictness. Now, this warning to teachers makes sense, right? Teachers are those who instruct others, they are influencing others, people are following them, they have students. Or they have a flock. If there are pastors or preachers, they have a pew. So it's important. That teachers know that their words will be judged with greater strictness Those words James has in mind initially here. He's talking about teachers, teachers who would have been leaders in the church, who would have been teaching God's words, who would have been pastors or preachers or sharing the word with others. But to teach as a pastor or as a Christian behind a pulpit or around a dinner table or on a college campus, all of those things are good things. Right? Those are all great things. And we have already been encouraged by the preaching and teaching of God's Word. It happens in our church by His grace every single week. There's kids Sunday school that we started today. There's adult and teen Sunday school through biblical theology. There's children's ministry happening right now. If you have kids in children's ministry, they are actually learning. There are people who are teaching them. And I wana starts next Sunday, Lord willing. And even right now, we're hearing God's word preached as we do regularly. And in case you're wondering, no, this passage was not selected to scare off our pastoral candidate. I'm sure Larry knows this warning and this passage very well. Amen. James' warnings here is that those who teach will be judged with greater strictness. Because they have students, because there's people in the pew, because people will be listening and following that. And even thinking of pastors again for a minute, God's word calls pastors to shepherd as those who will give an account. Now it's tempting with a passage like this to think immediately of pastors or preachers or churches where we know that the gospel is not preached faithfully. Where we can clearly see wolves in sheep clothing, where we know the gospel is not rightly proclaimed You can probably name a pastor or two, or even a church or two right now. But James's warnings here are meant to sit with us directly. Look again at the passage. Notice he says, we who teach. So James is not just talking about them over there. He's saying all of us need to heed this same warning. So one point of application just up front as we look in this passage of James 3 as we talk about our words and the use of our words. Yes, use God's words as a lens to see God's word, to see what he says clearly, but then like our camera phones. Hit the button, turn it on selfie mode, and look at yourself before you look at other people. Because this applies to all of us. Additionally, pray for those who preach and teach the word. Sunday school teachers, pastors. Youth leaders, children's directors, Sunday school teachers, small group leaders. When we ask you to pray for us, we sincerely mean that And if you're leading your family devotion, for example, or you're leading a personal Bible study with a friend or someone you're trying to encourage in the faith, yes and amen to that. Before you do that, pray. Before you sit and read and study God's word on your own, pray. When you reach points in the passage that you're like, I don't know what this means. Pray. The Lord hears and He wants to answer those prayers. And again, James says that teachers will be judged more strictly But that also implies that us non-teachers will be judged as well. What teachers and non-teachers share in common is that they use a lot of words. Estimates say that people use anywhere from 6 to 16,000 words a day. Now some of you might be thinking, I know someone who can top that. Maybe. But whether there are a lot or a few, whether you're introverted or extroverted or ambiverted, we will all be judged by God for our words. It's like we heard in our scripture reading. Matthew 12, 36, I tell you, on the day of judgment, people will give account for every careless word they speak. By your words you will be justified, and by your words you will be condemned. Which sounds a lot like James 2, 12. So speak, and so act as those who will be judged by the perfect law of liberty. We are called to use our words with great caution because they will be judged by a great God Secondly, warning number two: our words are powerful. Our words are powerful. So our words will be judged, but our words are also powerful. Not powerful in the sense where we get to speak things into existence, where we get to say things and it happens, or we get to manifest our world around us. That doesn't happen with us. Only with God is his speaking his doing. But James is teaching in this section that our words can steer Or control the manner or the direction of our lives. In other words, if we can control our mouths, then we can rightly direct our steps. Look at verse 2 again. For we all stumble in many ways. Again, all means all. In the Greek it also means all. That's everybody. And if anyone does not stumble in what he says, he is a perfect man, able to also bridle his whole body. Now that's a big if, isn't it? Saying that if one can control their mouths, they can control what they're it's they say, they are perfect or they are mature, they are complete, they are whole, they are integrated, like we learned last week. They be able to bridle or control as in direct and steer their lives. They will be able to go the right way And for examples, he uses there later in this section, horses and ships. Kids, anyone here, or any teens in here, or even any adults who've gone horseback riding before? Again, why do we call it horse back riding? You only ride on the back of the horse, but that's a different story. Okay. Several of us, right? Kids, how would you describe a horse? Yes. They're big. They're also sh Strong, and they are fast. They're big, they're strong, and they're fast And yet, they can be tamed or controlled by a small bit in its mouth. It's what James uses as an example. Then another example. Ships. Which are large, which can be driven, as James says here, by fierce winds. But even these are controlled by a very small rudder Horses with bits, just like ships with rudders, are meant to be steered, are meant to be guided, are meant to be controlled. But without the bit in the horse's mouth or a ship, without the rudder to steer or control it, they're unpredictable. They're uncontrollable. Why does he use these points? Why is he using these illustrations in verses 3 through 4? He makes the point in verse 5. Look at verse 5. So also the tongue is a small member, yet it boasts of great things. And our tongues are less than half a percent of our body weight That's it. And yet they are able to steer, to control, to give guidance to our steps. Small, but mighty and powerful. The same what the Bible teaches about our words, about the mouth, about our tongues Proverbs 15. 1 says, a soft answer turns away wrath, but a harsh word stirs up anger. Proverbs 16, 24. Gracious words are like a honeycomb, sweetness to the soul, and health to the body. Proverbs 21, 23, whoever keeps his mouth and his tongue keeps himself out of trouble. Now will anybody say that my mouth has gotten me into trouble before? Yeah, that's true, isn't it? Brothers and sisters, let's be careful to not undermine the power of our words. Because of our personality, because of our profession, or because of our position of authority. Our words are powerful. And that means they can also be dangerous, which is warning number three. Our words can be dangerous. Look again at verse five. James continues in saying how great a forest is set ablaze by such a small fire. Again, this is not an exaggeration. That's how most forest fires start. Like in 2019, for example, in California, there was a fire that burned over 410 thousand acres of land. How did it start? It was started by a spark that came from a hammer driving a metal stake into the ground. It's a spark led to a fire and cost thousands of acres worth of destruction Now think about fire for a minute. Fire gives heat. Fire gives light. Fire can be used to cook Fire can be used for so many great things as long as it's under control. When it gets out of control, it's dangerous. The same is true with our words. And James says a lot more here. Look at verse 6. It's not just kind of a metaphor here, according to James. He says, the tongue is a fire, it's a world of unrighteousness. He says it stains the whole body and it sets on fire the entire course of life. Again, direction of life. And it's set on fire by hell. That's a lot. Now these are strong and severe words by James here in this section But we don't have to think too hard to know that words are powerful and they can be dangerous. Just think of some of the harshest, cruelest words that may have been spoken to you or even about you. Six and stones break my bones, but words may never hurt me? Not really. Not at all, actually. Or just think of relationship issues that you may have with people, friends, family members, loved ones, etc. What's often the cause? Words that are either misused or misunderstood. Or even think of our enemy, Satan, who the Bible calls the father of lies. Who deceived Adam and Eve with the words, did God really say? Which means it matters what we say, obviously, because words are powerful. They also can be dangerous. But it also matters, as an aside, who we listen to. As well. It matters who we listen to. So my phone, by far, my favorite app to use is called Shazam. You know what that app is? It's like you press a button and then like magic shaz Shazam, you get to pick up Whatever sound is going on, whatever music is being played in the coffee shop or in a restaurant, you're like, oh, I think I like the sound of that. What is that? Push a button, it reads it for you, as long as it hears it, it's great. And they even put it on a playlist for you. It's so convenient, right? And I confess that I use that app a lot. Sometimes mid-conversation. I'm like, oh, I like that melody Oh, I like that harmony. That's a nice core progression. Flip out my phone, kind of discreetly, press the button. Now I confess to you, you're gonna be looking for that next time you're sitting with me. But several times over, I've gone back to listen to those same songs that I heard at a distance, listening to them more closely, and then hearing the words on top of that music. And then it's like, oh, I didn't know they were talking about that. Oh, that's really inappropriate. Oh, that's not really edifying. It sounded great from afar. But under careful examination, it was like it doesn't. Brothers and sisters, we need to examine who we listen to very carefully. Whether they're a preacher, whether they have a podcast, whether they're a politician, listen carefully Don't let the other stuff distract you. Listen to the words that they're actually saying. Are their words true or are they lies? Are their words building up or are they tearing people down? If they are not true and if they are not edifying, you should probably hit the skip button and move on Our words will be judged. Our words are powerful. Our words can be dangerous. But wait, there's more. Our words, warning number four, are untamable. They're untamable. Look at verse 7. Every kind of beast and bird, of reptile, and sea creature can be tamed and has been tamed by man time mankind. But no human being can tame the tongue. Terrestless evil, full of deadly poison So just like those horses from before that can be controlled with bits, it says animals of all kinds can be tamed and have been tamed. So just think of the DC Zoo, for example. There you have lions and tigers and panda bears. Oh my, all right, thank you. Or even the Baltimore aquarium where you have dolphins and sharks and orcas. All of which you can enjoy safely and soundly. Why? Because you're not close to them Because they're in caves, because they're enclosed, because they are tamed, because they are controlled. But James says: we can't do that with our mouths. It's untamable. Just think of an argument that you've been a part of, or even an argument that you've witnessed, with your rising desire to be right, or even your intent to cut down and to demean. You didn't really have to learn how to do that. None of us did. Parents, we can attest to the fact that our kids have to be taught the opposite, don't they? And sometimes as parents, or even as teachers, or instructors, or maybe even older siblings, we'll ask questions like: why did you say that? And sometimes they're like, I don't know. We look at our own lives. We look at our own hearts. We look at our own words. Sometimes we say stuff, and it's like, I don't know why I said that. It just came out I don't say that to excuse any of us for our words, but to point out that our words can often fly recklessly Our words are like that lion that set loose out of that cage. Powerful, dangerous, and untamable. James says the tongue, the mouth are words. It's a restless evil. It's full of deadly poison. James is not neutral here. He's saying all things that are about the negative of the words that we use. Why is there no gray? Why is there no nuance in this passage? I mean it's not that bad, is it? I mean, we can actually gain some control over what we say, right? I mean, just think of some of the ways that you may have tried to control your mouth or control somebody else's mouth. Maybe at your place of work there's been a swear jar. Or maybe you're old enough, your parents use hot sauce. Control your mouth. Or threats to punish or even withhold rewards. Or even like me during senior year in high school who decided I want to stop using swear words, using curse words, do five a day. And then when I reach five, I was like, six, seven, eight, nine. Those measures might be helpful at times, but are they fail-proof? No, they are not. We still at times use our words to lie, to control, to manipulate, to over-exaggerate, to inflate, to tear down, to belittle. To build ourselves up. And yes, we can and we do do good with our words. We can often use our words to edify, to encourage, to build up. But the reason I think that James's warnings are so stark here, they're so black and white, they're not gray at all. It's because he knows that our mouths are not just some isolated part of our body. They're not an isolated member of our body. Our mouths are directly connected with another member of our bodies. Which the Bible refers to as the control center of our lives. And that is our hearts. Warning number five: our words reveal what's in our hearts. Our words reveal what's in our hearts. Look again at our passage. Let's look at verse 9 'Tis with it, our tongue, our mouths, our words, we bless our God and Father, and with it we curse or condemn people who are made in the likeness of God. From the same mouth come blessing and cursing. My brothers, James says, these things ought not to be so. I think those two verses serve as the anchor verses of the passage. Like, okay, okay, you're telling me all this about the mouth, you're telling me all this about the tongue, about our words. What's your point? I think that's the main point, those two verses there collectively. Notice again, James is not saying you or even some of you. He says we. He says our. And remember, this letter was written to Christians. He's saying we bless God with our words, with our proclamations, with our sharing of the gospel, with our singing, with our preaching, and we use those same mouths that we bless God with to curse people made in God's image. Which includes everybody. Our brothers and sisters in Christ, our family members, our neighbors, whoever they are, wherever they're from, whatever they believe Our co-workers, our bosses, our classmates, our teachers, our government officials, our enemies. The Lord made all people in his image. So our words about and towards people matter to the Lord because he made them in his image. So what do your words reveal about what's going on in your hearts? Is your heart embittered Is your heart discouraged? Is your heart angry? Is your heart proud? Is your heart anxious? Is your heart sad? Is your heart rebellious? If you're unsure, ask a brother or sister in Christ who you trust Ask them, what are my words revealing about what's going on in my heart? And then listen to them Or even take heed when someone who loves you and cares about you, when they say things to you like, hey, are you doing okay? Is everything all right? You seem fill in the gap. They're trying to help you Our words are like the check engine lights on our cars. They alert us to what's going on on the inside. James says in verse 10 that blessing and cursing come from the same mouth, as in blessings, words of praise to God, cursing as in words of condemnation towards or about people James says that this is true of us, and it should not be this way. And then he illustrates that because James likes illustrations, starting in verse 11, with these rhetorical questions. And he asked, Does a spring pour out to both fresh and salt water? The answer is no, of course not. Can a fig tree bear olives? No, that's not what it was made for. It's not designed to do that. Does a grapevine produce figs? No, listen to the name. Grapevine produces grapes And no, a salt pond cannot yield fresh water. It doesn't happen. It's incompatible. So, words of blessing and words of cursing of others should be incompatible from the mouths of believers. And we don't need to dig up soil to see whether a tree is a fig tree or not. We look at the figs. Right? We don't need to dig wells to figure out where's the source of this water. To figure out, is this fresh water or is it salt water? The question is: is it salty or is it not? We see it. We taste it. Or we experience it. In the case of our hearts, I think James is trying to say, how do we know what's going on on the inside? We'll hear it. It'll come out of our mouths somehow. So again, our mouths are directly connected to our hearts, and they reveal what's going on in our hearts. Where is James getting this from? He's getting it from God's Word. Jeremiah 17:9 says, that our hearts are deceitful above all things. Proverbs 4:23 says that our hearts need to be guarded above all else. Or even Jesus says in Matthew 15, verse 18. But what comes out of the mouth proceeds from the heart. And that's what defiles a person. For out of the heart come evil thoughts Murder, adultery, sexual immorality, theft, false witness, slander. Our words should reveal that the Lord is the one who rules our hearts. We moved a year and change ago, and the day that we moved in, I had an experience that maybe some of you have had in various different ways. The moving guy came in and we started to make small talk. He was helping us. And he's like, well, why did you move here? What did you move here for? Like, or where'd you move here from? I moved here from Miami. He's like, why would you do that? I've gotten out a lot. But then he's like, okay, well what do you what do you do? I said, well, I'm a pastor. I moved here to pastor a church. And he's like, oh, okay. I'm glad we got that out of the way. Like I'm glad you told me that now before I say something that I shouldn't say in front of you. Don't people do that to you sometimes As a Christian at school or at the workplace where you walk up, you're trying to get to know, you're trying to connect, and then the conversation changes And it's like, oh, we can't say that around him. We can't talk about that around her. Or maybe something slips out. And they're like, oh, I'm sorry. As if you're their mom or dad or something. Why? Because they believe that you're a Christian and since you're a Christian, you shouldn't hear stuff like that. You definitely don't talk like that. So when that happens, you don't need to puff yourself up, and you often don't need to deflect. Sometimes it's easy to deflect. I'm like, ah, don't worry about it. Use that as an opportunity to share, no, I'm not perfect. I do want to control my mouth, but here's why A big problem still remains for us in this passage, doesn't it? Because even as Christians, even as believers, blessings and cursings can often come from our mouths And as we learned, our words will be judged, our words are powerful, our words can be dangerous, our words are untamable, and they reveal what's going on in our hearts So that means that it's not just our mouths that are the problem at times, it's our hearts. What can be done about that? What's the hope? Where's the good news in this passage? Let's look back at verse 2. For we all stumble in many ways. If anyone does not stumble in what he says, he is a perfect man able to bridle his whole body. Again, that big if is a big if, right? But that if does include one person Or look down at verse 8, where it says, no human being can tame the tongue. Well The God man can and did, and his name is Jesus Christ. The Lord Jesus, who James refers to as the Lord of glory. The Lord Jesus who spoke all things into existence. The Lord Jesus who sustains the world even right now by the word of his power The one who came to this world because of the ways of our words, the ways of our actions, all of that is sinful before him. We have rightly earned his judgment. And instead of condemning us, he came to save us. He came to rescue us. He didn't confuse anybody with his words. He didn't manipulate anyone with his words. His words were true, his words were right, his words were just. Always, all the time, it didn't matter who he was talking to. There was nothing he had to go back and say, I'm sorry for. Or please forgive me for. Not even one time. And Jesus is the one who has the words of eternal life. His speaking was perfectly in line with his doing all the time. And he went willingly to the cross to die a sinner's death. And he went obediently. Taking on the penalty for our sins against God. And from the cross he said, Father, forgive them. They know not what they're doing. And then once the work was done, he said, It is finished. And Jesus rose from the grave victoriously. And right now, he's still speaking, he's calling people, even right now, even today. To turn from their sin and to put all of their trust, all of their faith and their hope in Christ for salvation. Think again about that scripture reading Jesus says, I tell you, on the day of judgment, people will give account for every careless word they speak. That condemns everybody For by your words you will be justified, and by your words you will be condemned. Which means if you're here and you're not a Christian You stand condemned before the Lord because of your words and because of your ways. But you can be justified today. How? If you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, God's word says you will be saved. You can do that today. We'd love to talk to you more about that if you have questions about what that means. How do I do that? Where should I start? And brothers and sisters in Christ, the warning label of James chapter 3 over our mouths and over our words. Implies that we are called by this same Lord to use our words in the way that he intends. The point is not, well, they're untamable. I'm gonna say whatever I want. Well, God made me this way. He knows I have a big mouth He knows my personality, so I'm just gonna say it. That's not how the Lord wants us to hear this We're called to hear and do his word. We're called to rightly apply it. Here's a few points of application in closing that hopefully will be some help to us. Before I share those points, let me just say the book of James is pretty straightforward. Pretty simple to understand. It is so hard to obey, isn't it? It is so hard to put into practice. Which should remind us, brothers and sisters, we need the Lord's help in order to do that. We need a lot of his help. We need all the help he can give us. But here's a few application points. To hopefully help us all. Point number one: speak biblically. Speak biblically. James has already called us to be quick to listen. And yes, that does involve our human interactions and our conversations, but in that context, he was talking primarily, I think, about God's word. We should be quick to hear God's word. So we should commit it to memory. Allow God's word to fill in your hearts Somehow, find the time, find the space. Use your idle time to do it. So that by his grace, his words, his scripture will start to flow out of your mouth He can do that. And speaking biblically means doing what the Lord wants us to do with our words. Like taking opportunities to share the gospel. Even if we don't get all the words right. He says, speak, speak, and let him take care of the results. Or teaching or giving instruction. The Lord is calling you or saying, yeah, you you you maybe should step out and help with children's ministry or something like that. Don't let this pastor scare you off Step up and go with his word primarily. Or even speaking up for those who are vulnerable, as he says in his word. Allow God's word to frame the words that we use. And that may take a lifetime for that to happen. But that's what the Lord wants from us. If we don't know what to say, let's speak biblically. Point number two. Speak prayerfully. Speak prayerfully. Ask the Lord for grace, for guidance, for help as you enter into conversations. If you know what your day is like, you know you have these meetings, you know you have these appointments, you know you have these coworkers, you know you have this boss, you know you have these challenges with your relatives. Pray about that Pray before, pray during, pray after, pray. Pray that your words are rightly received Pray for wisdom to know what to say and what not to say. Speak prayerfully. Thirdly, speak purposefully Speak purposefully. So in your conversation, in your interaction, what is your aim? What is your goal The Bible calls us to encourage with our words. At times we are called to admonish with our words, or to correct with our words, or to instruct with our words, or to comfort with our words. Speak with purpose. And again, the hard part about this, about using words in all these different contexts Is that sometimes even our good and best intentions might miss the mark. Right? That's probably happened with you at home this past week. I didn't mean that, but it was received that way. Or I said that, but this is not what I meant to say. Maybe you want to encourage, but you actually end up discouraging sometimes. Maybe you want to help, but you might end up doing harm with your words at times. That's a reminder for us, fourthly, to speak humbly Speak humbly. James says that we all stumble in many ways And again, that includes all of us, everybody who's ever lived except Jesus. That's everybody. We all stumble in many ways. So that means if and when we stumble, we cannot use our words humbly to say things like, I'm not exactly sure. Or can you help me understand? Or I'm sorry. Two small words that are big words that are hard to say Or please forgive me. Or you were right and I was wrong. Or I'm not sure. Can I get back to you on that? And sometimes speaking humbly means that we might say a lot less than we want to say And listen more. We all need grace with God's word, don't we? To be willing to not only receive grace from the Lord, which he's willing to give to us. But also humbly extend grace to one another. Warning labels help us as long as we heed what those warnings are And the Lord has not only given us warnings, but He's given us His word. He's given us His people. He's given us His Spirit. And He's given us access to His th Own of grace by faith So may he give us both grace in heeding these warnings, but also pleading for his help when we need it. Let's ask for his help now Oh God, we need help with our words. We need help for so many different reasons. We are coming to you now because we know that you are willing to give. You are willing to hear. You are willing to answer. Lord, please help us to use our words for your glory, to build up, words that will be helpful, words that are edifying And Lord, when we don't do that, help us to run to you, Lord Jesus, as the one who has the words of eternal life. Help us to run to your throne of grace. And actually receive grace and help us to extend grace to others with their words. We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen.