Thank you for having me to share God's word with you this morning. Thank you also for the regular support that you give our family. You guys were one of the first churches to uh move that. So um to to come on board and supporting us and We are are grateful. Thank you for helping sustain our family. I think tomorrow will be five years since we left for Africa. And um wow, that went very fast. And thank you guys for your consistent and regular support in that. We just got back from uh Ken yeah by way of a week in Europe um three days ago. So um it's good to be here with you and worship with you. Well I want to look this morning uh with you at uh the conclusion of one of my Favorite and I think I find it most interesting stories in the Old Testament, in the book of Exodus. This is the story of the golden calf incident that is probably familiar to most of you. I I think the whole story is a compelling picture of the gospel. And I think it's particularly compelling in the way in which it ends. So what I want to do is just focus on the conclusion of that story with you this morning. So start turning with me in your Bibles to Exodus chapter 34. We're going to look at verses 29 through 35. This is the conclusion to that story. But as you're turning there, let me just remind you of what happened up to this point. So, as you know, God had led the people out of Egypt. He took them out of slavery, and he is beginning to take them into the promised land. And this incident is so important to the overall structure of Scripture. In many ways, this Exodus was the people's, was the nation of Israel's salvation. This is how and when the people are constituted as God's people. This is where God takes the nation. to himself and pledges himself to be their God. And it was a great with a great display of power that he took them out of Egypt, wasn't it? He demonstrated his superiority to the so-called gods of Egypt. He showed that he was mighty to save in that Exodus event. And through that, as God is taking the people to himself through this event, God shows that it is the most sane and rational thing in the world for the people to trust in him. Because he is able and he is willing to save them. And then God leads the people to meet with God on Mount Sinai. And this is where God tells the people what is expected of them. As they are now his people. And Moses goes up on the mountain to receive God's law. The law is there as an expression of God's holiness, so the people can be holy as God is holy. But the people fear that go that Moses is taking too long. In fact, they say we don't know what happened to him. They say to Aaron, make us gods. Aaron says, Bring me your gold, and the people bring him their gold, and he makes the golden calf, and the people worship that golden calf. And then God is angry. And he sends Moses down with the two tablets of the words of the covenant. And Moses breaks them in front of the people, which is to say, the covenant has been broken. The people have given their worship, the one thing that belongs exclusively to God, to something else. It's as though a married couple is, you know, still in their honeymoon and the husband finds the wife in bed with another man. This is this is betrayal. This is serious sin. And the people then have every reason to expect God's wrath Then Moses goes back up on the mountain. And Moses intercedes for the people. Moses says to God, look, if you're going to destroy the people, then destroy me too. A very bold move. Moses has thrown his lot in with the people. God accepts Moses' intercession. God relents of his anger. He has mercy on the people. And then he even lets Moses see the after-effects of his glory to assure Moses that God is still with Moses, and thus God is still with. The people. God re-establishes the covenant. He gives Moses another of the ten words, of the ten commandments, which you could almost see as a new covenant, because the last one was broken. He gives that to Moses. And then we get to our passage. Chapter 34, starting at verse 29 of the book of Exodus. Here's the conclusion to this story. When Moses came down from the Mount Sinai with the two tablets of the testimony in his hand, as he came down from the mountain Moses did not know that the skin of his face shone because he had been talking with God. Aaron and all the people of Israel saw Moses, and behold, the skin of his face shone. They were afraid. Come near him. But Moses called to them. And Aaron and all the leaders of the congregation returned to him. And Moses talked with them. Afterward all the people of Israel came near, and he commanded them all that the Lord had spoken with him on Mount Sinai. And when Moses had finished speaking with the with them, he put a veil over his face. Whenever Moses went in before the Lord to speak with him, he would remove the veil until he came out. And when he came out and told the people of Israel what he was commanded, the people of Israel would see the face of Moses. That the skin of Moses' face was shining. Moses would put the veil over his face again until he went in to speak with him. Let's just pray in response to God's word. Oh Lord, we we thank you for this picture of the gospel. And Lord, open our hearts and our minds, cause us to pay attention, cause us to understand. that we may see the glory of Christ. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. As I said before, I I love this passage because I think the passage in general and the conclusion in particular is a compelling picture of the gospel. Michael Allen gives a summary of the gospel that I think fits so well with this story. Here's what he says. The God who is life has graciously given life to us. When we refuse that life in sin, God graciously offers that life to us. Again. And I think that summary of the gospel fits so well with this story because of that sense of again. That we see here in this story, right? God had already offered life to the people, right? God had already taken the people to himself. God had already said, I am your God, you are my people. But in their sinfulness, they refused God's life. They committed the epitome of that exchange that Paul talks about in Romans 1, where they exchanged the glory of the God, the glory of God, for the glory of An image, a golden calf. And yet in this passage, God offers himself to them again. Think about it. The gospel is about God offering something again. He offered life in the garden and we refused it. In Adam we refused it, and we continue refusing God in our sin. And yet He comes to us. In Christ again. The gospel is about how God renews, restores, regenerates. Well, I think we see three movements in this conclusion of this story, in the passage that I read. Three movements that provide an important perspective on the gospel. Number one God, this is the outline if you're you're taking notes. I see two pages of notes in the bulletin, so I guess that's you know putting pressure on me to generate something that Two pages worthy, right? Oh no. God's word is rich, right? Number one, God comes down. We see that in verses 29 and 30. God comes down again in verses 29 and 30. Point number two, God speaks again in verses 31 to 33. And finally, God is present But not just again, he is present in a deeper, richer, and more abiding way. And that's in verses 34 and 35. So first, we see the gospel in the way that God comes down again. Now God coming down through Moses is a very important theme in the entire book of Exodus. In the very beginning, God saw the afflictions of his people and it says he came down. And how did God come down? The answer is by being with Moses and sending Moses. Remember, Moses says to God at that whole burning bush incident, who am I that I should go before Pharaoh? And God says to Moses I am with you. So through Moses, God calms down to the people to act in extraordinary ways To be for the people, to be with the people. God mediates his presence to the people through Moses And the climax of the story that we're focusing on is when Moses mediates for the people in a way that he, as I said, throws his lot in with the people. Because God accepts Moses' intercession. And then God gives Moses this special status, therefore the people are saved. And then in our passage, the resolution stresses Moses coming down, doesn't it? Look there at verse 29. Repeats it twice. When Moses came down from Mount Sinai with the two tablets of testimony in his hand, as he came down from the mountain. God has made Moses the mediator of his presence. Moses coming down from the mountain had actually been a contentious point right from the beginning of this story. The people thought Moses was taking too long. He wouldn't come down. And so they said, make us a golden calf, because as for this Moses, we don't know what happened to him. You don't want to trust. In God and God's appointed mediator. They want to appoint their own mediator. They want, in a sense, a blast shield from the presence of God. And so they want this golden calf to have something. Other than God to relate to directly. They reject God and God's mediator. But then God forgives the people And he, well, so sorry, first God sends Moses down from the mountain in judgment, right? And Moses comes down and mediates God's anger to the people. But then Moses goes back up on the mountain and he intercedes for the people. And then God sends Moses back down again. This time not in wrath, but in mercy. Not in anger, but in grace. Not to destroy the people, but to renew them into covenant fellowship with himself Friends, this is the gospel. When we refuse God's life in sin, he graciously offers that life to us once again. He forgives, he renews, he restores He takes the people back to himself. Notice also that God gives the people a sign of his presence. Notice how verse 29 ends. Moses did not know that the skin of his face shone because he had been talking with God. I wonder how they let Moses know that. Moses, there's something odd about your face. He doesn't realize this, right? In other words, what's going on here is Moses' face displays the glory presence of God. And this is another reason why Moses coming down is God bringing his presence down to the people Now, to get the full significance of this, we must back up to chapter 33 and see that at one point, as Moses is interceding for the for the people, God threatens to Allow them to go on to the promised land, but he says, my presence, which literally in Hebrew is my face, will not go with you. Lest I destroy you along the way. So they're gonna get the promised land, but God's presence, God's face will not be with them. And the people took this to be a quote disastrous word. The people don't want the promised land if God's not there. By the way, the good question to ask ourselves is, would you want heaven if God wasn't there? And now here's Moses is here's Moses coming down from the mountain, and the skin of his face is ablaze with the glory of God. God's face through Moses is with the people. He will not send them off to the promised land without him. He will go with them. He, in his glory, will go with them. Also, it it says earlier that God threatens to send them to the promised land but not go with them because he says that they are a stiff-necked people. And he would destroy them on the way if he goes with them. But now God says he will go with them because they are a stiff-necked people. In other words, The people's sin had previously rendered God's presence unsafe because it's not safe for sinners to be in the presence of God. But now with intercession, now with God's grace. He goes with them that he might purify them, that he might make them into his holy people. Of course God's presence still made them uncomfortable. Verse 30 says that they were afraid, which is the same response they had when they saw God's glory on the mountain in the beginning. But we ought to have a sense of fear in the presence of God. John Murray says that it is the height of stupidity and irreverence not to be afraid when there is every reason to be afraid. God's presence is a weighty thing. It is not to be trifled with. But God's but but Moses' face Ablaze with God's glory was a clear sign that God had found a way to be present with the sinful people. That He would not destroy them along the way, but He would sanctify them along the way. As I pondered this passage, one of the things that I found so interesting that stuck out to me is the fact that, you know, Moses comes down from the mountain twice, right? Once in anger, and then once you know, communicating God's grace, I find it so interesting that Moses' face did not shine the first time he came down from the mountain. And I thought to myself, you know, if I were God, I think I wouldn't have done it like that. You know, I would have wanted to be like, well, you made a golden calf because you thought my prophet was taking too long. Well, take this. Boom. Moses is. Moses' face is like a headlight. That'll scare them into obedience, right? But God is not like me, and that's a really good thing. He doesn't use this spectacular sign of his presence to scare them into submission He uses this sign of his presence to assure them of his covenantal love, assure them of his presence with them And notice that it's not for Moses' sake. Verse 29, Moses didn't even know that the skin of his face was shining. And God gave Moses other signs to assure Moses of God's presence with him. This sign is for the people. It's to say, be comforted. My face, my glory, my presence is with you, and it's with you through Moses Friends, this principle that the deepest revelation of God's presence is not to scare people into obedience, but to assure them of his love, is also what we see in the New Testament. The events here in Exodus 34 are actually referenced all over the New Testament. We don't have enough time to explore all the different allusions and quotations of this passage. But I should at least mention 2 Corinthians chapter 3, where Paul talks about the glory of God in the face of Christ. The glory of God in the face of Moses is just a foretaste, a foreshadow of this far greater glory And according to Paul, this glory is something that God has shown in our hearts, so that we all, that is the church, with unveiled faces, are beholding the glory of the Lord. We, God's people, the church, are beholding the glory of God in the face of Christ. Yes, in one sense, the glory of God is revealed to all of creation, because everyone Sees something of God's glory in the things that are made, but the personal display of God's glory, the glory of God's face, this he reveals to us, this he reveals to his people. This is how God works. Think of the high priestly prayer in John 17 when Jesus says, I pray that those whom you have given me may be with me. To what? To see my glory. Well, friends, have have you considered the fact that God really wants his people to know him? God really wants his people to be assured that he is with them. God's grace is not simply in the fact that he would give people good things like the promised land Even after they sinned, but God's grace is that even after they sinned, he still wants to be with them. He still wants fellowship with them. The golden calf incident doesn't make God withdraw from his people. He doesn't say, hey guys, this relationship is moving too fast. Let's slow things down a little bit. He speeds it up. He reveals more of his presence, more of his glory. Here's some practical application to us as Christians. But let me warn you, it'll take a little while before we see all it's practical, but bear with me. We ought not to think that living under the old covenant, the covenant that came through Moses, was to live in a legalistic arrangement. And by contrast, the new covenant is grace. I don't think that ought to be the most basic paradigm for how we understand the difference between the old and the new covenant. Why not? Because if we think of it that way, we will be prone to think that if we recognize any sense of grace, any sense in which God is giving us what we what we don't deserve, Then we've understood what the new covenant is all about. And we haven't, actually. Instead, what we ought to do is recognize exceeding grace that God has shown in the old covenant. And then we realize that in the new covenant we have much, much more grace than even that. Think about it. Embedded in the story of the giving of the old covenant is one of Israel's greatest failures to keep that covenant Right? They they deserve to be cut off. Like I said before, the they're on the honeymoon and the the the one one spouse is in the bed with somebody else. That that's be deep betrayal. That's a terrible thing that happened. And yet they are not cut off. Their relationship with God continues. And not only does it continue, it deepens. Why then does the New Testament describe the Old Covenant as law-based and the New Testament or the New Covenant as gracious? Why does the New Testament look at it that way? Well, if you read 2 Corinthians chapter 3, Paul, I believe, draws from this Exodus 34 account, and he describes the old covenant as lacking grace only in comparison. To the lavish, superabundant grace of the new. Paul says in 2 Corinthians 3, verse 10, what once had glory has come to have no glory at all. Because of the glory that surpasses it. He's talking about there how the new covenant surpasses the old. And that means that you can't think that just because you understand some sense of grace, you understand what the new covenant is all about. You have to press deeper, see the lavish, super abundant that we have in Christ. And why do we have so much more grace in the new covenant? The answer is because we have so much better of a mediator. Our mediator is not just an ordinary Joe who God comes down to lift up to this special relationship, like Moses was. Our mediator is someone who, by his very nature, is God himself. But he takes on human flesh so he can come down to be with us. And therefore, Jesus comes down to be with us in a way that is far more effective, far more intimate, and far more real than Moses could ever do. And that's why after Moses spoke to the people, he had to cover his face. They couldn't gaze into his face. Now, commentators debate exactly what that means. There's probably a bit of judgment in there. The old covenant allows them to see the face of God, or the face of Moses, his shining face, but only for a time. But Paul would say that Paul says that Moses would put a veil over his face so that the Israelites might not gaze at the outcome of what was being brought to an end. Well commentators debate exactly what was being brought to an end. I think the best way to go there is with uh Scott Huffelman. When he says that what is being brought to the end is the people themselves, if they were to gaze at the face of Moses, to gaze at the glory of God, they couldn't live with that direct sight of that glory. But Paul goes on to say, we all with unveiled faces are beholding the glory of the Lord The access we have to God is far greater. The freedom we have to draw near is far deeper because we have a better mediator Oh, friends, if you think that just because you understand something of God's grace as opposed to a strict legalistic arrangement, that you've understood what the new covenant is about, please, please look more carefully. See how gracious the old covenant actually was that you may see the new covenant that you have in Christ now even more gracious. Well, not only do we see the gospel in the fact that God comes down again We also see the gospel in this in this conclusion in the way that God speaks again. This is point number two. Notice how important speaking is to this conclusion here. In verses 31 to 33. See how many many times it refers to speaking. Verse 31. Moses called to Aaron and the leaders and talked with them. Verse 32, all the people came near and Moses commanded them. What did he command? All that the Lord had spoken. Spoken. And verse 33, when Moses finished speaking with them, he put a veil over his face. And also, if we were to back up to verse 28, which we didn't read, but it says that Moses was given the ten commandments, but literally in Hebrew it says he's given the, quote, ten words. And he brings those words down to the people. Why why such emphasis on speaking? Well, it's quite simply the fact that God is pursuing a relationship with the people. That's what the book of Exodus is all about, right? He's taking the people to himself. And that relationship requires words. The glorious display of God's presence in the face of Moses is good, but it's not enough. The people need to know what it means, and for that they need words. The people also need to respond, and then for that response they need to have words, so they know what that response ought to be. And God has given them words through the covenant that He has ratified with Moses. Notice also that it is the words that reassure the people when they're afraid. Verse 30 says the people are afraid to come near when they saw his face. But verse 31 says that Moses called to them and he talked with them. Without words, the people would never understand that it is now safe for them to come near. Safe for them to be with this holy God mediated through Moses. The words structure the people's relationship with God. There's a specific way of relating to this God. And God spells that out for us in the covenant. God has promised with words to be their God. And this means certain things. It means That God made them to be his people. And that obligates them to live in certain ways. And that's spelled out in the covenant. And friends, this is why we are to be people who give ourselves to words. That's why you're listening to a sermon right now. That's why we discipline ourselves to pay attention when we hear sermons, when we hear God's word read. And that's why, insofar as it is possible, we read our Bibles, we give ourselves to those words. Our relationship with God is not merely words, as though being educated were the same thing as being godly. But it does require words. Without words, we would be like Aaron and the leaders of the people who are too afraid to come near. Without words, we would not know what to do. Without words, the best thing we would get is that something spectacular was going on, but we would not realize that it applies to us, that we are part of it. Notice also something that I had missed before studying this passage. When Moses speaks to the people, they see his shining face. For some reason I thought that he would speak from behind the veil, but that's not what the text says. Moses speaks and they see his glory. That means that the law comes to the people at the exact same time. God is letting the people see his glory. The requirement for how to live comes at the same time God is assuring the people that He is with them, He is present There's no dichotomy between experience with God on the one hand and and a relationship that's regulated with words on the other. Those two go together. The New Testament picks up on this theme and drills in the importance of words Another direct allusion to our passage is in Hebrews chapter 1. Let me just read that for you. It says, In many times and in many ways God spoke. to the fathers by the prophets. And if you read the rest of the book of Hebrews, Moses is the quintessential prophet, so he probably has that explicitly in his mind. But in these last days he has spoken to us in his son. And who is the son? The author of Hebrews goes on to say, he is the radiance. of the glory of God. The radiance. He shines forth the glory of God. The glory that is his, and he has spoken. The speaking radiance of God. That's what Moses was a picture of, and that's who Jesus is for real. You know, it'd be kind of cool. Um I was a pastor for for a number of years and preached preached quite a bit. It'd be kind of cool, you know If when I got up to preach, you know, and those who get up and preach, say, you remove your veil and then your face is just like a the sun. Kids you probably pay attention more, right? You aren't paying attention, just look at you and all of a sudden you're in the spotlight There'd be a power to that, wouldn't there? In Kenya, where I live, there's there's so much prosperity gospel and So often what's going on there is just preachers are trying to put on human displays of glory. A friend of mine told me about a church that he went to and and the pastor rode up to the pulpit in a motorcycle that was worth about a hundred thousand dollars. I'd probably fall off and it would look bad, but you know uh That's the preachers want to figure out ways that they can have a powerful display. And they'll make promises about what they can do because of their superabundance of anointing from God. But we have something better. The gospel that we preach reveals the glory of God in the face of Christ. Jesus is the radiance of the glory of God, and he is revealed to us in the gospel, in the preaching. When you hear the gospel preach, you are gazing at the radiance of the glory of God. And therefore, we must listen. We must, as the author of Hebrews goes on to say, pay more careful attention to what we've heard. Faith comes by hearing. And as we respond by faith to the word. We are brought in. As we listen by faith, we are included in this display of glory. We become part of the radiant display, the glory of God in the church. You still have your Bibles open to Exodus 34. Look there at verse 32. You'll see an interesting word for how Moses relates God's command relates God's commands to the people. In English it says Moses. commanded the people, but a fuller meaning would be something like Moses made them responsible for what was said. The verb for commanded has this reflective sense that's not quite brought across to English. That is to say, Moses instills ownership in them for keeping the words that they heard. The people weren't merely passive receivers. They were active listeners, hearing, believing, internalizing, thinking about what they must do to respond to God's word. And friends, that's what we should be doing. To hear God's word in Christ, to hear this speaking radiance of God, implicates us into a life of obedience. To be in covenant fellowship with this God is to commit to live in a certain way. Not of course so that we earn that fellowship, but because we are given it freely in Christ. So when we hear God's word, we respond. We say with Mary, here I am, the servant of the Lord. May it be done to me according to your will. We present ourselves to God as those who are alive from the dead. We wake up, as Paul says in Ephesians, awake, O sleeper, arise from the dead, and Christ will shine upon you. Paul reflects on the Christian meaning of Exodus thirty-four when he says, we all, with unveiled faces. beholding the glory of God, are being transformed from one degree of glory to another. So we hear And when we hear, we see. And when we see, we are being changed. And part of that change, Paul goes on to explain, is that we become ambassadors of Christ. We shine the radiance. Radiant glory of God before others. We proclaim the gospel without fear, without being ashamed. I am not ashamed of the gospel, Paul says, for it is the power of God for salvation for everyone who believes. Finally, we see the gospel in God's abiding, enduring presence with the people. Verses 34 and 35 are an interesting part of this conclusion because they're actually not part of the story. Instead, these verses tell us how a certain aspect of this story becomes a continual abiding reality. Look there with me at 34. Whenever Moses went before the Lord. Notice the grammatical changes here. It's describing something continual. Whenever Moses went before the Lord, he would remove the veil, and the Lord would speak to him, and he would speak to the people. This is describing not what happened once, but continually. That is this new reality that the people are brought into. Think about it. Why does the narrator, Moses, want to tell us that this incident triggered. Something that has now become this abiding reality. Whenever Moses did this, this would happen. Why does Moses conclude the conclusion of the story in this way? Well, I think commentators suggest that it's because Moses wants us to see the connection between this event and what comes next in the book of Exodus. What comes next is the building of the tabernacle. The tabernacle is the place where God's glory presence comes to dwell in the midst of the people. I want to suggest to you that the skin of Moses' face shining is a picture of the glory of God that they see then in the tabernacle. If you flip over a few pages to the end of the book of Exodus, chapter 40, verse 36, Here we see that the book of Exodus ends with another continuing reality. Let me read that passage. See if you can identify some connections between the ending of Exodus with the the conclusion of the story that we looked at. Here's chapter 40, verse 36. Throughout all their journeys Whenever the cloud was taken up from over the tabernacle, the people of Israel would set out. Now skip down to verse 38. For the cloud of the Lord was on the tabernacle by day, and fire was in it by night, in the sight of all the house of Israel, throughout all their journeys. Visualize this. At night, the Lord manifests himself as fire inside the tabernacle. And the tabernacle, therefore, is glowing. It is radiating, it is shining, and the people see it. The tabernacle is another visual display of the glory of God And like the shining face of Moses, it affirms that God is truly with the people. God is present. There's another similarity between Moses and the tabernacle. The tabernacle is a tent. And if you read before and after this passage that we looked at, it's very clear that the tabernacle is to be made of skin. Goat skin, ram skin. The instructions are very specific on this point. The tabernacle is to be made of skin. And did you notice in chapter 34? Very specific, that it was the skin of Moses' face that shone. The text mentions his skin in verses 29, 30, and 34. It never says Moses' face shone. It says the skin on his face shone. In both Moses and the tabernacle, God's glory is seen through skin. Why do you suppose God did it that way Why do you suppose that when God wanted to introduce a special building in which his presence would dwell and be seen, he first introduced a person in whom his presence would dwell and be seen? Why does God go from a a person to a building? Maybe because his ultimate goal was to replace the building with a person? Another allusion to Exodus 34 is John 1. 14, which you could translate this way: the word of God became flesh and tabernacled among us. And we beheld his glory. To tabernacle is to come and dwell with the eternal word of God, the second person of the Trinity, the Son. became flesh. He he put on skin and tabernacled and dwelt here on earth. And through this one who put on flesh, we see his glory. We see the glory of God. Jesus is the true and better tabernacle, because Jesus is the true and better Moses. Jesus is the glory of God manifested here on earth through flesh, through skin. Well, there's practical application for us in this as well. Reflect for a minute on what it means that God reveals his glory through skin. I think it highlights how specific and accommodated God's revelation is to us. Think about how important skin is for your experience on earth, right? A mother tenderly nursing her baby, the intimacy of a husband and wife's embrace, a friend's handshake or comforting hug. Think of where you would be in life without your skin. Our skin is important to our human experience. And the fact that God reveals himself to us through skin means that he reveals himself to us. He accommodates himself to our mode of existence. God truly comes to be with us, with humans, with people who have skin on. But not only that, skin also involves vulnerability, doesn't it? It means weakness, a susceptibility to suffering, even death. Think of the s animal skins that Adam and Eve were given when they were Expunged from the garden. Those skins prefigure the skins of the tabernacle. And for both of those skins to function in the way they do, something had to die. Moses offers to die on behalf of the people. He says, God, if you're going to kill the people, take me too. Moses' willingness to die. His vulnerability and susceptible to death is a key factor in him being the mediator for the people. Moses couldn't mediate God's presence unless he quite literally had skin in the game. Jesus had skin in the game too, right? The word of God became flesh and tabernacled among us. And then that flesh was pierced. The skin of his hands and his feet and his side. He suffered. He bled. He died. He died for us. To be the true mediator, to take on God's wrath and suffer and die in our place. But he did not stay dead. God raised his body and gave him new flesh, a new body. And he is the first fruits of all those who believe We too will be given new flesh, so that we can say with Job, after my skin is thus destroyed, yet in my flesh I will see the Lord. Notice how from beginning to end, skin is part of the way that God reveals himself to us. It's part of the way we respond to Him. Well, there are so many more things we could say about this passage and other allusions in the New Testament. But let me just take you to one more place where I think the author draws from Exodus 34. And describes one more continuing reality. And this is the end of the Bible in Revelation chapter 21, verses 22. John says, I saw no temple in the city, for its temple is the Lord, the God Almighty, and the Lamb. So later in history, God replaces the temple with a person. John goes on to say: and the city has no need of sun or moon to shine on it. For the glory of God gives its light and its lamp is the Lamb. The radiance of Jesus provides all the light we need in that new heavenly city Revelation 22, verse 4 says, They will see his face, and his name will be on their foreheads, and night will be no more. They will need no light of Lamp or sun, for the Lord God will be their light, and he will reign forever and ever. We will see the face of the Lamb of Christ And he will shine in a way that, I'm not sure I fully understand what this will mean, but we don't even need the sun or the moon. And this is not a one-time event, but it is a continual reality that will never end. A pastor I know said something about Exodus 34 that has always struck me. He said, Exodus 34 is not the end of the world, but it is how the world ends. The glory presence of God coming to be with his people, and we, his people, seeing the glory of God. This is the final end for which we were created. This is the ultimate salvation that God has prepared for his people. And friends, I pray that Exodus 34 will spur you on to hope for that and yearn for that final end, which is not really an end at all, but the beginning of a continual reality that will never end. Exodus 34 is the resolution of terrible events. Or rather, Exodus 34 points to the resolution of the terrible events that began in Genesis 3. When the God who is life Offered his life to us, and we refused that life in our sin. But the good news of the gospel is that in Christ, God has offered his life to us once again. And the emphasis on skin in this passage shows that he really truly offers it to us, us humans, in our condition. My non-Christian friends here. I don't you believe on this Christ. He has come down from the mountain, so to speak. Offered immeasurable grace for rebels who will repent of their sins and believe in him. And he will come again, the author of Hebrew tells us, not to deal with sin, but to save those who are eagerly waiting for him. Won't you believe in him and be among those who are waiting for him? Let's pray. Lord, we praise you for being the God of grace. When we refuse your life in our sin, Lord, you offer that grace and that life to us once again. And for this we give you praise and thanksgiving. You, Lord, are more gracious than we could possibly imagine. There is more grace in you than there is sin in us And so we throw ourselves on your mercy and grace. We draw near to your throne of grace, trusting we will find mercy and grace in time of need. Lord, thank you for this compelling picture of the gospel. And may it cause us to stand on that gospel all the more. That we would be people who are standing on that gospel as our only hope. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.