Well good morning, church. Good to be with you once again to share God's word with you I understand that it's summer, so people have been kind of back and forth, including me and my family, but it is a joy to be back with you and to sing with you and now share God's word with you. So let me uh pray once more and then we will dive in. Oh God, help us. We confess that we need your help. We need your grace, as we've just sung about, and we're thank you for it. But we need your help and your grace even right now to hear your word, to do your word, to walk with you. Use your word right now, Lord. We pray. Convict us, correct us, change us, and make us more like your Son Jesus Christ. We ask in his name. Amen. As I just said, it is summertime, and during the summer, people from all over the world. Flock to the most magical place on earth, Disney World. One of the major theme parks in Florida, in the Orlando area. I don't know if you've been there or not with your families, but people go there and they lose their minds. They buy stuff they wouldn't ordinarily buy. They wear things they wouldn't ordinarily wear People get proposed to there. Like it's it's it's a magical place. You have all the castles, you have all the characters, and it's not just kids that go crazy, adults go crazy as well. My parents often tell me that when they first took me and my family when we were kids, I think I was five, my quote at the result of that day was: this was the greatest day of my life. It is a magical place. But as you get older, that magic can tend to wear off in some cases Like you start looking around and it doesn't seem so magical anymore. You start noticing that the buildings and the structures They don't look as real as they did when you were little. You start to notice all of these facades, right? Like you have the structure on the outside, it looks like a castle. It looks like a wonderful world, but behind it is hollow. It's shallow. It's empty. There's no foundation to it Maybe the kid in you has grown up and you've realized that not just about Disney World or theme park, but about life Maybe about people. Maybe about leaders. Maybe about the government. Maybe about church sometimes. Maybe you've become more and more cynical as a result of that. Or maybe you've learned more and more about yourself. More and more about the appearances that you put up. More and more about the ways that you try to put on a facade for people And you've grown more and more discouraged, even with yourself. Sometimes, if we're honest, I think a lot of us are more concerned with who we are perceived to be than who we actually are. But in our text this morning, we're going to be reminded of the fact that God's people, all of God's people, can be and should be, because of his grace, marked by not a facade But integrity. If you haven't turned there already, please meet me in Psalm chapter 26. If you're using one of the Bibles around you, That's on page 459. If you don't have a Bible of your own, we'd encourage you to take that home with you as a gift from us to you. We're spending a good chunk of this summer walking through several psalms as one of our pastors, Luke Murray, did a wonderful job of last week walking through Psalm chapter 25, where at the end of that psalm, or towards the end, David prays. May integrity and uprightness preserve me, for I wait for you. In case you don't know, David is the shepherd board shepherd boy who became king of Israel His life is chronicled throughout the scriptures, primarily in 1 and 2 Samuel, in the Kings, the Chronicles, and in the Psalms, which he wrote many of, including our Psalm today. And these Psalms, the book of Psalms, is both a prayer journal and a hymnal that's good and profitable for all of God's people. Now, while the circumstances of this psalm is unknown and many of us can guess as what the specific circumstances of his life were. I think they relate to a lot of things that would have happened in David's life, but it also means that it relates to us in our life. But what we know for sure from the Psalm is that David is asking for vindication. And he is declaring throughout the Psalm that he has and he will walk in integrity. But I wonder in a world full of facades, If you hear that and you think, how can that even be true? How can that be true of anyone? How can that be true of me? Follow along as I read our passage for us. This is Psalm 26, and this is the word of the Lord. And it reads. Vindicate me, O Lord, for I have walked in my integrity, and I have trusted in the Lord without wavering Prove me, O Lord, and try me. Test my heart and my mind, for your steadfast love is before my eyes, and I walk in your faithfulness. I do not sit with men of falsehood, nor do I consort with hypocrites. I hate the assembly of evildoers, and I will not sit with the wicked I wash my hands in innocence and go around your altar, O Lord, proclaiming thanksgiving aloud and telling all your wondrous deeds. O Lord, I love the habitation of your house and the place where your glory dwells. Do not sweep away my soul with sinners Nor my life with bloodthirsty men, in whose hands are evil devices, and whose right hands are full of bribes. But as for me, I shall walk in my integrity Redeem me and be gracious to me. My foot stands on level ground. In the great assembly, I will bless the Lord. If you're taking notes this morning, here's the main point of our time together. God's people are called to walk in integrity by dwelling in his presence. God's people are called to walk in integrity by dwelling in his presence And as we cover that main idea in this passage in Psalm 26, we'll do that in three main parts or three main sections. First, we're going to focus on the integrity of David, and we're just going to walk through the passage, see what it says, see what it means. Then we're going to focus on the integrity of Christ, the greater David And then lastly, we're going to focus on our integrity and see some specific ways that we can apply this text to our hearts and to our lives. Starting with part one: the integrity of David. So, as I said, David in this passage is asking for vindication. He's praying and asking for the Lord to make it known that he is walking in integrity But that might sound arrogant and prideful. Like, how can anyone say things like, I have trusted in the Lord without wavering? Right? But it seems like from this passage that David is possibly addressing a specific time and a specific circumstance. Maybe that we can guess about what that was, but we don't know for sure. Maybe it was some wrongdoing by the former King Saul. Maybe it was his issues that he would have had in his family with his son. Maybe it's something that he was accused of during his reign as king. But David is not claiming here to be sinless. He's asking for others to see what he believes that the Lord sees. That the direction of his life is wholly devoted to the Lord. In the scriptures and other places, David was described as a man after God's own heart. That's first the description that he gets in 1 Samuel 13, verse 14, where it says, But now your kingdom shall not continue. The Lord sought out a man after his own heart. He's talking about David. That's even repeated in the New Testament in Acts 13, 22 Where it says, and when he had him removed, he raised up David to be their king, of whom he testified, meaning the Lord, I have found in David, the son of Jesse, a man after my own heart It's a big statement, right? But that's what integrity means. It means to be wholeheartedly devoted towards the Lord. And David says, here, I have walked in my integrity. Look again at verse 1. He says, Vindicate me, for I have walked in my integrity I've trusted in the Lord without wavering. Prove me, O Lord. Try me. Test my heart and my mind. Your steadfast love is before my eyes. I walk in your faithfulness. So walking here, just like in the rest of the Psalms, and even in the rest of the scriptures, is describing a pattern of life. It's describing a direction, an orientation of your life. So it's not sinlessness that David is describing. He's describing his path. Just like Psalm 119 and in a recent conversation with George Fleeson, we talked about this a little bit where it says a lot about the direction, the path of our life, the way of our life. Psalm 119, verse 1, where it says, Blessed is the man whose way, direction, is blameless, who walks in the law of the Lord. Or even Psalm chapter 1, where it says, Blessed is the man who walks not in the council of the wicked, nor stands in the way of the sinners, no s nor sits in the seat of the scoffers, but his delight. is in the law of the Lord. Again, his way, his direction, his path. But this should help us also know and remember that integrity in any of us is not about grit, it's not about determination. It's about depending on God and depending on God's word. And that's why I think David says in verse 11 of Psalm 26: Redeem me and be gracious to me. So if he was sinless, why would he need redemption? He's recognizing that integrity in his life is going to come from the Lord. So, in other words, help me remain pure in your sight. It's really a prayer. That way, we think of it that way, we can apply this to our lives. And we can even pick that up and we can apply that simple prayer in our prayer life as we pray for our children. Parents, you can pray that your sons and daughters are people of integrity. Husbands and wives, you can pray for each other, but you are marked by integrity. Brothers and sisters, as you think about praying for one another, as you Look through the directory and you think, I don't know what a specific need might be. Pray that they would live lives of integrity, open before the Lord, wholly devoted before Him So David is confidently and boldly asking the Lord to test him. Did you notice that He says, test me, try me, prove me. And that testing was like the testing of refining metals. Or for our engineers in the room, think of testing of a building or a structure. And that testing happens when weight or pressure is applied to see if that structure actually holds up. Does anybody know what it's called when that building or that structure doesn't hold up? What do they often say about it as a result? There was issues with the the foundation or the integrity of the structure. Again, integrity. David is saying that my life or his life is not a house of cards. It's not a facade. That he's walking in integrity. But notice there, even if you look back at verse 1, he says, I have walked in integrity and trusted in the Lord without wavering So this highlights David's obedience and David's dependence on the Lord, both at the same time So maybe you can think about it this way. I've been to several airports lately, traveling with my family, traveling to the Southern Baptist Convention and even this week traveling again back to Miami to get our family and drive back up here. So you can pray for me in that and pray that those trips go well But one of my favorite parts about getting to airports and getting through the rush is when you finally get to the travelator. You know what those are? The moving escalators that you get to just stand on and you're carried forward. Right? And you can decide, I'm still gonna jog. Well, I'm gonna walk and I'm still gonna move forward. Right? It's glorious once you get there. I think this is a picture of what David is getting at He's walking. He's going forward in integrity. But he's also trusting in the Lord at the same time to carry him as he walks. He's both obedient and he's also dependent on the Lord. Our lives should be obedient and dependent as well. But not everybody lives in this way. So this walking in integrity is contrasted in this passage by those who instead of walking, they sit. Look at verse 4. He says, I do not sit with men of falsehood, nor do I consort with hypocrites. I hate the assembly, the gathering of evildoers, and I will not sit with the wicked. David says he does not sit with these evildoers, he does not linger with them, he does not dwell with them, and he avoids them, these evildoers and these hypocrites. So if walking is about the direction of your life, sitting pictures a settling down, like pitching your tent. Making your bed and getting comfortable there. And notice that's not just all by themselves. That's not one person. That's an assembly or a group or collection of people. He's describing a gathering of evildoers and hypocrites. Maybe talking about those who claimed to be following Yahweh, but really did not. Maybe talking about those who were against him King David had many foes and many enemies. He's talking about a lot of different people possibly. Now the issue here is I think evildoers are pretty clear in our mind, right? Think of a movie and think of a bad guy. But hypocrisy is a little bit harder in a lot of ways, right? Because charging someone, anyone with hypocrisy is kind of normal Just get on the internet. Get on social media. Hypocrisy is kind of like the Spider-Man meme You know, where everybody's the three different Spider-Man they're looking at each other and they're pointing at each other and they're saying, hey, that's you. No, that's you. Like We can all, if we look hard enough, find areas of hypocrisy in our lives, can't we? But David has in mind not people who struggle Not people who sin occasionally, but people whose lives, their existence, is characterized by a lie. Those who are hiding and pretending, those who are putting on a facade, those who, like hypocrites, are literally wearing a mask that they take off whenever they want to. Why does he not sit with them? Because they too are going in a direction, and it's away from the Lord. Look at verse 9. Says, do not sweep my soul away with sinners. So talking about these evildoers or these hypocrites, nor my life with these bloodthirsty men. He's describing them there. Okay, these people want blood. They want death. And it says in verse 10, in whose hands are evil devices, and whose right hands are full of bribes. Meaning they're cunning, they're manipulative, they're trying to deceive. He's talking about those different people. And David is asking for the Lord to help him here, not to be swept away in that direction. Not to go the way of the wicked. So when you get on the metro, for example, you need to not only know what station you're trying to go to to get on the train. You need to know what direction the train's going. Right? So if you have been on the metro before, you get to the station, maybe Chevrolet Station, and you look and you see that this the orange line, it's like okay, but where is this going? Because you want to be going in the right direction, right? So sitting in the assembly of the wicked is like knowing that you're trying to get downtown, and yet you get on the train that's going towards the airport And you sit there, you put your feet up, you get comfortable. That will not get you where you want to go. It's going the wrong way. Now, this does not mean, as we think about this collectively, this does not mean that we, as Christians, as followers of the Lord Jesus Christ, should live in silos. Right? Or apart from everybody else. Because if you think about it, lots of people are wicked. You might have somebody in your mind right now. Maybe you work with them What do we do about that? Notice that the text says he does not sit with them. Again, he does not dwell there. We are called to use our lives for influence, good influence, on the people that are around us. And I encourage you to continue to do that. And that might mean that you do spend time with people who don't believe like you believe or think like you believe. But don't dwell there. Don't get comfortable there. Remember, they're going away that you're not. And ask the Lord that so that you can have influence on them. Kids and teens, I think this is important for us to even think about as well, as you think about your friendships as you are growing up. If you're like me growing up, I made best friends in a day Right now, as you grow up, you don't have to be mean about it, but you should be a little bit more selective than that That BFF category, best friend forever, that should be reserved for people who are walking in the same direction as you. Who, when you veer off that path, who will redirect you towards the way you should be going. Parents, we can pray for our kids even today that they would have good lifelong friends that will point them towards the way of the Lord's Lord. You might be thinking, it sounds good not to sit with these evildoers, but they're everywhere. I work with them, they're around me, I'm surrounded by them. People lie to get ahead. People use people in order to make advantages in their line of work. Maybe you convince yourself that that's the way to do it. I don't like to do it, but that's just how it goes in this field Again, it matters where we dwell. Allow the Lord to vindicate you. Your job is to remain faithful to Him. Keep walking in His ways So it matters where we linger, it matters where we sit, it matters where we dwell, and that's why at the center of this passage, there's an emphasis on dwelling in God's house and being in his presence. Look at verse 6. He says, I wash my hand in innocence and go around your altar, proclaiming thanksgiving aloud and telling all your wondrous deeds. Oh Lord, I love the habitation of your house and the place where your glory Dwells. And even verse 12, he says, My foot stands on level ground in the great assembly, gathering, I will bless the Lord. David is proclaiming his innocence here, but he's doing so publicly, which allows him access near to the Lord and near the altar of the Lord. And notice that David there is proclaiming not his good works, not his innocence, not his wondrous deeds. He's proclaiming the Lord's wondrous deeds. And maybe you've already caught the contrast between sitting, so the sinners, the evildoers, the hypocrites who sit. He said, I do not sit with them, I don't dwell with them, but I love to dwell in the house of your Lord. Or verse 8, where he says, He loves the habitation of the Lord's house. Or before he said, I hate the assembly, or the gathering, or the habitation of the evildoers. Now in the house here, David is referring to the house of the Lord, the place where God's people would gather and assemble, where they would worship him, where they will offer sacrifices, where they would sing praises to him, and where his glory dwelled. David is claiming, therefore, that he walked in integrity because he is dwelling in the presence of the Lord. The only reason why he can claim that. That's the only reason why he has level ground to stand on. And brothers and sisters, that's our only claim as well. The only way we can walk in integrity is if we dwell in the Lord's presence. But as many of you already know about King David, and you might have already been thinking about in King David Alright, but what about Bathsheba? Right? There were times in David's life where he was not walking in integrity, where the man after God's own heart had his heart led astray by lots of different things Right? One interesting thing about David's life, if you read through 1 Samuel, for example, you'll see very early on in his life, there's a lot of conversations that David has with the Lord. And he consults with the Lord often before he does anything. He seeks the Lord. He prays. He asks them, should we take this step? Is now the time to invade, etc. But if you read 2 Samuel 11, you know, David and Bathsheba, there's none of that. There's no consulting with the Lord at all in that chapter And hypocrisy and sin was the result of that. We can learn from that as well We can learn from David's life, but we must remember that he is not the standard. There's only been one person that actually walked in integrity and trust in the Lord completely without wavering. And that's the greater David, which we'll talk about in point two, the integrity of Jesus Christ. The integrity of Jesus Christ. From the beginning, God created this world and the people in it, not because he was lonely, but so that they could dwell with him, so that he could be their God, and so that they could be his people. And his presence was with Adam and Eve in the garden until they sinned and they could no longer dwell with him without hindrance. Because that sin got in the way. And our God is so holy that he cannot dwell in the presence of sin. But God, over and over and over and over again, has made the way For people that he created, that he loved, that have gone astray to be able to dwell in his presence. That's why he covered Adam and Eve with fig leaves. That's why he called Abram out of Canaan and made a covenant with him. That's why he kept his covenant with his people Israel time and time again, even after they failed, time and time and time again. God both punished and preserved his people throughout the ages. And he made a way over and over again for him to dwell with them. Like on the mountain, on Mount Sinai, or in the tabernacle, or in the temple, and he used people like David. Or like Abraham, or like Moses, to help to lead God's people, to help orient God's people towards integrity, towards righteousness. But none of them could do it. None of them could lead God's people there. None of them could keep themselves in integrity every one of their days. Because they were all pointing to Jesus Christ. They were all types. They were all shadows. They were all glimpses of the one to come who would truly walk in integrity Because Jesus Christ did come to this world and he did dwell with us, the people that he made. The Bible teaches that Jesus set what tax collectors And with sinners. He healed them. He touched the lepers. But he did not get unclean in that process. Jesus even dwelt with hypocrites like the Pharisees and the Sadducees. And he met with them and he rebuked them and he talked to them. And some of them even came to faith But he was not corrupted by their corruption. He was not led astray by their bribes. He trusted in the Lord completely without wavering. His righteousness was completely and a hundred percent pure. And he walked in faithfulness. To God all of the days of his life and all the way to the cross. Jesus knew no sin, but he was delivered over because of our sin to bloodthirsty men. He was accused of wickedness, accused of unrighteousness, accused of wrongdoing, but he did not seek to vindicate himself. He entrusted himself to the one that judges justly. His death was not because of his sin, because he had no sin. His death was for our sins. And Jesus went to the cross and he died, but his soul was not swept away with the wicked. Because Jesus rose from the grave on the third day. And then he was vindicated for walking in his integrity, for his sacrifice being accepted before God. And Jesus right now rules and reigns and is still calling sinners to put down their ways, to get off the train. To go in the other direction and to walk in his way by putting their faith alone in him for their salvation So that he can be their God and they can be his people. Here and now, through his Holy Spirit, through his church, through his word, throughout all eternity. You're here and you're not a Christian and you have a life that is marked by sitting with evildoers and you know it? You're on a train that's going the wrong direction. You can confess your sins to him today and get off and go the way of his word by placing your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. And that is the only way to do it. Before I became a Christian, one of my objections to Christianity was hypocrisy. And I would often think: all those Christians are hypocrites. They're all cryptocrits. Why should I want to be like them? Have you heard that objection before? Maybe you're here and you're not a Christian and you've made that objection before. Maybe you've heard of pastors or ministry leaders even recently with more moral failures. And it's like the structure of their lives failed the inspection. But the Lord showed me differently by his grace, because he pointed me towards his word and his son. Specifically for me, it was reading through the Sermon on the Mount, Matthew chapters 5 through 7, where I got to see Jesus clearly and also got to see myself clearly. If you're questioning the faith, if you're questioning Christianity, I'd encourage you to do that. Pick up his word Read Matthew chapter 5 through 7. Then read the rest of the Gospel of Matthew, and you will find no hypocrisy in Jesus. None. It does not exist But if you do that, you will find hypocrisy in your own heart. And you, I pray by his grace, will see your need for a savior. And again, you will find that Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, if you confess your sins and put your faith in him You will be tested. You will be tried on the day of judgment. Will your foundation hold up without Christ? The answer is no. You can turn to him by faith today. Brothers and sisters in Christ, remember that this Jesus that we read about, this Jesus that we sing about, this Jesus that we hear about. Is with us now to keep walking in Him. Dwell with Him in His word. Dwell with Him in prayer. See His glory in the church as you gather here. And bless the Lord as we gather together each Lord's day until we're in that great assembly all together. Look at Psalm 26 again. Where it says David says, I wash my hand in innocence, and I go around your altar proclaiming thanksgiving and telling all of your wondrous deeds Let's get here ready to tell of God's good works and his good deeds in our lives. Or even think about verse 12. My foot stands on level ground. Let's share with one another that he has been the one holding us up And that if he was not holding us, we would not be standing here today. In the great assembly, it says, I will bless the Lord. And if this is pointing to Christ, and since this is pointing to Christ, that means that Jesus is saying, I will rejoice in the great assembly with my brothers and sisters one day. He says that also in Hebrews chapter 2, verse 10, where it says, For it was fitting that he, Jesus For whom and by whom all things exist, and bringing many sons to glory, should make the founder of their salvation perfect through suffering For he who sanctifies, and those who are sanctified, all have one source. That is why he is not ashamed to call them brothers, saying, I will tell of my net of your name to my brothers in the midst of the congregation. The gathering, the assembly, the great assembly. I will sing your praise. And again, I will put my trust in him. And again, behold, I and the children God has given me. Brothers and sisters in Christ, that day is awaiting us. But let me ask, do you love dwelling with the Lord? Is that the posture of your heart today? Are you expecting that day? Do you long for that day? Are you ready to tell others about his wondrous deeds? If so, keep going and keep walking with him. But if that's not the case for you, then may I ask: is that because you're looking too much at you? Maybe your own sin, your own failures. Maybe you've concluded in your life that since you went back to that sin, whatever that sin is, I might as well sit here for a while. Or maybe your circumstances and your suffering is too overwhelming for you. And you doubt God's sincere love for you. You doubt His grace towards you. Maybe in some area of your life, your life has become like that Disney facade where it looks great and well put together But it's shallow, hollow on the inside. Listen to this quote from Robert Marie McShane, where he says, For every look at yourself, take ten looks at Christ. He is altogether lovely, such infinite majesty, and yet such meekness and grace and awe for sinners, even the chief sinners Live much in the smiles of God. Bask in his beams. Feel his all-seeing eye settled on you in love. And repose in his almighty arms. Or in other words, as Jackie Hill Perry puts it, we become what we behold Brothers and sisters, if you're struggling today, if you're suffering today, behold the Lord Jesus Christ He's glorious, he's faithful, and he's good. And keep walking, even if you sat down somewhere. God's people are called to walk in integrity by dwelling in his presence. So what else does that look like? Which leads us to point three, our integrity. Our integrity. We'll focus on a bit more of application. We can often pick up our Bibles and read passages like Psalm 26 and read ourselves into it a little too quickly. And see things where it's like where it says, I've walked in my integrity. Test me, try me, prove me. And immediately think, that's right, I am walking in my integrity. Or I'm not walking in integrity, or I don't feel that way. Or we look at requests from David where it says vindicate me and we're like, I don't need vindication right now. It doesn't apply to me But that's why, when we study the scriptures, when we go to God's Word, we should ask ourselves these important questions. And I think we should ask it in this order. Question one: what does the text say and what does it mean? What does it say and what does it mean? Question two, how does this point to Christ? And then question three, how does this apply to me? If we do it in that order, I think we will get down to the heart of what it means and we'll apply the text correctly. If we get that out of order, then we're gonna leave discouraged or we're gonna leave prideful. We should not leave God's word in that way. We don't have to because of his son. So now that we've done that, what does this all mean and how can this apply to us? God wants us to dwell in his presence. What does that look like? Two main points of application in closing. It looks like walking with God Walking with God. Now I admit that that sounds really abstract Right? But we think about it, and if we look at the passage, we can see what that means. And then I think we can apply it David is walking with the Lord, and he does that specifically in this psalm through prayer and through fellowship. This glance over Psalm 26 again, where he says, where he prays, vindicate me, prove me, test me, try me, test my heart and my mind. Do not sweep me away with sinners. Redeem me and be gracious to me. Those are all prayer requests. Are you going to the Lord in prayer About everything. About anything. And at any time. If you don't currently have a regular time of prayer, Yes, the summer is very crazy for lots of us, but maybe this this summer where we have kind of a more flexible schedule than normal, that might be a good time to build in some good rhythms and habits of prayer in your life. So I encourage you to pick a time of day. Maybe it's on your morning commute. Maybe it's as you're on the train. Maybe it's first thing in the morning Maybe it's when your kids are down for a nap, finally. Whenever it is, find time to meet with the Lord in prayer and pray about everything. But we can also fellowship with God through His Word. I think we also learned that from this text as well. So prayer. And also fellowship. That's how we walk with God. I think we see that in this passage because David seems to know the God that he's praying to. He seems to believe that God will hear and will answer. So my encouragement to you here is don't just read the Bible. Don't just glance over passages. Dwell there. Spend time with him and his word. Find a section of scripture to memorize this summer. Even if it's a verse. And see how the Lord impacts your mind by not dwelling on other things, but by dwelling on his word And as you read God's word, use that as your your launching pad for prayer. You could even take this week Psalm 26. And say, Lord, test my heart and my mind. I know I've gone astray. Prove me. Lord, redeem me. Be gracious to me. You can pray that to the Lord. We can do that. And I'll also say fill in the the margins of your life with God's word Now many of us don't believe we have margins in our lives because we're very busy, we're very tired, we're very stressed out, we have lots of kids, some of us, we have lots of demands, most of us. But maybe sometime this week you can reevaluate your own life and schedule. Where are those slow moments? Where are those down times? What do I do with it? What do I fill it with? Because you're filling it with something I encourage you to find those moments and fill it with God's word. Fill it with time and prayer. Secondly, the first point of application, walk with God. Second point of application, don't walk alone. Don't walk alone. David says in the Psalm, he hates the assembly of evildoers, but he loves the habitation of God's house. But listen, that's not an empty house. He's talking about gathering and fellowshipping with God and with his brothers and sisters in Christ. He loves to be in his presence, in God's presence, and he also loves to be in their presence. He talks about going around the altar and telling of God's wondrous deeds. Who's he telling? God and his brothers and sisters. He says that he will bless the Lord in the great assembly, which means it's a gathering, it's an assembly of other people who are seeking to do the same to bless the Lord. Walking in integrity, friends, is best done together. We have to do that together. That's why the Lord called us to gather together regularly. In part to help us to walk in integrity and to help each other to walk in integrity and remain in right fellowship with Him. Let's think about sheep for a moment. Kids and teens. Maybe you haven't seen a lot of sheep in a while. But when sheep wander and stray, who are they wandering and straying from? Any thoughts? Roger? The shepherd. That's true For who or what in this case else are they straying from? The flock, the fold, the other sheep If you're here and you're wandering today, it's likely in part because you've not only wandered from the shepherd, but also from the flock. If you've wandered, turn to the Good Shepherd today. He's gracious, He's merciful. Turn to a brother or sister in Christ that can help you to walk with Him, to say, don't go that way, there's danger that way. Join the flock again. As I mentioned, Psalm 119 is one of my favorite chapters of the Bible And I remember first trying to read it many years ago when I first became a Christian, and I was very confused by the first and the last verse. You might want to look at it later. First verse says, Blessed is the man who whose way is pure, who walks in the law of the Lord. Blessed is the one who keeps his testimonies, who seeks them with their whole heart. It's like great, I get it. The very last verse of that psalm says the following: I have wandered away like a lost sheep Seek your servant, for I do not forget your commandments. That should not fit together. That should not be in the same chapter of the same Bible But you know, just like I know, those things can be true in our lives. Where we know the way to go, but we wander and stray. But how can that both be true? Ultimately, it's because our shepherd is good, he is gracious, and he will lead us. Then he will guide us. He does not lose his sheep, he goes after his sheep. And he often uses brothers and sisters in Christ or your family in Christ to help you from your wandering. So again, if you are wandering today or you feel like your heart might be straying in that direction, don't wander alone. Don't walk alone. Walking in integrity for you might look like telling someone today. And repenting before you go too far. So confess your sins to God. Confess your sins to a brother or sister. And if you feel hypocritical in doing so, just think of that Spider-Man meme again There's hypocrisy in all of us. But God's grace is greater than our sin. And we don't have to walk in that direction. We can walk towards the Lord. The Lord knows us, and he can see through any facade that we try to put up. But remember that he's gracious. May we commit our way afresh to him today To walk in integrity, to dwell with him until we are in his presence and in that great assembly. Amen? Let's pray Lord, we ask that you would help us to walk in integrity. And we're asking because we need your help to walk in integrity To walk with you, to trust in you, to hold on to the faith, to endure in the faith. We pray that you would give us strength and endurance. We pray that you would help us help one another To strengthen one another and to endure. And help us as we walk, walk towards you until we're in that great assembly together. In Jesus' name. Amen.