Good morning, brothers and sisters. Good to see you and good to be with you this morning. Before we get to God's word, I do want to double-click on the announcement that Jonathan Lehman made this morning about these books like How Can I Find Someone to Disciple Me? This book and several like this from the Nine Marks Church Question Series are on that back table. The back table I'm pointing to is a table that we normally have coffee and tea after our service. And if you are new with us or visiting with us, we tend to stay long after the service So coffee and tea kind of helps with that. We encourage you to stay, have some encouragement conversations with people, and even grab one of these books. They're open to anyone who wants them. I think you'll be encouraged by that. And also the fellowship, we encourage you to stick around for. All right, but let me pray before we get to God's word. Lord to you belong glory forever and ever as we just sung, and we do pray that you will be glorified in the hearing The preaching, the receiving, the believing and doing of your word. And we need your help for all of that, for every bit of it. Use your word, O Lord, to save. To convict, to correct, to change, and to help us to look more like your son Jesus Christ. We ask in his name. Amen. What kind of neighbor are you? What kind of neighbor are you? Our family has moved a little over a year ago to this area. And when you're new to the neighborhood, you kind of get a little bit more attention Maybe for a day or a week, depending on who the neighbors are, but then sometimes it kind of wears off. And then you start observing, you start figuring out who your neighbors are and how they are. So you might have some nosy neighbors. They sit on the porch, coffee in hand. They want to see everything going on, see everyone in and out. They have lots of conversations with lots of people. They want to know what's going on in their neighborhood. Or you have neighbors who are active and engaged in the community. They know about events They can point you to resources. They know everything that's going on all around them. Or the neighbors who wave from afar, but don't ever get near. Like, and sometimes you figure out like, oh, that's by design, that's intentional. You saw me outside, and then you went inside real quick. Like that happens with all of us Some are friendly, some don't really want to be bothered. Some neighbors are like that sign that my kids saw in the store yesterday, which read, like a good neighbor, stay over there. But what kind of neighbors are we as God's people called to be In this text for this morning, we're going to focus on what we heard a little bit about in our scripture reading, the royal law That James has alluded to in chapter 1, but that he's going to explain in far more detail here in James chapter 2 It's going to explain in part the kinds of neighbors that we are called to be. Please meet me in James chapter 2 if you haven't turned there already. If you're using one of the Bibles around you, that's on page 1011. We're picking up where we left off in this letter from James, one of the leaders in the early church, written to brothers and sisters in Christ, many of them poor, many of them persecuted. Many of them struggling, many of them from Jewish backgrounds who were scattered abroad because of Christian persecution. He wanted them to mature and endure in the faith And so he writes to them to encourage them to do just that in various different ways. And in chapter one, he basically uh explains all the themes that he's going to double-click on throughout the rest of the letter. But for example, towards the end of chapter 1, he focused on the word of God as the law of liberty, which he'll get back to today. And you focus on our words and how our words should be useful. They should not be worthless How we should hear God's word and how we should also do God's word. Again, a theme that he's going to reoccur or he's going to go back to over and over again. And loving our neighbor. As he'll explain in James chapter 2 is the royal law. And in James 1. 27, James talks about this pure religion or this true worship that we're supposed to offer to the Lord. Which looks like visiting orphans and widows in their affliction and keeping oneself unstained from the world. Worship looks like doing both It looks like loving God and loving neighbor. In fact, James 2. 13, the last verse of this section for this morning, summarizes the section, but I think it also in a good way summarizes the book. Speak and act as those who are going to be judged by the perfect law of liberty. So, what does this speaking and acting look and sound like? In a word, merciful. Please follow along with me as I read the text, James chapter 2, starting in verse 1. This is the word of the Lord. My brothers, show no partiality as you hold the faith in our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory. For if a man wearing a gold ring and fine clothing comes into your assembly, and a poor man in shabby clothing also comes in, And if you pay attention to the one who wears the fine clothing and say, you sit over here in a good place. Or you say to the poor man, you stand over there, or sit down at my feet. Have you not then made distinctions among yourselves and become judges with evil thoughts? Listen, my beloved brothers Has not God chosen those who are poor in the world to be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom which He has promised to those who love Him? But you have dishonored the poor man Are not the rich the ones who oppress you? And the ones who drag you into court? Are they not the ones who blaspheme the honorable name by which you were called? If you really fulfill the royal law according to the scripture, you shall love your neighbor as yourself, you are doing well. But if you show partiality, you are committing sin and are convicted by the law as transgressors. For whoever keeps the whole law but fails in one point has become guilty of all of it. For he who said, Do not commit adultery, also said, Do not murder. If you do not commit adultery, but you murder, you have become a transgressor of the law So speak, and so act as those who are going to be judged under the law of liberty. For judgment is without mercy to the one who has shown no mercy. Mercy triumphs over judgment. Here's our main point for our time together. If you're taking notes. Faith in Christ matures and endures as we show merciful love for our neighbors. Faith in Christ matures and endures as we show merciful love for our neighbors. And as we walk through the text this morning, we're going to focus on this merciful love that the Lord wants us to show to our neighbors by focusing on what James focuses on. And he kind of focuses on the opposite. And that, in a word, is partiality. So we'll cover that in four main points Point number one, showing partiality dishonors the Lord of glory. Point number two, showing partiality distorts the Lord's ways. Point number three, showing partiality disobeys the Lord's law. And point number four, showing partiality disregards the Lord's mercy and judgment. I will get back to those points if you didn't catch them. But may the Lord give us grace to be quick to hear and to do his word. Point number one: showing partiality dishonors the Lord of glory. Look back at verse 1. Verse 1 seems to be the main exhortation of the entire passage. Show no partiality. And the meaning of show no partiality or show no favoritism in other translations means in the original language to receive according to the face. Which is to look and then to judge. To look and then determine or decide. Now it's normal and common for people to look and determine or decide, right? We're people that process. We download data in our minds. We make connections. We make dots So, for example, if we see a stop sign, we should stop. We know that because of what it says, but also the connections that we make in our mind. And Maybe we've experienced when that didn't happen or when someone didn't stop and we saw the consequences. Right? But James is not talking about that. James is talking about that seeing and deciding when it comes to people, which is what makes it partiality. That receiving people according to the face or according to their outward appearances, that is dishonoring to the Lord. I think that's why James says, show no partiality as you hold the faith. It's as if you could do one or the other, but not both at the same time. It's as if partiality and holding the faith in the Lord Jesus Christ are going in opposite directions. You can't go the same way at the same time. But we may know that partiality has been present amongst God's people. Even you can go in the scriptures for that Acts chapter 6, for example. The need for the first deacons or what became the deacons in the church in Jerusalem was out of partiality. The Greek widows being overlooked in the distribution. Or even Galatians chapter 2, where Paul talks about rebuking Peter for his partiality against the Greeks and towards the Jews. And depending on who he was around, he kind of changed who he would welcome and who he would not welcome. Or Acts 15, for example, where James, this same James who wrote the letter of James, And the Church of Jerusalem had to directly answer the question: what are we going to require of these non-Jews who were coming to faith? Are we going to require them to be circumcised? They decided not to. Or we can even think of our own nation and our own country. Frederick Douglass, in his slave narrative, for example, spoke to this partiality as it related specifically to chattel slavery. Is what he says They attend with pharisaical strictness to the outward forms of religion and at the same time neglect the weightier matters of the law. Judgment, mercy, and faith. They are always ready to sacrifice, but seldom to show mercy They are they who are represented as professing to love God who they have not seen, whilst they hate their brother whom they have seen. They love the heathen on the other side of the globe. They can pray for him, pay money to have the Bible put into his hands, and missionaries to instruct him, while they despise and totally neglect the heathen at their own doors. Partiality, brothers and sisters, of any kind, of all kind, is incompatible with the faith in our Lord Jesus Christ But if you look at the end of verse 1, there's a little phrase there that kind of takes it up a notch. Look there. How is Jesus described at the end of verse 1? It's one of the few, and maybe even the only time in the letter of James where Jesus is actually described. Was he described as? The Lord of glory. You can't hold partiality and the Christian faith at the same time because Jesus Christ is the Lord of glory. Which is why partiality dishonors our glorious Lord. And again, this is the same Jesus that we've been singing about. This is the same Jesus that the angels right now are singing about. They're crying out, holy, holy, holy. This Jesus is the one that made all things. And the Bible says that all things were made through him and for him. And this glorious Lord Jesus Christ laid aside his crown and came to this world. He ate with tax collectors He saved the woman who was caught in adultery. He touched the sick. He healed the lame. And his sharpest rebukes were not for those sinners who knew that they needed him. Or for the Pharisees, who were self-righteous, who outwardly looked as if they were loving God and their neighbor, but they did not. But this glorious Lord Jesus came to this world and he died on the cross for our sin and he rose from the grave and right now he is seated on a throne Ruling and reigning on high until he comes back to gather his people gloriously. And I will say up front: if you're here and you're not a Christian, Know that the glorious Lord Jesus Christ is welcoming you today to turn from your sin and turn towards Him in faith to receive His mercy. And brothers and sisters in Christ, remember that the Lord is glorious. And in light of his glory, we should honor him by loving him and loving our neighbor. And James is talking about here not showing partiality. So while partiality dishonors the Lord of glory, the reverse is true. Showing mercy honors the Lord of glory. The partiality dishonors the Lord. Point two, partiality distorts the Lord's ways. Partiality distorts the Lord's ways. Here's where James gets into this memorable illustration. He has a lot of memorable illustrations all throughout the letter of James. He talks about the poor and the rich who walk into assembly. They walk into church. Now for them that could have been these smaller gatherings that would have gathered maybe in homes or someone's larger properties. But regardless, he's talking about the gathering or the assembling of Christians, of brothers and sisters in Christ who gather to worship the Lord. Kind of like we're doing right now. So the rich man walks in, and the poor man walks in in this scenario. Now, this scenario is a scenario. But the scenario is fitting for that context because it mattered in that context. So, in other words, let's not dismiss the scenario just because we think, well. We wouldn't do anything like that. It's in God's word for a reason. And we can all learn from it But let's look at the poor and the rich man as they walk into this assembly in this situation that James brings up here to drill down the point that we should show no partiality. The rich man walks in and he's quickly recognized. He's wearing a gold ring. He's dressed in fine or expensive clothing. The poor man walks in. He's also recognized. He's wearing shabby clothing. He looks disheveled. James says the poor and the rich are responded to differently in this scenario, starting in verse 2. The rich is welcomed. He gets attention. He gets told where you can sit. Sit in a good place. And the good place might have been towards the front. Even though some of us don't like to sit in the front here. But it's alright. The good place would have been towards the front so they could see what was going on, so they could hear what was going on. The poor, on the other hand. You can sit at someone's feet like a servant or a slave would have, or you can stand over there, maybe in the back James's point is in sharing this illustration is that if we were to do so, we are making distinctions of ourselves and are becoming judges with evil thoughts. That's what he says in verse 4. Now, what's interesting in this scenario is that these Christians that James is writing this letter to, by and large, may have been poor themselves. They were persecuted. Christianity at this point was not the religion of Rome. It was a small sect of Judaism. Christians were despised people. They were not understood rightly. In fact, they were just known as followers of the way. It was kind of a throwaway term to mock the claims of Jesus as being the way. So why would those Christians need this kind of warning? Maybe there could have been wealthy Christians among them. That's possible Maybe there could have been the idea that since we are poor, despised, marginalized, the rich, if they come, they might give us some help. But what could the poor man offer us? Text doesn't say that. But from the text, James seems to be calling out those who are poor in the world for overlooking their position that they have in Christ. As well for dishonoring the poor and prioritizing riches. Whatever their motivations would have been, James says that this is not how the Lord in his glory works. That's not how it works at all. That's why he explains in verse 5 of chapter 2. Has not God chosen those who are poor in this world to be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom which he promised to those who love him? Like you are poor in this life, you know what will come to you. But you have dishonored the poor man. And then he has a series of questions. Like, what have you gained from trying to get influence from the rich? Are not the rich those who press you? Don't they drag you into court? Aren't they dishonoring the Lord's honorable name? Again, probably scenarios that they would have dealt with in that time. He's wanting to correct any notion that they may have had that to have wealth would have been to have everything in this life. That would have meant that they would have had God's blessing. It's a common notion back then, and even among some people today, that if you are poor in this life, maybe you've done something wrong. Or that if you are rich, then the Lord has blessed you and looked down upon you. But no, God's people, according to God's word, are co-heirs with Christ. And any wealth in this world, in this lifetime, like James already teaches in chapter 1, is temporary, is fleeting, you will lose it before you even know it. And again, think about the Lord Jesus Christ, who came not with a plan to reach the wealthy and the powerful and the strong, to reach the kings. Thinking, if I have their ear, then that will change all of Jerusalem. He didn't do that at all. Jesus himself was poor in this world. And his disciples were very ordinary. And while the Lord can reach and use anyone, he doesn't desire to share his glory with anyone. Which is why his ways are not like our ways. His thoughts are not like our thoughts, the ways that he chooses to do it, not the ways that we often think is best for it to be done. And I think also these Christians who were persecuted, who were marginalized, might have been tempted to think that if they just had some more wealth If they had others on their side, then that would have helped them and that would have benefited them. James wants to dispel that motion. He basically wants to say, maybe, but that's not really how the Lord works. Now, this is not an indictment against all riches or all wealth, but it's a correction of what some of them might have thought. And some people might still think today that if you have riches in this life, you are blessed by God. And if not, you're under some sort of curse. Again, that is not the Lord's way. The Lord created all people, including the poor and the rich, so that they would find their way towards Him So the poor or any other groups of people should not be marginalized, and they should not be judged by us. To do so is distorting the Lord's way. Here's how one author puts it. We follow a crucified criminal who had nowhere to lay his head. His appearance was disfigured beyond recognition. For our sake, he became poor and embraced poverty. Would we rush to welcome him into our church? He goes on to say, we are not to think that the rich and the powerful, reaching the rich and the powerful with the gospel is a more strategic plan than reaching those who are poor. So again, partiality gets the Lord's ways wrong. It takes our ways and how we think it should work and elevates it over what the Lord might do. And I think this applies to us directly in all sorts of ways. Perhaps the Lord has put you in a position of influence or position of leadership in your workplace or among your community. And maybe the Lord does have you there to make good and lasting holistic change. It's possible he can do that. He's done it before But maybe the Lord has placed you at your job or in your school not to affect change up here, but down here Meaning in your relationships with people. Your one-to-ones. Maybe you won't get a platform at your job, but you can influence a handful of people while you're there. And the Lord can use that however he wills for his glory. Because that's the Lord's way to be glorified So again, let's not despise being used in seemingly small or insignificant ways. We are not small in the eyes of God. And let's not despise people who might seem, in the world's eyes, small or insignificant. Again, James specifically here has the poor and the rich in mind, but this extends to all partiality. James will later teach in this section that partiality is sin because it's a breaking of God's royal law, the second commandment. So, what partiality do we have? What partiality do you have? One of the challenges again in this scenario in James chapter 2 is that it can be very easy to dismiss it. And it can be very easy for us to think our church is doing great. And we can think of other churches where we've seen this partiality play out openly. And we can say, no, that's really for them. But does our partiality, if it's there, is it not outward disdain, but more of inward distance and indifference? Towards certain groups of people. So in other words, who are the people that you might go out of your way to avoid? What groups of people make you uncomfortable? Maybe you don't like that you are you are uncomfortable as a result, but if you're honest, they make you uncomfortable. Who are the people that you receive or reject according to the faith? Maybe they're the poor. Maybe they're from another country. Maybe they don't speak our language. Maybe they live in that neighborhood or in that part of town. Or maybe you've only really heard about them and what they think and what they believe and how they live. On the news or in movies. So you really don't know them. But maybe the Lord wants to use you to reach them with the gospel Again, the poor and the rich in this parable both entered the assembly. They both showed up at church. One was welcomed to hear the gospel, and the other was not. Several years ago when we lived in London, we would go out on the high street and we would Seek to share the gospel with people. We would evangelize. We wore these big bright red shirts that said no religion, just Jesus. It's like, I don't know if that was the best strategy, but that's what we did Right? But there was always this internal processing when you would see people and it's like, hey, so who am I gonna talk to? Who am I gonna talk to? No, he looks too important. No, they look too busy No, they look like they're kind of nice. They seem friendly. Maybe I'll approach them. And oftentimes, those nice-looking people, or at least in my mind, those are the people most resistant to the gospel. They don't want to hear anything that had to do with Jesus. We all do that in some ways, don't we? Maybe a neighbors rainbow flag or their sign in front of their house that says, in this house we believe, for you has become a giant keep out sign. Like I'm going to stay away from those people. But isn't it the Lord's way to save the most unlikely of people? And such were all of us in one way or another. And the Lord has still used people to come to us in our lives to push through whatever assumptions or prejudices they may have had towards us to share the good news of the gospel. They did so mercifully, and you may not even know it. And we are called to do the same. As Brian Stevenson puts it, the opposite of love is not hate, it's fear. And as the Apostle John puts it, there's no fear in love. Perfect love casts out all fear Let me say before I move on, because this passage is very convicting for all of us, let me now say That as I was even thinking about this passage and even in conversation with some brothers yesterday, I'm so encouraged by the way that you all welcome people in this church I often want to be a good pastor and want to get to guests and visitors, but often I can't because they are hounded after service. And they're busy talking to other people. So that's encouraging. So as that is present among us, let's do so even more, brothers and sisters. Because love is the Lord's way. Love is the Lord's way. And showing partiality distorts that It gets it upside down, it gets it wrong. But showing mercy reveals the Lord's way. And love is his way Which brings us to point number three. Show impartiality disobeys the Lord's law. Showing partiality disobeys the Lord's law. This law is what James referred to in chapter one a couple times. The law of freedom, or the perfect law of liberty. Here it's described, starting in verse 8, as the royal law. If you fulfill, or if you really fulfill the royal law according to the scripture, you shall love your neighbor as yourself, you are doing well. James says. Now remember that these believers would have heard the teachings of Jesus. They would have heard about the teaching of Jesus, or maybe they would have heard it even directly for some of them. But as they thought about the royal law, they wouldn't have thought Matthew, they would have thought Leviticus, which is what we heard in our scripture reading from this morning. And in that passage, the Lord is not asking, but commanding his people to do the following: to leave the gleanings of the harvest for the poor, for the sojourner, for example To not steal and to not lie, to not oppress their neighbors, to not be partial, but to judge their neighbors in righteousness to not slander or hate or hold a grudge, but to love their neighbors as themselves. And several times in that passage, he gives the reason for that. I am the Lord. I am the Lord. I am the Lord. That love described in Leviticus is merciful love towards your neighbors. It's the same kind of love that James is talking about here. And the royal law was also the basis of another parable of Jesus, something else that Jesus taught in the Good Samaritan. Where Jesus was told was telling this parable about a man beaten on the side of the road, left for dead. People came by, they looked over them. Another person came by, they looked over him. Another person came by and had compassion. And the person that had compassion was a Samaritan. A supposed enemy of the Jewish man who was on the side of the road. But kids and teens in the room. Do you remember what question from that man, so from the lawyer, the teacher of the law What question did he ask Jesus that prompted that parable to begin with? Does anybody remember? Simon? Who is my neighbor? So then Jesus tells the parable, and Jesus reverses the question. And he asks the man, who proved to be a neighbor? Do you remember the answer? What was the answer? Kids, teens, adults, you can play too. Who was the one that proved to be a neighbor? The one who showed mercy. Mercy. So Jesus Just like James is doing here, is linking love for your neighbor with showing mercy. That means the royal law The second commandment, love your neighbor as yourself, is not just meant to be amended, it's meant to be obeyed. So we are meant to show merciful love towards our neighbors. Tames says if you're doing that, you're doing well, but if not, you are a lawbreaker. And that's because The royal law comes from the royal lawgiver and the royal law keeper, which means that we cannot pick and choose God's law and say, I will do this but not do that. It also says, if we break any part of it, we've broken all of God's law. That means that we are all guilty of breaking God's law But remember, that is exactly why Jesus came. The lawkeeper came for the lawbreakers. To redeem us who were under the law. He came under the law and kept the entire law so that we could be sons and daughters of God, so that we could be free. From the bondage of sin, and free to love and obey Him by showing mercy to others. Because that's part of what he commands us to do So, Christian, how do you view your neighbors? Or, kind of like Jesus asked it, who will you prove to be a neighbor to? You need to grow in this area. Maybe you can start by trying to get to know your neighbors. Maybe even doing a demographic study. Like who are these people? Where are they from? What languages do they speak? If they're from a different country, what's going on in their home country? Or maybe you can drop off a note to them or bake something Maybe you can linger longer outside just hoping that maybe you'll see somebody. Or maybe you can show up at a yard sale, whether you need something or not You're just trying to mingle, you're just trying to get to know, you're just trying to hear stories, you're trying to have opportunities. Or maybe inviting someone over for a meal or for coffee. Or if you realize that there's a lot of different languages in your area, then maybe you need to download the Duolingo app. Pick up bits of another language. The better we know, the better we can show up and show mercy. But what about us as a church? Now, as a church, we are called to preach the gospel. And James has already said that the implanted word saves and it sanctifies. But the Lord has called us to preach the gospel here, where he's placed us. That's what we're called to do as a church And in fact, the mission statement of our church is that we exist to glorify God by being and making disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ. Making disciples, Matthew 28, involves sharing the gospel, helping others to grow in the faith, etc. Being disciples. That's loving God and loving your neighbor. That's how Jesus summarized it in Matthew chapter 22. And being disciples and making disciples are not in competition with each other. Because disciples live like disciples, which means that they are disciples, so they love like disciples should love, and they make disciples. And again, the Lord has placed us right now, whether we like it or not, in Bladensburg Elementary School In Bladensburg community-wise, which kind of leads into Chevrolet, which is right around the corner. Our church previously met at Spellman Elementary School, for example. Both schools, Bladensburg and Spelman Elementary School, 84% of their students are considered to be coming from low-income families. Now we didn't cause that. There's not going to be anything that we could do to change that. But the Lord called us to show mercy. So how can we show mercy? Maybe we can jump into some of the things we're trying to do this fall, like the back to school night at Spelman. Who can you meet? Who can you share the gospel with? What pamphlets can we pass out? Which we're going to pass out non-threatening pamphlets. So that people can read, hopefully, and be pricked, be convicted, be stirred about the faith, or help with food distribution that they started in October Get to meet people, rub shoulders, build relationships. Oh, you live there? Yeah, I I live down the road from you. Or helping with the school uniforms at Spelman, like many of you have, and thank you for doing that Or finding ways to serve the teacher and even this brand new principal at Blainesbury Elementary School. Now that, doing those good works, should not be confused with preaching the gospel. But doing those good works could possibly by the god by the Lord's grace provide opportunities to preach the gospel. And if nothing else, they give us an opportunity to show merciful love towards our neighbors. Which again is what we are commanded to do. The royal law. So showing partiality disobeys the Lord's law But showing mercy obeys the Lord's law. Let me go back to the school thing for a minute. These are just examples. These are not, thus says the Lord's. But as much as we long to have a church building, maybe while we're still here, the Lord can help us to grow in our love for this community that's right here. May he give us grace individually and as a church to obey the royal law And James finalizes and concludes this section with this summary statement starting in verse 12, which brings us to point number four. Showing partiality disregards the Lord's mercy and judgment. Showing partiality disregards the Lord's mercy and judgment. I'll read verses 12 and 13. What's the conclusion? So speak and so act as those who are going to be judged under the law of liberty. For judgment is without mercy to the one who has shown no mercy. And mercy triumphs over judgment. Again, this summarizes that section starting in James 1:19, but I think it could also very well summarize James' mission or ambition in sharing all of these truths throughout the entire letter. We are to speak and act as those who are going to be judged under the law of liberty. And what did Jesus say about that? About our speaking and about our acting In Matthew 12, 36, Jesus says that we will give an account for every careless word that we utter And James talks more about our words in James chapter 3. But Jesus also says in Matthew 16 that he will reward us according to our works. Now Christ, for those who are in Christ, has taken on our sin and put it away. He has given us his righteousness Christ was already judged so that we could receive his mercy. So in Christ, we don't need to fear condemnation. Amen. And we are still called to obey what the Lord commands us. The Lord says that unflinchingly. Jesus says in Luke 6, 46, why do you call me Lord and not do what I say? He doesn't move back from that. So our words and our actions are meant to reveal the faith that we have. Which will be unpacked by Jonathan Lehman next week, starting in verse 14 of chapter 2. You should read it this week So we demonstrate that we've received this mercy, not in order to receive it, but we demonstrate that we have received it by showing mercy. In this way, we are judged under the law of liberty. In other words, if partiality and the faith cannot be held together at the same time, like we already talked about, like they're pulling in opposite directions. Mercy and faith are going in the same direction. Mercy and faith are going in the same direction And again, these are not just James's ideas that he thought up. What did Jesus also say about showing mercy? Matthew 5:7: Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive Mercy. That's why showing partiality disregards the Lord's mercy and judgment. It says, mercy for me, I'll gladly take it Mercy for them, they don't deserve it. But we have not earned anything from the Lord apart from his judgment, apart from his condemnation That's why it says that mercy triumphs over judgment. In other words, mercy covers judgment Many years ago, I was home by myself, had a conversation on the phone with someone that I eventually married. I don't remember what we were talking about. Whatever we discussed, she was probably right about. That's how it usually works in our relationship. But I was upset during that conversation, hung up the phone, I stood next to a wall, it was next to a door actually I was just like, ugh. And I clenched my fists, slammed against the door. Kinda silly. Really dumb. What was even worse though is that this door was the inside of a laundry room door, so it was kind of hollow, hollow. Which means that it wasn't that strong. So when my fist hit the door, there was a hole in the door. And then I wasn't mad anymore I was like, I need to tell my dad. I was distraught. I was worried. I was like, how am I going to explain this? So I called my dad and told him what happened. He told me I had to talk to my my mom and talk to my sisters, explain what happened. But then he did something I didn't expect. He found this bright Mime Heat sticker and covered the hole in the door That sticker is still there. And every time I see it, it's a reminder of God's mercy towards me Oh, he covers not just their sins, but even mine with his grace. I didn't deserve it. I deserve judgment for that. But it was covered. And that's a small picture of what the Lord has done for us, isn't it? He's covered the judgment that we've earned with his mercy. And he refreshes his mercy towards us as his people every morning. We've just sung that his mercy is more. That means we cannot outrun it if we belong to him. That's good news for us, but that should also be good news for our neighbors as we mercifully seek to love them. Showing partiality disregards the Lord's mercy and his judgment, while showing mercy rightly regards it In closing, a few points. If you're thinking, I get it. How can I do that? How can I grow in that? I don't have a strategy for you, but a few points that may help Start with prayer. So pray. If there's been partiality revealed in you, if you feel convicted even by this passage. Ask the Lord to forgive you. Ask for His mercy. Ask for His help. Ask if there's things that you need to do differently or things that you need to say differently. If there's been someone that you specifically offended. So pray. Secondly, it's about our posture. We are called to have a posture of mercy, not judgment. And that takes humility, especially when we're around people who want nothing to do with the Lord, who want nothing to do with his ways. That means we need to grow in our humility and in our love. We need to be quicker to listen, slower to anger. Maybe even among brothers and sisters in Christ, we need to do so. The Lord needs to change our posture. And thirdly, proximity. Prayer, our posture, and proximity. Meaning, we're going to do that. Maybe we need to work through our indifference. Not because anything that we do will save us. We are already saved. But because we've been shown mercy by the Lord. But the least we can do is be merciful to our neighbors. And maybe the Lord will use that, like He's done in so many different ways for the people sitting in this room to bring them to faith in Him. May the Lord give us grace. May the Lord give us love for our neighbors. May the Lord help us to show the mercy that we've received from Him. Let's pray. Oh God, we need your help. We need your grace. We need your mercy. We need your strength. We need your wisdom, we need your love, we need your compassion, we need your heart, and we're asking for all of that because we know that you are willing to give You give generously to all who ask. You call us to ask for even wisdom and faith and not doubting. So we're asking for you to make us more like your son Jesus Christ. Help us to see what we can do, maybe what we can stop doing, not to earn your favor, but because we've received your favor. And Lord, we pray in doing so that you would, through your spirit and through the clear preaching of your word, bring more and more people to faith. Show them mercy as you've shown us mercy, we pray. In Jesus' name, Amen