Morning, Church. Good to be with you. Good to open up God's word together. Please do uh open up in your Bibles to Luke chapter one. If you're going to use one of those Bibles provided for you in one of the seats around you, you'll find that reading on page 856. Merry Christmas. I forgot to say that when I got up there, sorry. On the first uh well, sorry, not the first. On Christmas Eve 1906. was the first time that there was a public radio broadcast, I'm told at least. And on that first radio broadcast Christmas Eve 1906, a Christmas hymn was played on the air. I wonder if any of you know which one it was Audience participation time? Anyone? Not silent night, actually. Good guess though. Not Joy of the World? Not the first Noel. Okay, well, I'm gonna Not Hark the Herald. It's a hymn I bet a lot of you know. It's called Not Rudolph. Anyone listening to the recording will know who it was who guessed that. It was Oh Holy Night. Anybody familiar with that song? Oh Holy Night? I I in my opinion, which is not worth a whole lot, I I think the first verse of O Holy Night is pound for pound as strong as any Christmas hymn that we have available to sing. I mean just wonderful language in I think especially verse one, the thrill of hope. What a wonderful phrase that is And I've been thinking about some words specifically this week from that hymn as I've been studying Luke chapter one. It's in that first verse. Long lay the world in sin and error pining till he appeared, and the soul felt its worth. That's very profound. The advent of our Lord Jesus, that's of course what the hymn is referring to when it speaks of he appearing. That's Christmas. The advent of the Lord Jesus frees the soul to grasp its true worth. I wonder as you've gathered here this morning, as you sit in that somewhat uncomfortable chair, I'm honored that you would sit there as long as you all do to listen uh to the man preaching each Sunday as you've gathered this morning as you've taped cables down to the ground here and set up trees and Sung some songs and prayed some prayers and listened to the Bible read. I wonder if you've had a sense this morning of the worth of your soul. Jesus himself taught us that it's of great, great value. Jesus taught his disciples, he said, what will it profit a man If he gains the whole world and forfeits his soul. That's how valuable the soul is. Better to lose everything in this world and to keep the soul. Every human soul from the the woman who I saw a few weeks ago As I was driving by Walmart up uh on Annapolis Road, who was laying there on the the there's the big Walmart sign there off of the Baltwash Parkway, and this woman was just curled up in blankets, laying there from her soul to the souls of the man and woman who currently reside in the White House Every human soul is of immeasurable worth and value Created with the potential for life and glory and immortality, according to Romans 2, 7. Feeling that, feeling the soul's worth is one of the most important things that can happen to your soul And that's a Christmas gift that Jesus came into the world to give to every man and woman and child who would receive it. Till he appeared and the soul felt its worth This Christmas reality is embodied in the life, in the soul of the human vessel by whom Jesus came into the world, the woman we know as and we've sung about. her we've not sung to her to be clear we've mentioned her name in song a number of times the Virgin Mary Because of the unbiblical elevation of Mary within the Roman Catholic Church, it is possible for us Protestants to perhaps fail to admire What a remarkable and godly exemplary young woman she was and is. And in her famous response to the Christmas announcement of the angel Gabriel. We see the human soul, I believe, in its fullest worth and dignity In these famous words that I'm about to read to you in a few minutes, that we know as maybe the magnificat, that's the Latin word for the first word of this uh song of praise, this poem, uh magnify In her praise to God, we see a little snapshot of what each one of us can feel. and experience because of the child that she bore. And when I say each one of us, I mean that. I mean each one of you here who are able to hear and understand what I'm saying. And I'm thinking specifically this morning of young people. Uh if you're here this morning, and I know who you are, because I was looking carefully at the member directory and I had your names on my scripture passage that I was looking at all week. So I know who you are and I know if you're gonna disobey me right now. If you're here Well, if you're a guest, I don't know, okay, but but uh I know the the children of the members of this church. If you're here and you're between the ages of 12 and 16 years old. Would you just do me a favor and stand up right now? Now that i uh as you're standing as the twelve to sixteen year olds are standing, that you okay I mean I wasn't thinking applause necessarily, but that's good praise the Lord That doesn't mean you 11-year-olds or you 17-year-olds, no, stay standing, stay standing for a little bit. Stay stand okay, yeah, stay standing. That doesn't mean that you don't need to listen, but I'm just I want to call special attention to the 12 to 16 year olds. Now if you're 12 to 16 years old And you're a young man, would you please sit down? That leaves the 12 to 16-year-old young ladies, thank you, young ladies, for standing and being so brave for so long. You can be seated I want you to see them because I have a special burden, not just for the young ladies, but for the young people. Because Mary, and I want you to know this before I even read the passage, Mary, when she spoke these words, she was around your age. At least that's what all of the commentaries, all the scholars, even ChatGPT told me. I'm just saying there was there's consensus that she was probably between. We're not told in the Bible. But she was probably between the ages of twelve and sixteen years old when she conceived supernaturally and when she Express these words that were about to ring. Mary, I want you to understand that. Mary's not just some Bible character that we read about. She was a young teenage girl, probably, in very unusual and scary circumstances. She's a pregnant girl without a husband in a culture that stones women who are pregnant and don't have husbands And yet we see in her praise to God the feeling, a grasp of the soul's true worth. So young people and older people you can experience this for yourself at Christmas. What what she your soul can be built up and thrilled by that which ignited Mary's soul. And that's how I've been praying for you this week. So let's read this passage, and then I'm going to pray that the Lord would do that in our midst. Luke chapter 1, beginning in verse 46. And Mary said, My soul magnifies the Lord, and my spirit rejoices in God, my Savior, for he has looked on the humble estate of his servant For behold, from now on all generations will call me blessed. For he who is mighty has done great things for me, and holy is his name And his mercy is for those who fear him from generation to generation. He has shown strength with his arm. He has scattered the proud in the thoughts of their hearts. He has brought down the mighty from their thrones and exalted those of humble estate. He has filled the hungry with good things and the rich he has sent away empty. He has helped his servant Israel in remembrance of his mercy as he spoke to our fathers, to Abraham, and to his offspring forever. And Mary remained with her about three months and returned to her home. This is God's word. Let's pray Heavenly Father, we pray that in this time together as we look into this passage, we pray that each of us here No matter how young or how old, that each would have a grasp, would have a feeling of the soul's worth as you see that soul, as you see us. Through the lens of your saving love in Christ. I pray that you would open hearts among us that have been cold and lifeless and indifferent to these truths, and that you would warm them and give Either affection for the first time, or perhaps renewed affection for the glory of what you have brought us into Through the grace and kindness of your Son Jesus. It's in His name that we pray. Amen. So, what is the soul's true worth? What are we talking about? Feeling. What does it mean to feel the soul's worth? How would we experience that? I think this text gives us three answers. First, the worth of the soul is felt When it gives praise, when you give joyful praise to God. That's the first answer. When you, when your soul gives joyful praise to God. That's what's happening here in Mary's soul in response to this angelic message that she has received and the confirming word that Elizabeth has spoken, her her relative Elizabeth, and she's now responding joyfully to what the Lord has done. She's praising God. I know that's basic and obvious, but we cannot overlook the basic, obvious things in the Bible. Verse 46, and Mary said. My soul magnifies the Lord, and my spirit rejoices in God, my Savior. This idea of magnifying the Lord has to do with praising him Exalting him, extolling him, declaring, and making him great in our hearts and our lives and with our lips. So King David in the Psalms, he used this word as well in Psalm 34 when he said he called on all of Israel, Oh, magnify the Lord with me. And let us exalt his name together. And this is just one of the ways that the ministry of John Piper has impacted me. I can't really think of the word magnifying in the context of the Lord. Without thinking of the illustration that John Piper, I think it's John Piper, at least I've heard it from him. I don't know where he got it from, has highlighted with reference to this idea of magnifying the Lord. That there's two ways that you can magnify something. Have you heard this before I trust a lot of you have. You can magnify something with a microscope or you can magrify magnify something with a telescope. Microscopes Obviously, they take things that are very small, right, and they magnify it so that we can see it for bigger than what it really is. The telescope does something different. It takes something that's really, really big, but is so far away that it seems small to us and it helps us to grasp that really big thing that is small to us and make it look like what it really is. At least a little bit more like what it really is. Now kids, let me just make sure if you're see if you're tracking with me right now. We're called to magnify the Lord. Do you think we would magnify him like a microscope or a telescope? Say it loud, kids. Telescope. Yeah, we we're not trying the Lord is not small. It's not like we're trying to take someone who's really small and try to make him look bigger than he is. God forbid we would think that way about the Lord. Now King King David said, Great is the Lord, and greatly to be praised, and his greatness is anyone fill that blank for me? Unsearchable. His greatness is unsearchable. So when Mary says, My soul magnifies the Lord, what she's saying is, I'm desirous with my life, with my words. to make this unimaginably big and great God look as big and great and awesome as he really is. And that's the worth. At least that's a taste, an experience of the worth and the value and the dignity of every human soul. as those who are made in the image of God, to make God's greatness, to make God begin to look great like he really is. To live in such a way, to speak in such a way, that the God who can make a promise some 4,000 years earlier To Eve and Adam after the first sin, and they sin in the garden, and immediately God has a word of promise for them. There's going to be offspring that comes from Eve. and he's going to crush the head of this serpent who has deceived you into rebelling against me. He can take a promise 4,000 years old and then after 4,000 years put a baby in a virgin's womb and fulfill that promise And we're called to live in a way that calls attention to how great he is. Young people And you older people know that when I'm speaking to the young people, I'm not not speaking to you older people. Young people, you exist to magnify the greatness of God. The greatness of a God who can put a baby in a virgin's womb. The main character in the story of your life is not you. But it's God. And it's wonderful that it's that way. The worth of your soul, young people. And the the the the culture, the society that you're living and growing up in is teaching you just the opposite They're tragically and wickedly telling you that the way you're going to find the best worth of your soul is to find your best you, to express yourself, and to live for yourself. And this and the world you're living in is dead wrong about that. Your soul is given to you for the purpose of joyfully. Do you see she says my soul magnifies the Lord and my spirit rejoices in God, my Savior. You have a soul so that you can joyfully call attention to the praiseworthiness of God Our souls were made to find joy not in making much of ourselves. Young people, are you listening to me Your soul was not given to you so that you would find joy in making much of yourself. I bet you're old enough to know that living to make much of yourself Sometimes it makes you feel a little bit happy, but most of the time it just feels like this exhausting treadmill that you're running on that you can never do enough or be enough or say enough or have enough or look good enough To feel what you think you want to feel. And it's because you're not meant to find your greatest joy in making much of yourself, but in making much of God. And at 12 or 13 or 14 or 15 or at 8 years old, you're not too young to get that. And to live for that. Mary's living for that. She's living for giving glory to God, even in the midst of difficult and distressing circumstances. She said my soul magnifies the Lord. If you go back in verse 38, when you see when when the angel tells her what's gonna happen, remember her response there is like How can this be? And she's like, okay, I'm I'm I'm we'll get to this. I'm the servant of the Lord. I I don't understand it all. I I don't know how this is going to go, but I'm I'm submitted to you. She's in difficult circumstances, but she's committed. She's going to magnify the Lord. Now how is that possible? How do you even how do you do that? How do you get to a place in your life where you can be in those kind of adverse difficult circumstances? And be resolved. I'm going to joyfully praise God, even in hard times. Well, Mary tells us, we don't have to guess, there's reasons for Mary's joyful praise. She's not just trying to manufacture, she's not just like, you know, if you if you watch a football game on TV and you see the big huddle of the guy the team before the game starts and they're all hyping each other up. They're just yeah, they're just like yelling and just like trying to fire themselves up with nonsense words. That's not Mary. There are reasons for her resolve to magnify the Lord. And this brings us to a second way, a second way that we experience the worth of the soul. First way is we we commit ourselves to magnifying the Lord. We recognize we don't exist to magnify ourselves, we exist to magnify the Lord. Second thing that we learn about Mary here, about the worth of the soul and feeling the soul's worth, is that Mary knows. Who she is. So her attention is focused on God. Her desire is to praise God. But she really knows well who she is. Listen again to what she says there. Look at verse 46. My soul magnifies the Lord, and my spirit rejoices in God my Savior, for That's a reason. For he has looked on the humble estate of his servant For behold, from now on all generations will call me blessed, for he who is mighty has done great things for me, and holy is his name Now have I mentioned yet that at this point Mary is almost certainly a teenager? Have I told you that? Okay. My sense, and this is my you know take this for what it's worth, also kind of like my opinion of uh the first verse of Oh Holy Night, but my sense is that our societies uh attitude towards their expectation expectations of teenagers is miserably low. It seems to me that we live in a society where we just expect, and I think honestly, that this can creep into Christian families too. I'm not looking at anybody in particular. Just look down. I'm not I'm just saying I think this can happen. That we just expect, because they're teenagers, they will live selfishly. They will live stupidly. They will occupy themselves with triviality. And we can generally just expect immaturity of them and rebellion from them because you know they're teenagers. Teens will be teens, you know. And actually as I as I'm just reading Mary here, I'm just like, no, I'm not sure I do know. I'm not sure that makes sense to me. Mary's a teenager. Almost certainly she is a teenager. And she has a very uh she's got a remarkably mature healthy, biblically informed understanding of herself. And of her God, of course. That's not too much to expect of a teenager who has been born of the Holy Spirit That she would have, that he would have a mature, healthy, biblically under informed understanding of him or herself Who is Mary? According to Mary. Well, she understands herself to be a sinner, right? Because she's acknowledging God as her savior So she's understanding herself to be in need of a rescuer. She understands herself to be of low estate. Did you see that? Of humble estate. She understands herself essentially to be a nobody. She's a poor young teenager from a village so obscure that it would not have appeared on a good map. Do you remember what Nathaniel said when he heard that you're telling me the Messiah is from Nazareth? What did he say? Can anything good come from Nazareth? That's where Mary's from. She's of low estate, and she acknowledges it as such. She's not strutting around after this angelic visitation as if she's somebody great in and of herself. As if she's entitled to certain things or owed certain things She understands that everything good is happening to her. It's God's gracious gift. He was mighty, has done great things for me. She doesn't walk around saying like I'm her. Do people say that? Because I hear I'm him. He's him She was not her. She was a nobody. She confessed herself to be a nobody. She understands herself to be the Lord's servant. I mentioned this earlier. She says he's looked upon the humble estate of his servant. This is a word that means a female slave. She understands her life isn't her own. She doesn't exist for herself, what she wants, what she needs, what makes much of her She said, Lord, I'm yours. Whatever you would have for me, I bow in lowly, humble submission. And so you just see in her, and especially in those verses there, 48 and 49 to 50, there's just this astonished, awestruck wonder: like, how could God do this to me? Young people. Did you ever have you ever had that thought? Like, why is God doing this to me? Why is this happening to me? Young souls that have a healthy understanding of themselves say, why me? Why is this happening to me when good things happen? We almost always, young people and old people, we tend to say, Why is this happening to me? What is God doing? Why is this happening when bad things happen? Mary is having amazing things happen to them. I can't believe this is happening to me. She's amazed at the condescending favor and blessing of God upon her. It's all the good that she's experiencing. It's all of God. The mighty one, the holy one. who has lavishly blessed such a lowly and undeserving one like Mary was And in this way, Mary's self-understanding, her acknowledgement of herself as a lowly, undeserving nobody who had been lavishly favored and blessed She's giving us a little picture here of a couple of Christmas wonders that we sometimes sing about here at Chevrolet Baptist Church. Not a Christmas song, but sometimes we sing these words, two wonders here that I confess. My worth and my unworthiness. Now, if you're if you're new to thinking about Christianity, if you're here as a guest with us today, this is especially a helpful part of you of this message for you to listen in on. This is this I'm gonna get right now to the whole point of like why we're even here today. Two wonders here that I confess, my worth and my unworthiness. Now that that clarifies something about those wonderful lyrics I've been referring to again and again this morning of feeling the soul's worth. It helps us to understand that when when we talk about feeling the soul's worth, this is not a matter of us grasping our own innate inborn awesomeness. As if to think, like, you know, I'm such a diamond. Why why wouldn't God bless me? I mean, he I'm I could see why he'd want me on his team. It's not that. This feeling of worth, even in the hymn, O Holy Night, that feeling of the soul's worth, comes in the context of long lay the world in sin and error pining. That's not a word we use all the time either, pining. It means to languish or to wither or to wallow Jesus came into the world. Christmas is a thing because Jesus came to be the savior of men and women and children, pining, wallowing in the squalor. To just quote some more. I'm going to start quoting a lot of hymn lyrics to you. Just fair warning He came for wet men and women and children pining in the squalor of sin. Kids, do you know what the word squalor means? It means filth or dirt That perverse and distorted inclination that we have to delight in magnifying ourselves instead of the Lord, that's the squalor that the Lord Jesus came and sought us out from. See the the the when you look at this would be something to do with in the next week as if you're ha if you watch television or however you interact with the outside world, maybe on a football game today, and you just see the way Christmas is depicted. In the in the advertisements, let's say. It's all it's all warm and fuzzy, you know? It's chestnuts roasting on an open fire. But Jesus' condescension into the womb of a poor teenage nobody, his birth in a filthy stable, his first nap in a manger reminds us of the excrement that Jesus found us in. And that that sounds, oh, you just gave me some wealth. That was actually the church father Jerome who who gave who tipped me off to that. He said Jesus was born in a dung heap because that's where he knew he'd find us. But here's the amazing thing. He wanted to find us. He actually came and sought us out in that squalor In that filth, in that dung heap, that's what gives life and joyful praise to so many of the Christmas songs that we sing Leaving riches. We sang this last Saturday at the Christmas service. It moved me even when we were singing it that evening. Leaving riches without number, born within a cattle stall. Thou who was rich beyond all splendor, all for love's sake, became as poor. Thrones for a manger Thou didst surrender sapphire-paved courts for stable floor That baby gestating in Mary's womb as she burst out in praise is the one who left the splendor of heaven for the squalor of a manger. Emptying himself by taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men. And being found in human form, Jesus became obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. He could have chosen immortal glory, but instead he chose a cross. Instead, he chose to be nailed to a piece of wood by beings whom he had created and was even at the moment of their crucifying, he was upholding them by the word of his. Power. He left his father's side to endure the full fury of his father's wrath, not for any sin that he himself had committed, but for our own perverse preference to magnify ourselves, then him. He came and he suffered the wrath of God, the righteous judgment of God for our sins, so that we would not need to endure that judgment ourselves. And one of the things that gets implanted in every soul that believes that. And I would say if you're here investigating, if you're thinking about the Christian faith, that's our message to you. You are a sinner. You love yourself more than God and you deserve to be punished forever because of that. We're not just saying that about you. We're acknowledging that's been the truth about all of us who are here. But we have seen the kindness and the mercy of God. You see how Mary points that out twice. Mercy, mercy in our miserable, filthy condition, God loved us and sent Jesus to die for our sins so that we could be saved, so that we could be forgiven, not have his eternal wrath hanging on us. But But be reconciled to him, be adopted into his family, have the hope of eternal life. And anyone who believes that message Whether you're eight years old, or whether you're 18 year old, or whether you're 58 years old, when when when that happens, when you see what he's done for you, it fills the heart, it fills the soul with praise. with astonished wonder at the mercy of God and how he could look upon us in such a lowly state as we were in because of our sin. And we're getting a little taste of that. Just at the beginning of Luke's gospel, before the baby's even been born In this awestruck wonder at what God is doing in her life. She's in a humble estate. She's in a lowly humble estate, but she's been given an immeasurable honor. And it's making her soul to sing. If you're hitting, if you're if you've just been listening to me for the last 30 minutes, You're not too young to experience this thrill, this wonder, this joy To start to realize I I don't deserve anything from God. I've loved me more than God. And I deserve to be punished for that. But God's a loving God. And He came to rescue. And if there's anything good in my life, It's obviously because of God and His mercy, not because of me and my greatness. And if I see that and I believe that, then oh, the best thing in the world would be to live for Him and not myself. You don't have to be a certain age to believe that and start living in light of that It's this kind of maturity, this kind of self-understanding, is not just for people who grow out of the teenage years I hate to tell you, I know a whole lot of people who are much older than teenagers, and they live self-absorbed lives of triviality living for themselves. But please stop excusing the immaturity. Stop excusing the self-centeredness and the pride and the entitlement. As if it's just because you're well, I'm just a teenager. No, having a healthy understanding of yourself and understanding you're you're you're lowly, but you're deeply loved, and that means living for the Lord and not yourself. That's not an age thing. That's not a a a certain thing that you reach at a certain age. That's just a gospel thing If you're lacking that kind of maturity, if you're lacking that kind of self-understanding, the answer is not just to grow up and get older, the answer is to stare more and more at the gospel. Look at who God is. Look at how you've lived your life before God Look at what you deserve from God. Look at what God has given you instead of what you deserve, how He has given you what you don't deserve in Jesus. Look at him. And that will give the soul a healthy understanding of itself when the Holy Spirit of God works and moves, which is what we're all praying for. So Mary's got a heart that she's got a soul that is committed to praising the Lord, magnifying the Lord. She's got a very healthy and biblical understanding of herself. And then the third answer we get from this text is that as part of Mary grasping and helping us to see what it means to feel the soul's worth, Mary understands that she's a part of something that is much bigger than herself. She is rejoicing in what the Lord has done for her. We've just been talking about that. He who is mighty has done great things for me. But if you notice this this this I keep saying song we don't know that it was a song it just says that she said it but it's kind of set up in a poetic thing. It it might have been a song, it's been made a song many times, but whatever this is. In the first part of this, I'll just keep saying song. It's it's heavily about me and my. He's done great things for me, my savior, my lowly estate. But then what you notice that actually the bulk of the the song is that those first person pronouns me, my, they drop out entirely And she's she's she's rejoicing then and praising, not just in what God has done for her, but in the wider implications of what the arrival of this child means for God's whole plan for history. You see that there at the end of the passage, look at verse 54. He has helped his servant Israel in remembrance of his mercy, as he spoke to our fathers, to Abraham, and to his offspring forever. Mary is a part of a story that is much bigger than her own life. And when I say story, don't hear fiction, don't hear fairy tale This is a true story. It's God's story. It's the story of history. And she's overjoyed at what the Lord's doing in her life. But she locates. the way God is working in her life within this larger story, within this larger plan of what God has been working throughout history over the past several thousand years. And what he's gonna continue doing for thousands more years. She recognizes that her life's not mainly about her. Even the blessing that she's been favored for is not primarily about her, but it's about what God's doing. through her to show his faithfulness to the nation of Israel, to the promises that he made even to Abraham and to his offspring. And that takes us back to the very beginning of the whole Bible. To Adam and Eve in that garden, in paradise, created to serve God, worship God, image God forth, and yet their sin against him in the garden. And the subjection of the whole world to a curse because of their sin, and yet God's promise that He would call a man, and through that man's offspring, that all the nations of the earth would be blessed. That's a promise that God made to Abraham. We can read about it. You can open your Bible later today and read it in Genesis chapter 12. This promise to Abraham, you're going to have offspring, and all the nations of the earth are going to be blessed through your offspring. And as we keep reading in Genesis, we see God raising up through Abraham, Isaac, and then Jacob, and then twelve sons of Jacobs who became the nation of Israel. And then we see them in slavery in Egypt, but he delivered them with a strong arm. Did you see that in verse 51? That the strength of his arm, Mary says, probably an allusion to the Exodus. With that strong arm, he delivered his people from Egypt and brought them into the promised land, but they consistently disobeyed him and they worshipped idols and they were exiled from the land that God promised But God is faithful to his promises. And so he kept promising even a wayward, sinful people. He said, I'm going to bring one from you. He's going to be a son of King David. He's going to be a son of Abraham. He's going to inaugurate a new covenant. He's going to gather in not just the people of Israel, but people from all nations, as we heard in our scriptural call to worship. It's too light of a thing. Just for him to be the Redeemer of Israel, he's going to gather in all the nations. And he's going to judge the world in righteousness. And he's going to heal the world of all its corruption so that the lion would lie down with the lamb and The mountains would drip sweet wine, and even the trees of the forest would sing for joy. And Mary has got a grasp of all this She's like a Bible savant. That means genius. She's like a walking concordance If you read the commentators, they can't even they they are commentators are arguing with each other about which scripture she might be referencing because she's so scripture saturated She's pulling so many truths about God is so many allusions, probably three dozen or so allusions to the scriptures in this song. Most prominently, and the one that nobody disputes, is that song that we heard read earlier that Becky read to us, Hannah's song. And isn't that something that Mary, told that she's about to have a miraculous baby, can pull with her scripture memory, she can pull, oh, I know a story in the Word of God where a woman needed a miracle to give birth, and then God did the miracle? And then she gave praise to God. And you can see Mary's, uh, you can see Hannah's song all through the rest of this hymn. He's setting the whole world right. He's scattered the proud, she says. He's exalted the humble and he's brought down the proud. He's filled the hungry with good things. He sent the rich away empty. She's seeing, she's seeing a whole cosmic revolution happening. A great reversal where those who fear God, those who who recognize their need for Him, and the Who Where those who fear God are exalted, but those who look to and take pride in other things for their security and their well-being are laid low. And Mary's moved because she is grasping that her womb is ground zero of this cosmic revolution It's happened. She says it has happened. You have done this. You have done this. But the baby's still the baby hasn't even born yet. But it's as though This promises they're so certain in the coming of this baby, they're so certain she could speak of these future promises as being already fulfilled because the baby is here And it's just it's just blowing her mind. Because she's a part of something bigger than herself. Verse 50, she says that his mercy is for those who fear him from generation to generation. She's not just thinking about herself. She's not just thinking about her own family. She's thinking about generations after generations. Maybe she's even got an idea about a gathering like this in Chevrolet, Maryland 2,000 years later. Generation after generation, there's going to be praise to God because He's fulfilling all of His promises And her son is the one who by his life and death and resurrection ushers in this great reversal. He's been given the name because he went low, because he laid aside his glory and took the form of a servant, being found in the likeness of man He humbled himself and God exalted him and gave him the name that is above every name, so that in the name of Jesus every knee should bow. And every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. And you, trusting in Jesus, you're among those poor, needy, hungry. Anyone here hungry? I mean I don't I know some of that amen was maybe because it was getting to be lunchtime and y'all are looking for me to wrap up. I mean hungry for justice. Hungry for freedom, hungry for peace, hungry for contentment. He's gonna fill all who are hungry and thirsty. The promises are all happening. They're all being fulfilled in this baby. He's going to make all things new Some of you are going to be excited this coming week. A new device. A new mobile device. A new game. A new outfit. A new something. Just recognize when you open those new things and you're excited about new things, that's just the little faintest whisper of all things being made new. All things being made new. Christians, you who fear the Lord, you're gonna reign with Christ. And all things one day will be put in subjection under your feet. Everlasting joy will be upon your heads, and all sorrow and all sighing shall flee away. Maybe you'll be over two cities or five or ten. Maybe you'll found a new colony on Mars Maybe some galaxy yet undiscovered. But God will be your God. He will walk with you, his friend, his child. You'll sit with big brother Jesus on his throne. And every tear will be wiped from your eyes Isn't it amazing? He's going to come and he's going to make all things new. He's going to heal the world of all evil and you're going to be by his side when it happens instead of under his feet. Where you ought to be and I ought to be. And Mary, she's got a taste of this. This is what she's singing about. Young people. You can be gripped with things. As a young person, you can be gripped with things that are eternally important things You can be gripped with things, not just for me now, but for what God is doing in the world and what God is doing throughout history, what he's been doing and what he will do. You can have your mind so steeped in the Word of God that when trials come, whether that when there's pleasures coming or whether there's adversity coming. You're seeing it all in the lens of the grand plan of what God is doing in the world. And you can store up, you can have a mind when your brain is is sticky and when it absorbs so much. You can have a brain to put God's word into you now. I you know what we go down, we our family goes to Hilton Head every year and we spent a couple weeks there and and I think I've mentioned this before they have this 80s 90s music station that plays at the clubhouse of this song and I'm telling you when we go there they'll get a test to this. We're in the pool we'll we're playing pool in the in the uh rec room And they'll put on, and I know all the songs. I can sing the words of all the songs. Steve Winwood, Bring Me a Higher Love, I can sing that. John Cougar, Mellon Camp, I can sing it. Cindy Lopper, Girls Just Want to Have Fun. I can sing it And you know, my kids when they hear me doing that, they think my dad is so cool. He is so relevant. He's so up on things. No, that's actually not what they say. And listen, teams, the stuff you're excited, all the TikTok videos and all the cool songs and all the cool celebrities that you're excited about right now, your kids are going to think they're lame. Take the time when you're young and your brain can absorb to absorb God's Word, to absorb His promises to know what he's done in the past, to know what he's doing now, to know what he's doing in the future. Get to know that. Get absorbed with that because you're going to need it. Because there's going to be adversities. Because you're living in a world where there's going to be suffering and pain. And it's going to be, you're going to be tempted to think that what you can see around you is all that there really is No one's going to fall down before you at the grocery store this afternoon or next week. Oh my goodness, it's a co-heir of the universe! Not gonna happen at the grocery store, but it's true and you need to know that. There's groaning and there's weakness and there's pain now But those weaknesses and pains are serving to remind us that life's meaning is not found in the little brief interval between birth and the grave. Your life's meaning is not found in a happy marriage or a satisfying job or the kind of success that your relatives would recognize at the Christmas dinner this week. But we are a people embedded in an epic story. We are a people longing for the arrival of the kingdom that has been bubbling up around us for 2,000 years. invisible as yeast, people yearning for that moment when as heirs to the throne of the cosmos we join with our sister Mary and our resurrected and reigning king to sing out, let us eat and drink and be merry, for yesterday we were dead. That's the truth that made Mary sing. That's what made her soul feel its worth. I pray for you old souls that you would know her joy and that you would delight in magnifying her son. The way she did. Heavenly Father, we pray that you would of us to grasp The weight of glory that you have prepared for those who love you, for those who trust you. We are lowly, we are weak, we are poor, we are needy. But you have lavishly loved us in Christ. And you have made promises to us that we can scarcely comprehend right now Would you help us to rejoice in hope and to be patient in tribulation, to be constant in prayer, and would you be pleased to save young souls? and old souls to help them feel the worth that we're made to know and experience in Christ. We ask for this in his name. Amen.