Would invite you to open up in your Bibles to the book of Ephesians, chapter 5. Jonathan alluded to that a couple of times. We're continuing this morning a study. Of Paul's letter to the Ephesians. If you are following along with one of uh in one of those Bibles provided on a seat around you, you'll find our reading on page 978. This will be the last sermon for a little while in Ephesians. We'll resume our study in the new year. I've just been amazed in this Letter. I have read the letter to the Ephesians so many times in the twenty-five years that I've been a Christian, but it's just it seems like each week the Lord is just Bringing forth fresh insight and encouragement to me as I'm studying the word. I hope it is doing the same for you Uh this week in my study was another one of those weeks where I'm like I've never I I felt like I've never seen some of these things before, or at least they're landing upon me with fresh significance and encouragement. It's my prayer that you'll find the same as we open up this particular paragraph of God's Word together this morning. Ephesians chapter 5. We're picking up where we left off last week. That's at verse 15 of Ephesians 5. And I'll read through verse 21 this morning. This is God's word. Look carefully then how you walk, not as unwise, but as wise, making the best use of the time because the days are evil. Therefore, do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is. And do not get drunk with wine, for that is debauchery, but be filled with the Spirit. Addressing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody to the Lord with your heart, giving thanks always and for everything to God the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ. Let's pray once more and ask for the Lord's help as we consider those verses Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for this opportunity to learn from you. We pray that your spirit would be working among us to give us life. The spirit is the one who gives life. The flesh is no help at all. The words that you have spoken to us, they are spirit and life. And so we pray that you would renew and revive and enliven our spirits today as we give heed to your word. We ask for this all in Jesus' name. Amen. A phrase that I have found myself saying a lot more over the past few months, I'd say, since we moved here. to Chevroly about a year ago is the phrase, I'll just say, be careful. Been saying it a lot more because we have a young lady in our house with a driver's license. And the drivers around here, no offense, are horrible. I like expressiveness, so let's we'll get started that way. Uh my daughter made a drive back up to New Jersey the day before Thanksgiving to visit some friends up there, so just this past week and and she hadn't made that drive in a few months, so I I just Stopped her early in the morning. It was six o'clock or six thirty in the morning. Uh not six or seven. No, it was six or six thirty. I heard that. It was six or six thirty in the morning and I just I just stopped her and I said listen I I said be careful there's a lot of and I used a word that is not a It's not a four-letter word, but it's not a word that I would recommend saying. So I'm not gonna there's a lot of I'll just say foolish drivers on the road. Be careful, because even just one of them can really make a mess of things for you, so be alert. I wasn't trying to scare her in saying that, but I was wanting her to be attentive. I was wanting her to be serious, even urgent about her trip. And that's what the Apostle Paul is doing for the Ephesians, what's he doing for us. In this portion of the scriptures that I just read to you, he's talking about our walk. He's not talking about our activity in a motor vehicle, but in the Christian life, we are moving somewhere. It is a walk. We're going somewhere. And Paul's been using this language of walking throughout the letter. So he says in chapter 2. when he describes our spiritual condition of deadness, that we were dead in the trespasses and sins in which we once walked. But now, having been made alive through faith in Jesus Christ, we've been created anew, Paul says in chapter 2, verse 10, to do good works that we should walk in those good works. At chapter 4, having laid out these wonderful riches of God's grace and his plan for the ages, he tells the disciples in Ephesus to uh walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which they've been called. To no longer walk as the Gentiles do. He tells them to walk in love in chapter 5, verse 2. In chapter 5, verse 8, he says to walk as children of light. You're not darkness anymore. you've been made light in the Lord, so walk as children of light. And now he wraps up all this walk talk. This is the last time in the letter he uses the phrase walk. He says, look carefully how you walk. There's lots of foolishness out there. So be careful. It's as though Paul knows that all of the doctrinal soaring that he has done in the first three chapters of this letter, expounding upon all the vast riches of spiritual blessing that are ours in Christ and all of the ethical exhorting he has done in chapters four through six. It's like he knows all of it will be no help at all If these brothers and sisters are careless, if they're lazy or inattentive, There'll be no walking worthily of the calling to which we've been called. There'll be no unity of the Spirit, no building each other. up to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. No putting off the old self and putting on the new self. No gracious speech, no kindness and tender-heartedness, no forgiveness. No walking in love, no exposing works of darkness, no shining the light of Christ into this dark and depraved world if they're not alert. And so he says, be careful, look carefully how you're walking. And that's God's word to us today, brothers and sisters. Be careful. Watch out. Watch your walk. That's what I want us to think about this morning. The main thing, the ri the really the main idea that I want to drive home in your heart is be careful how you're walking. So we want to think about that call together to be careful and then look from this passage at two ways that Paul tells us to exercise that care. How what does it look like? How are we careful in our walk? Well, we walk wisely and we walk spiritually. That's what we want to do in our time as we look at this passage this morning. Look carefully then how you walk. It is beginning to look a lot like Christmas around here. So let me use a an evil, malicious exercise of this care that's described in one of the famous Christmas accounts to help us think about what this means, this care. We're told in Matthew chapter 2, when the baby Jesus was born, it says in Matthew 2 that Herod summoned wise men and ascertained from them where the star had appeared, and he sent them to Bethlehem and he said, Go and search diligently. And that word diligently is this word carefully that we have in Ephesians 5. Go and search diligently for the child, and when they have found him, bring me word that I too may come and worship him. We know that Herod, of course, was lying in that, that he was desirous of killing the baby Jesus, but it tells us as diligently, as earnestly as Herod was seeking to destroy the baby Christ In that kind of way are we, as children of light, to diligently, attentively, watchfully Exercise care in how we're walking, in how we're living. I'm just wondering, Christian brother, Christian sister. Are you doing that? Are you taking great care in your walk with the Lord? Or are you are you just coasting along? Are you drifting? I was reminded of this quote, I think it was Don Carson who who said this, that people don't drift towards holiness. If we're to use the language of Ephesians, people don't drift towards a walk that is worthy of the calling to which they've been called. And so Paul is saying there is in the Christian's walk, there is this vigilant, engaged, diligent attentiveness. to walk in a manner that's worthy of him, to walk in a way that is pleasing to him, as we saw that language of being pleasing, discerning what's pleasing to the Lord in our passage last Sunday. This this attention to our walk is not how we're saved. We are saved by grace through faith. We've been chosen in Christ before the foundation of the world. There's no works, there's no amount of attentiveness that we bring. To get saved, praise God. We've been chosen in Christ. Paul says at the very beginning of this letter, we've been chosen in Christ before the foundation of the world. But Peter says, therefore Be all the more diligent to make your calling an election sure So don't be casual about this. Don't be flippant about it. It's war. We're engaged in warfare. That's how Paul's going to end this letter in chapter 6. Fight the good fight of faith. Pursue godliness. Strive to enter through the narrow door Train yourself for godliness. Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. Put to death what is earthly in you. Run in such a way as to win the prize. Those are not my words, those are God's words. So the Lord would not have us be ignorant. Of what we're signing up for when we decide to follow Jesus. When we come to Jesus, we are not given a hammock. To sort of lazily sleep through life. No, we're given armor. There is great joy in following Jesus And we know that Jesus does say that his yoke is easy and his burden is light. But that does not mean, brother and sister. That does not mean that following Jesus is always a stroll in the park. The gate is narrow And the way is hard that leads to life. And that's why we need to walk carefully. Do you have a plan? for exercising that kind of care, for paying attention to these kinds of active earnest verbs that mark the Christian's walk, pursue, be diligent, fight, strive, work out, put to death, train, run. Do you have a plan for how you're going to practice all of that? It'd be good to talk this afternoon or this week to a brother or sister and discuss that. How will you walk? How are you walking? How will you spend yourself to help other people be attentive to their walk? Because I can tell you this, nobody plans to shrink back and be destroyed. No one plans to be gripped by an evil heart of unbelief that causes them to fall away from the living God. But the scriptures warn us of such danger. Take care, brothers. Hebrews 3. 12. It's the same word translated, uh look, watch, be attentive. Take care lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief, leading you to fall away from the living God. We can see this danger even in the lives of the Ephesians. Just 20 or 30 years after this call to look carefully to their walk, did you know that that the Lord Jesus had another letter sent to the church in Ephesus? We find it in our Bibles. It's in Revelation chapter 2 of our Bibles. And just 20 or 30 years after this exhortation, look carefully how you walk, the Lord Jesus need to needed to admonish This church in Ephesus, sharply he said, I have this against you, that you have abandoned the love that you had at first. Remember, therefore, he says, from where you've fallen, repent and do the works that you did at first. If not, I will come to you and remove your lampstand from its place unless you repent. So, beloved, we're not just called to make a good start with Jesus It is the one who endures to the end who will be saved. Again, not my words, that's Jesus talking. It does not really matter if your heart was soft to the gospel, if you were watching carefully how you walk and laying aside every weight and sin which cling so closely if you were doing that last year. If you were doing that last week What matters is are you giving heed to his word? Are you paying careful attention today? Every day, as long as it is called today Perhaps you're sitting here thinking, are you you seem to be indicating that maybe we're not eternally secure. Are you saying that we could fall away and lose our salvation? Well thank you for asking and l allowing me to clarify. I'm not saying that. By no means He who began a good work in you will bring it to completion unto the day of Christ Jesus. God has set his seal upon us. He's sealed us with his spirit for the day of redemption. And when God seals you with his spirit, that seal does not get removed. No, he will keep you to the end. But these wonderful promises of security are not given to us to make us lazy about our present walk in this world, but to make us soldier-like, to make us earnest in our resolve to wage war against every force of evil that would threaten to knock us down That would threaten to deviate us from that path of walking faithfully before Him. That is the reason why we're called to this attentiveness. It's because the days are evil. So we're moving now. I I I I hope you're getting this biblical burden, Paul's burden. It's a biblical burden. It's a Jesus burden. That you would walk carefully, that you would pay attention. Now, how do we do that? Well, we do it first, I said, by walking wisely. Look again at the motivation for this wise, careful walk. Verse 15, look carefully then how you walk. Not as unwise, but as wise, making the best use of the time because here's the reason why, because the days are evil. Therefore, do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is. The days are evil. So walk wisely, not foolishly But as those who understand the will of the Lord. The days, Paul says, are evil Now that doesn't mean you understand this right, that doesn't mean like watch out for Tuesdays. Tuesdays are trouble. Be careful He means, and you understand this, but let me just state the obvious. He means you're living this life, you've got to be careful walking this walk. Because evil and folly are still everywhere. The days are evil. We've been made new, we've been made alive in Christ, but the course of this world, Ephesians chapter 2. the course of this world is still set against the knowledge of God and his purposes. And there still is the prince of the power of the error. The spirit at work among the sons of disobedience. And even inside of us, though we've been made new, there are still the corrupting desires of the old stealth that are luring us and and making it hard to walk in the way of the Spirit, which means we're walking around, we're walking this walk with fierce opposition. This world has an aggressive agenda to dull you, to distract you To pervert your good resolves, to carefully walk your walk, to watch your walk, and the days are evil. We live in a world where good is called evil and evil is called good And if you think that's a new thing, it's not a new thing. 2700 years ago the prophet Isaiah was saying, he was looking at his culture, he was saying, wow, this is a miserable day to be living. And that's my paraphrase. But he says this this world we're calling good evil and we're calling evil good. That's been happening for a long time. It's happening in new ways in our world. It's a reflection of the fact that we're living in evil days that people, even physicians, would say that if a six-year-old is having feelings that their uh gender is not equating with their biological sex that we should mutilate those children to make them feel better. These are evil days That make us feel, that make us think that in the name of reproductive health, we should kill innocent babies in the womb. Or that we should murmur and fret and complain against God, even though He showers us with life and blessing, breath, everything, every day. But we could just we should just complain. It's the fact that we're living in evil days that that sin is so often just look around. Turn the television on. Sin is normalized and glamorized and trivialized. And all the while the message that we're being told day after day after day in this world is just just just be yourself. Just do what comes naturally. You do you. And so Paul says Because we live in such evil days, he's saying, don't be foolish. Don't let these evil days entice you and lead you away from a pure and sincere devotion to Christ, but understand what the will of the Lord is. I wonder if when you hear that phrase, understand the will of the Lord, if you think about finding the will of God for your life. Maybe you're thinking about a sign or some sort of warm feeling of peace about should I marry her this one? Should I should I buy this house or that one? Should we move? Should I take this job? And we we're trying to understand the Lord's will. And again, it's a good thing to desire to know what God would have for you. I'm not saying you shouldn't seek the Lord in those kinds of decisions. But when Paul says here, I want you to not be foolish, I want you to understand the will of the Lord, he's not talking about something or mystical like that or some kind of a life decision. He's talking about that will of the Lord, which has been made known to God's people in all wisdom and insight. That will that the Apostle Paul has already spoken of back in chapter 1 of Ephesians If your Bible is still open, just turn back there in your Bibles to Ephesians chapter 1. Paul says that in Christ, verse 7, Ephesians 1, in him we have redemption through his blood. The forgiveness of our trespasses according to the riches of his grace, which he lavished upon us in all wisdom and insight, making known to us the mystery of his will. This is the will of the Lord that Paul wants you to understand. Making known to us the mystery of his will according to his purpose, which he set forth in Christ as a plan for the fullness of time to unite all things in him, things in heaven and things on earth. When Paul says, don't be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is, he is talking about the Lord's will to save a people, a people who were dead in their sins. Who were children of wrath, alienated from God, darkened in their understanding, but to save them, to recreate them anew in Christ, and to show them off as a signpost. throughout the whole world of that coming day when all things would be made known, when all things, things in heaven and things on earth would be united under one head, even the Lord Jesus. It's an in-Christ will, an in-christ plan. What evil days our Lord Jesus Himself endured. In the path of walking wisely and making the best use of his time. Jesus came to the end of his life. We read about this in Matthew 26. And when he knew it was all it was time. It was all set to go down. And his disciples said, hey, teacher, where do you want us to prepare the Passover? And he said, go, he told them to go into a certain place and he said, tell, tell them, the teacher says, my time is at hand. Jesus lived his whole life with a sense of the times, making the best use of the time. And for the Lord Jesus, that meant. The time when his closest disciple would betray him, when all the disciples would abandon him, when one would deny even knowing him. When guards would soon seize him and arrest him, when the religious leaders would falsely accuse him, when the crowds would would ask for a guilty criminal to be released rather than him. Just days after praising him, despite all the good that they had seen Jesus do, they would cry out, crucify him, crucify him! Knowing that they would be beating him and that they would divide his garments and strip him and mock him and spit on him, press on him a crown of thorns, and laugh him to derision. When they would stake his hands and his feet on that wooden cross as they pierced him, and even ha having pierced him. To jeer at him and taunt him and mock him. Come down, if you're the Christ, you have all this great power. Why don't you come down and show yourself to be the mighty powerful one? When even his His father, who eternally loved him, would turn his face away and forsake him on that cross. Jesus, at every point in the day of evil, Jesus stayed the course He just kept walking. He set his face to Jerusalem and he walked that walk so that we could be forgiven of our sins. So that we could be brought into his family, so that we could be clothed with his very own spirit, that we would walk in a manner worthy of him. Even as all the forces of hell would rage against us in these evil days. If you're here this morning, And you've not put your own trust in Jesus Christ, I would urge you to do that today. Make today the day of salvation. That would be the best use of your time. Whether you're a child or a young man or a young woman or an old man or an old woman, if you've not made that commitment, I am a sinner. I don't want to be living in the foolishness of living for me anymore. I want to turn from that folly and receive Jesus and live for him. That's the best use of the time today Come to him and believe upon Christ today. And Christian brothers and sisters, blood-bought ones. You are in the will of God. Understand this. This is not about you trying to find out whether you should buy that house or this one. This is about you understanding. I'm in the will and plan of God. We are the first in this gym. With the basket hanging up here, I say this a lot, but this is just what has so hit me so powerfully studying the book of Ephesians. Tiny and insignificant as this looks, we are the first fruits of a new creation. We're a kind of movie trailer of what God is one day going to do in the whole universe. Marvel at that. Pay attention to this. There's this there's this genre of of movies and books and and called origin stories. You know, how did this person, how did that figure become what he or she is? So wicked. How did the wicked witch, how did she become the wicked witch? Was she actually wicked? I only know that because my uh that's my one moment of cultural relevance for like the next five years. And I probably didn't even get that right. When I actually was watching, it was the Anakin Sky. How did Darth Vader become Darth Vader? What's the origin story? Beloved, we have you have, if you are here this morning and you are a Christian, you have one amazing origin story. You were a slave of the devil, fast bound in sin and nature. You were a child of wrath, blind, foolish, disobedient, led astray, slaves to various passions and pleasures. But a a divine warrior, light shone. We heard about it in Isaiah 60 at the beginning of our service. Light shone. The divine warrior, the Son of God, came down. He shone light into our dead hearts. and he made us alive. He freed us from our guilt. He did that by dying on a cross. The Son of God, the maker of all things. Submitted himself to the agony and shame of death, and he did that that we might be redeemed, that we might be turned, transformed from orphans into adopted heirs, sons and daughters of Almighty God. Even when our righteous deeds were nothing but filthy rags, he cleansed us and enabled us to do things that please him. He created us for good works. including the good work of proclaiming the excellencies of him who called us out of darkness and into his marvelous light, and he's advancing That purpose in the world today through people like us bearing witness to him, gathering together like we are in the midst of evil days And we are a sneak preview of a coming day in which the whole world is filled with righteousness from shore to shore. Pay attention to this. This is the most important thing happening in the world today and every day. You look at your news feeds, you're not gonna be reminded of that. I turn I I put I just c opened up my web browser this morning just to see if there's anything big in the world going on that I need to be aware of as I get ready to gather and pray. And this was the feed. I mean this was just what came up. Four dead, ten wounded in shooting at in at a California banquet hall. Russia launches deadly strike on Kiev. Afghan national arrested over alleged bomb threat in Texas. Death toll climbs to 146 in Hong Kong fire. Mall shooting wounds too, prompts evacuation. Hundreds dead from floods, landslides in Indonesia. DC shooter to face murder charges. Shark attack in Australia leaves one dead. And one inch. That's the news. We just hear that's all that we get all the time. You turn on the news, you're just gonna get it's the world is it's going down, down, down, down, and you're a part of it. And that's real and that's hard. But we have a new world, we have a new story. The biggest news, the biggest thing happening in the world today is the king is gathering people to himself. And there are new languages where the word of God is being translated into those languages. The king is redeeming and ransoming, and he's making the nations prove the glories of his righteousness and the wonders of his love. Understand this. This is the will of the Lord. Don't be foolish, but pay attention. And as you understand that As you understand the will of the Lord and what he's doing with the times, that changes the way you think about your time. As those who are redeemed. We give ourselves to redeeming the time. That's the way that you could translate that phrase, making the best use of the time. We redeem the time Like like on uh Black Friday or Cyber Monday, you're going to I'm looking for some deals God's Paul is saying you act that way when it comes to time. Act that way when it comes. Snap up every opportunity that you have to bear witness to Jesus. To do what's pleasing to Jesus. We we learn the will of the Lord. We understand the will of the Lord. We understand there's a walk to walk. To magnify and exalt our great Redeemer in the world, to further his purposes. And if we think, okay There's a way that I can do that. There's a way that my life is involved in the fulfillment and the outworking of his eternal purposes. Okay, then I'm going to be very careful about how I walk. I'm gonna buy up all the time that I pa possibly can to do all the good that I can by all the means that I can in all the ways that I can in all the places that I can and all the times that I can for as long as I ever can Time is flying, we say, right? Oh, the days, where are they going? The kids are growing up so fast. I can't believe it's Christmas already. Well put that evaluation of the brevity of life and the shortness of the times. Put all that into considering your own breadth of a life in this world and be wise. Teach me, you pray, teach me, Lord, to number my days that I might gain a heart of wisdom. Don't coast But be active and aggressive in strategizing the good that you can do in Christ's name. Don't be weary. Don't grow weary in doing good, Paul says. Setup team, do not grow weary in this good work of setting up this gym Sunday after Sunday. Don't grow weary in that good work Eternally important matters are happening right now. One day there's gonna be a real pulpit and I'll be able to slap this thing more. Don't grow weary in doing good moms. Don't grow weary in doing good evangelists. Don't grow weary in doing good singles. For in due season we'll reap a harvest if we do not give up. So as we have opportunity, as we have time. Let us do good to everyone, and especially to those who are of the household of faith. I got a text message last night from my sister I have two sisters. And uh this is the first time in my life that I've been on a group text with my two sisters. It has never happened before And my one sister was she was sort of like lamenting but sort of joking about my dad's hearing. Since they're staying, you know, he was staying with with her for Thanksgiving and his hearing aids broke, I guess, and he couldn't hear hardly anything. She was like kind of freaking out, like, what are we gonna do? How are we gonna deal with this when we get old? And um again, it was like, but I was like, it was the first time we'd ever been on a group text. And I'm thinking like, and I've I've shared with my both of my sisters, they don't wanna hear it from me. Like that you've had relationships probably like that, like you've shared some truth and it's just like we don't want to hear that. And I'm I'm thinking about the time and redeeming the time and it's And I'm just and I'm praying, Lord, what can I what can I say that's not like scolding or preachy, but I just want to put something out there and the Lord I The Lord brought to mind this quote. Also Don Carson. He had a friend that was suffering from a long-term illness, and he was asked, How are you? And he said, I'm not suffering from anything a good resurrection can't And so I and I texted my sisters and I said, uh, it's nothing that like, what are we gonna do? What are we gonna do about our hearing? It seems like it's a genetic thing. Nothing that a good resurrection can't do. What they do with that is on them. But I'm trying to s I'm trying to snap up a deal. Ooh, I got an opportunity to do good. Beloved, our days are numbered. And so time is a precious gift. How are you doing seizing those days? Kids, you can start seizing those days right now. Sei the day. That sounds like a very, you know, like worldly. It is worldly if you only think about this life, but seize this day in light of that day. Kids, that's something you can do right now. You can spend time thinking. You can now is the time. Don't wait till you become a teenager, kids. Teenagers, don't wait till you're uh living out of the house or till you get married. Right now, you can start thinking seriously about what can I do? What will I do with my days to honor Jesus you're not if you're understanding the words coming out of my mouth you're not too young to be thinking about this Jesus loves you. He laid down his life for you and he died for all who would receive him so that we would no longer live for ourselves but live for him who died and for our sake was raised. And if you want to is there if there's one way one way to do that. Well, okay, what do I do? Well, this is a wonderful opportunity because it's the last day of the month which Which means tomorrow is the first day of the month, and it's a 31-day month, and there's 31 days in the book of Proverbs. If you want to grow in not being foolish, but understand the will of the Lord, give yourself to reading the book of Proverbs this month. Kids, teenagers, that'd be a great thing for you to do this month. Start tomorrow, December 1, Proverbs 1. December 2, Proverbs 2. I would love it. I don't I don't know how I I'm on some group chats. I just told you I'm excited to be on a group chat with my sisters. I would love it if you want to come to me after the service or if you want to send me a text message. I'm talking specifically to the teenagers now If you want to send me a text, I would be glad to start up a group chat later today or tomorrow morning and let's be talking to each other through the month about what God is teaching us about how to live wisely for him and make the best use of our time. I'm not gonna yell at you on the group text for the record. But let's let's do that. That'd be a good use of time. By his grace and for his glory, our faithful God is equipping his people with everything good that we might do his will. He's working in us that which is pleasing in his sight. And he's doing all this in his people's lives through his spirit. And you're probably wondering, are you serious you didn't even we haven't even gotten to point two yet? Look carefully how you're walking. What do I do? How do I do that? Walk wisely, not foolishly, but understanding the will of the Lord. And you know who the people are who are gonna do that? They're people who are filled with the Spirit. I will be brief on this point because I would direct you if you want more attention on verses 18 through 21. A wonderful sermon was preached in this church two and a half years ago by a an uh aspiring young preacher named Jonathan Stockland. And I would encourage you to check it out if you want more than I can give you on this passage. But this is number two, walk spiritually. Be filled with the Spirit. Who are the people who are going to walk wisely and make the best use of the time? They're spirit-filled people. Paul says, do not get drunk with wine, for that's debauchery. Intoxicating substance do not help us live alertly. Right? That's obvious. They don't help you be careful. People talk about getting wasted. This is a sign of the evil days and the depravity. People talk about getting wasted as if that's a cool fun thing. Paul says it's wasteful. That's what the word debauchery means. It's wasteful. Don't let anything dull your mind and to this attentiveness of living for him. Don't get drunk with wine. That's debauchery. But rather. Be filled with the Spirit. We have been sealed with the Spirit. I said that earlier. We all have the Holy Spirit. But we can live more or less under the control of the Holy Spirit. And so this is an exhortation that we would go on continually being filled with the Spirit. How do we fill ourselves? How do we obey this command to be filled with the Spirit? Well, I quote it all the time to you. I did it at the beginning of this sermon, John chapter 6, where Jesus said. It's the spirit who gives life. The flesh is no help at all. The words that I've spoken to you are spirit and life. We take in the word of God. The Spirit of God is this is this waterfall flowing through the Word, and we just open our mouths wide and we we drink in the words of God and we're filled with the Spirit. And when we are filled with the Spirit, Paul says some things are gonna happen. Jonathan mentioned the byproducts, the results, the fruits of what happened. When we are being filled with the Spirit, we address one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. singing and making melody to the Lord with your heart. This filling with the Spirit's not just a private thing. It's a corporate thing. We're addressing each other. That's that's why some of you I love some of you take care to turn those chairs a little bit when we get here. They're always just facing right up this way. Let's try to let's turn them a little bit so that we can address one another in our singing. I wonder if you thought about this this morning when you stood up to start singing at 10. 35 or whatever time it was, were you thinking, what effect am I aiming to have on those who are around me by the way that I'm singing? It's not just a you and the Lord thing. It is a you and the Lord thing. We're to make joy, we're to make melody in our hearts to the Lord, but we're addressing each other. This is a fruit of the Spirit's filling, singing, making melody, giving thanks always and for everything to God the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. His mercies are new every morning. They never come to an end. His faithfulness is great. Even the trials that we're living, we have promises. That even the trials that we're walking through are are being used, they are preparing for us an eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison And so we can legitimately give thanks for everything always knowing that everything, whatever my God ordains, is right. It's all coming down from a father whose care is around us there, from a loving Lord who laid down his life for you. And so we know even in the midst of trials, we can be a thankful people Submitting it all to one another out of reverence for Christ. It's kind of a transition into the next section of Ephesians where Paul gives specific instructions To different believers about their roles of submission to others. But we also experience this in the church together. We're submitting to one another in all of this, walking worthily of him stuff. If you see me in any way living in a way that is not worthy of him, it is your duty, brother and sister Christian, fellow church member, it is your duty to call me out on that. We have committed, those of us who are members of Chevly Baptist Church, we have committed with God's help. We will live carefully in the world We recited that together at the beginning of our members meeting last Sunday. We will live carefully in the world, denying ungodliness and worldly desires. We're making ourselves accountable to each other. We're submitting ourselves to one another for all of this worthy walk stuff. We walk as those who are filled with the Spirit Now there's so much more that I could say. And again, Jonathan preached a really good sermon. I listened to it this week. It was very encouraging. It was a very good sermon if you want to think more about these ways that the Spirit works in our lives. But for this morning, I just want to impress upon you that this spirit-filled life is a corporate life. We're it's a it's a way that we walk together. It's addressing each other. It's giving thanks with each other. It's submitting to one another. Your words, your singing, your accountability are the means by which we are walking wisely in evil days by making the most of our day. Great things are at stake today and this week as we seek to live as disciples of Jesus and make disciples of Jesus out of reverence for Christ. You see that at the end, out of reverence for Christ. If you got home from church that this morning and pick somebody I don't let's say you got home and Donald Trump was in your house cleaning up after you Cleaning up your stuff. Now maybe you would maybe maybe you should think of somebody other than Donald Trump. Okay. Put in a name that would be really Whoa! Beloved, Jesus Christ is at work in you. Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling, for God is at work in you. God is at work in you, cleaning you up, making you into his own image. He's doing that through you. He's doing it through us corporately. Revere. Tremble at this. That Jesus Christ is at work in us renewing us and one day he's going to glorify us together. One day in fact all things will be united. Things in heaven and things on earth. It will be united in him. There is a day coming. When we will have new bodies. No sin. New heavens. New earth. No no worship wars trying to debate which song should we sing and which song shouldn't we sing? No panels on racial reconciliation, no shootings of national guards, no national guards, no locks on our doors. No danger, no need to say, be careful. There's a lot of foolish people out there. No danger anywhere ever. That day is coming. Don't you long for the end of these evil days? Oh! Don't you want these evil days to be over? Your life, Christian. Your life. How you steward your days has a part to play in hastening that day that we all long for. Not my words. 2 Peter 3. 11. Since all these things are thus to be dissolved, all these evil days, all this corruption, all it's all gonna be dissolved. What sort of people ought you to be in lives of holiness and godliness, waiting for and hastening? The coming of the day of God. You wonder, what is my life doing? Am I accomplishing anything? Does it really matter? He says we're hastening the coming of the day of God, because of which the heavens will be set on fire and dissolved. And the heavenly bodies will melt as they burn. But according to his promise, we're waiting new heavens and a new earth in which righteousness dwells. And beloved, I just want you to know, I know I didn't cover everything in this passage, I just want you to know that this waiting is an active waiting. A careful, attentive, vigilant, watchful waiting, looking carefully how we walk. Not as unwise, but as wise, making the best use of the time because the days are evil. What an awesome thing it is to be a Christian. Every day I have on earth is given by the King. So I will give my life, my all my All to love and follow Him. O Lord, make it so. Make that so in our lives We pray that even since we last sung that song about fifty minutes ago. We have a greater longing to see our days stewarded in such a way that they'd be used to love and follow you. That we'd view them as a gift given from you, our King. Teach us, Father, to number our days, that we may gain a heart of wisdom. We ask for all this in Jesus' name Amen.