Good morning again. Uh go ahead and open in your Bibles to the Book of Ephesians, chapter four. Uh if you're using one of the Bibles that are around you, you'll find that reading on page 977. Uh as you're turning there, a couple of Sundays ago in the sermon I asked a question and I encourage you to think and talk about it. What what are some ways that you uh cultivate in your own heart and life a mind that is stayed upon Jesus? You remember if you were here a couple weeks ago I said that doesn't happen automatically, that our minds are just stayed on Jesus. What do you do to cultivate that? One of the tools that is of great help to me in getting my mind stayed upon Jesus is this little booklet called A Gospel Primer for Christians. And uh the author of this is a guy named Milton Vincent I decided to pick up 50 copies of this. I came with 50. I'm hoping I leave with none. They are over there on the table. Don't grab them all now. Kids do not grab more than one and kids only grab one if you actually are going to read it. But there's 50 of them over there Uh if that would be a help to you in getting your mind stayed upon Jesus as we seek to walk in a manner worthy of him, those are available. Ephesians chapter 4, we've been studying this letter together, we've been moving. A little bit slowly through this first paragraph in Ephesians 4 as we think about the life that God calls us to in response to his saving work for us in Christ. And I'm going to read verses 1 through 6 of Ephesians 4, though our focus this morning is going to be on verses 4, 5, and 6 Hear God's word this morning from Ephesians chapter 4. The Apostle Paul writes this: I therefore a prisoner for the Lord. Urge you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you have been called, with all humility and gentleness, with patience. Bearing with one another in love, eager to maintain the unity of the spirit in the bond of peace. There is one body and one spirit Just as you were called to the one hope that belongs to your call, one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all who is over all and through all and in all. This is God's word. Let's ask for his help as we think about those words for a few minutes together. Father, we thank you for this opportunity to hear your word. Pray that you would make us attentive to its instruction. We pray that you would use this word. We know and we trust by faith that it is sufficient to To teach us, to correct us, to rebuke us, to train us in righteousness, that as your people we might be equipped for every good work. We pray that you would be at work doing that among us today by your Spirit. The flesh is no help at all. Work by your spirit to make us more into the image of Jesus. We pray for all this in his name. Amen Jesus Christ, the Lord, the one foundation of the church, as we sang a few minutes ago, Jesus Christ prayed for us Now we're told in the Bible that Jesus actually prays for his people in an ongoing way. He always lives to make intercession for us. But what I'm referring to specifically is that on the eve Of his crucifixion, as Jesus prepared to endure the weighty agony of his father's righteous wrath against all the sins of all the people who would ever. Place their faith in him. We, Jesus' people, we were on his mind and heart. A staggering thought to think of. And it it it encourages us, I think, like to wonder what was on Jesus' heart as he would pray for us Well, we we don't have to guess because it's recorded for us in the Bible. In John chapter 17, the Apostle John records for us what We refer to as the high priestly prayer. And we we learn from that prayer that what was on Jesus' heart, On that day before he was crucified, knowing the death that was just around the corner for him, not just any death, but the awful and shameful death of the cross. Jesus said to his father, I do not ask for these only, meaning the disciples who were gathered there around him. And following him in that day, he said, I don't only ask for these, but also for those who will believe in me through their word. That they may all be one. Just as you, Father, are in me, and I in you, that they also may be in us. So that the world may believe that you have sent me. On the night that our Lord Jesus was betrayed, His dying prayer was that they all, we all, might be one As the shadow of the cross loomed before him, our unity was on his heart. And the unity that he prayed for was to be a visible unity. That the world, he says, that the world may believe that you have sent me. That means this unity would be visible to a watching world. Something glorious is at stake. If I had read the next verse of Jesus' prayer, he says, I'm praying that the glory that you've given to me may be in them. This unity is a glorious thing. Something glorious is at stake in our public visible unity as Christians and as churches. And that glory was on the Apostle Paul's mind as he penned this letter to the saints and faithful ones, as it says in the first verse of this letter, who were at Ephesus. Those saints in Ephesus were among the group that Jesus had prayed for. They had turned from sin and idolatry to receive Jesus. As their Savior and their Lord in faith. They were those who would believe in Christ through the words of the apostles that were proclaimed to them. It was their unity that was on Jesus' heart that day before his sacrifice for our sins But like those of us who were gathered here today believing in Jesus, the Ephesian Christians who received this letter in the first century had never seen Jesus physically with their eyes. But they had come to hope in him through the proclamation of the good news about Jesus from those who had been sent by Jesus. And so we're in a situation, though we're separated by nearly 2,000 years, we're in a very similar situation as these first recipients of this letter. The Apostle Paul, having learned from Jesus, being devoted to glorifying Jesus, he was burdened for the unity of Christ's people in Ephesus. And so as he expounded for them, as he moved from the first three chapters of Ephesians, where he celebrated what God had done for his people in Christ. And as he moved to this way of life that would be befitting of the great worth, the great glory of the salvation that God had given them in Christ, as he moved. To exhorting them about living worthily of what God had done for them, the first concern on Paul's heart was the unity of his people. That's what I read to you earlier from Ephesians 4, verses 1 through 6. Now we've been spending some time in this paragraph. This is our third week thinking about those words there in Ephesians 4. Last week we talked a little bit about the character of that unity, the virtues of humility and gentleness and patience and forbearance that are required to walk worthily. of the calling to which we've been called. This morning, we want to think about the core of it. What's at the center of it? Where does this Christian unity come from? And the main idea, if I was to just summarize those verses that I read, Particularly verses four, five, and six. Maybe we could loop verse three and two, where it talks about being eager to maintain this unity. The main idea that I would give to you this morning is that the core Of the church's pursuit of unity is God's provision of unity The core of the church's pursuit of unity is God's provision of unity. Or we could just change the metaphor from the core of something to a building and a foundation. We could say that the church's pursuit of unity Is built on God's provision of unity. Pick your own favorite main idea statement there. But either way, what we want to think about this morning is basically to sort of give you some hooks to grab onto as you hear me talking for the next little bit of time. That's an open-ended little bit of time. Would be pursuit and then provision. Except we're gonna flip the order. We're gonna first talk about the provision of unity, and then we'll think together about the pursuit of unity. Paul has exhorted the saints in Ephesus to pursue unity, to walk worthily of their calling. With all humility and gentleness and patience, bearing with each other in love and being eager or diligent Making every effort, doing your best to maintain the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. But clearly, even just in the way that those verses are worded, There's something upon which this pursuit is built. You can hear it in the word maintain Do you see that in your Bibles there? Maintain. Maybe it says in your translation of the Bible, keep or preserve. The point is, it does not say create unity or produce unity. It talks about maintaining or guarding or preserving unity. So this pursuit of unity is built on something. It has a foundation that's already there. And it's it's there because it's been provided. It's the unity we're told there of the Spirit Which I understand to mean that it's the Holy Spirit who is the source or the origin of that unity. So let's just talk about buildings and foundations for just a minute. I'm out of my realm here because I don't know much about architecture, nor can do I know it much about construction. But my understanding is that the world's tallest structure is. Anybody know what it is? If anybody knows how to pronounce it exactly, that would be helpful in this moment. The Burj Khalifa. In Dubai is what I'm told is the did I say it right? Someone's chuckling. Somebody said I said it right. Praise the Lord. The Burj Khalifa in Dubai. Which measures a little over 2,700 feet. So kids, if you've ever been, if you've ever seen the Washington Monument, the the Burj Khalifa is about five times higher. Than the Washington Monument. And you probably understand, though I'm not an architect and I'm not in construction, that the higher a building is going to be constructed, the deeper the foundation that needs to be laid in order to uphold that great big building that goes up so high I'm told that the foundation of the Birj Khalifa extends about 164 feet deep Consisting of 192 high-strength concrete piles that are embedded in the ground to support that massive structure Now, in the architecture of God's exhortations to his people, there might not be anything higher or taller Than Ephesians 4, verse 1. There may be some contenders, you might have just thought of one. What about Romans 12, 1, Larry? That's not a bad one, too. Or maybe in Matthew 16, where Jesus says, if anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. There may be some ones in equal stature. But I'm not sure that there's an exhortation that gets higher than walk worthily of the calling to which you've been called. In all the manifold expressions of self-denial and self-sacrificing love that such a call demands. So it would make sense that the foundation of this massive skyscraper of an exhortation would be extraordinarily deep and strong. And indeed, what we find in Ephesians 4 is it is. In the architecture of heaven Just seven high strength truth piles, not concrete piles, but truth piles Are sufficient to support this weighty call. And there's something really important here before I even read these verses again and we talk about these truths that are supporting the call. Something really important to note there is that it is biblical truth, it's truth about God that is what supports the pursuit of unity. It's not just general calls to tolerance or love or being affectionate to each other that is what grounds real unity. It's biblical truth. Biblical doctrine that upholds the church's pursuit of unity. And there are seven pillars, if we want to put it that way, of truth that Paul speaks of here. You can see it very clearly in the passage by the repetition seven times of the word one. Look again at your Bibles there. I urge you, he says, to walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you have been called. Being eager to maintain the unity of the spirit in the bond of peace, and then he goes into these seven pillars One body that that little phrase there it says there is that's actually just added by our English translators to smooth out the the uh original language and put it into a more digestible English translation, but it's not actually there. It's maintain the unity of the spirit in the bond of peace, one body and one spirit Just as you were called to the one hope that belongs to your call. One Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all. So this this unity that God's people are to pursue, right, make every effort, be eager, be diligent to maintain this unity. It's a unity that is given by, that's provided by God, the triune God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. We we see each member of the Trinity referred to. The unity of the Spirit is the formation of the one body, the church. That's one of Paul's favorite metaphors for the church: the church is the body of Christ, many members. All united together under one head, the Lord Jesus. So the other day I was in my office and I banged my toe. On on a chair, and it was remarkable how my whole body sprang in to work to support my one toe that had been injured. I my whole body went like oh you know was everything was like my vocal cords my face grimaced my hands moved towards this the all the members of body joining together because this one little part of my body was injured What a wonder it is that we are all individually members of the one body. There's one body, and that one body is formed, is united by the one spirit. And I think that Paul, when he writes this, one body and one spirit, I think he expects that his readers would have remembered What Paul had told them back in chapter 2 about that one body and how they came to be a body. Back in chapter 2. Around verse 13 or so, or verse 14, he spoke of how Jesus was their peace, and how, when they were strangers to the God's covenants and promises, how God brought them together in Christ. And Jesus' flesh, his own body was torn, and his blood was shed so that he might create in himself. Two new people. No, that's not what it says in the Bible, does it? One new man, one body, reconciled to God in one body through the cross. And that one new man, Jew and Gentile, not two different ways, not two different peoples But one new race, one new people brought together, and they now have access to the Father in one spirit. Paul made this same point in his first letter to the Corinthians. In one spirit, Paul said, we were all baptized into one body. Jews or Greeks, slaves are free. Not separated out by social class or by ethnicity. Jews and Greeks, slaves are free. One Spirit, all baptized into one body, and all were made to drink of the one spirit. 1 Corinthians 12, 13. There's not two bodies Nor are there two spirits, not a body for Jewish people and a body for Gentile people. The body is one And and we might wonder, uh even just as I'm saying that, I just thought I should include something here. Well, like, what does that mean exactly that there's one body? Because we prayed uh earlier, we prayed for the garden church And and I'm not sure that I even said the name right of the church in Lucknow. Sacha Vashun Church. In what way are we one body? You drove, I trust a number of you drove past churches. To come to this gathering, how are we one body? Well, I I think in Ephesians 4 here, this is a reference to the one heavenly body, what we proclaimed earlier when we spoke of the one universal church. But that one universal church shows up visibly, it shows up in space and time in the existence of local churches And that seems clear here that the one body was being used to remind these Christians that they were called to be eager in maintaining unity with a certain group of people. So there is one universal body, and that's one of the reasons why we do pray for other churches. And we root for the success and the flourishing of other gospel-preaching churches locally and all around the world. But I can't exactly put on humility and gentleness and bear with members of the Garden Church in Baltimore or of this church in Lucknow, India, in the way that we're called to bear with and endure each other. So we, as a local church, Chevrolet Baptist Church, are a visible expression of this one body, and we've been joined together because of the one spirit. Not only are we one body and one there's one spirit, but we also share in one hope. A hope that belongs to our call. Called out of death, called from spiritual deadness and alienation from God, without God, as he said back in chapter 2, and without hope in the world, but now called to one hope That belongs to our call. There's lots that might be different about us, but there's one hope, one longing that we have, and that is that cry. That even ends the Bible. Come, Lord Jesus. One hope that Jesus will come again, that the kingdoms of this world will become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ, and he will reign forever and ever. And that is our one hope to which we've been called. What a blessed day that will be, free from all divisions. And all backbiting and all doctrinal disputes, free from all slander and gossip and impatience, no cooling of relationships. No sad or untimely departures to lament, but perfectly loving and enjoying what we see of God in one another. with a full and deepest kind of joy that we could ever imagine as we adore our great God and Savior together forever. And so we cry out in hope, come Lord Jesus. And we share that hope together. We're bound together by one Lord. Of course, the Lord Jesus Christ. Not Caesar or Artemis, as the Ephesians may have been tempted to bow down and serve. Uh not our bank accounts or our political convictions or our job or our age or our stage of life, but one Lord, and that Lord is the Lord Jesus. He's our master, our king, our ruler. We are not our own, but we've been bought with a price And he's not just the Lord of the Jews or just the Lord of the Gentiles. I actually thought this was the case. And some of you have shared this as I've shared my testimony. As a Jewish young man in college, I just thought that Jesus, Jesus was the Gentile thing And I I had my Jewish thing going on and the Gentiles had their Jesus thing going on. But that's not the case at all. Right? There's one Lord, Paul says The same Lord is Lord of all, bestowing his riches on all who call on him And let me just pause even there with the mention of bestowing riches. Let me just invite any of you that may be here today who've not repented of your sin and turned and submitted to Jesus as Lord. Let me urge you to do that today. It is not a hard and oppressive and cruel thing to turn to Jesus and submit your life to him. He says he bestows all his riches on those who call on him. That doesn't mean he's going to make you healthy and wealthy and prosperous in this life. But it means the joys of knowing him are riches beyond what this world can imagine. Oh, Psalm 4, David says, You filled my heart with more joy than when their wine and grain abound. So if you have if you are living your own way for you and you've essentially exalted yourself as Lord, we appeal to you today to turn away from living for yourself. And see this loving Lord Jesus who gave his life to forgive you of your rebellion against him and come into and enjoy the riches of submitting to Jesus' Lordship. We are joined together, one body, one spirit, one hope, one Lord, one faith, Paul goes on to say I think this is a reference to the faith, as it says in the book of Jude, the faith that has once for all been entrusted to the saints. That faith that has been passed on and declared, Paul speaks of it in his letters to Titus and Timothy as a deposit. It's been declared and passed on for nearly 2,000 years now, summed up even in the Apostles' Creed, as we read that aloud earlier this morning That's not an infallible document, the Apostles' Creed, right? That's a man-written document, but it summarizes the truth that all Christians have subscribed to for 2,000 years now. And that's a- I think that's a wonderful thing for us to consider. I think it's why it's a good thing for us occasionally to be reciting creeds like that, is because it's really good that we remember that we're not the first people to think all this stuff up. In America in the 21st century, that like we came up with the Jesus thing. No, this is this faith, even as it's summarized there in the Apostles' Creed. It's like a family heirloom that is being faithfully passed on from generation to generation to generation. And it's our calling, not to create a unity, but to guard and preserve and protect that Deposit that faith from any corruption or distortion in our midst. We share one baptism. Baptism is the way that one is publicly recognized as a disciple of Jesus, as a follower of Jesus And they're brought into that one body. It's when the follower of Jesus pledges his or her allegiance to Christ, even as the church receives that follower of Christ into its care and oversight. We are baptized, we are united into Christ. And Paul actually reminds them of their baptism and of the one baptism that they share as an incentive to guard and maintain and preserve this unity that they have in the church. But that's one of the reasons why when we baptize people, we bring them in upon their baptism into the membership of the church, because their baptism is a reminder of the unity that they're called to fight for. Not fight with people, fight for unity. We're baptized. We have a baptism that we share in. We share in one God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all. Having been predestined in love for adoption to himself as sons, our Father is the King of Kings. He's the Lord of all. He is ruling over all by his providence and in his supreme power. He's uh through all. He is through Jew and Gentile, bringing them together in the church. It's through the church that he is manifesting the glory of his wisdom to even the angelic hosts, as we were reminded of in chapter 3, verse 10. He's in all by his spirit, as we're told in chapter 2, verse 22. And we can spend, I mean, we I as I studied, there's I mean preachers take one, they they they preach seven sermons on those seven pillars. So we're moving, we're moving briskly. We are moving speedily through Ephesians We could spend so much more, but but may the the point is let us never stop treasuring all that we have together, that we've been brought together in. This is a unity, this is a oneness, far better than when you realize that somebody likes the same NFL team as you. We were down on on the National Mall uh 4th of July and there was a guy or a I forget it was a somebody was wearing a Kansas City Chiefs shirt. I think it was at the National Mall on the 4th of July. Sometime this happened recently. And I saw him there and say, here we are in DC and we're what is it? I'm not a Chiefs fan. And I'm just like, go Chiefs, yeah. I actually did do that. That is nothing. Like that is so pitifully insignificant to what we share, what we have in common with every single Christian on the planet So when we act contrary to that unity, when we fail to adorn ourselves with the garments, That are described there in Ephesians 2, or I'm sorry, Ephesians 4, verse 2, it's like we're tearing the body apart. It's like we're acting as if there's two different bodies, two different spirits, two different lords, two different gods. And so we should be all the more zealous and earnest to expend diligent labor in maintaining that unity. of the spirit in the bond of peace. Because in this age, even with all that we have in common, it is still easy to get distracted from what unites us. That brings us to point number two, the pursuit of unity. Much more could be said about God's provision of unity. But let's think now about the pursuit of unity on the basis of that foundation. Paul is a he's a realist. Paul knows that living in a Christian congregation is not a flowery bed of ease. It is not one unbroken, unmitigated experience of joy and delight. That is heaven, and that's the one hope to which we press on. But but now he knows that things are gonna get rough. He knows that we can step on each other's toes. He knows that Christians can become at odds with one another, and he's dealing with those realities in this local congregation at Ephesus, a congregation that was now composed of Jews and Gentiles. Very different religious and cultural backgrounds, suddenly united together in this one congregation. That would not have been easy in the first century. And it's not easy in the 21st century. Now our differences. May be different. The different okay, that was not helpful. I I I know. I know that wasn't helpful. The differences that we differ on are different in the 21st century in America than they are in the first century. In the Greco-Roman world. You understand what I'm saying? We have different differences. So we're not on the brink of congregational disaster over whether to have sausage on our pizza before the next members' meeting. But let's just be real with each other for a little bit. I'm never trying to not be real for the record. Whether it's the age at which a child or a teenager who professes faith in Christ should be baptized. Or whether we should raise our hands joyfully and even maybe shout in praise to God spontaneously when the move when our hearts are being moved with love for the Lord? Or whether we should be singing this new song uh or that new song, or whether the future permanent meeting location of Chevrolet Baptist church if indeed the Lord is pleased to give one should be in Chevrolet or within a mile of Chevrolet or as wherever it is. Or even something like what time this service should start Or whether it would be appropriate for a woman to come up here next Sunday and pray and lead the prayer of praise? Or whether that would be a violation of what Paul says in 1 Timothy 2 about teaching and exercising authority. When it comes to any of those things, not to mention what you happen to think about the Trump administration. Or the war in the Middle East, or how prevalent systemic racism is in the United States today, or what you think about DEI, or what constitutes modest dress We could find some things, beloved, to disagree on. And you might think that given all that we share together as one. One body, one spirit, one hope, one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all. You might think that it would just be Easy to get along well, to not be harsh, to not be critical, to not be impatient, to not be short-fused with each other, to not be haughty when we bump into some of those disagreements But it's actually not that easy. Because we have an adversary. Well, we have several adversaries. We have the flesh, we have our sin nature that is still warring against the Holy Spirit. And we have an enemy. We have Satan himself, who is seeking to undo us and defame our God by destroying our peace. Sometimes we can forget about him We don't want to put inordinate attention on the enemy, but sometimes we can forget about him altogether, and that's not good at all. Bible tells us about him. Satan hates churches. I wonder if you've thought about that today in our efforts to gather here this morning. Satan hates Chevroly Baptist Church. He does not like what is happening in here. And he would like to do anything he can to undermine the bearing witness of his saving, uniting love by distracting us, dividing us over a whole bunch of stuff that is far less significant. Maybe some important things. But far less important things than the oneness that we share in Jesus Christ. And so Jesus prays for his people. As I mentioned in John 17, Jesus prays for his people to be united in love. And part of the joy that was actually set before Jesus as he marched onto the cross was the oneness of the people that he was going to die to save. testifying to his great love for the world. And so Paul himself, now a prisoner for the Lord, he's urging the Ephesians, he's urging you and me. Be eager, be zealous, strive to maintain this unity that he has so richly provided for you through union with him. And we do that, beloved, with the weapons of truth, with those pillars of truth, by lively, joyful, repeated doses of our common calling into one body and one spirit and one hope and one Lord and one faith and one baptism and one God and Father of all. And so together as members of this church, we agree on a statement of faith to anchor us in that faith that has once for all been entrusted to the saints. Together we We we read and we declare truth like are summarized in the Apostles' Creed. Together we sing God's praises And we seek to do it. Sometimes we just drop those instruments altogether. We try to have those instruments not blaring and overwhelming you so that we can hear each other's voices singing praise to God. We're to do that together. It expresses our oneness. Together we hear God's word and we respond. I prayed earlier that the things that we do in our service would not be cold and mechanical. It sh it it and I know it can happen. We're we're people we're creatures of flesh. But when somebody, when when Adrian comes up here and reads from Deuteronomy 6, and we say she says, this is God's word, we say together. It's not insignificant. Thanks be to God. Because as one, we give thanks to God for his word We together we pray, we bring our needs, that we all are needy and we bring our needs to him, and we say the word amen publicly because it's a way of our being together and expressing oneness. Together we confess our sins as we'll do in a few minutes. Not because we're all guilty of every single thing that Carl is going to come up here and say when he leads us in that prayer of confession. but as a way of owning our solidarity together, our oneness together, that we are fellow strugglers on the way to glory and training us Actually, to learn how to forgive each other, even as we go to God again and again and again seeking his gracious forgiveness in Christ. Together we eat and drink in remembrance of Christ, proclaiming his death until he comes. Naval gazing is not recommended when we take the Lord's Supper. I mean if you want to it's a solemn time, you can examine yourself, but do not forget to look around sometimes and marvel at the joy. Nobody, you should not. I mean, if you do, you should stop this Nobody takes the Lord's Supper during their private devotions. He said, when the church comes together, you eat and drink in remembrance because we're sharing, we're expressing our oneness as the people of God, as a congregation. So I want to encourage you to consider, beloved. There's so much more that I could say here, but I want to you to consider. Are you a net force? for unity or disunity in this church? Is is is Chevroly Baptist Church more or less united because you're a part of it? I heard that question. I was doing some study on John 17, because I've been thinking about that prayer as it relates to this passage. I pulled up a sermon that Bobby Jameson preached. uh a few years ago at Capitol Hill Baptist and he asked that question and I thought that was such a helpful way of wording the question. Are you a net force for unity or disunity in the church? I think it's a great question because it assumes that merely abstaining from disunity is not sufficient to actually obey this commandment. It's not just refraining from disunity. Are you actively, eagerly working to cultivate unity in this church? We could do that beyond the regular practices that I just mentioned of gathering together. We can do that by praying regularly for the members of the church. But we can do that by seeking to be a peacemaker. There's one point, Paul, in Philippians, where these two sisters are quarreling, he and but he he calls other church, other members of the church to go in and help them deal with that. So it's not just a matter of are you in conflict, but if you're aware of conflict that somebody else might have, are you are you a peacemaker? Are you a uniter of people? But all the teenagers over here and all the young moms over here and all the college students over here and uh like maybe we need to after the service during our fellowship time just pull some other people together. Be an agent of unity. Are we committed to rejoicing in each other's joys and weeping over one another's sorrows? In a culture, beloved, who's who's eager to cancel I mean the exact opposite of what we're called to as the people of God. Eager to cancel in our culture, to vilify and demonize everybody who has a different opinion about anything. The church is called to be a light shining in darkness, a city set on a hill united by the Holy Spirit, in the bond of peace, blood-bought bonds, might I remind you. Our peace and our love and our unity is meant to be a kind of trailer, a kind of uh billboard advertising the new world that is coming when Jesus returns and the whole Heavens and earth are united in a symphony of praise to him, even as we sang that earlier. And it's it's our calling right now to be a foretaste of that. That, to invite other people in that they might see that and experience that. Right? As Jesus prayed, that the world may know that you've sent me, because they would see the unity. And that got me thinking, how would they see the unity? And there's many ways, but here's just something I will encourage you with. If every member of Chevrolet Baptist Church, and this doesn't ha you don't have to be a member of the church to do this for the record. I'm just trying to get a an uh a general number, but Kids, teenagers, you can do this. You don't need to be a member of the church to do this. But if every member of the church committed to inviting one non-Christian to this gathering on a Sunday, That would be 1,200 invitations in the next year. And I just gotta think some people out of 1,200 Which come. It's a weird thing. Come. I love my church. We meet in a school. It's weird. Come. You can even sell it that way. I know that's a bit of an odd way to sell. I I th some of us I think if if there's Christians that are just Googling looking for a church, they may be put off by coming to an elementary school gym to worship or to go to a church gathering. I think people that have never really been to church before, I think this is actually intriguing. What if what if what if there were twelve hundred invites to church for non-Christians over the next year? I think some people would come. And I think they might be amazed at some things that they see. I don't know what y'all bring what brings you together. Like that you it doesn't seem to be social class, it doesn't seem to be your careers, it doesn't seem to be financial. It's not your career. What is it that brings you all together? Why are you all here together? Let me tell you about Jesus and what he's done for us all. I think the Lord would be pleased to do some great things if we would pray to that end and invite people. It doesn't have to happen in the gatherings of the church, but here's one way. We do this every Lord's day. I need to wrap this up, and I told you last week I was going to commend you, so let me commend you. Don't hear a whip being cracked as if you all stink at unity. Because you have, brothers and sisters, and you are glorifying God. And I believe in so many ways walking worthily of this calling by maintaining the unity of the Spirit and the bond of peace. Through seven years of building searches, through baptism statements and revisions of statements. Through government shutdowns and what to do with all that, and mask mandates, and gathering at various times in various locations, wherever you could find a place to meet And elders who started out here and then departed from the work, and a lead pastor's unexpected resignation. And an ensuing year plus search for a new pastor. Thanks for having me. And through members coming and going, hugging the parade as you like to put it. of transience that we know in this area. Chevrolet Baptist Church has been through a good bit in in seven and a half years And yet you have eagerly and diligently maintained the unity of the spirit in the bond of peace. What I was told about this congregation when I was thinking about coming here has shown itself to be true in the eight months that I have been here. There's people they have a lot of opinions about various things, but they're very mature and loving in how they handle those things. And you have been exemplary in those ways. Praise God. All glory be to Christ. But let's take heed, beloved. Because maintaining unity, again it's a gift, but the maintaining of it is hard work and it can be easily lost. And the devil does prowl. So let's labor. Let's be diligent, beloved, to guard that unity. Being aware of how precious it is to our Lord Jesus and how quickly the enjoyment of that unity can be ruined, let this pursuit consume us all our days. This is what it means to walk worthily of the calling to which we've been called. It's a walk that is a lot of work, but it's a work that is well worth the walk. Because it's a walk into more and more of his glory, which is ours. Let's pray, brothers and sisters Heavenly Father, we thank you for your sustaining grace in the life of this church. Uh the enemy shoots flaming darts at us in ways perhaps we don't even realize it at times. We thank you that you have preserved us in the midst of much challenge. And we pray, Father, that you would help us to be anchored and focused on those matters of first importance. Keep reminding us again and again and again of what we share in Christ, that we would be protected from the schemes of the enemy That w we would be zealous in maintaining the unity of the Spirit, that we would have conversations about areas of disagreement, and we'd be able to do that as brothers and sisters in Christ, who love each other and who are one, because of the Body that's been broken and the blood that's been shed for us, even as we remember it now at the Lord's table. Guard us and keep us. For the glory of your name we pray. Amen.