Good morning, brothers and sisters. Good to be with you once again. In case you don't know me and you're visiting, my name is Tony and I'm one of the pastors here. We thank you for being here this morning. Um I did want to make a brief announcement. In case you're here with little ones, a few things you should know about us as a church. In case you haven't noticed by now, we love children. That's why there's so many of them around So if you're here with little ones, they are welcome to stay with you. But should you want to step out, you step into the hallway there, you'd be able to still hear the sermon Uh but there are options. So a lot of kids just got up and left. That's because we do have child care options. Should you be interested in that, you can Go out into the lobby and meet with one of our child care deacons, she'd be happy to speak with you. And there's also a nursing mother's room, which is The room right on that side. When we walk through that hallway to the right hand side, you'll see that in case that's helpful to any of you. Let's pray one more time before we get into our passage for today. Lord, we love you. We thank you. We need you right now to help us to hear and understand and believe and obey your word. Give us grace. Give me grace as I preach. Give us grace as we respond. Use your word to help us to have a clearer picture of you. And we ask that you would use your word to convict us, correct us, and change us so that we will look more like your son Jesus as a result. In his name. Amen. Just a few days ago I got to see my daughter's cross country meet, which was a lot of fun. If you haven't seen a cross-country meet, you should watch them in person or on TV. The runners run individually. And usually they're trying to challenge themselves to get a personal best. So if their two miles or three K or whatever it was was 25 minutes, they're trying to get it down to 24 and so on and so forth. So they're running individually But they're also running as a team. They wear team jerseys. And when they start, they start in a pack or herd. And then they just start running. But as you watch them run, and as I watch them run, you see that that initial pack starts to whittle down. And you see the faster ones, they keep going at their same pace. And you see others, they start to slow down. Some of them even start walking. But they keep going. Maybe this morning you feel like you've started with the pack at some point in your faith. You started running, but you've slowed down somewhere. Maybe there's hills or valleys on your run. Maybe there's a pothole somewhere. Maybe you can't keep pace with everybody else that seems to be going and advancing. Your suffering won't allow it. Your trials won't allow it. Maybe your sickness won't allow it. Or maybe as we study the book of James over these last few months or a couple months, your sin has become more and more evident to you. And that's discouraged you. And sometimes you might think, I don't even know how I'm going to finish this race, to use that metaphor. Well, James in this letter has been writing to instruct Christians who aren't ahead of the pack Who many of them have slowed down, some of them even to a walk, due to their suffering, temptation, or trials of any kind. And in James chapter 5, specifically, this is an extended section of wisdom that James is giving to these Christians and how to endure their suffering, their trials. In other words, once the race has started, how to keep going. The answer we'll get this morning from James chapter 5. It's together with faithful prayer. Please meet me in James chapter 5. If you haven't turned there already in the Bible's provided, in the Bible's provided, that's on page 1013. Today we'll conclude this letter, this letter of wisdom, this letter of instruction, and this letter of correction for God's people. And this last bit of wisdom that James is giving here in chapter 5 applies to us individually. Again, we all have a race to run, but also applies corporately in the faith. We have our jerseys on And this last section specifically, more than anywhere else in this letter, he replies, applies to over and over again, to the church In other words, our maturity and our endurance in the faith will not happen without prayer, and it will not happen in isolation. Let me read the passage. James chapter 5, starting in verse 13. This is God's word. Is anyone among you suffering? Let him pray. Is anyone cheerful? Let him sing praise. Is anyone among you sick? Let them call for the elders of the church and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord And the prayer of faith will save the one who is sick, and the Lord will raise him up. And if he has committed sins, he will be forgiven Therefore, confess your sins to one another and pray for one another that you may be healed. The prayer of a righteous person has great power as it is working. Elijah was a man with a nature like ours, and he prayed fervently that it might not rain. And for three years and six months it did not rain on the earth. Then he prayed again, and heaven gave rain, and the earth bore its fruit. My brothers, if anyone among you wanders from the truth and someone brings him back, Let him know that whoever brings a sinner back from his wandering will save his soul from death and will cover a multitude of sins. Here's the main point for our time together if you're taking notes. Faith in Christ Matures and endures through faithful prayer and watchful care among God's people I repeat it. Faith in Christ matures and endures through faithful prayer and watchful care among God's people. Faithful prayer and watchful care. You just glance over the passage itself. A quick survey of this section will show That James has in the forefront of his mind wisdom that he wants to give, not in isolation, but to the church, to God's people Verse 13, is anyone among you suffering? 13, is anyone cheerful? Verse 14, is anyone among you sick? Verse 14, call for the elders of the church. Verse 16, confess your sins to one another and pray for one another So if we are going to mature and endure in Christ, we must give faithful prayer and watchful care our full attention. And we must also provide that for our brothers and sisters in Christ. So as we walk through this passage, we're going to focus on these different five scenarios that James seems to present in this passage. Of faithful prayer and watchful care. So here's the first of the five. While someone's suffering While someone's suffering. We see that again in verse 13. Is anyone among you suffering? Let him pray Now, if you've been tracking with us as a church over this past year, you might realize that we've been talking about suffering a lot In January, we study 2 Timothy. Paul tells Timothy to endure suffering like a good soldier, among other things. After that, leading up to Easter, we say the Gospel of John. And we focus on the suffering, the passion of Christ, the cup that he took for us. And then we focus on marriage. And no marriage is not suffering. But if you're married, you can attest to the fact that marriage is hard. It's worth it, but it's hard. Culture precious. Y'all learned that last night. We got it. Right? You're gonna do great. Then we studied Habakkuk Where Habakkuk starts by praying to the Lord, How long must I cry for help and you will not hear? And then the Psalms over the summer, where you had these Psalms of David, where he's talking about oppression. and enemies and suffering of all kinds. And then James, who basically starts with saying, blessed is the one who endures trials Rejoice when you have these trials come upon you. You might be wondering why all the talk about suffering? Was because God made us in this image and for his glory, and we live in a fallen and broken world. People, all people, have rebelled against the Lord in thought and deed. And in fact, all of creation cries out to be redeemed. We see that through wars and conflicts in the Middle East, or through the effect of devastating hurricanes, or when bodies don't do what they were designed to do anymore. This is the world that we all exist in. This is the world that James and these brothers and sisters in Christ existed in. And instead of undermining the suffering that we experience, the Bible offers grace to us in the midst of this suffering. And since Jesus endured suffering, we, as his people, are called to endure suffering as well. So James here calls us to pray about it. And he's assuming that the normal pattern of God's people is to be among God's people Gather like we're gathered right now. And James is also assuming that there's some kind of awareness for each other about how each other's actually doing. Meaning we are called to actually know one another. We can respond with one another. In this way, knowing that the suffering that we experience is not suffering that we experience in isolation. Our brothers and sisters experience this as well. So, how well do you know your church family? Do they know you? If not, I'd encourage you to work on ways to get to know people. Maybe you can join a small group. Maybe you can linger longer after the service Engage in conversation that you with people that you don't know that well. Follow up on prayer requests that you heard about. Even if it's a little awkward to do that. Hey, I heard so-and-so is such and such is going on. But just go up and ask. Find ways to get involved in each other's lives throughout the week. But here's one challenge I'd give to all of us, in case you don't already have this. This served me well over the years. Come to church determined to leave with at least one prayer request. Now maybe you get to ask someone directly, how can I pray for you? and you get the response, then great. Or maybe you just find out enough of what's going on. That you in general can say, hey, I'm gonna pray for that person. And then pray for them. And if you're like me, where you'll often forget to do that, stop them for 30 seconds and pray for them on the way out. They will be encouraged by that. There are people here who could use prayer and encouragement. So let's be willing to give it. James continues in verse 13 with another scenario. So outside of just suffering, because we experience more than that in Christ. He says this in verse 13. Is anyone among you cheerful? Then let him sing praise. So here's the second scenario. The first scenario, while we're suffering or while someone's suffering, second scenario. While we're singing. While we're singing. Again, James has in mind a corporate idea of us singing We're singing together, and in doing that, we're singing praises. We are praying to the Lord together. Again, it happens as we gather together with God's people We had a pediatrician that we used to go to when we lived in Miami, and there were two different sections in there. There was the sick section and there was the well section And it was separated by a little barrier, a glass barrier. So you walk in, you're coffin, take your kids over to the sixth section. If you're well, you can stay over here. Now that makes sense because you're not trying to spread those germs, but that's not how it works in the church. We don't have a sick section. We don't have a suffering section. We don't have a rejoicing section. We gather all together. And in fact, sickness and suffering and rejoicing can exist in the same body, in the same life, even in the same day While someone's suffering, someone else could be celebrating. While someone's mourning, someone could be rejoicing. That's why we are called to weep with those who weep and rejoice with those who rejoice. But again, what does singing have to do with prayer? And I think the answer is everything. That word there for singing praise can be translated to singing psalms. Like the book of our Bible called the Psalms, which is both a prayer journal and a hymnal for God's people. Or even think of Colossians 3. 16 where it says, let the word of Christ dwell in you richly, singing Psalms and hymns and spiritual songs with thankfulness to your in your hearts. That's why we as a church we pray a lot and we sing a lot. And maybe you come and there's certain kinds of prayers that you really can't connect with. Which John Malone led us in prayers of praise, and you're like, I haven't praised the Lord in prayer this week. Okay, pray anyway. Or we sing songs that talk about suffering or enduring You're like, I'm not really suffering right now. That's okay. Sing anyway, because your brother or your sister needs that prayer. They need those songs. And what you might not need today, you will need tomorrow So sing and pray anyway. We do so singing and praying together as God's people. This should remind us once again that our main ministry to one another, regardless of our title or how long we've been members of this church, whatever our position is, is twofold. The ministry of prayer and of presence. Of prayer and of presence. He says, if anyone among you sick, suffering Cheerful. It means you gotta show up. Your presence. And all throughout this passage, he's talking about prayer. We can serve one another by continuing to show up. and continuing to pray fervently for and with each other. Now I know what you may be thinking. Amen. I get that. What about verse 14? That's when things in this patchage starts to get to use a British word, dodgy or strange, or interesting. Right? So a third point. When someone's sick, this is the third scenario that James is talking about here When someone's sick. While we're suffering, while we're singing, like yeah, I got that. But when someone's sick We'll deal with 14, 15, and 16, those verses one at a time. But before we get into it, let's remember that James is writing this letter to encourage God's people. He's not writing for or against any sort of theological position. He's not writing responding to someone's blog or with someone's copy of Wayne Grudom's systematic theology on his side. He's not responding to any of that. So while these verses may push us in various ways, we need to remember that God's word has to speak. And we need to let God's word speak to us. And notice that James continues in this section without batting an eye. He doesn't seem to flinch. He says it with his chest, so to speak. Just like he does everything else in this letter. As he starts with verse 14. But let me also give this disclaimer: you might walk away with a different conclusion than I'm presenting this morning, or you might walk away with more questions. But I think the main point of this section is the main point of the entire section, which is the main point I'm trying to get across in James chapter 5, 13 through 20, is that God's people must pray. We must be people who faithfully pray. All right, verse 14, let me read it. Is anyone among you sick Let them call for the elders of the church. Let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord. I'll stop there. About the sickness. Some commentators take this to be referring to some kind of spiritual weakness. So not really a physical sickness, but more a spiritual depression of some kind. I think that's possible. There's certainly a category for that. But I think the text itself is specifically referring to a physical kind of sickness. He mentions anointing with oil, for example. And he also mentions praying over someone, which many commentators believe that the sick person, whoever he was, was so sick he couldn't even get out of bed. So the elders had to go to him and pray over him. That phrase praying over him is not commonly used in the Bible, but it's used here. So, whatever this sickness could be, it's one that involves the elders to intervene. How would they intervene? They would pray So this pictures a plurality of elders going to pray for a sick member, which is good, which is right to do, which is good pastoring. But no, this does not mean that only the elders in the church should pray for members who are sick. It doesn't mean that. Later on in the section, he talks about praying for one another and even confessing your sins to one another. Now still you might be thinking, all right, that's cool. But what about the oil? What about the oil? Anointing was a practice of consecration, meaning setting someone apart for a special purpose So think of Matthew 26 when Jesus' feet was anointed with oil from the alabaster jar. An anointing with oil has happened all throughout the Bible. It was used sparingly because it was expensive. But it also was used for a special set-aside purpose. I think the purpose here in James 5 is to pray for the one who is sick. So then question, should oil always be used when we pray for the sick? I think the short answer is no. Follow-up questions. Does the oil itself provide healing? No, it does not Notice it says anointing with oil in the name of the Lord. So healing from any sickness of any kind, if we're going to pray for someone Whether someone decides to use oil or not, if we don't pray in the name of the Lord, that prayer ain't going anywhere. The Lord alone has the ability to heal, if that's his will. So healing is down to the Lord. But what are we called to do? We are called to pray. This means, brothers and sisters, if you're experiencing a chronic illness or sickness of some kind, or maybe you have family members or loved ones that are sick in some way, pray. Pray for them. Or if that's you personally, ask for prayer. Pray boldly. Ask the Lord if it's his will to heal them. And pray in faith, believing that if it is his will, then he will. Look at verse 15 about this praying in faith. And the prayer of faith will save the one who is sick. And the Lord will raise him up. And if he has committed sins, he will be forgiven About the prayer of faith. Much has been made about what that even means. But I think it's exactly what James described in James chapter 1. Where he writes about praying and asking God for wisdom. James 1, verse 5. If any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask God, who gives generously to all without reproach, and it will be given. But let him ask in faith. So maybe picture it this way. Think of prayer as something that you can actually see or actually put somewhere with your with your hands. You can actually Hold it, right? But praying in faith is saying, these are my prayers, but I'm putting it inside of this container of faith. Which means I believe that God can do whatever He wants to do. I believe that God can respond however He wants to respond, whenever He wants to respond. I believe that He will answer according to His will. That's praying in faith. That's why James says here, let him ask in faith without doubting. The doubter is like the one who's tossed about by the waves of the sea, driven and tossed by the wind. He shouldn't expect to receive anything from God. He's asking, but he's not believing. The prayer of faith, therefore, is prayer that believes God will hear and he will answer. However, he chooses, and according to his perfect will. That's praying in faith Now, I think James assumes that if we pray, and as we pray, in the prayer of faith, is praying according to God's will. Here's why I think he assumes that. Because one, that's how Jesus taught his followers how to pray. Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. And also, that's how Jesus prayed. Remember Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane? Nevertheless, Jesus prayed, your will be done. Or even think of what James taught in James chapter 4 about prideful presumption and teaching against that, about the future. Where he says in verse 15, instead you ought to say, if the Lord wills, we will live and do this or that. Which means if that's applied to the future, that certainly has to apply to prayer as well. So when we pray, we should pray in faith. And pray that the Lord's will will be done. That's the prayer of faith. Believing that God will hear and he will answer. And he will answer according to his perfect will. And praying is faith, is prayer that actually aligns with his perfect will. So then why does James say that the prayer of faith will save the sick person and the Lord will raise him up? James is teaching that if indeed that prayer aligns with the will of the Lord, then the sick person will be saved. As in healed, as in helped, and the Lord will raise him up, both physically and spiritually. So he will be raised, this sick person, if it is the Lord's will, in this life and in the life to come. And that's true about all sickness for those of us who are in Christ. The answer to that prayer will have the same outcome in the long run. The healing will come through a miracle in this life. And then being glorified with Christ in the afterlife. Which means if God says no today, then this verse still applies because you will still be raised up with Him. The Lord will raise up all of his people and bring all of them home in accordance to his good and perfect will. So again, what do we do with a verse like this? What do we do with this thought about God's will? We pray. And prayer is not a matter of what God can do. We believe that God can do whatever He wants to do. But what's hard and what's puzzling at times is that we often don't know what God wills to do. Meaning in our specific circumstances. What is he going to do with this sickness? What is he going to do about this cancer? Often we don't know. So what should we do anyway? We should pray. And if God decides not to heal us in this life That doesn't mean that we don't have enough faith, but it means that God may have other purposes Think about Paul, for example, and that thorn in his side. As far as we know, it was never removed. But Christ's grace was sufficient for him. Well think about Job's questions, his chapters of questions, that when the Lord responded, he didn't answer a single one of them. But he saw the mercy and compassion of God. He said, I heard about you before, but now I see you with my eyes Joni Erickson Tata is a quadriprolegric. She's been that way for most of her life, completely dependent on other people. She's prayed for health healing. And those prayers, so it seems, have gone unanswered. Here's what she writes about that He has chosen not to heal me, but to hold me. The more intense the pain, the closer his embrace The greatest good suffering can do for me is increase my capacity for God. Oh beloved, if the Lord has decided not to heal you, let him hold you. And remember that one day, when you're with him in glory, you will be healed of everything forever. And also remember that in many ways the Lord has already healed you The Lord has come to deal with our greatest need in the gospel. The sin that separated us from him, the sin that deserves his righteous judgment, the sin that Jesus bled and suffered and died for. Which is also the sin that Jesus conquered when he rose from the grave. And as the prophet Isaiah predicted, by his wounds we are healed. This gives us unending access to our Father, to our merciful Savior through the power of His Holy Spirit. He is with us now and he will be with us. Forevermore. Jesus is acquainted with our sufferings and he intercedes for us in our sufferings, and he's preparing a place for us where there will be no more suffering and no more pain, and all things will be made new. No more chronic disease, no more cancer, no more unexplained sicknesses, no more unanswered prayers, no more tears. Just unending joy with him forever and ever. Friends, if you're here and you're not a Christian, you might have physical needs. And we are willing to pray for you and with you, but your greatest need Is your spiritual healing, forgiveness that can only be found in the Lord Jesus Christ. You can turn to him today by faith And sicknesses, chronic disease, unexplained organ failure, or ailments that doctors can't even name or can't even describe or don't even understand Should remind us, beloved, that things should not be this way, and things will not always be this way. Joni Erickson Tada has another quote where she pictures the day where her suffering is over, where she is healed, where her body is glorified. He says, I sure hope I can bring this wheelchair with me to heaven. I know it's not theologically correct, but I hope I can bring it and put it in a little corner in heaven And then in my new perfect glorified body, standing on grateful, glorified legs, stand next to my savior, holding his nail-pierced hands. And I will say, You see that wheelchair chair Jesus You were right when you said that in this world we would have trouble. And that thing was a lot of trouble. But the weaker I was in that thing, the harder I leaned on you. And the harder I leaned on you, the stronger I discovered you to be Brothers and sisters, even in our suffering, even in our sickness, even in unanswered prayer, remember the wisdom of James 5, verse 7. Be patient until the coming of the Lord and lean on him in the meantime. Back to James 5, 15. The dodgy part is not over. This verse brings about another challenge at the end where it says, and if he has committed sins, he will be forgiven. So what do we do with that? What does that mean? Question this might bring up? Does that mean that all sickness is a result of our sin? I think the Bible gives two answers. All sickness is the result of sin entering in the world, a result of the fall. We live in a fallen world, we have fallen bodies So in the macro sense, yes. But in the micro sense, as in, is my sickness caused by my own sin? The Bible's answer there is not necessarily. Not necessarily. Notice the passage says if he has committed sins. But that if, the big if, which means not necessarily And if we are in Christ, we know that our sins are forgiven. So we should rest in that forgiveness of sins. Jesus has paid it all, He's conquered it all for us. And there's examples in the Bible that gives a few different instances that illustrate this. So let me run through these kind of quickly. Maybe you want to read these later. John chapter 5, for example. Where Jesus healed the man by the pool. He asked him if he wanted to get well. And he explained that he's been trying to get well for the pool. Jesus heals him without the pool. He makes him well. So take up your mat and walks. And he takes up his mat and walks. And Jesus sees him later. And Jesus says, see, you are well. Sin no more, so that nothing worse will happen to you. But then you have John 9, where again think of the disciples who might have been around for that, where they see someone who's blind. So then they preemptively ask. In John chapter 9, Lord, who sinned? This man or his parents? What did Jesus say to that It's not this man or his parents that sinned, but that the works of God might be displayed in him. Or even think of Matthew chapter 9, where Jesus tells a paralyzed man that his sins are forgiven. And then the Pharisees, they don't like that. They say that's blasphemy. Only God can forgive sins. Jesus hears that. And then Jesus says, so that you may know that I have authority to forgive sins. And then looks at the paralytic and says, pick up your mat and go home. And that's exactly what he did. He got up and he walked out That means sickness, it's like suffering, is all in God's hands. And he has purpose for it I think that also means, and that's also why James uses sickness and sin interchangeably here. You may have already noticed that Or even salvation and healing interchangeably. You might think, oh, he should be saying you will be saved, but he says healed. Why does he do that? I think that's pointing out the fact that Jesus has the ability to do both He saves and he heals. And if Jesus can heal, he can certainly save. And if he can save us from our sin, he can certainly heal. If it is his will to do so. So salvation and healing is down to the Lord. What's down to us, church? Pray Pray like God is able, because He is able to save and He is able to heal. Pray like God is sovereign, meaning that He will answer according to His good and sovereign will. Faithful prayer and watchful care includes praying when we're sick, when someone's sick, praying as we're singing, praying while someone's sick or suffering. And also when we sin, or when anyone sins. Verse 16. Therefore Because of all that, James says, confess your sins to one another and pray for one another that you may be healed. The prayer of a righteous person has great power as it is working. Again, that word healed is used there instead of saved for all the reasons that I just explained But we are called to confess our sins for one another and to pray for one another. Not just the elders. This is something that we all get to do as God's people. It includes all of us. So James is envisioning a church body, a gathering of believers where they are confessing their sins, not to a priest, not on a particular day, but to one another. This could be related to the very sins that James brings to light throughout this letter. Maybe the sin of partiality. Or the sin of uncontrolled words spewed out at each other. Or the pride that leads to quarreling. Or he could be talking about the temptation to sin during seasons of suffering, as he alluded to in James chapter 1. And in the Bible, which you might already have this example in mind, there is an example of sickness that's directly related to sin. That's in the context of the Lord's Supper. 1 Corinthians 11. Whoever therefore eats or drinks of the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner Will be guilty concerning the body and the blood of the Lord. Let a person examine himself then, and so eat the bread and the cup. For any one who eats and drinks without discerning the body, eats and drinks judgment on himself. That's why many of you are weak and ill, and some have died. Paul's writing to that church in Corinth, that very wild church in Corinth But I do think this applies to us as we take the Lord's Supper, which we do each week, which we'll do in a few minutes. Even as we take the Lord's Supper today, we aim to fence the table. There's a lot of explanation that's happening. Because we want to do our best as elders to help to guard. But we also want to encourage you to use that time to pray, to reflect, and even confess sins where necessary This again is highlighting what James is instructing us to do with our sin. What he doesn't want us to do in this passage is try to trace our sin back or trace our suffering back to the root of the sin. Oh, I did that last week. That's why I'm suffering this way. Oh, I'm sick, so that must have mean I did something at this age. No, he says, confess it. And pray for one another. And we need this wisdom over and over and over again because confession and prayer is not natural to us. What's natural is to run and hide. It's our sin. We don't want anybody else to know about it. And if it's other people's sin that we can see, then our tendency is to judge and condemn. But James is saying here, if sin is ours, we need to confess it. If sin is theirs, we need to pray for them So prayer, James says, can help us to walk righteously. And if we walk righteously, the Lord can and will use our prayers in the lives of our brothers and sisters in Christ. Which is an amazing and sobering thought. Last week we even talked about suffering and patience. Endurance in the faith. Kids in the room, James used an example last week. Do you remember the Bible character that he used as the main example during the sermon last week? about suffering and endurance. It's spelled jobbed, but it's pronounced. It's Job Job it gets lonely up here, so thank you for responding. Appreciate it Job, a righteous man who suffered greatly. But look in your Bibles, everyone, in chapter 5, verse 11. How does James describe Job? One word I'm looking for. Start with an S. Steadfast. Faithful. One who kept following the Lord. And now he's giving more wisdom about prayer. And then he uses another example, which is the example of Elijah. Look at verse 17. Elijah, still talking about prayer, still talking about the prayer of a righteous person. Elijah was a man with a nature like ours, and he prayed fervently that it might not rain, and for three years and six months it did not rain on the earth. And then he prayed again, and heaven gave rain, and the earth bore its fruit. Now again, I encourage you, read 1 Kings 17, 18, and 19 later today. But let me try to summarize it. There was a drought that was God's judgment on the land Elijah told King Ahab about that. King Ahab was a wicked king, and he and his people, many people like him, they worshiped a false god, Baal. In 1 Kings 18, Elijah confronts King Ahab. After many words, verse 1 says, the word of the Lord came to Elijah in the third year. Three years later, that's what James is talking about here. Go show yourself to Ahab, and I will send rain upon the earth. So Elijah called Ahab, and he called him to gather on Mount Carmel. Gather the false prophets. You come too. And let's show people who they should really worship. If the Lord is God, worship him. If Baal is God, worship him. So you had a battle of the gods And Elijah said, Alright, so here's what we'll do: you guys will make an offering, calling your gods to send down fire, to consume that offering, knowing that that was accepted, and then that'll prove who's the real and true God. So the people prayed to Baal. They cried out all night. They even cut themselves. Kids, do you remember what happened? What happened when they cried out to the gods of Baal? He didn't answer because he doesn't exist. Nothing happened. And then Elijah says, all right, let's stack the deck. Jars of water poured out on the sacrifice. Let's make it even harder. And then Elijah prayed. Fire came down and consumed the offering like that. And then after that, as we heard in our scripture reading for today, Elijah bowed down. He put his head between his knees, and he prayed again. And then it rained. That's what James is talking about here. And he prayed a lot for that to happen Which means we can keep going to God in prayer, even if we don't see a response immediately, because we don't know what His will is. But in this case, His will was to make it rain. And so it did. Now if you hear that, you're probably thinking that's pretty interesting. If you know about the story of Elijah, you know that there's a lot of other things James could have focused on Like the fact that he was carried up into heaven on a chariot of fire. That doesn't happen every day. Or that Elijah appeared on the Mount of Transfiguration. With Jesus and Moses. So saying that Elijah is kind of a big deal here. James doesn't say that. He says Elijah was a man like us. And he prayed. The end. And that's the point. Because Elijah is not the point. The oil is not the point. The circumstances are not the point. The point is to pray because prayer puts us in fellowship with the Father of lights, the Lord of glory. Prayer brings us into fellowship and friendship with God. Prayer is the chief way that we exercise our faith. Prayer is the chief way that we humble ourselves unto the Lord. And prayer enables us to wait patiently. On the Lord. So the point of this passage is to pray. But more than that, the point of this passage is pointing to the sovereign and merciful God that we get to pray to. Beloved, do you pray? Do you really pray? Do you depend on the Lord for all of your cares, big or small Do you depend on your brothers and sisters to go with you to the throne of grace when you need help? Have you ever experienced that growing up? If you have a sibling and you did something, you're like, I gotta tell mom and dad, but I don't really want to. If you had a good older sibling, they won't just make fun of you, but they'll grab you and they'll say, let's go to mom and dad together That's what they'll do. In Christ, as brothers and sisters in Christ, as we deal with suffering, as we deal with sickness, as we're struggling with sin. You might be tempted to run away and hide or not talk to the Lord. But if that's true, grab someone's hand and approach the throne of grace together. Because you will find a throne of grace and you will find mercy and help to help you as you go to the Lord. This kind of watchful prayer, the kind of James that had that James has in mind throughout this chapter, throughout the church. He wants us to focus on prayer. Praying for and with one another. But then he talks about another scenario, which is our last scenario, starting in verse 19. The last scenario here is when someone strays When someone strays. When we're suffering, while we're singing. If anyone is sick, when someone sins, and lastly, when someone strays. Look at verse 19. For he says, My brothers, if anyone among you wanders or strays from the truth, and someone brings him back, let him know that whoever brings back a sinner from his wandering will save his soul from death and will cover a multitude of sin. Sins. Again, there's a lot of assuming here. James is assuming that we will be tempted with sin. James is assuming that we will suffer James is assuming that we might experience sickness as well. And all of that might tempt us to stray, to turn away from the Lord, to turn from our brothers and sisters in Christ But James also assumes that we'll be close enough in the church to know about it, to see it, to notice, and respond. So in other words, if you're here and you're a Christian and you're not a member of any church that preaches the gospel, I encourage you to change that very soon. Doesn't have to be this church, but find a church where you can live in this way with brothers and sisters in Christ. The Lord intends for you to endure until the end, but you will not make it all by yourself. God has called us to be committed to one another as his people, to encourage each other, to spur on each other to love and good works as the day draws near, as we wait for the Lord's return. This watchfulness and this faithful prayer is important because when someone's around, we should not assume that everything's fine. They might be tempted. They might be struggling. They might be tempted to wander. They might be discouraged. Maybe they're struggling in ways that they haven't even said to anyone. Maybe they haven't prayed in a while because they don't know what to pray or how to pray. So brothers and sisters, if someone asks, how's so-and-so doing? And your answer is, I don't know. I haven't seen them in a while. Find a way to answer that question. Pick up the phone. Make a house visit. Ask around with other people. We should not assume that everything's fine. It might be, but it might not be. Because people might be tempted to stray. And it's our job in the church to care for one another. I think that's the main point of the verses 19 through 20. There's a lot more that could be said Someone wandering from the truth, someone bringing him back. So picture a sheepfold, someone going and someone getting him back. The shepherd going to get his sheep. We are called to do that as brothers and sisters in Christ. How do we do that? We pray. And what else do we do? We act. We show up. We respond in ways That are appropriate. Verse 20 says, Let him know that whoever brings back a sinner from his wandering will save his soul from death and will cover a multitude of sins. You might know this if you've been a Christian for a while. Not everybody endures. You might have friends, loved ones, who once professed Christ and today say that they no longer believe What happened could have been a lot of different things. The point is that they strayed. And James is saying: do not let your brothers or sisters stray from the fold. Watch for them. Care for them. Pray for them. That cross-country meet that I was telling you all about was fun to watch. See how the race progressed, to see how that pack that was full started to wind down and whittle down But also to see the students push on, to see them continue. But I also began to watch the runners as they made it through the finish line. Most runners did the exact same thing. They ran through, they saw their time, they got a little bit of water, they went back and joined the rest of their team, and they were like, where is so-and-so? Oh, he's way back there. Oh, she's way back there. Where are they? And they started looking for them. And in some cases, they started running to get them. And they would find them and they would run with them back towards the finish line. Isn't that a picture of what we're called to do? The Lord wants our faith to mature and endure to the very end. He wants to use our prayers of faith to do it. He wants to use our watchful care to do it. He wants us to help one another to get across the finish line. So let's pray, church, in faith. Together. Let's watch carefully for one another. Together, until our faith becomes sight. Let me pray for us. Oh God, help us in all these scenarios. When someone strays, when someone's sick or suffering, when someone's sinning. Help us to be watchful. Help us to be mindful. Help us to pray. God, we ask you to give us the reflex to pray in all circumstances. Even if that's just to pray and praise you through our singing. Lord, we need you. We need your help. We thank you, Lord Jesus, that you are the good shepherd, that you don't lose any of your sheep. That you love us and that you care for us. Help us to care for one another in that way. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen