Well, it's a fairly common theme, I think, in churches and Christian circles that the Word of God gives life. Right? We see that in Genesis 1 as the Lord speaks and the heaven and earth are made. Right And then he calls Abraham or Abram out of Ur, and he forms a new people, and he gives Moses his ten words and We have that vision of Ezekiel standing in the valley of dry bones, and the prophet speaks, the spirit comes, and those bones come to life, a full army, it says. And then, of course, we have Jesus, the picture of Jesus standing in a boat amidst the storm. He stands up, he says, peace, be still. What happens? Well, particles of hydrogen and nitrogen and oxygen submit. Electrons and prototons obey their maker. And of course, that's why the author of Hebrews would say that he, Jesus, holds the universe together with the word It's a beautiful theme, isn't it? God speaking, life coming. And sure enough, if you look into the literature, you you see wonderful, beautiful illustrations of this This week I was thinking of The Magician's Nephew by C. S. Lewis. You guys know that one? It's a prequel to Lion Witch in the Wardrobe and talks about how Aslan comes and he He roars, he sings the world of Narnia into existence. Let me just give you a little taste. The lion was pacing to and fro in that empty land and singing his new song. It was softer and more lilting than that song by which he had called up the stars and the sun, a gentle rippling music. And as he walked in saying the valley grew green with grass. It spread out from the lion like a pool. It ran up the Sides of the little hill like a wave, in a few minutes it was creeping up the lower slopes of the distant mountains, making that very young world a bit softer. A little way off along the riverbanks, willows were growing. On the other side, tangles of flowering current, lilac, wild rose, and rhododendron. When a line of dark first sprang up on a ridge about a hundred yards away, she, the character observing all of this, she felt that they were connected with a series of deep, prolonged notes, which the line Lion had sung a second before. And when he burst into a rapid series of lighter notes, she was not surprised to see primroses suddenly appear in every direction. In a few minutes, Diggory came to the edge of the pool, and there he stopped another character. The lion was singing still. But now the song had once more changed. It was more like what you would call a tune, but it was far wilder. Can you imagine a stretch of grassy land? Bubbling like water in a pot, for that is really the best description of what was happening. In all directions, it was swelling into humps And the humps moved and swelled till they burst. And from each hump there came out an animal. The moles came out just as you might see a mole come out. In England, the dogs came out barking the moments their heads were free. The stags were the strangest to watch, for of course the antlers came up long time before the rest of them. The frogs, who all came up near the river, went straight into it with a plop-plop and a load of croaking. The panthers, leopards, and things of that sort sat down at once. To watch the loose earth off their hindquarters and then stood up against the trees to sharpen their front claws. Showers of birds came out of the trees, butterflies fluttered, bees got to work on flowers. as if they hadn't a second to lose. It's a beautiful picture, right, of this lion, this God like picture singing bringing life like we read Now, this theme of God's word giving life has been a favorite theme of mine over the years for some time now. In fact, the second book I wrote was on this very theme. I titled it Reverberation. It was later retitled Word-Centered Church. Therefore, when Tony was kind of handing out sermon assignments to the elders through this. series of the Psalm in the Psalms and He he gave me Psalm 29. I looked at it quickly. I saw this emphasis on the voice of God doing all of these things. And I thought, oh great, this this will be easy. Uh, you know, I got all this stuff in the book and kind of cut and paste it in and sort of refashion some of the illustrations I've already used around this particular text. You know, maybe a quick Saturday afternoon's work, no problem. Right Well, just this last week I picked it up and read it a little more closely, a little more carefully, and I realized, oh, that's not quite right. Now, the psalm very much is about the power of God's word to do things. Yet this psalm is not about the power of God's word to create life, but rather to bring punishment. and even death. Which is why some of the themes we've already been praying about and hearing about in the scripture reading as well. what we have focused on this morning. So it's not as if you hear the lion roaring and grass forming. It's the lion roaring and grass dying. It's not the rhyme, the lion singing and animals forming, but the lion Singing and animals writhing. Go ahead and turn to Psalm twenty-nine The psalm is structured like a sandwich, which is to say bread, meat, bread. And so the beginning and end, those are the bread. They tell us what to do. The middle part, the meat. Tells us why to do those things. It's the weight that we're to feel that pushes us then back to the bread, the bookends of what we're to do. Go ahead and look down. It's a psalm of David, the ascription tells us. Look at verses 1 and 2, which call for the heavenly beings to acknowledge God's glory and strength. Strength and holiness. Ascribe to the Lord, O heavenly beings, ascribe to the Lord glory and strength Ascribe to the Lord the glory to his name. Worship the Lord in the splendor of his holiness, it reads. Okay. So we have this invitation to say all these great things about God and to come and worship him. And that's the one piece of bread. Now look at the end, the final verse, the benediction, verse 11. May the Lord give strength to his people. May the Lord bless his people with peace. Okay, so after we feel the weight of the middle section, which we haven't read yet. We're to cry out and say, Lord, I look to you for strength. I look to you for peace amidst all the strife of life. We need your peace. And so then the question becomes, okay. what is the meat, what is the weight that we're to feel in the middle of this psalm that first calls us to worship and then sends us out praying Let's look at verses 3 to 10 and notice the emphasis on God's voice as we go. The voice of the Lord is over the waters. The God of glory thunders, the Lord over many waters, the voice of the Lord is powerful, the voice of the Lord is full of majesty The voice of the Lord breaks the cedars. The Lord breaks the cedars of Lebanon. He makes Lebanon to skip like a calf, and Syrian like a young wild ox. The voice of the Lord flashes forth flames of fire. The voice of the Lord shakes the wilderness. The Lord shakes the wilderness of Kadash. The voice of the Lord makes the deer give birth and strips the forest bare, and in his temple all cry, Glory. The Lord speaks Sits enthroned over the flood. The Lord sits enthroned as king forever. Question for the kids. How many times do we read the word voice? How many times in that Do we read the voice of the Lord? Just call it out, somebody. An infinite number? Well, the number of perfection, yes, which is 7. Interesting. Okay, so kids, again, when David wrote this psalm, what do you think he wanted us to feel the weight of? This is an easy answer. We almost just said it. What are we to feel the weight of? Anybody just say it out. Yes. Can't quite care hear ya. Feel the weight of God and we're the feel of weight of God's Yes? Couldn't hear that His perfection, yes, in his perfection, but we see it specifically in anybody? Just say it out. In his voice, yes, that's right. It's saying it over and over and we're to feel the power of his voice and think, oh my goodness, God speaks and stuff happens, right? The call to worship in verses 1 and 2 wants us to ascribe glory and honor and strength to him for his voice. And then verse 11 sends us out thinking, Oh God, I need your blessing. your peace, speak. Right? And yet here's where it gets interesting and why I can't preach that sermon. That I originally thought I would preach about God creating and giving life. Look at the phrase in verse 1, heavenly beings. Translated literally, that's sons of God. Now, if you were to turn back to Genesis 6, verse 2 Right before the flood, you would find that strange same phrase used only in reference there to fallen angels. Could David be addressing this psalm not just to the angelic realm, but even to fallen angelic realm, demons? And then look at the word flood in verse 10. Do you guys see the word flood in verse 10? That word occurs 13 times in the Old Testament. 12 times in Genesis 6 to 11. What do you think the word flood in Genesis 6 to 11 is all about? Noah's flood, is that Noah's flood? And so the one more time that word is used is right here in this psalm. What do you think? This Psalm is talking about. Maybe you're looking at verse 6 and you're saying, but isn't the picture of a calf skipping a picture of joy? Well, no, it's a. It's a packed picture of a calf thrightened by the fright of a thunderclap breaking cedars as we Here in verses 3 and 5. A better translation than skip would be leap, which is what the NIV says. That calf hears the cracking trees and the thunder. He leaps. He's afraid. Right. What about the deer in verse 9 giving birth? Isn't that a picture of life too? And my quick glance at that verse I was reading it to Hannah and I said, see, Hannah, look at that. God's word giving life, and then the tree strip bringing death. It's both. Well, as I looked a little more closely at the text, I discovered that the word therefore gives birth. Can also be translated as shakes or writhes. Look at verse 8. The Lord shakes, same word, the cedars or the wilderness of Cain. So the Lord shakes the wilderness, causes the wilderness to writhe. He shakes the deer, causes the deer to And if there is a birth, it's a premature birth out of fear. Again, think of Aslan singing and grass growing and animals forming. And here we get the opposite picture. The lion, the lion of God speaking, and the landscape writhing, and the animal The terror of this impending flood. In other words, friends, the power of God speaking highlighted in these verses is the power of destruction. Even as Jonathan prayed about in the prayer of praise, the power of Noah's flood, or the power of any act of judgment, which is of course what the flood was, a mighty act of God's judgment. Skim your eyes one more time over verses three to nine. The voice of the Lord is over the waters. You think of the flood rising up as the Rain came. The glory of God thunders, it says you you can hear God's power and glory in the thundering. Verse 5, it breaks the cedars. It breaks the cedars of Lebanon. Verse 6, he makes the entire area like Lebanon a nation leap in fear. Verse 7, kids, if if we hear the thunder in verse 3, What do you think these flames of fire in verse 7 are? Kids, just say it out. We've already heard the thunder, now we're seeing what? The lightning. That's right. And then verse 8, an entire wilderness is shaking. Have you ever been in an earthquake? I remember sitting in my study in Chevrolet, Maryland, in 2011. When that earthquake down from outside of Charlottesville, the epicenter was down outside of Charlottesville, Virginia, and it shook. I was sitting in my study. just just up the road, my chair shook, um a picture frame fell off a shelf, hit the floor. When I went down to the basement later, I saw the tiles were cracked Right, the whole earth. From how many miles away? The whole earth was shaking. That's what the Lord can do. And then verse 9: Animals are in a full-on panic. The forest are being stripped bare. is an absolutely devastating picture of destruction. Some of you might think of pictures you You have seen of the 2004 tsunami in the Indian Ocean, in which 100-foot waves crashed into beaches, subsuming them over hotel resorts, swallowing them up, and for miles inland, just stripping the trees bare Only if this is indeed Noah's flood, it's even mightier, even scarier. And yet what is causing all of this Seven times in perfection we are told it is the voice of the Lord perfectly God is doing this by speaking. It's quite remarkable, isn't it He can create a verse, universe with his word. He can shut it down with a word. He can sustain it, the word of his power, he can erase it as he pleases, simply by speaking. The voice of God has the power to create, but also to destroy, to judge, to punish. To turn off the lights. What lessons do we take from Psalm 29? Let me offer four, which you'll see in your bulletin, four lessons. we can take from this text. Number one, God calls all powers, including his enemies, to worship him. So especially verses one and two. Look at verses 1 and 2 again. Ascribe to the Lord, O heavenly beings, ascribe to the Lord glory and strength. Ascribe means to give or attribute to or to acknowledge. to acknowledge that he possesses all strength and glory and honor and holiness. He's set apart, he's different, nor to worship him is what it is saying. The psalmist is saying, hey, you angels, even you demons You who love God and you who hate God, friends and enemies alike, admit there's no one mighty, no one glorious like him God calls all powers, including his enemies, to worship him. Friend, if you're here today and you do not understand yourself to be a Christian. We Christians believe that this book, this Bible, is in fact God-speaking. Men wrote it. But they wrote as they were carried along by the Spirit from God. And so through David, God speaks. And that means we believe God is calling you this morning to worship Him. By ascribing, by acknowledging that he has all power, all glory, and that he is to be worshipped. Now, interestingly, according to another passage of scripture, Romans 1, it says that creation itself testifies. To the fact that he has, that God has this eternal nature and this divine power. And that same text also says there's a part of you, there's a voice in your head which knows it. But that same text also says there is another part of you, another voice in your head, that's trying to quench that. Trying to suppress that, trying to ignore that. Maybe you have grabbed hold of a rational argument against God and God's existence. Maybe something hard has happened to you and for emotional reasons, you want to shut him out even. Hate him Or maybe, maybe you're a kid and you think, well, I'll get to that Christianity stuff later. I got a lot of other stuff to worry about right now Well, we can discuss the intellectual reasons or the emotional reasons to resist God. We can discuss the failure of Christians. Maybe that's why you don't want to believe in Christianity. Christians have let you down. They've disappointed you. We can discuss all of that. But in this song, God would say, We can get to those things. But have you seen the flood? Do you recognize that I am the one who has caused all of this? You need to look to me Why? Why should we worship him? I mean, doesn't that sound a little bit like an ego trip? And besides, God, it doesn't sound very fun sitting around and worshiping you. I have a lot of things I want to get to, I want to do in my life. Why should we give ourselves to worshiping God? Well, there's a number of answers that other passages of Scripture give. This particular passage, this psalm, gives us the answers we find in points two and three. three in your bulletin. Here's point two. God brings destruction and judgment merely by speaking. What's verses three to nine. Why should we, and even the heavenly forces of evil, stop whatever we're doing and worship God, ascribing glory and strength to Him? Well, God's answer is verses 3 to 9. The voice of the Lord is over the waters, the God of glory thunders, the voice of the Lord strips forests bare, it shakes entire nations. David's answer, in other words, is, you remember the flood, right? How well did that work out for those who opposed God? For those who came up with their intellectual excuses or their emotional excuses, for those who had really urgent things to do, and we'll get to God later. How did that work out for them? In other words, we can have all the arguments that we want. I can offer you philosophical justifications for God and his existence for the intellectuals. We can talk about the goodness of God. For those who are emotionally opposed, but at the end of the day, this psalm says, reality is reality. And again, notice the emphasis on his voice. And the fact that he accomplishes all of this rule simply by speaking So think back to Ezekiel in the valley of the dry bones, as I mentioned before, but now run it backwards. Ezekiel preaching to a valley of an army. And the word and spirit comes, and that army is stripped of its armor and flesh, until only bones are left, and the bones Collapse. Go back to the Aslan illustration. The lion growls and the land grows dullest desolate. The sun, moon, and stars vanish and fall from the sky. I said the animals writhe. God's voice, in other words, friends, is effectual, or even the more technical word would be efficacious. It accomplishes its intended effect. It does what God means it to do every time, all the time, perfectly. It's efficacious. Our words, we have a hard time understanding that our words are unstable they're untrustworthy that they don't do what we want them to do how many times have you said to your kids I've said to you how many times and The words just kind of bounce off of them. That's why we use phrases like, well, money talks, in other words, word don't, but money talks. Or actions speak louder than words. Or Teddy Roosevelt, speak softly and carry a big stick, and you'll go far. Because we know human words just don't finally do much, not with God God's words are powerful. God's words are different. God's words are efficacious. God uses his words for salvation and judgment, for softening the heart and for hardening the heart That's why Jesus spoke in parable. This is why I speak to them in parables, because seeing they do not see, and hearing they do not hear, nor do they understand. Therefore, speak to them in parables. He means to harden those hearts. Interestingly, however, God gives this psalm to his people as a source of comfort. This psalm, think of the book end, think of a verse 11, it's to be a comfort to his people. How can that be? Well recently I saw a YouTube video in which one kid on a playground was talking trash to another kid on the playground. You better not keep coming here. I'm gonna beat you up. Meanwhile, the father of the second kid was standing behind The first kid who was talking trash. And his father was like huge, like bursting out of his shirt muscles huge, like Dwayne Johnson the Rock, huge. And so that second kid, hearing the first kid talk trash and looking behind him, towering over him, where the first kid can't see, seeing his dad, you think that second kid is worried He's like, come on. Yeah, yeah, go ahead, bring it. What do you got? And then the father kind of peeks around. The first kid looks up. Circumstances dramatically change. And not only are the psalms themselves inspired, it seems their order is inspired. Flip back, look at chapter 28. Which Jared preached last week. Look at verse 3. The psalmist is surrounded by the wicked. He's crying out for help. Psalm 29 then offers us an answer. Hey, people of God, don't you realize that your dad is standing behind the ones making threats to you? And your dad is huge. He is better than any heavyweight champion ever. Don't you see it? O enemies of God, don't you know who their dad is? Forget Rocky. Rocky lost the first match and had to come in back and win in the second match against Clubber Lane in Rocky III. You remember that? That's not the case with God. He doesn't lose the first match There's only two hits in that match, him hitting you, you hitting the floor. In a way, you might say this psalm is divine trash talk. And to heavenly beings, ps, even demons, no less. Hey, demons You're flying around, you're going through walls, you're whispering into people's ears, you think you're all clever. Hey, you remember the flood? How did that go? For those who oppose God. Think you're all tough. Ultimately, the trash talk, or better the warning, depends entirely on who God is. Who is he? Look at lesson three in your bulletin God is king over chaos and destruction. God is king over chaos and Verse 10 sums up verses 3 to 9, 4. So the Lord sits enthroned over the flood. The Lord sits enthroned as king forever. He's the flood king. Not only that, he's the king of earthquakes and hurricanes, avalanches and forest fires, as again Jonathan prayed about, asteroids and volcanoes. King over the good and the bad. The just and the unjust, the people of every nation, the members of every political party, the R and C, the D and C. King over it all. He is the king over heaven. He is the king over hell. After all, what is Noah's flood? A mighty act of temporal judgment. Which points ultimately to the eternal judgment. First time in water Last time says Genesis in fire. And in that light If this psalm is finally pointing us to hell, and the power of God in hell Think again of verse 2. Ascribe to the Lord the glory due his name. Worship the Lord So if we give glory to God because of the flood, and if the flood points finally to eternal judgment, Could it be that we're being called to give glory to God for hell? To worship God Because of the eternal lake of fire? Could it be that the weight of this Psalm verses three to ten is calling us to praise God for that Well no doubt, uh is a tremendously difficult reality to reckon with. Emotionally, in some ways intellectually. Can we ascribe glory to God for hell? Does it cause us to worship Him Well, if for Christians, the answer has to be yes. After all, isn't the beginning of Christianity the recognition that I am a sinner and I'm deserving of God's judgment? Judgment isn't the beginning of Christianity the recognition that God is God and that all that He does is good and worthy of glory, and that there's nothing, anything at all anywhere for which he does not receive glory. Isn't that the very basis of our confession as Christians? It's to be a Christian is to acknowledge that we're finite and fallen, and that any difficulty in seeing the glory of God in hell is not due to some deficiency in him, it's due to some deficiency in us. And therefore, the Lord's decisions concerning hell must not only be right, but one day we will praise him for it, even if our minds and hearts are still struggling to get there. The 19th century British preacher Charles Spurgeon meditating on Revelation 19, and it refers to the many crowns. Crown him with many crowns, right? The many crowns that Christ will wear. One of those crowns, says Spurgeon, will be the iron crown of hell. He observes, not only in the dazzling brightness of heaven, but in the black, impenetrable darkness of hell, is Christ's omnipotence felt And his sovereignty acknowledged. There is no power in hell, Spurgeon said, besides Christ's. Hell trembles at him The very howlings of lost spirits are but deep base notes of his praise While in heaven the glorious notes shout forth his goodness, in hell the deep growlings resound his justice And his certain victory over all his foes. Thus, his empire is higher than the highest heaven and deeper than the lowest hell. Some of you may recall that several years ago in speaking about hell in another text. I observed this principle that wrath reveals worth. The more precious something is, The more rightly we're angry about opposition to it. So if you go outside and deliberately scratch my car, I will be angry. But if you deliberately hurt one of my children, I'll be really angry. And the amount of anger in response to your act of destruction is rightly coordinated with the value of that which you have gone against, right? Wrath reveals Worth. What then might the eternal wrath of God reveal about the infinite worth and honor of God Hell, you might recall me saying in 2020, is like the foundation beneath a skyscraper. The higher the skyscraper, the deeper those foundations have So, how glorious is God? How tall is that building? Well, the unimaginable horror of hell provides an inverse measurement of all of this. Like the cement and steel piles sunk deep beneath the Burj Khalifa in the sands of Dubai. Why does Scripture offer such sobering images of hell, undying worms, and unquenchable fire? Well, because sin dulls our senses Shrinks our horizons, shrinks God, anesthetizes us to the poignancy of reality And the doctrine of hell wakes us up to a much bigger universe, grander. Like like moo, it's like you're watching all of life as stick figures on a piece of paper, and the doctrine of hell comes along and says, No, it's it's three-dimensional reality. Wake up. Don't you see how glorious and amazing God is? And how treacherous your sin against him is. Life is more precious. God is more glorious than you ever imagined. imagined, says the doctrine of hell and judgment. God is king over what to us feels like chaos and destruction because God is a God of judgment. And our denial of that, our resistance to that, only points to how big and important we are in our own eyes and how puny our view of God is. God is king over chaos and destruction and justice and judgment, and we will give him praise for this. Some of you know that I was on a jury panel in December for a first-degree murder case And we sat through the trial for three days, hearing first from the prosecution, then from the defense And within an hour of discussion, it was pretty clear to 10 out of the 12 of us that this accused man was guilty and guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. And the two standouts, it was pretty clear they thought so too, based on the concessions they had made in our conversation, but they were really struggling with the fact that Our word, guilty, would be efficacious. Our word, guilty, would permanently change this man's life and send him away for many years there in the P. G. County Courthouse. And we've been staring at this man for three days, seeing the very human him. And so these two were understandably struggling like, ah Are we ready to do this? They weren't feeling the humanity, the worth, the value of the man he had killed There I knew, sitting there, thinking to myself as an elder in this church, those two need to be pastored. I need to pastor them right now. How can I pastor them? Well the jury room already knew I was a theology professor. And so in a in a moment when it kind of came to a standstill and the talking had stopped, I said to the group, this is really difficult for me as well. I've been looking at that guy for three days. And I want his good. I can't help but want his good. And I don't assume that all of you believe in the same God that I do, but you guys know that I'm a Christian. And I promise you that God is a God of justice. And his justice is good because he is good. Not only that, I promise all of you that we can trust that God loves this young man, the accused, far more than we do. And we can trust that he will work out whatever purposes of salvation in this man's life if he wants to, if he chooses to, if he knows it is right. Our job, what we have to worry about right now, is nothing more or less than doing our jobs by speaking what we know to be truth, by speaking what we believe to be just. But because God is good, because God loves justice and salvation, we can leave this young man in his hands. We just need to do our jobs. And friends, that brings us to our final point, point four. Christian, rest in the flood king's strength for you and blessing upon you. Look at verse 11 again. May the Lord give strength to his people. May the Lord bless his people with peace. Now, I trust you all know the story of Noah's flood. God sent a flood of judgment because of the wickedness of humanity and fallen angels, as we have seen. Yet he also sent An ark to rescue his people. Now, interestingly, the early Christians did not wear crosses around their necks or put them on their places of worship or on the walls of their home. No, the the cross was a wicked picture of Roman execution. You know what they would sometimes draw, however? even in their catacombs, they would draw pictures of the Ark. Because of course the Ark is Christ, who came to rescue his people from the flood of God's judgment. So again, speaking to the person here this morning who does not understand, you do not understand yourself to be a Christian I mean, I recognize that all this talk of judgment and hell may feel not just foreign, but perhaps downright dark and medieval to you. I mean, preacher, haven't you heard John Lennon's song? Imagine there's no heaven. It's easy if you try. No hell below us, above us, only sky. Lenin, like so many in his generation and in ours Thought that by removing judgment, all judgment, they would usher in an era of beautiful peace and tranquility Well, in fact, Lennon should have read the book of Ecclesiastes. It's also set under heaven, which is to say, Ecclesiastes tries to envision a world in which there is no final justice. No heaven above, no hell below. And until the very last few verses, that that's the world, precisely what Lennon is thinking about. That's the world, Ecclesiastes And what the inspired poet discovered, however, is that removing the above heaven perspective and looking at it only below heaven Removing that eternal measuring rod, removing God's judgment, makes life completely and totally meaningless That's what he concludes. The wise dies like the fool, he says. Evil emerges from the place of justice, he says. An honest day of hard work Kills you, he says. Everything is vain. Under the sun, apart from heaven or hell, everything is vain and meaningless. There is no peace There's only futility and chaos and wretchedness. Lyndon's imagined world is not so satisfying or peace-filled after all. Friend, the very idea of judgment, which our generation resists, is meaningful because life really does have worth and value. Friend, your life, your decisions, your actions really count for something. It's not arbitrary. Tumbleweed floating along in the wind. Your life, friend, is worthy. And because, friend, your life is worthy and valuable and precious. Everything we do will be evaluated. The question will be asked: Have you been living up to the value with which I have created you, the worth which I have created, which my law reveals? Says God. Have you loved me with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength? Have you loved your neighbor as yourself? Because they're valuable and I'm valuable and you're valuable. You take away the judgment, you take away all of that. He got nothing. Chaos and loss and destruction. And because we've not loved God, because we've not loved our neighbor as our We have earned God's judgment. Some of you know that already, some of you don't. For those of you who do know it, Christ is the ark of rescue and salvation By dying on the cross, he paid the judgment, he paid the flood, he paid the hell that we deserve. And by rising again, he indicated that he had defeated it, he had vanquished it, he had satisfied it. And then he calls us now to Do that for which we were created by worshiping him, repenting of our sins, following after and worshiping him, ascribing to him all glory, honor, and strength. And when we do that, we can know, verse 11 says, God will give us the strength and the peace, a greater peace than John Lennon ever imagined Brothers and sisters of Chevrolet Baptists, the foreshadowing of God's judgment in the world, like Noah's flood, like the various storms that you and I encounter. and endure are opportunities for us to give him praise. So I just, in conclusion, ask you to think back maybe on the few of the storms you've encountered in this life. Life, things you've endured, whether lost jobs, broken relationships, failed health, opposition of colleagues or bosses Little signs of the fallenness and futility and the curse in this world that Ecclesiastes and the various acts of judgment in the Bible ask us to reflect. And thinking back, friends, to those past storms, did God give you the strength and peace to endure? I'm confident the answer is yes. So whatever storms you're presently in, whatever storms you may be looking forward to ahead. anticipating, will he not also give you the strength and the peace to endure those? Will you not praise him for those, those trials? Think of how the disciples panicked on the Sea of Galilee when the storms hit, all the while Jesus asleep in the boat, his head Very concrete detail, asleep on a cushion, says the gospel writer. It's laying out, head on a cushion. There's a storm. Jesus. He stands up, peace, be still, he says So amidst that storm, friends, with Jesus in the boat, is there any safer place for you to be Can you not lie down and rest? Put your head on a cushion. Because you're with the Son of God Himself. And he's yours. And we're his. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, forgive us for our fear. Forgive us for not worshiping you against amidst the storms, amidst the judgments of this world. Forgive us for not giving you the praise that you are due, even in the judgment of the wicked. Have mercy on us, we ask. Teach us to praise you because you are great and glorious. Mighty and worthy of all praise and honor. In the name of Christ, amen