You can go ahead and open in your Bibles to uh Psalm thirty-nine. Psalm thirty-nine. Uh if you're using one of the Bibles around you, there on a chair you'll find that on page 467. Uh actually most of it is on page 468, but it starts on page 467 of those Bibles that we've provided. Uh you heard me mention in in uh the pastoral prayer, we've just recognized recently two new elders and a new deacon. I do want to have a time uh of public installation of those officers to their roles. Uh and we're gonna do that in January. I wanted to do also, I think, some specific teaching on those offices. And so in the new year, we'll have a sermon set apart for the work of eldering and then the work of deaconing. And uh we'll install those new officers at that time. But for this morning, we're going to be in Psalm 39. And I'll read it in a few minutes. Uh in 2010, my grandmother My my father's mother died, and at the cemetery where her funeral service took place, uh my uncle, who was her son, my d my dad's brother Uh he was buried there also. And so after the uh graveside ceremony for my grandmother, my dad wanted to walk up A little distance, it was around 50 yards, I think, to see the tombstone of his brother, my uncle. I was named after him. And that led to a pretty remarkable moment in my life, one that I remember all these years later, because it was it was sobering to get there, and I wasn't prepared for this moment. I'm walking up to a tombstone and I realize that it's my uncle and I'm named after him. But I was not prepared for what hit me as I look down at a at a Gravestone that said Larry Lazarus. He didn't have a middle name, so that's what it said. Now obviously, and the dates obviously were not pertinent, but to see Larry Lazarus there. Like, oh I was at the time thirty two years old And we all understand, right, that we're going to die. But you don't always have moments like that where it it hits you. How fleeting life can be. That was an important moment for me. I I think of it often. That's why I'm telling it to you 15 years later. For centuries, there's been a Latin phrase that captures the experience that I had on that spring afternoon. The phrase is memento mori. Any of you heard that? Latin students. I know there's some Latin students here. Memento mori, it means remember death or remember you must die. I don't know that it's as prominent or as popular a phrase today as it's been in years past. It's unlikely that Memento Mori is going to be trending on Twitter this week. Uh I couldn't find, I actually did look, I couldn't find any any gifts on my phone that said Memento Mori But a few hundred years ago, it would not have been uncommon to see those Latin words engraved on tombstones Perhaps with images of a skull flanked by wings or a skeleton holding a sickle, or maybe most commonly. Hourglasses, like we just sang about, hourglasses running as the sands of time expire And I wonder this morning if you're feeling like that's a little this is kinda morbid, Larry, like Hey, Reverend Mr. Grinch, thanks for celebrating your first Christmas with us. I actually do have Christmas on my mind in selling you what I've just told you. I want to help you this morning, as we open up the word, to deeply understand and appreciate the words that we're going to sing later in this service. A very familiar Christmas hymn, maybe more familiar than the sands of time are sinking, or stricken, smitten, and afflicted. Words that we're going to sing at the end of the service, mild he lays his glory by, born that man no more may die. That's what I want to really think about with you this morning. So with that in view, follow along with me as I read Psalm 39. You can give particular focus. I will try to cover the details, at least give you an overview of the psalm as a whole, but really I'm going to be putting most of our attention on verses four through six. of this psalm, so you can pay particular uh attention when we get to those verses. Here Psalm 39 this morning to the choir master to Jeduthan, a psalm of David. I said, I will guard my ways, that I may not sin with my tongue. I will guard my mouth with a muzzle, so long as the wicked are in my presence. I was mute and silent. I held my peace to no avail, and my distress grew worse My heart became hot within me. As I mused, the fire burned. Then I spoke with my tongue. O Lord! Make me know my end and what is the measure of my days. Let me know how fleeting I am Behold, you have made my days a few hand breaths, and my lifetime is as nothing before you. Surely all mankind stands as a mere breath. Selah. Surely a man goes about as a shadow. Surely for nothing they are in turmoil. Man heaps up wealth and does not know who will gather. And now, O Lord, for what do I wait? My hope is in you. Deliver me from all my transgressions. Do not make me the scorn of the fool I am mute. I do not open my mouth, for it is you who have done it. Remove your stroke from me. I am spent by the hostility of your hand. When you discipline a man with rebukes for sin, you consume like a moth what is dear to him. Surely all mankind is a mere breath. Selah. Hear my prayer, O Lord, and give ear to my cry. Hold not your peace at my tears, for I am a sojourner with you, a guest, like all my fathers Look away from me, that I may smile again before I depart and am no more. This is God's word, brothers and sisters. Thanks be to God. Let's pray. Father, we pray that you would help us as we come to this Sobering word, we pray that you would help us to be sobered as we're in need of that. And we do pray that you would be using this time reflecting upon this sobering word to help us treasure the great gift that we have in the celebration of Christmas. We ask for all this in Jesus' name. Amen. Blaise Pascal was a sixteenth-century French philosopher, theologian. And I I don't know if he was acquainted with, I don't know if he used the phrase memento more often, but it seems like that mindset captured him. He said in his famous work, The Ponseys, he he said, imagine a number of men in chains. All under the sentence of death, some of whom are each day executed. He used actually a graph a more graphic word than that, but I'll just use the word executed Imagine a number of men in chains, all under the sentence of death, some of whom are each day executed in the sight of others. Those remaining see their own condition in that of their fellows. And looking at each other with grief and despair, await their turn. This, Pascal said, is an image of the human condition. That's the way people thought about death in previous centuries. It was even employed the reflection upon death and the sobriety of thinking about one's own mortality was even used in the education of children. So there's an 18th century teaching tool called the New England Primer, which was a tool that taught kids how to read. You know, uh A is for alligator, B is for banana And in the New England primer for the letter T, the primer says time cuts down all, both great and small. Or for the letter X, Xerxes, that starts with an X, not a Z, kids. Xerxes the Great did die, and so must you and I. Now at this point you are starting to question my sanity a little bit. This guy had a bad week? Like what like we're gonna give him a microphone on the Christmas service But historically, it has not been unusual for Advent reflections to focus on what have been known as the four last things. I learned that in a podcast recently, so you can blame Sinclair Ferguson for this if you want. Sinclair Ferguson, in his podcast, Things Unseen, uh, made mention of the fact that in previous days, the four last things are death. judgment, heaven, and hell. And it was common for pastors even to preach on these things during the Advent season Because we understand this, right? That Jesus was not born in a manger because it was good for business in corporate America. It was not to create a gift-giving season, although we're all in favor of a gift-giving season, right? The reason Jesus was born, kids, this is important for you to know. Kids, the reason Jesus was born was not to put presents under the tree. But it was to address the bitter reality of death. Christmas is joyful because it marks the dawn of death's defeat It marks the beginning of the death of death. That's why it's something to be excited about. So we need to be well acquainted with this last enemy as the scriptures refer to death, we need to be well acquainted with this enemy that we do oftentimes prefer to ignore. And these words of King David, almost 3,000 years old now, these words help us to do that. I wonder if you have a go-to passage to help you reflect on the brevity of your life and the certainty of death. Sometimes we have go-to passages in the fight against maybe anxiety or lust. I wonder if you've got a go-to passage to help you remember that you're going to die. I would commend these verses to you, verses four through six. I think you would be helped in ways perhaps that you might not realize if you spent some time this week committing verses four through six to memory. So that's the passage that we want to think about for a few minutes this morning. And to do that, I'll give you a summary sentence that will just hopefully focus our thoughts on the psalm. And the summary sentence would be this. Life is a fleeting, frustrating breath. But there's hope in the Lord. The newborn Christ. That made it a Christmas sermon. Life is a fleeting, frustrating breath, but there's hope in the Lord, the newborn Christ. Life is a fleeting, frustrating breath. Now that's not all there is to say about life. You understand that But it's an important thing to say. It's what David says here in Psalm 39 once he finally does actually open his mouth. You see there that this prayer in verses four through six, this lament over how fleeting and frustrating a breath life is, it arises out of King David's experience of adversity. We don't know exactly what the adversity was. Verse 1 refers to wicked people in his presence. And if we look just at the previous Psalm, Psalm 38, which has a lot of parallels to this one we're looking at, Psalm 38 maybe gives us a glimpse into what it was that David was dealing with, what was going on with these wicked people in his presence. Uh Psalm 38, verse 12 says, Those who seek my life lay their snares, those who seek my hurt speak of ruin, and meditate treachery all day long. It seems as though David, this was maybe coming in the period of time when a Saul, King Saul, was trying to hunt down and kill David, and there were wicked people sent out trying to snuff him out. David is concerned in the midst of these adversities that he not lash out with his tongue in sinful ways. Perhaps through complaining to the Lord about his distress or perhaps sinfully rebuking his enemies, he doesn't want to give his enemies any occasion to gloat Or to blaspheme. He was resolved to keep silent. And that's not easy to do. Kids, I wonder if you can relate, if you've ever had a sibling or friends that were provoking you, that were making you angry, that were doing things that were wrong or unfair. And it's very hard to just keep silent and not blurt out and yell. But you know that when you do that, usually you make things worse actually. You're trying to make things better, but you actually make things worse. And so David says, I don't want to open my mouth and speak. But the distress is burning within him. And finally he does cry out. He speaks up, but not to his enemies. But to the Lord. Oh Lord, verse 4. Make me know my end, and what is the measure of my days? Let me know how fleeting I am. So life is a fleeting, frustrating breath. David's prayer here is not that the Lord would tell him what specific day it is that he's going to die. That's not what David is praying for. He's asking the Lord, help him, help me to grasp, help me to be mindful and live mindfully of how short my days really are, how fleeting he is. Just a few hand breadths, it says there in verse 5. A hand breadth is is the width of your hand, just a few inches. Even the longest earthly life. I checked yesterday. It's at least right now, currently, a woman, British woman named Ethel. Caterham, Caterham, residing in a nursing home in Surrey, England, born on August 21st, 1909. A hundred and sixteen years old, but that is as nothing Before the eternal and everlasting God. It's mere inches in the endless span of time that is eternity. Our days, even the longest, fullest lifetimes of them, are a breath As as fleeting here for a moment and then gone as the steam on your morning cup of coffee. A shadow, he says. As Moses would say in Psalm 90, like a dream quickly forgotten. Or as grass that flourishes in the morning and then by evening has faded and withered David's not sugarcoating this. But he is serving us. Because this is the end of all mankind. This is your end. This is my end. But that's what he goes on to say there in the middle of verse 5. You see that the turn that happens. He's talking about himself. My days are a hand breath, how fleeting am I? And then at the end of verse 5, surely all mankind stands as a mere breath. That word there in verse 5, mankind, is the Hebrew word Adam. Adam. And that's instructive for us, isn't it? Because it points us not just to the reality of death, but The cause of these dreadful things that David is leading us to reflect on It is interesting here, just a parenthetical note here, this superscription, we oftentimes pass over them when we read through the Psalms. It says they're to the choir master, to Jeduthan. What we know about Judah and we read about it him in a few different places in the Old Testament in 1 Chronicles 16. He was appointed by David to lead in the public worship of God's people. So David is instructing us here. He's teaching us a song to sing. He's teaching the people of Israel. Jeduthan, here's a song to sing about what a fleeting breath life is. And we sing songs like that. We blossom and flourish as leaves on the tree and wither and perish, but naught changeth thee. Right, Mike Clauser? We like that song. He's teaching the people here and he's teaching them about the cause of sin when he says, Adam, all Adam is a breath. Because we know that the reason why there is such a thing as death in the world is because of Adam's sin and all of our sin in Adam. The Apostle Paul reflects on this in the fifth chapter of his letter to the Romans. Therefore, just as sin came into the world through one man and death through sin. And so death spread to all men because all sinned in the Garden of Eden. Adam was given a command to not eat from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. He was told that on the day that he would eat it, surely he would die. Because the wages of sin is death. To sin against God Is to reject the goodness and wisdom of God in his commandments by choosing to go our own way rather than submit to his good and loving and wise way. And that is an outrage. To sin against God, even one time to sin against God, to disregard Him, to disobey Him, to defy Him And that outrage is depicted in the physical pain and the spiritual horror of death. In this sense, no one dies of natural causes. We use that term. He or she died of natural causes. No, death is not natural. Death is the result of sin. That's why it grieves us so. It's not natural. That's why we lament it. That's why even atheists shed tears over death. So when I stood over my mother's grave Back in June of 2018, and I watched my three children With no active memories of their very generous, loving Grandmother. She suffered for seven years. I've shared this story with some of you. She was in a bed for seven years in a semi-vegetative state before she died in 2000 And when I watched my my children pick up a tiny shovel and scoop a little bit of dirt and put the dirt on that casket As I tried in that moment to catch my breath, like literally, physically, and wipe away the tears from my eyes, my soul was not just tasting grief over the loss of my mother, but grief over the bitterness of sin. We don't lament sin the way we ought. But when someone we love is taken from us, we grieve We experience pain. And all that pain is meant to show us this is the fruit of sin. This is what sin does to the world Maybe that's why David's outward sufferings as he's experiencing them here in Psalm 39 move him to ponder his own mortality. So how how about you here this morning, beloved? When was the last time you thought about the fact that you are going to die? Like really, not just for a fleeting moment, but like actually thought about that. Thought about what hymn you'd like to have sung at your funeral. Some of you listen as I do to a podcast called Room for Nuance and the uh the the The guy who hosts that podcast, Sean DeMars, he'll he'll usually ask a series of questions to the people, the guests on the podcast at the end. One of the questions he asks them often is what hymn do you want sung at your funeral? And it's interesting, usually they do video and audio, and I've not seen all of them, but when I see them, usually the people, and these are oftentimes Christian theologians, pastors, they they they're sort of taken aback by the question Have you thought about that? When was the last time you thought about all that you stand to lose? When the measure of your days reaches its full extent, and when you take your very last breath in this life I think it's a part of my responsibility as a pastor of this church to prepare you for that. The work of pastoring involves many things. Right, there's of course teaching God's word, and there's counseling, and there's care and there's visits, there's equipping the saints for ministry, and in so much as the Spirit of God would help me modeling a godly life of integrity. But those things, frankly, those are important things, but they pale in comparison to that moment, that final hour, those final seconds. Alone with God when you are your eyes are about to be closed for the very last time. There's nothing bigger, there's nothing more significant that I can prepare you for than that Are you thinking about that? Let's keep thinking about it for just a couple of more minutes. In his book, Remember Death, Matt McCullough, it's a great book. Great Christmas gift if you're looking for gifts Some you're some of you are growing in s sympathy, empathy for my wife and my children perhaps In his book Remember Death, Matt McCullough talks about visiting a bizarre piece of public art in Cambridge, England called the Corpus Clock. Uh there's no second hand that circles around you know every minute as we're accustomed to seeing on a clock like that clock back there, although I don't know that it's actually working. Uh there's a ring around the clock's face that rotates click by click with each passing second. And perched on the top of the ring, there is this hideous-looking mechanical locust. I looked it up. It is hideous looking. I thought it was hideous looking. And the whole mechanism operates when the arms of this locust reach forward and grab the ring and pull it towards its mouth one second at a time. And when there's 30 seconds left in each minute, the locust's mouth opens. And then when the minute passes, the mouth snaps shut. That minute is gone. The time is eaten, as it were, never to be had again And and McCullough points out that's that's a haunting metaphor on the reality that we just don't like to pay much attention to. It's too hard. I don't understand it, you're uncomfortable right now. I'm uncomfortable right now. But it's it's something we because it's just it's too overwhelming, it's too devastating to really think about that everything that you have Your healthy body, your marketable skills, your important job Your physical attractiveness or your sharp mind or your most treasured possessions, your most precious relationships, everything that you have will one day be everything that you've lost Even if you get everything you want out of life, everything that you believe you need to be fully happy, in the end, it won't be finally yours. You can't hold on to it. I think that's what David's referring to there in verse 6 when he says, surely for nothing therein turmoil. Man heaps up wealth and does not know who will gather. None of those wonderful things we try to hold on to in this life, none of those things can shelter us from dying. And in a hundred years from now, even your own flesh and blood, even your own relatives will have a difficult time if they can even remember your name. The more you have, the more you have to lose. Death separates us from everyone and everything that we love. And you're 29 minutes and 11 seconds closer to it than when I stood up here and said, please turn to Psalm 39. It's not pleasant. Nobody wants to think about this. When people think about it for a moment, like at a funeral. You watch this the next time you're at a funeral. Within seconds of that service being over, people will be on their phones, rolling, social media. Maybe I could binge watch something on YouTube. But we can't escape it. And I don't think we should. That our detachment from death, our denial of it, our disregard of it, is actually putting us out of line with the Christmas spirit. If you want to taste the joy of Christmas, we need to do things like this from time to time. We need to look carefully and painfully and honestly at the fleeting, frustrating breath that life is, because it's coming in the blink of an eye, death will be ours, and not just if if we are outside of Christ. with our natural condition of alienation from God. Not just physical death, but actually spiritual death, what the Bible calls the second death. Always dying and never actually to finally be dead. We need to think about this because it's only when we're really thinking about it It's only when it's real and lively and vivid in our souls of how dreadful a thing death is that our hearts can really Thrill over what we sang earlier, disperse the gloomy clouds by night and death's dark shadows put to flight. Rejoice, rejoice, Chevrolet Baptist Church, Emmanuel has come. To ransom us, to rescue us from this bitter enemy of death. Life is a fleeting, frustrating breath, but there's hope in the Lord. The newborn Christ. Now that hope in Psalm 39 is a it's It's a it's a seed form here, right? David wrote this psalm, as I mentioned, about a thousand years before the birth of Christ. But after this meditation on life's transience, on the the vapor, the breath that his own life is David is moved to affirm that nothing and no one in this life is strong and stable enough so as to bear the weight of his hopes. Only the Lord can bear that weight. You see there in verse 7. This grieving and lamenting and angst over the the brevity of life. And now, O Lord, for what do I wait? My hope is in you And yet here in Psalm thirty-nine is it's a very muted hope, isn't it? It's a dashing hope, actually. At least as this psalm plays out. It would have been sweet. You know, if I'm thinking, I'm reading this psalm, I'm studying it all week, I'm thinking, it would be so sweet if it just ended right there in verse 7 Things are hard, I'm suffering. There's wicked people out to get me. Lord, I I'm I'm dying. I'm a vapor. I'm a myth. We're all a breath. But I'm hoping in you. Praise God. Psalm 40. That's not what happens though. As David expresses this hope, his distress in the rest of the Psalm just seems to intensify actually. Did you know Notice that. Look down there at your Bible again. He's longing, verse 8, longing for deliverance from his sins. and to be freed from the scorn of fools who are mocking him, who would rejoice in his destruction. At verse 9, he's feeling again the futility of speech. Why even speak? Because God, you're the one who's done it. You're the one who's brought about this painful discipline. He feels verse 10 the stroke of God's hand be upon him. He feels spent by God's hostility He's finding all that is dear, verse 11, consumed like a feeble and frail moth. Have you ever killed a moth? It does not take much. Got a moth flying around. You just get one little piece of paper. I mean i i you don't need a big thick magazine or something. It's like Uh boom. By the time you even pick it up to take it outside, maybe it's it's already disintegrating. That's what it feels like God is doing to David. His life, verse 12, is marked by loud cries and tears for God's eye and ear to be towards him. He's feeling himself to be a stranger and an alien in this world. And then in verse 13, finally he just longs for a little peace and quiet. He He said he basically said, God, turn away from me. This disciplining hand. Turn it away. That I might just have a little peace and quiet before my life is finally extinguished. And that's it. That's the Psalm. No resolution. No glad tidings of great joy. Just the longing that this this hostile hand of the Lord might be turned away from David, his servant. It's a hope expressed, but it's a sorrowful kind of hope. It's a hope that is crying out for a future fulfillment. And David actually, when he writes this psalm, it seems to me he has experienced the fulfillment, at least a part of it. I mentioned the superscription at the top and that note to the choir master to Jeduthan. Juduthan was appointed by David after the threats to Saul's life from King Saul had already been Ended. He's now the king. He's in Jerusalem. The Ark is in Jerusalem. He's appointing officers to engage in the worship of God. And he's saying, here's a song. For you to sing. He's come through the trial, he's come through the devastation, at least in this particular uh instance, and he's now instructing Jeduthin: here's how to teach the people of Israel to worship. Because it seems to me like David is anticipating God's people are going to continue to have these experiences. They're going to have the experiences of enemies and adversaries and trials and discouragement. and the awareness of the fleeting nature of life and the need to declare and resolve even in the midst of the furnace, I have hope in the Lord. And he's come through it, but he's saying, write this down because my people, the people of God, need to hear, have, they need to have hymns like this. How do you say, so what do you do if you're in that kind of a place? You are just made to aware you're ex your suffering and you're aware my life is a vapor. How do you hope in the midst of that? The answer is Jesus. Jesus is the way. Jesus is the one who abolished death and brought life and immortality to light through the gospel. And his his fingerprints, the fingerprints of Jesus, or we might better put it, the scars, the nail marks of Jesus are really all over this psalm if you read it again. It was Jesus, wasn't it, who guarded his mouth, who was silent before his enemies, like a sheep before its shearers. Is silent, so he opened not his mouth. Even Pilate marveled, why aren't you defending yourself? He kept his mouth quiet before his accusers It was Jesus who offered up loud cries and tears to him who was able to save him from death, that is his father, and he was heard, we're told, because of his reverence submission, Hebrews 5. It was Jesus whose defeat was being celebrated by mocking and scornful enemies, taunting him. Come down from the cross if you're the Messiah. You saved others. Why can't you just come down and save yourself? It was Jesus who endured the stroke of his father's justice. He was stricken. And afflicted. He was the one spent by the hostility of God's hand, consumed on the cross like a moth. It was the will of the Lord to crush him. It was Jesus who cried out, hear, give ear, hold not your peace at my tears. And yet on the cross his father turned his face Away until Jesus departed and was no more buried in a cold dark tomb, so that the wounds which mar the chosen one would be used to bring many sons and daughters to glory. You see the the longing and the aching that David expresses in Psalm 39 is a longing and aching that Christmas fulfills. He left his father's throne. Jesus did. God's very own son came From heaven and he came to die. He came to bear in his body the curse for sin that we deserve to experience, not just in the absence of our fleeting breath, but in an eternity of Jesus came to endure that. He came to be struck with the rod of God's Almighty justice. He came to feel the forsakenness of God turning his face away from what should have been us and our sins, stripped and mocked by crowds. As we sang, stricken and smitten and afflicted, crushed with indescribable miseries under the undiluted wrath of God. That Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the author of life, would come. And on the cross, we're actually told in the scriptures that he breathed his last. We all are living, experiencing, my life is a breath, and Jesus actually breathed his last so that he could, after rising from the dead, legitimately offer to every human being in the world and every one of you sitting here today truly I say to you if anyone keeps my word he will never see death He holds that out to us as the one who has overcome death, born that man no more may die. And you say, well, but Christians still die. They do die physically, but Jesus has taken the sting out of death. He has taken death as an enemy out of the picture, so that our death no longer is an enemy, but actually. A sweet friend that ushers us into the fullness of joy and pleasures forevermore that our hearts long for. My heart and my flesh may fail, but God is the strength of my And my portion forever. He's actually tasted death in such a way. That when the final book of the Bible revisits the death of a believer, the death of a saint, it says, blessed are those. Who die in the Lord. Jesus, by his advent, by his coming, has abolished death and made it into the best friend of the believer. To the wicked man, Matthew Henry wrote about Psalm 39, to the wicked man, death is the end of all joys. To a godly man, and women and children, you know he means that too. To a godly man, it is the end of all grief That's what Jesus bought for us by coming and living and dying and rising. If you're here Visiting with us today. And maybe you don't, maybe you're not sure what you believe. You're not sure about this whole Christianity thing. Oh, I urge you to please consider this remarkable man, Jesus, and this remarkable claim that Jesus himself made. If anyone would keep my word, He will never see death. Surely you know the sorrows and the unfulfilled desires and the fading joys of life in this breath of a world that we live in. And there may be a lot that you don't understand or maybe that you're not sure that you jive with about the Christian faith. Maybe you don't like the the sexual ethics that we promote, or the institutions, or the conflicts that you think are there with science, or maybe you've encountered some arrogant or mean-spirited followers of Jesus. And in time, it is worth that you thinking about some of those things. But I would urge you, if you're here thinking about Christianity, to not let any of those things distract you from thinking about the most important thing. important things and that is that you're going to die. And yet there is one who came 2,000 years ago and we're still talking about him today. He came and he said, if you would keep my word, if you would look to me, if you would turn away from yourself and if you would look to me and believe in me, you will never see death. We would urge you to start there. And we would be glad to help you think about that more. Christian brothers and sisters, this should give us great motivation to spred out those invitations to our Christmas. service. And even more importantly than that, though that's important, to spread this gospel word everywhere we go. We do not need to be ashamed of the gospel. We do not need to fear being awkward or being irrelevant with people. We are going around, we are carrying with our lips the message that proclaims deliverance from death. Why would we be ashamed? of that. Is there someone that you'll interact with tomorrow maybe or this week who might possibly say to you What did you do with your weekend? How was your weekend? Anybody like that? Maybe you could say, you know? I was at church, I heard a sermon about death. Would you, you know, I would you mind if I would you take 40-ish minutes and I send it to you? You could listen to it. I would love to know what you think about it Because Jesus and feeling the hope of deliverance from death is so sweet to me. I would love to have you listen to it and think about it. Do not be ashamed of spreading this good news. You don't need my mouth either. You could do it yourself, you know that Oh, we have great reason to spread the word. We've got great reasons also, brothers and sisters, for resilience and steadfastness in the midst of our affliction. Because as we wait for that glorious day when all of our sorrows are gone and only joy increasing in intensity forever is our lot, as we wait for that day. Well, we find ourselves the way David spoke of himself at the end of this psalm as sojourners. We're exiles. We're pilgrims We're we're crying out, Lord deliver me, hear my cry, hold not your peace at my tears. We may have different reasons, there may be different earthly experiences of futility. That are driving those cries and those prayers, but we've all got them. And we look longingly to the promise at the very end of the Bible. I am coming soon, he says. Surely, three times in Psalm 39, there is a surely, surely, surely, surely you're a vapor, surely you're a breath, surely all mankind is suffering from futility and at the very end of the Bible Jesus says surely I'm coming soon and I think Psalm 39 is teaching us That there are certain promises, the fulfillment of which we're only going to see when Jesus comes back, face to face, and we see him. But when he comes, and when we see him You will find not a single promise of God that He's made, nor a single longing that your heart has known will go unfulfilled You will know and you will proclaim with joy that Jesus has in fact done all things well So this Christmas, beloved, let's actually dare to pray with King David. Oh Lord, make me know my end And what is the measure of my days? Let me know how fleeting I am. Let's remember death And use it to worship the newborn Christ, who is now the risen and reigning Christ, our hope in life and in death Father, we ask that you would help us to Think soberly even about our own mortality. Father, there there may be some here. Maybe they're adults, maybe they're kids, teenagers. Not sure what they believe really. Help them to reckon with the fact that they're going to die. And that's going to be a bigger deal than all the things that we might be worked up about and thinking about this week. We pray that as we would reflect on death, we would find the comfort that is there in Jesus. Born that men no more may die. Stricken, smitten, and afflicted, that we might never be confounded. Who set our hope on him Help us, Father, freshly this morning to set our hope upon you. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.