Well, good morning, brothers and sisters. Good to be with you once again to sing with you, to share God's word with you. And glory be to God for his salvation that he offers us in Christ. Amen. And in this season, we get the opportunity to share that with people who don't know that or who may have forgotten that. One of the ways our church tries to do that each year is through our Christmas service that we will have on December 13th. Jonathan Stocklin mentioned that already, but I just wanted to double-click on that. These invitations are beautiful, but they are not meant to just sit on your fridge. We hope you'll take it, take a note of it so that you will come yourself, but also take several of them, grab them, invite a neighbor, friend, coworker, family member, even one that you might see this week at Thanksgiving. See if they'll join you for that time, join us for that time altogether. All right? Let me pray, and then we will get to God's word Lord, there is none like you. You are strong and mighty in power, and yet you are also gentle and lowly and mighty to save. We don't have enough words to brag on you, Lord. But we do come to your word right now humbly, asking that you help us to understand it, to believe it, to obey it, because we know you desire to use it. To convict us, to correct us, and change us. Because you want us to look like Jesus as a result. And we ask that you would do that work through the power of your Holy Spirit. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. In my household coming growing up, we we would often have these impromptu conversations. Where we would get together, the five of us, as a family. They occurred normally when there was some on ongoing conflict that wasn't resolved Or when there was unspoken tension in the household that needed to be addressed, or when we, collectively as a family, for one reason or a dozen other reasons were not representing the family name well. These meetings, these conversations, were family meetings. Maybe you've had some of them yourself. Mom or dad or mom and dad would call the family to come together, stop everything that they're doing, sit down listen so we could work through what we needed to work through. Because if we did not work through what needed to be worked through, if we did not deal with what what was going on, then we could not move forward as a family in a healthy way. And if we continued in those patterns, whatever those patterns were, we would also bring dishonor to our family name. And fellowship will remain broken. As God's people, we have been brought into God's family through the blood of His Son Jesus Christ. We are part of the household of the faith We have been adopted into his loving family, which means we've also adopted a new set of values, a new way of living in this world, but not living like the world. But as any good parent, boss, pastor, or leader knows, yes, life is hard, circumstances are challenging, we do have issues that happen towards us But families, churches, companies, corporations, ministries can also crumble from within Not just from without. And that seems to be what Nehemiah is addressing in Nehemiah chapter 4, chapter 5. But please meet me in Nehemiah chapter 5. That's on page 401 of the Bibles that are around you. Nehemiah is leading God's people to do God's work. And in this work, they were rebuilding walls, the walls of Jerusalem, but their mission went beyond buildings and walls. Their mission was to restore. Because God's plan then, just like God's plan now, is to restore his remnant people to right fellowship and right worship of him. So Nehemiah was the king's cupbearer, turned spiritual leader, and as we'll see even in this chapter, he was appointed as governor of Judah. And the people of Judah gathered in Jerusalem from near and far to help rebuild these walls. We talked about that several weeks ago. They gathered for the work in chapter 3. And we saw in chapter 4 a couple of weeks ago, their work was being opposed. And their work will continue to be opposed. We'll see that in chapter 6 next week, Lord willing. So their resolve continued to be tested. And while it was tested outwardly, God's people needed to have an inward resolve. For their relationships with one another. They needed to restore fellowship with each other because without doing so, they would not represent the Lord well. So here's the main idea for our time together in God's Word. If you are taking notes this morning, the Lord will restore his remnant people. Remember, that's his plan. He will restore his remnant people. As we resolve to remain in fellowship, fear him, and guard our witness. Remain in fellowship, fear him, and guard our witness. What we'll do with the Lord's help is go through Nehemiah chapter 5 and unpack those three resolutions Those three resolves that we should have. Remaining in right fellowship, fearing God, and guarding our witness. Start with resolution number one. Remain in right fellowship. I will read Nehemiah chapter 5, starting in verse 1. It's God's word. Now there arose a great outcry of the people and of their wives against their Jewish brothers. There were those who said, With our sons and our daughters, we are many. So let us get grain that we may eat and keep alive. There were also those who said, We are mortgaging our fields, our vineyards, and our houses to get grain because of the famine. There were also those who said, We have borrowed money for the king's tax on our fields and our vineyards. Now, our flesh is as the flesh of our brothers, our children as their children, yet we are forcing our sons and daughters to be slaves And some of our daughters have already been enslaved, but it is not in our power to help it, for the other men have our fields and our vineyards. We'll stop right there for now. Again, God's people must resolve to remain in right fellowship with each other. So, this expansive work on the walls of rebuilding the walls of Jerusalem, it called for a lot of different workers. Men, women, and children were there. They were helping to rebuild the walls, but many of them were impoverished. And they didn't have enough food to eat. They needed food to stay alive. And as we see there in that passage we just read about in verse 3, there was a famine. So, in order to stay alive, these people had to take extreme measures. They were mortgaging their fields and their vineyards and their homes, which means that they were letting other people use their property for money. But they didn't have access to it anymore. And others had to borrow money from other people due to the tax that King Artaxerxes had on all of their properties. Remember, they were in Judah. They were going back to Jerusalem to rebuild the walls, but King Artaxerxes still had rule over those areas. And others even sold their children into slavery due to their poverty. Children in the ancient world would have many times been sold off into slavery as indentured servants for time in order to pay off a debt that they owed. This type of temporary debt servitude was actually permitted in God's law, in the Mosaic Law. You can read about that in Deuteronomy chapter 15, for example. These indentured servants, they were meant to work for a time for six years to pay off their debt, and then to be sent out free with the best of the flock. The best of the best. The point that God intended with all of that was to help God's people get to get out of the debt that they were in, and also so that they would not, in trying to get out of their debt, fall into the hands of God's enemies. God's word strictly forbids a different kind of slavery that we also read about and hear about in the Bible. The kind of slavery that existed in Egypt. Where there was no debt servitude. There was no payment that needed to be paid off. This was not an agreement to then send them off in freedom and also send them off with help. This was man stealing. That's what happened in Egypt. Man stealing. That's what happened in the United States. Man stealing. That's what happens even right now in nations all over the world with human trafficking. That was forbidden specifically by God's law in Exodus 21, verse 16. But the issue in Nehemiah chapter 5 is not that these people were just trying to pay off their debt. That wasn't the issue. The issue was that they were poor. And God's people were not being generous with the poor. That was the problem here. Look at verse 2 again of the passage. Where it says, for there were those who said, With our sons and daughters, we are so many. Remember, they're going, they're leaving their homes, many of them going to Judah, going to Jerusalem to help to rebuild the walls. Let us get grain that we may eat and keep alive. They weren't asking to be paid to have their debt paid off. They were asking for food. That's what they needed. So the problem of their poverty and the poverty the poverty of God's people here should have been solved by God's people. But instead of helping, the rich among them were oppressing those and exploiting those who were poor. That was the problem. And that was also wrong according to God's law Deuteronomy fifteen seven. If among you one of your brothers should become poor, in any of your towns within your land that the Lord your God is giving you, you shall not harden your heart or shut your hand against your poor brother. But you shall open your hand to him, and lend him sufficient for his knee, whatever it may be. Deuteronomy twenty three You shall not charge interest on loans to your brothers, interest on money, interest on food, interest on anything that is lent for interest. And God's people were doing all of the above at that time. They're doing the exact opposite of what God had already commanded his people to do. What people were doing this? Who was responsible for this? It was the nobles, the officials, and even the priests. Look at verse 6 Nehemiah says, I was very angry when I heard their outcry and these words. I took counsel with myself, and I brought charges against the nobles and the officials And I said to them, You are exacting interest, each from his brother. And I held a great assembly against them and said to them, We, as far as we are able, have brought back our Jewish brothers who have been sold to the nations. But you even sell your brothers that they may be sold to us? They were silent and could not find a word to say. So I said, the thing that you are doing is not good. Ought you not walk in the fear of our God to prevent the taunts of the nations, our enemies? Moreover, I and my brothers and my servants are lending them money and grain. Let us abandon this exacting of interest. We'll stop there right now. Who's responsible? It was the nobles, it was the officials, and it was even the priests. Scroll down to verse 12. Then they said, We will restore these and require nothing from them. So they responded, We will do as you say. But look at this part. And I called the priest and made them swear to do as they have promised. Nobles, officials, priests, those with status, those with prestige, those who, if you go to chapter 3, many of them were named by name. People knew who they were. They had authority, good and right authority, and they abused it. They were the ones allowing fields to be mortgaged They were the ones not being generous. They were the ones allowing sons and daughters of their own brothers and sisters, God's people, to be sold into slavery And isn't that a far cry from the beautiful symphony that we saw in Nehemiah chapter 3, where all of these people were gathered? Different backgrounds, different statuses, different titles, different positions, even different nations, all working together for the sake of God's glory to be rebuilt in Jerusalem This is not that. It wasn't happening anymore. Rich people God's people were willing to exploit to exploit the poor among them for their own gain. Why? Maybe they were motivated by their greed Or maybe they were just looking after their own family units. Remember, times were hard, right? They had enemies. They were being opposed. So maybe they just thought we're gonna look after ourselves Not anybody else. Or maybe they were just being partial. They thought they were better than the others. Whatever their motivation, the verdict was the same. It was sin. And as God's family, they should not have lived like that. That's why Nehemiah was angry. And his anger was a righteous anger. And that's why Nehemiah called for this family meeting. To call out their sin. Because their title as the people of God, as brothers and sisters, should have meant more to them than any worldly title they would have had. And Nehemiah in our section I just read said things to them. We like we freed our brothers and sisters from slavery, but now you're making them enslaved to you Nehemiah is basically saying this is not for God's people to do. We don't do that here. And their sin was so great because it was firstly sin against God. It broke God's law. But it also ruined their fellowship that they had with each other. Thankfully, though, here we'll see that the people heard Nehemiah, they heard this rebuke, and they responded with obedience. Look back at verse 11. Nehemiah says to them, return to them this very day, not tomorrow, this very day to their fields, their vineyards. Their orchards and their houses, and the percentage on your money, grain, wine, and oil that you have been extracting for them Then they said, We will restore these and require nothing from them. We will do as you say. And I called the priests and made them swear to do as they promised. And I also shook out the fold of my garment and said, So may God shake out every man from his house and from his labor who does not keep this promise. So may he be shaken out and emptied. And all the assembly said, Amen, and praise the Lord. And the people did as they promised. So their obedience to God's law, it would cost them, it meant that they would have to stop gaining off of the backs of their brothers and sisters. They had to stop it immediately. They had to give everything back. They had to figure out their own issues. They had to help serve and look after them. They had to make sure that they were not going to be impoverished anymore. And that they would not eat. They would make sure that they would be fed. Their obedience was costly. But they did it immediately. And they even said amen as a result and praise the Lord. Brothers and sisters, the right way for us to respond to our sin whenever it is exposed is to respond in agreement with the Lord, in obedience to the Lord, and praise to the Lord. They said amen. In other words, you're right. We agree. We were wrong. We're siding with God. We're not siding with ourselves So therefore, we're going to respond in obedience. We're not going to just say the right things, we're going to do the right things. And they praise the Lord as a result. Why? Because I think they were able to acknowledge the fact that though they fell far from God's grace, that God was still the covenant-making and keeping God, who was gracious and merciful. And so they could repent of their sin and they could restore fellowship with each other. I think the Bible teaches that elsewhere. There's this relationship that we have with God and our fellowship with God. And also in our fellowship with each other. The Bible talks about that even in 1 John, for example. Some familiar verses you might know of. Where it says starting in verse 5, this is the message that we have heard from him and declare to you that God is light and in him is no darkness at all. If we say we have fellowship with him, with God, but we walk in darkness, we lie and do not practice the truth. But if we walk in the light as he is in the light, we will have fellowship with And you would think it would say with God. But it actually says we will have fellowship with one another. And the blood of Jesus, his son, cleanses us from all unrighteousness. Why is that the case? Because though sin breaks our fellowship with God and with each other, repentance Is how we restore our relationship with God and with each other. And it is easy to read these verses or to hear these verses. And say and think, well, that was a thing of the past. We're not exploiting people. We're not enslaving people. Don't want to ask me for something. I'll give them something. I'm not charging interest on them. We're good. But let me ask: do you have broken relationships with a brother or sister in Christ right now? Maybe because of how you sinned against them. Or maybe because how they sinned against you. They might not even know that they've sinned against you, but you feel like they have Do you resent your brother or sister for any reason? Or do you deep down, somewhere in you, think that you're a little bit better than they are? Or is there a brother or sister in Christ that you've simply been avoiding for months? You look the other way. You walk in the other direction. Because there's sin that's unaddressed and even unconfessed. Brothers and sisters, if the Lord has revealed and is revealing any of this to you, and there's work to do, then let me encourage you to do that work today. Start with prayer. Go to that person even today. If you tried to go to them before, take a brother or sister that you trust with you and do so. The Lord wants us to live in unity and in harmony and represent him well. And that does not represent him well. And it's clear in this passage that Nehemiah was used by the Lord to elicit this response that they had. They responded with obedience. They saw their sin and they wanted to turn away from it. But what brought about that resolve? Point number two, or resolve number two. God's people should resolve to fear the Lord. To fear the Lord. And starting in verse 14. We'll see Nehemiah and his generosity, Nehemiah explaining how he lived among God's people It's kind of a contrast or portrait of him and his leadership and how he treated his brothers and sisters, contrasting that with the greed of his brothers and sisters previously that we just read about. Look at verse 14. Moreover, Nehemiah says, from the time where I was appointed to be their governor in the land of Judah, from the 20th year to the 32nd year of Artaxerxes, the king, 12 years. Neither I nor my brothers ate the food allowance of the governor. The former governors who were before me laid heavy burdens on the people, and took from them their daily rations of forty shekels of silver Even their servants lorded it over the people, but I did not do so because of the fear of God. I also persevered in the work on this wall. And we required no land, we acquired no land, and all my servants were gathered there for the work. Moreover, there were at my table a hundred and fifty men, Jews and officials besides those who came to us from the nations that were around us. Now what was prepared at my expense for each day was one ox and six choice sheep and birds, and every ten days all kinds of wine in abundance. Yet for all of this I did not demand the food allowance of the governor because the servants was too heavy on the people. Remember for my good, O God, O my God, all that I have done for this people So Nehemiah is offering a contrast to how the nobles, the priests, and the officials were living back in Nehemiah chapter, early in chapter 5. He's contrasting his authority with their authority, how he used their authority, his authority, and how they use their authority. Nehemiah was a generous leader. Verse 14 says that he and his family did not take the food allowance. Why? The people in Judah needed food themselves That why should we have more when they are doing without? Verse 15. Other governors that came before Nehemiah laid heavy burdens on the people, talking about daily rations and the taxation that would have happened. But Nehemiah said, I did not do that. In fact, he could have added to the king's tax. So Arta Xerxes had a tax on the people and on their property and their land. Nehemiah as a governor could have added a tax on top of that. Like the king has his tax, I have my tax too. But he did not do that. And even in his role as a governor, he did not sit and rule from an ivory tower, but he worked. With the people in rebuilding the walls of Jerusalem. He didn't just watch them work. He was busy leading and serving them, not just acquiring lands and property for himself. He didn't see this as a come-up. Verses 17 and 18. Nehemiah had a large people, a cabinet of people that were with him as he governed. He had officials, he had people who he was in authority over He had people that he led. And he made sure that they were taken care of, but not at the expense of the people. He basically says he used his own dime. He took care of the bill. He did not demand the food allowance because he did not want to further burden the people For all of that, verse 19, he prays, remember me, oh my God, for all that I have done for my people Verse 19 for a minute, just to point that out, this is the first of several of the remember me, my God, prayers that you have throughout the rest of the book of Nehemiah. And this is not vanity on Nehemiah's part. He's saying, Lord, see my faithfulness and honor it and bless it. But again, why did Nehemiah lead in this way? We saw that greed and sin motivated the nobles, the priests, and officials earlier on, right? But what about Nehemiah? What was his motivation? In fact, what did he use to motivate his people to be obedient to the Lord? The answer is the fear of the Lord. Look back at verse 9. So I said, the thing that you are doing is not good. He's talking to these nobles, these priests, these officials. Aught you not walk in the fear of our God to prevent the taunts of the nations, our enemies? The nations, the people around them who were not followers of the one true God, would mock God's people if they saw their sin and hypocrisy in the open. Look again at verse 13 of our passage. Nehemiah continues: I also shook out the fold of my garment and said, So may God shake out every man from his house and from his labor who does not keep his promise. What promise? The promise to do all that Nehemiah said, to follow God's word. So may he be shaken out and emptied. The picture of God's judgment He's saying if you don't respond, if you don't obey the Lord, it will go bad for you. You should fear him and respond appropriately. Nehemiah also appealed here to the judgment of God to help these priests who knew God's word and God's law to respond to him appropriately. And even in verse 15, like we just read, Nehemiah talked about the former governors doing this. The former governors laid heavy burdens on the people, but I did not. Not because, Nehemiah says, not because I'm better than them. Not because I'm smarter than them, not because I'm just more humble. But he said, I did not do so because of the fear of God. Verse 15. The Bible says a lot about fearing God. In fact, Proverbs chapter 1 says the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. But what was Nehemiah talking about here? What does it mean to fear the Lord? Bible scholars, kids, teens, I'm calling on you now. What do you think it means to fear the Lord? How would you summarize that in a word or a very short phrase? The highest form of respect. Rightly recognizing who God is and submitting to Him because of it. That's good, Abram. He'll be up next week in Nehemiah chapter 6. Fearing the Lord. Rightly estimating him, keeping him in his place, and responding appropriately In awe of him, because of who he is, because of his strength, because of his might, because of his power. And following him in obedience because he allows us to do that. Within the shelter. Being from Florida means a few things. It means that during this time of year that I'm very cold. But it also means that growing up I got used to hurricanes. They would come in and out very often, and as good Floridians, you unfortunately don't take them very seriously unless it's category three It's not great, but it is what it is. Now, storms, these hurricanes would be intense and they would be scary. And you did not want to be caught in a storm unsheltered, unguarded, or unprotected. So people would board up their windows, they would put on uh hurricane shutters, like my family used to do. But eventually, my parents got these hurricane-proof windows. Which meant that the storms would still come, still strong, still furious, but instead of hiding from them, you could stand and watch them. You could stand in awe of the fury and the strength of the storm because you were safe and guarded inside in shelter. And that, I think, a bit of what the fear of the Lord is like. Fearing the Lord is rightly estimating him In all of his strength, his mighty, his might, his glory, his awe, his holiness, his goodness, his justice, his righteousness. But being sheltered in his home that he's provided to us by faith. Finding safety in the shelter that he's giving us. By walking in the fear of the Lord, Nehemiah was encouraging God's people, you are unprotected out there. Get back inside the house. And God's people would have known the effects of walk of not walking in the fear of the Lord. In fact, that's why they were in exile to begin with. That's what Nehemiah said in chapter 1. In his prayer, he says, We have acted very corruptly against you, if not commit kept the commandments and the statutes and the rules that you commanded your servant Moses. But Nehemiah continues on in saying, if we are unfaithful, you will scatter us. But if we are faithful, you will gather us again. You'll bring us inside the house. But as we saw in Nehemiah chapter 5 in the early verses, God's people turned again. They knew what they were supposed to do. They followed and obeyed God's law. He brought them back to Jerusalem because of their obedience, because of their faith. And yet They broke God's law over and over and over again. Even the priests were unfaithful to God's law. Before we go pointing fingers at them, isn't that a lot like us? Yeah, we know what God wants. We know who he is. We know what he's like. But haven't we all been unfaithful in some way? In fact, the Bible teaches that all people Have been unfaithful to God in keeping his law, in keeping his statutes, and keeping his righteous rules. And because of that, all of us are in need desperately of God's mercy. Without God's mercy, we are in a hurricane outside of the house. But because of that, God, this same God, would send his very son to show us mercy. To show us the way back inside. The Lord Jesus Christ would come and he was always faithful. He was always obedient. He lived in complete holiness, complete righteousness, complete fear of the Lord. His witness was never in question. And Jesus even said in John 8, I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but have the light of life. And Jesus Christ came to this world, and in doing so, he gave up way more than Nehemiah did. He sacrificed way more than Nehemiah could ever sacrifice. He didn't give up a few benefits. He exchanged the praise of heaven for the sin of the cross, the sins of the world that he took on on our behalf. The judgment of God that we deserved was laid on him. So that we, by faith in Jesus Christ, could exchange our sin for his righteousness, could be forgiven of our sins, could be brought into his family, could be brought inside of the house. If you're here and you're not a believer, you're not a Christian, you are outside the house right now. But you can get inside by faith in the Lord Jesus Christ today. Believing on him, his sacrificial death on the cross, his glorious resurrection, and then walk in him as a result. We'd love to talk to you about that if you have questions about what it means to put your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Brothers and sisters, remember that this judgment that we deserved has been swallowed up by Christ. And still, in light of that, what flows from that is the fact that our witness, our lies before him, not just separately, but collectively, it matters to him. And our fear of the Lord should impact our holiness, our fellowship, our witness, and our witness as his people must be guarded, which is resolution number three. Resolution number three. Guard our witness. Again, God's people were on mission with him. God assigned people to work Towards the restoring of Jerusalem, to restore right fellowship and right worship of him. But also remember, this was for the Jews and the Gentiles. This is for God's people in Judah and for the nations to hear and to be glad to see the light and to turn. Like it says in Isaiah 60, verse 3: And the nations shall come to your light And kings to the brightness of your rising. God is still on that same mission today. But in fighting Sin, injustice, division among God's people distorts that witness that we're supposed to have to the nations And because of that, frankly, some, maybe even some people here, have decided in one way or another to reject God's people in the church. It's like I can I can do me by myself. I don't need the church with all those hypocrites. Have you ever heard that But we need to remember that we as God's people, we are not a political block. We are not a social experiment We are the people, the very people of God, who have been purchased by his blood, the blood of his son, who have been brought into his family, who have been ransomed by Jesus Christ. Who have a mission to live in, and who have love that they need to give to each other We have a king and we need to represent our king well. We have a father and we need to obey him continually Because our witness for him matters. But we need to remember exactly who we are and who God's made us to be. Kind of like the Lion King. You seen The Lion King? Because if you haven't seen it, you should watch the cartoon version, not the real life action. Don't worry about that one. Just skip that one But then the Lion King, you have Simba, who leaves the pride. He flees from his role as the next king. His dad dies. That's messed up. You can your parents can explain that to you as you watch it. But then he starts doing stuff that's just not like a lion. He starts eating bugs and singing songs and hanging out with mirror cats and warthogs. Ignoring his pride that's in danger all throughout the moment. His father, Mufasa, appears to him in a vision, and he simply says, Remember who you are. Remember who you are. Brothers and sisters, remember who you are. Remember who we are. We are sons and daughters of the King of Kings. We are members of God's household and we are family to each other, which means that we ought to act like it and live like it. We ought to represent Him well. How do we do that? How do we guard our witness? Not just talking about them and those Christians over there. Let's talk about us. How do we guard our witness as God's people here At Chevrolet Baptist Church. Two application points. Point number one, love one another. Love one another. The nobles, the officials, the priests, their sin was a great deal. They sinned in lots of ways, but they also failed to love their brothers and sisters. They were willing to receive God's love, but also willing to not give it to their brothers and sisters in Christ. May that not be said of us. Because we have been commanded by the Lord to love one another. What does Jesus say? A new Commandment, not a suggestion, a commandment I give to you that you should love one another. Just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another. By this, all people are to know that you are my disciples, if you have love. For one another. And that verse only makes sense if love is more than just what we think about each other. But how we live with each other and how we treat each other. It's easy for some of us. To say, I love my brothers and sisters in Christ, but it's much harder, it takes more work to actually show it and to demonstrate it, especially with those that we differ with. And we outright disagree with. So double-click on something that Paul Billings said in his sermon from last week, which was wonderful. Consider who you'll welcome at your table this week for Thanksgiving. Consider who you've not welcomed into your home for whatever reason. Maybe it's just time. Maybe it's just busyness. But find a way to welcome them in. And you may want to save a literal or proverbial plate for a brother or sister in Christ, especially if you know that you disagree with them. Or that there's something about them that makes you tick or gets under your skin. Or if they have very little to offer you. Or you just have very little in common with them. You just don't click. Or you know exactly where they stand on politics, on race, on social issues, and you want nothing to do with any of that, you should probably invite them and welcome them first. Love is hard, brothers and sisters, but love is worth it. But love one another. Secondly, live generously. Live generously. Our generosity should flow out of our love from one another. Right? Nehemiah's generosity was not just because he feared the Lord, because he did. But he also loved the people. That's why he did what he did. And that's why the early church they loved one another. They feared the Lord and they were generous with each other. Acts chapter 4, for example, says, There was not a needy person among them, for as many of them were owners of land or of houses. They sold them and brought the proceeds of what was sold, and they laid it at the apostles' feet. Why did they do that? Because they were poor. Many of them. Because they needed help. But you know your Bibles and you read a little bit more in in Acts chapter 5 you know that not everybody did that did they You have Anias and his wife Sapphira who were wealthy landowners. Sound familiar? Sound like Nehemiah chapter 5. Landowning is not a sin. Wealth is not a sin. But greed is sinful. They were supposed to give the proceeds like everybody else was doing, but they kept a cut for themselves. And Peter says they lied to the Holy Spirit. They were not representing the Lord well. And if we remember, that's a pretty memorable members meeting. Because they died, both of them. They fell dead. And what does it say was the result within the church? Acts 5, verse 11. And great fear came upon the whole church and upon all of those who heard of these things. Brothers and sisters, we must remember that we are we are stewards of what God gives to us. He's the lender, we're the one that borrows. It all belongs to him, so we should live generously. Before him and with one another. How generous should we be? Well, warning, this quote is a little convicting. B. S. Lewis, on giving and generosity. He says, I believe I do not believe that one can settle on how much we ought to give. I'm afraid that the one safe rule is to give more than we can spare. In other words, If our expenditures or our spending on comforts, luxuries, amusements, etc. , is up to the standard common among those with the same income as our own, we are probably giving away too little If our charities, our giving, charitable giving, does not pinch or hamper us, I should say that they are too small. There ought to be things that we should like to do and cannot do because our charitable expenditures excludes them. Ouch. We should consider that though. And maybe consider these questions. Maybe think of this later today. Am I living generously before the Lord? Maybe ask your spouse or your your roommates. Are we being generous? How can we be more generous to our neighbors and even to our family in Christ? Especially during this holiday season that's approaching us, is there a brother or sister in Christ who needs my generosity? They might not say it. You might go you might need to go and find it. And also, let's reflect on the generosity of the Lord. How generous he has been to us even today, even this week, even this year. Remember that we will never outgive him because he's the giver of all good things. And allow that to spur on our generosity. Now that might sound and seem self-serving, but it's not, because this kind of fellowship, this kind of love, this kind of generosity was also meant Serve the nations. That's the final point of application. Serve the nations. Serve the nations. Nehemiah called them to turn from their sin, not just because of the fear of God, but also because he said, we become a taunt to the nations. The nations are mocking us because of how we're living, because of how we're acting. We're not representing the Lord well. And Nehemiah is saying to them, essentially, there are people watching us. We have a job to do. You must represent him well. Brothers and sisters, our witness to the world still matters. And that doesn't mean that we need to get tied up with every scandal, every fall, every social media post that relates to all of evangelicalism. But it is a reminder that we need to watch our lives and our doctrine and one another because people are watching. And the Lord wants to redeem many of those people. Nehemiah 5. 17. Moreover, there were at my table, Nehemiah says, 150 men, Jews and officials, besides those who came from the nations that were around us. Again, people coming from near and far to the table. Nehemiah welcomed them. Nehemiah served them. He didn't just look out for the Jews among them, even those Gentiles among them who turned to Yahweh. Out of his own expense. It's a good witness. The Lord. He served them. They were people on enemy territory, and those enemies were turning to the Lord They were being used to help restore right fellowship and right worship. And the Lord is still redeeming his enemies from every tribe, nation, and tongue. So how can we serve them By serving the king and welcoming the nations to come and see. As we do so, we remember that our king is worthy of all glory, all honor, all praise that we give him. That's why we lift him up so high. That's why we praise his name. That's why we sing about Jesus. That's why we talk about the gospel so much. And that's why even after the benediction ends We as God's people need to live out the gospel in our lives and in our homes because he wants us to be lights for the nations. Let me encourage you. You might have the opportunity this week to share the gospel. Don't run from those. Share the gospel. And invite your friends, your co-workers, your family members, your neighbors to see the work of the gospel among us. Invite them here to church And if they don't come, invite yourself over to their house. Invite them over to your home. Maybe have them over even this week and invite another brother or sister in Christ to join you. Kind of ganging up on them in a way, in the holiest of ways, right? So that they can see That the Lord is good. And maybe the Lord will use all that to bring more of the nations to him. May the Lord give us grace, brothers and sisters, and increase our resolve to remain in right fellowship with Him and with one another. To guard our witness so that the nations can see and be glad. And so that more can be brought into God's family, his household as a result. Let me pray. Father God, give us grace to walk in faithfulness and obedience to you, even when that's hard. To love one another, to keep short accounts with each other, to give generously towards one another. Knowing that we cannot outgive you, knowing that every good gift comes from you. Help us to do that, Lord, humbly. Knowing that there are more people you want gathered around your throne. Knowing that you want to use us and knowing that we must represent you well. Help us to represent you well, we ask in Jesus' name. Amen