And before we get to God's word, let me pray once more for our time. Oh Lord, we ask for you to help us to hear your word, to do what it says, to live in light of its implications. Use your word to convict us, to correct us, and change us, and help us to look like your Son, Jesus Christ, as a result. And we pray all this in his name. Amen. Amen. Back in high school, there were a few different movies that were a really big deal to us as high school students. One of them was the movie called Drumline. For me and band nerds alike, that made the Marching Man really cool. But a more serious movie that came out the following year, so my sophomore year in high school, was a movie called The Passion of the Christ. What some of you may remember. Now I wasn't a Christian at the time. I thought I was okay with God. I was going to church at the time, so I thought it wouldn't be a bad thing to see this movie And I found Jesus respectable, but I didn't believe that I was a sinner that needed to be saving. But I saw this movie and I was floored. The crucifixion was so brutal. We were so emotional as we were watching it. And that theater at the end of watching that movie was silent and not a dry eye in the room The what of the cross, meaning the details, the brutal descriptions of what happened to Jesus, seeing that in detail, for me, that was gut-wrenching. But the why of the cross, meaning the reason for his death, was still lost on me at that time. Maybe I just thought it applied to the world in general, but not to me specifically. I wonder if anyone here resonates with that sentiment a little bit this morning. Maybe you know well the what of the cross. You know the story, you know what happened, but the why doesn't quite make sense to you Like, why did he have to die? What purpose did it actually serve? What should this actually mean for my life? Kiz and teens, maybe you're in that same boat. Maybe you understand the what, but you still have questions about the why of the cross. Or maybe you're hearing you do understand the why of the cross, but it hasn't affected your heart in a very long time. It's become more head knowledge than heart knowledge that overflows from your life. Or maybe your heart is still warm to the why of the cross, and during this season specifically, you are praying desperately for your loved ones and for your friends to understand, to finally get it. If you find yourself in either of those places, I think God's word will be helpful to you this morning as we focus intently on the cross So if you haven't done so already, please meet me in John chapter 19. John chapter 19, which is on page 905 in the Bibles that are provided around you. And lastly, we focused on the trial of the King, the trial of King Jesus, and the fact that Jesus became our Passover lamb and was delivered over for our salvation. And where we left off in this narrative in John's gospel account, Jesus had been delivered over, already flogged once. Already beaten, already bloodied, already wearing the crown of thorns, already looking defeated, and now a cross would await him So one might even expect that with all of those details of the last couple of weeks, all the details of Jesus' arrest, all the details of Jesus' trial, that there will be a lot of detail in John's gospel about the crucifixion itself. But the Apostle John only gives it one phrase in verse 18 of our passage. It says, there they crucified him. That's it. But that means that our passage today focuses mainly on the not on the what of the cross and the gruesome details, but more so on the why of the cross. Why was Jesus crucified? And how should we respond to his crucifixion? Well, here's our main point for our time together in God's Word. If you are taking notes, and it's this. On the cross, King Jesus fulfilled God's purposes so that we would believe and follow Him On the cross, King Jesus fulfilled God's purposes so that we would believe and follow him. We'll approach this passage in three main parts, kind of breaking down that main point. Part one, the King's Cross. Part two, God's purposes In part three, our response. We're going to start with the King's Cross and get to our text for this morning, starting in John chapter 19, verse 16. This is God's word. We're gonna start there where it says, so they took genius Jesus. So they took Jesus and he went out, bearing his own cross, to the place called the place of the skull, which in Aramaic is called Golgotha. There they crucified him, and with him two others, one on either side, and Jesus between them. We'll stop there for right now You may know that crucifixions were a common form of punishment that was done by the Romans. It was used particularly for those who were murderers. Who were rebels, who were robbers, who were threats to the Empire. And it was only reserved for those who were non-citizens Who were either slaves in Roman society or they were despised in Roman society. And Cicero, the Roman statesman, described crucifixions as, quote, a most cruel and disgusting punishment. For these reasons, the Romans looked on crucifixions with horror. And so did the Jews. And the Jews looked on it with horror for other reasons, which we'll talk about in a bit. But here you have Jesus hung on the cross with two criminals. What was his crime? His crime was that he was the king of the Jews. Let's keep reading at verse 19. It says Pilate also wrote an inscription and put it on the cross. It read, Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews. Many Jews, many of the Jews read this inscription, for the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city, and it was written in Aramaic, in Latin, and in Greek. So the chief priest of the Jews said to Pilate, Do not write the King of the Jews, but rather this man said, I am the King of the Jews. Pilate answered, What I have written, I have written. Jesus was crucified in Golgotha, which is the word in Aramaic, the language that was most widely used at that time in Jerusalem. But this same place was known as Calvary, which is the Latin term where you and I might be more familiar with hearing that term. That he was crucified on Calvary. But remember that this is the week of Passover. So hundreds and thousands of Jews would have been in Jerusalem for the Passover and to celebrate the Sabbath during the week of the Passover. And anyone that would have been crucified in any crucifixion, they would have had their crime on top of them so that everyone would see it, and so that it would be a warning to everybody. So again, this was public so everyone would be able to see exactly what their crime was. And notice that this was written in three different languages. So that all the people, regardless of what language they spoke, they would see Jesus. And his crime. Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews. Now, as we saw, the Jewish leaders didn't like that pronouncement. Because they had already declared previously that Caesar was their king, not Jesus. Pilate didn't change it. What I have written, I have written, he said. Maybe because he was trying to assert his authority. Maybe he was trying to wash his hands of any guilt. Either way, Jesus was crucified outside of the city gates. The text says. Notice it says, near the city. So people would have seen it because of the crowds, but it was not in the city. And now we get back to why the Jews would have been horrified at crucifixions. According to Jewish law, executions were supposed to happen outside of the city gates. That's what it says in Leviticus 24:14, for example. And criminals were not supposed to defile the land, especially on the Sabbath, by hanging on a tree overnight. That's what it says in Deuteronomy chapter 21: Cursed is anyone who hangs from a tree. So again, the Romans were horrified by the cross, and the Jews they believed that Jesus was accursed. Because he was crucified. It was a sign of God's judgment and God's rejection. So they thought. Many years ago, I was teaching world history and teaching about different world religions, teaching about Christianity. Now had a Muslim student that once we got to the point of the cross, he was appalled at the very thought of it. He didn't understand why it was needed. He didn't understand why Christians seemed to celebrate it. And seems to glory in the cross. And that shame of the cross that he was trying to express, that's the very reason why in the Quran. Jesus wasn't really crucified. It was just someone who looked like him. That's what the Quran teaches. And that's also why religious leaders like Gandhi Said that in his heart he could not accept that anything was done on behalf of the world on that cross. It's also why philosophers like Nietzsche would have mocked the thought of God on the cross. They thought it was foolish, ridiculous. My students thought it was foolish, shameful, disgraceful But I think we can learn a few things from that. And I think we need to be reminded of the fact that Jesus on the cross did bear our shame. He bore our shame. The Romans were ashamed of crucifixions. It horrified them. The Jews considered Jesus as accursed on the cross. And that student of mine he thought it was shameful because the cross was shameful. But as the Apostle Paul says in Galatians 3:13, he, Jesus, redeemed us from the curse of the law. By becoming a curse for us. Jesus bore our shame. And secondly, Jesus bore witness on the cross Notice this was all done publicly. It was done near the city. It was done right before the Sabbath, during the week of Passover, where all the crowds would see him. In three different languages, they would see that he was the king of the Jews. Ironically, even though the Jews didn't want him as their king. Yet on the cross he bore witness to the fact that he was indeed the king, anyhow, not just the Jews, but also to the Gentiles. Should encourage us in the two way in two different ways. Firstly, we can take our shame to Jesus. Because Jesus was considered as a curse. He bore our shame so that we don't have to bear our shame anymore. And as you wrestle with sin, as you wrestle with the sufferings of your life of living in this fallen world, go to Jesus. Bring him your shame. Go to him in prayer. Remember that if you are in Christ, he is not ashamed of you. So secondly, don't be ashamed of Jesus. Don't be ashamed of Jesus. He bore his cross, but he tells us as his people to bear our cross as well So if classmates of yours or teammates of yours or co-workers of yours don't know that you're a Christian? Why don't you prayerfully find a way to let them know that this week? Why don't you bear witness of him? Particularly this week, we can all be watchful and prayerful and find ways that we can bear witness the fact that we are identifying ourselves with Christ. And that they too can be made new if they give their sin and their shame to the Lord Jesus Christ. But now in our narrative, John the Apostle pants away from the cross for a moment to see the soldiers and see what they were doing. And this will bring us to part two On the cross, King Jesus fulfilled God's purposes We'll camp out here for a while because we'll see that there are at least three different purposes that Christ fulfills on the cross. First of all, to fulfill God's word. To fulfill God's word Throughout this entire narrative, there are several references and points where John says to fulfill scripture Or this was done to fulfill scripture. It happens over and over and over again. But here's the initial reference, starting in verse 23. It says, when the soldiers had crucified Jesus, they took his garments and divided them in four parts, one part for each soldier, and also his tunic. But the tunic was seamless, woven in one piece from top to bottom. So they said to one another, Let us not tear it, but cast lots to see whose it shall be. This was to fulfill the scripture, which says, They divided my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots. So the soldiers did these things. And we'll stop there. Now, criminals who were crucified would have been stripped of all their clothing, and then they would have been hung on the cross. And that's why these soldiers had Jesus' garments and also his tunic. Now, this seemed like a small, insignificant detail to add to this gospel narrative. But the reason why John adds it is because it fulfills Scripture. So maybe even this afternoon you can spend some time reading Psalm 22 and see all of the ways that Jesus fulfills that scripture, even down to this detail in verse 18 of that passage. Where it says, they divided my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots. It should remind us that God can use even God's enemies to accomplish his purposes. And let's keep in mind that the Apostle John here in this gospel account is acting as a witness, but also as a historian. And a theologian. That's why several times he's interjecting, he's adding his details. He's saying, now this happened to fulfill scripture. He's connecting the dots for the audience, for the listeners. And that should help us as we read our Bibles, and that should help us as we try to interpret God's word. When we read of the Old Testament, for example, we should ask ourselves: how is this fulfilled in Christ? How does it point towards him? And as we read the New Testament, we should ask ourselves, what does this teach us about Christ? We can ask the Holy Spirit to help us to connect those dots for us in the reading of His Word. Well, John now takes us away from the soldiers and back to the cross so that we can see God's love and so we can see another purpose that God has in mind in the cross. To fulfill God's word. Secondly, to display God's love. Look at verse 25 of our passage. But standing by the cross, back at the cross, by standing at the cross of Jesus were his mother and his mother's sister Mary, the wife of Cleophys, and Mary Magdalene. When Jesus saw his mother and the disciple whom he loved standing nearby, he said to his mother, Woman, Behold your son. Then he said to the disciple, Behold your mother. And from that hour the disciple took her to his own home. Let's stop there. Now, most scholars believe at this time that Joseph, so Mary's husband, would have passed away. So Mary, the mother of Jesus by now would have been a widow. But she's cared for by Jesus. Now Jesus did have siblings, who some of them eventually came to him, as we learn about in the book of Acts, for example. But at this point, they weren't among his disciples. So Jesus, after being flogged, after being beaten, after wearing a crown of thorns, after bearing his own cross, after being nailed to the cross, He makes sure that his mother is taken care of. The Lord Jesus honored his mother from the cross And he honors her by having John the Apostle take care of her. And John the Apostle makes sure to mention that these women were followers of Jesus as well. And these women were now at the cross mourning and weeping because their Savior was crucified Oh, dear sisters in Christ, do not ever question God's love for you. But if you have questions, look to this text. Look here and see Jesus' love for you. If you ever doubt whether he sees you, sister, look here and see that he loves you. Look at Christ and his provision for his mother that he made Look at these other women who are boldly and unashamedly identifying themselves with the Lord Jesus Christ crucified on the cross. Remember that he deeply cares for you. And continue to identify yourselves with the Lord Jesus Christ, dear sisters. Notice that John all throughout the gospel accounts, this gospel narrative, he refers to himself in the third person. He refers to himself as the beloved. Or as the one whom Jesus loved. How do you and I identify ourselves When you look in the mirror, dear Christian, what do you see? Who do you see? Do you see all of your flaws? Do you see all of your failures? Or have you made an identity out of what other people have told you that you are throughout your lives? Or what your boss says about you, or what your parents said about you, or what was what was done to you when you were younger No, we need to learn from the Apostle John here and identify ourselves as the one whom Jesus loves Before you're a parent, before you're a student, before you're a government worker, before you're a campus minister, before you're a widow, before you're a Tingle mother Before you're a member of CBC, before you're a pastor at CBC, you, if you are in Christ, you are the one whom Jesus loves. That is your identity. And that also means that your brothers and sisters in Christ that are different than you, that you struggle to connect with. that you struggle to relate with, that you struggle to find anything in common with, they too are the ones whom Jesus loved. So we should remind ourselves of that truth, remind one another of that truth, and treat each other in light of that truth. We are the ones whom Jesus loves. On the cross, we see God's purpose is fulfilled because Jesus fulfills God's word, he displays God's love, and he also takes God's wrath. That's the third thing. He takes God's wrath. That's what we'll focus on starting in verse 28 of our passage. After this, Jesus, knowing that all was now finished, said, To fulfill the scripture, I thirst. And a jar full of sour wine stood there. So they put a sponge full of the sour wine on a hyssop branch and held it to his mouth When Jesus had received the sour wine, he said, It is finished. And he bowed his head and gave up his spirit The phrase, I thirst, is also the fulfillment of scripture. That's Psalm 69:21, which says, They gave me poison for food, and for my thirst. Sour wine to drink. If you're listening and you're not a Christian, do you hear all of these minute details that Christ is fulfilling so clearly in all of the Bible Or Psalm 22, 15, for example, another scripture passage that was fulfilled in that where he says, My strength is dried up like a pot shared. And my tongue sticks to my jaws. Jesus on the cross was thirsty. And as Matt and Abby pointed out to me a few days ago and other gospel accounts. Jesus is given a drink or offered a drink that he rejects. But he accepts this one. Why does he reject the other ones and accept this one if he was thirsty? He rejected the other one because the other one that he was given was given to criminals on the cross to try to take away the pain of the cross. It was a sedative. But not this one. This one was sour wine. And Jesus accepted it. And after drinking it, he said, it is finished. What's happening there? All of this is connecting back to the Passover. And then celebrating the Passover. There are four different times where participants celebrating the Passover meal will drink from the cup of wine. Four different times. These four different times are done to represent the four different stages of the Passover, where God says to his people in Exodus chapter 6. I will bring you out. I will deliver you. I will redeem you, and I will take you to be my people So most scholars, most biblical scholars, believe that Jesus and his disciples, they would have celebrated the Passover the same exact way as any other Jewish follower follower of the Jewish law would have. Done in that time. And then celebrating the Passover, they would have done so during the Last Supper. John chapter 13. And if you remember back to John chapter 13, After this third cup, which was the cup that was given in John chapter 13, that's mentioned here in the scriptures, Jesus said this to his disciples. This cup, this third cup, is the new covenant in my blood. Do this whenever you drink it in remembrance of me. Other words, I will redeem you Passover. But then Jesus and his disciples they got up from there and they left. And Jesus went out. He taught his disciples. He prayed for his disciples. He went to the Garden of Gethsemane and then he was arrested. And then he was put on trial. And now he's crucified. So then what happens to that fourth and final cup? Look here. He was given a drink of wine On a hyssop branch. And if you know your Bibles and remember back to the Passover, hyssop was also used for purification, and hyssop was used For the sprinkling of the blood on a door of the of those who would put the blood on the doorpost. It was used for a specific purpose. Jesus drinks this sour wine and he says it is finished. Cup number four, because he drank the Father's wrath Which he often referred to as the cup of the Father's wrath on the cross. And the Bible teaches that he drank from the cup of the Father's wrath, and he fulfilled it. He finished it, which means he drunk the cup drowned down to the dregs. And he did it for our purification, for our salvation. So though our sins are many, though our crimes against God deserve hell and deserve God's wrath, we could be made wider than snow. Because of the blood of the Lamb that He would shed on the cross and that He would use to purify all those who would come to Him. Oh, if you're here and you're not a Christian, if you don't understand why all of these details are a big deal, if you don't understand why the cross is a big deal. Think about the fact that Jesus says it is finished because God's wrath that we deserve for our sins was laid completely on Christ. All of it So that God's great love could be bestowed upon us, so that we would not have to bear that sin or the punishment that we deserve for that sin. The cross is where God's wrath and God's love meet. We urge all of you to embrace Jesus and his cross today, to turn to him by faith, so that you do not face the judgment that you've earned for your sins. Brothers and sisters in Christ, think about this. Think about whenever we take the Lord's Supper together, like we're going to in in a few minutes, whenever I finish this sermon, right? We take the bread, and before we drink, we say the words of the Apostle Paul, and then we go to some words of Jesus from Luke chapter 22. Or somewhere in the Gospel of Luke, where Jesus says, I will not drink again of the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God comes. Do you know what this means? Jesus drunk from the cup of God's wrath for us. It is finished. That means that we are not destined for wrath, but to salvation. That's what awaits us as God's people. But that also means that King Jesus is coming back for us. And there will be the Merit Supper of the Lamb where we will feast. With him, where we will drink with him, because we will be with him, and we will be his people forevermore. Cup number four. He's taken us to be his people. Oh brothers and sisters, may we long all the more for that day where the Lord Jesus will come back for us as his people. And even as you take the Lord's Supper today, May you ponder and wonder at the fact that this is just a foretaste of the glory that's going to come for us. Because he's redeemed us to be his people forever. On the cross, Jesus fulfilled God's purposes in so many ways, so that we would believe and follow him. Now let's focus on part three, our response. What should our response be to Jesus on the cross and seeing him fulfill God's purposes? We should believe in him. And we should follow him. So part three, our response. Look at verse 31. Since it was the day of preparation, so that the bodies would not remain on the cross on the Sabbath, for that Sabbath was a high day, meaning an important day. The Jews asked that Pilate The Jews asked Pilate that their legs might be broken and that they might be taken away. So soldiers came and broke the legs of the first. And of the other who had been crucified with him. But when they came to Jesus and saw that he was already dead, they did not break his legs. But one of the soldiers pierced his side with a spear, and at once there came out blood and water. He who saw it has borne witness. His testimony is true. That's John the Apostle talking there. And he knows that he is telling the truth, that you also may believe. For these things took place that the scripture might be fulfilled Not one of his bones will be broken. And again, another scripture says, they will look on him whom they have pierced. So the Jews here again are once again concerned with keeping the Sabbath, not defiling the Sabbath And since this Sabbath was an important day, a high day, because it was Passover week, they wanted to make sure that things were done the right way, that no one would be defiled. Again, we talked about the reference in Deuteronomy, but once crucifixions took place, those bodies will remain on the cross typically for several days. So it was normal for them to just remain there. But the Jewish leaders did not want that. So they urged Pilate to have their legs broken so they would be removed from the cross. And breaking the legs would have meant that they would have had less oxygen flowing through their bodies. They would have already at this point lost a lot of blood. That meant that they would have eventually suffocated and perished faster. So a soldier went to Jesus He saw that he was dead, but just to make sure, he pierced his side, and blood and water came out. Now that was likely the result of hypovolemic shock that would have happened Meaning on the cross you would have had all of this fluid that was building up around Jesus' heart and his lungs. So then you have the blood and the water flowing out. But this wasn't a matter of science. This too was to fulfill Scripture. So John, the apostle, connects the dots for us once again Psalm 34, verse 20 says, He keeps all of his bones. Not one of them will be broken. Zechariah 12, verse 10 says, I will pour out on the house of David and the inhabitants of Jerusalem. A spirit of grace and pleas for mercy, so that when they look on me, on him whom they have pierced, they shall mourn for him. So the Apostle John, being this the theologian for us here, is saying that this spirit of grace was poured out on Jerusalem as the blood and the water flowed from Jesus. But again, why all of these details? Why all of these minute points? John answers the question in verse 35 that we just read, where he says, I was there, I saw it, I'm telling you. But I'm telling you these things why? So that you also may believe. So that you may believe. And John, through the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, is talking directly to the reader and listener of these passages, of these words, and answering the question: what should I do with all this information? Kids and teens in the room. Have you ever wondered that? Maybe you are inundated with a lot of information about God. About the Bible, about Jesus. You have awanas, you have Sunday school, you have your parents and your home devotions, you have maybe your Christian school or maybe your home school. And then you come to church and you gotta sit with us, right? Like you hear the gospel a lot. Have you ever thought, I got it? What am I supposed to do with this? Believe. That's what John says. Believe in Jesus. Believe in him if you haven't trusted him by faith. And that's just not kids and teens, that's everyone. And if you have already believed in him, allow this cross to shape your life, but also shape the view of any hardships that you may find in your life. Because you'll find them. There's a quote from John Stott in his book, The Cross of Christ, where he writes about this belief in God and also the suffering of Jesus. It's a little long, but I think it's good. He says, I could never myself believe in God if it were not for the cross. The only God I believe in is the one that Nietzsche ridiculed as God on the cross. In a real world of pain, how could one worship a God who was immune to it? I've entered many Buddhist temples in different Asian countries and stood respectfully before the statue of the Buddha. Legs crossed. Arms folded, eyes closed, a ghost of a smile playing around his mouth, remote look on his face, detached from the agonies of the world. But each time after a while, I've had to turn away, and in imagination, I've turned instead to that lonely, twisted, tortured figure on the cross Nails through his hands and feet, back lacerated, limbs wrenched, brow bleeding from the crown of thorns, mouth dry and intolerably thirsty, plunged in God forsaken darkness. That is the God for me. He laid aside his immunity to pain. He entered our world of flesh and blood, tears and death. He suffered for us. Our sufferings become more manageable in light of his sufferings. There's still a question mark against human suffering. But over it we boldly stamp another mark, the cross that symbolizes divine suffering. Brothers and sisters, behold the man upon the cross, the sin upon his shoulders Hold on to him. Believe in him. Remember that he poured out grace for you and for me. And even in your suffering, he has more grace to give to you, brothers and sisters. So again, John's encouragement here is for us to believe, but also to follow. Let's get to the last part of our passage for today, starting in verse 38. After these things, Joseph of Arimathea, who was a disciple of Jesus, but secretly for fear of the Jews, asked Pilate that he might take away the body of Jesus And Pilate gave him permission. So he came and took his body away. Nicodemus also, who earlier had come to Jesus by night, came bringing a mixture of myrrh and aloes, about seventy-five pounds in weight. They took the body of Jesus and bound it in linen cloths with the spices, as is the burial custom of the Jews. Now, in the place where he was crucified, there was a garden and in the garden a new tomb, which no one had yet been laid. So because of the Jewish day of preparation, since the tomb was close at hand, they laid Jesus there So Joseph of Arimathea was a Jewish man, and we see in our passage that he became a disciple of Jesus. He also must have been wealthy to have a tomb already of his own, still being alive. Now these tombs, they were more like caves. in which three to four people could be buried there, head to foot. And those tombs would have been covered by a stone. We'll get to that next week But this was the day of the preparation, and the tomb was close by. And Pilate happened to say yes to this request, and so they buried Jesus there, the text says. But this should remind us that God is intimately involved in all the details of our lives. All these small details. It was preparation day. They happened to be close It was a garden nearby. Joseph made an offer. And yet that's where our Lord was laid. But this also fulfills Scripture If you remember our scripture reading for this morning, it says, And they made his grave with the wicked, as in the other criminals on the cross, and with a rich man in his death. A rich man like Joseph of Arimathea, perhaps. And even think about Nicodemus, another secret disciple, but he was a teacher of the Jewish law. And he came and provided burial spices. 75 pounds worth, which would have been extremely costly. Now you might remember that Nicodemus was the one who came to Jesus and asked him what About who he is. And so what Jesus said to him, you must be born again. Then he said, What does that mean? Does I have to climb into my mother's womb? What does that mean? Nicodemus, it seems, like Joseph of Arimathea, eventually became a follower of Jesus Christ. Now we would expect both of them, both of these Jewish leaders, to be like everybody else, shouting, crucify him, shouting, we have no king but Caesar. But yet, they both seem to have received grace from the Lord Jesus Christ. And here they are mourning and helping him in his burial. It should remind us that the Lord Jesus only makes unlikely disciples. Like Nicodemus, who was a teacher of the Jewish law. He was in a different faith. Or like Joseph of Arimathea, a rich man. And the Bible teaches it's hard for a rich man to come to the kingdom. Or the Roman guide, a guard, an enemy of God's people. Or the women who were at the cross, those who were overlooked in society. Or the thief on the cross Which John doesn't record it, but remember him. He says, remember me, Jesus, when you enter into paradise. Those like him who knew their sin all too well. Or even those who understood the what of the cross, but didn't quite understand the why of the cross. Those who didn't think that they needed a savior, like me. Shortly after watching The Passion of the Christ, I was in the band room, one of those practice rooms that we would have had at our high school again, band nerd. And I had other friends who were Christians who saw that same movie. And their response was very different than my response. They were moved, but I had already moved on from it. They were still talking about it. They were overjoyed. They were overwhelmed. They understood the what and the why. And they said things to each other like Jesus did all of that for me. And I kind of looked and I just didn't say anything, but I didn't understand. By God's grace, years later I did. He showed me the why. Because on the cross, he fulfilled God's purposes, all of them. So that I will believe in him and follow him. And he didn't just do that for me. He did that because of me. Because of my sin. My sin, just like your sin, that deserved its own cross with the crimes listed above it for all the world to see. But instead, King Jesus was crucified so that I could go free. But what about you? Do you believe and will you follow? Let's pray together. Well, we pray that you would overwhelm us today. If you haven't already, by your cross, by your love, by your grace towards us. Help us to know the what and the why of the cross. Help us to share the what and the why of the cross. Help us to believe the what and the why of the cross And Lord help us to love you all the more as a result. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.