Good morning. How's everyone? Good. Go ahead and open up in your Bibles to Ephesians chapter 1. Uh if you're looking at the Bibles that are provided for you, that is on page 976 of those Bibles provided for you. We're going to be resuming our study this morning of Paul's letter to the Ephesians. Uh last summer, uh I was driving home with uh my two daughters from queens new it was a midweek service that I was preaching at up at North Shore Baptist Church and we were driving home Later in the evening and everything was going smoothly. I were we were gonna get home earlier than I was anticipating, which was good. And then we hit a storm. And it started to rain and it started raining harder. And I've been driving for a long time and and I don't know that I've ever had to pull over From driving because I literally could not see in front of me. I I've without being unsafe, I've driven through a lot and I just you slow down and you're cautious, but I kept going. This storm was unlike anything I'd ever experienced before. I could not see. I did not feel safe. I had to pull over. My eyes were working just fine. But there was something that was blurring my ability to perceive what was there, and it required me to pull over. I believe there's something of a spiritual uh connection. There's a dynamic spiritually that I think Paul was aware of in the way that he forms uh the first chapter of Ephesians. Uh in Ephesians chapter 1, we've spent some weeks looking at verses 3 through 14. And Paul is, he says hello, right? Verses 1 and 2 is his, called it a holy hello. He packs some truth into that hello And then beginning in verse 3, he just pours forth in praise to God, recounting the vast, inexhaustible spiritual blessings that have come to God's people in Christ. And as Paul is is writing this praise, maybe he's envisioning the sort of thing that I've experienced Sometimes in my own r time as a preacher. Okay. I don't want you to be offended by what I'm about to say. I've preached around five to six hundred or so sermons in my life. and only a six or eight of them have been to you. So I'm not saying anything critical of you when I say what I'm about to say, but there are times in preaching, when when I am pouring my soul out, preaching the gospel, expounding on what I perceive in the text to be unsearchably great blessings. And I'm looking out at a congregation. Okay, did I tell you I'm not talking about you? Five, six hundred times I've preached, and just a very small number to you, but I'm preaching on these wonderful things. And I'm looking out at faces that are just looking blankly at me like an eight-year-old has been told to watch C-SPAN for an hour as discipline for some sin committed. No offense to those of you who might be on C-SPAN. And I mean it's and when I'm up there in that situation, I I don't want the it's not about me, you know, it's not about how you're perceiving me, but it's like I'm sometimes thinking like Should you not be deliriously happy with this glory that is being lavished upon us from God's word? And maybe maybe Paul is thinking about that sort of dynamic. When he writes Ephesians 1, because he's exulting in these wonderful truths, but he knows Just like I know when I get up to preach God's word that he's helpless. He can't do anything. That's why we I often speak of how it's the Spirit who gives life. The flesh is what? The flesh is what? No help at all. And maybe I know Paul was aware of that. Jesus taught that. And so he's expounding upon these rich glories. And then what does he do? Is he praise. He prays for his readers, and these were faithful Christians, as we talked about last week from Ephesians 1. He prays that these faithful Christians, these spirit-sealed Christians would grasp the glories of what he's been declaring to them. And that's what we're considering this week, Paul's prayer for the Ephesians. So I've given you plenty of time to open up in your Bibles. Listen as I read. Ephesians one, verses fifteen through twenty-three. For this reason Because I have heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love toward all the saints, I do not cease to give thanks for you, remembering you in my prayers That the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give you the spirit of wisdom and of revelation in the knowledge of Him, having the eyes of your hearts enlightened. That you may know what is the hope to which he has called you, what are the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints, and what is the immeasurable greatness of his power toward us who believe. According to the working of his great might that he worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places Far above all rule and authority and power and dominion, and above every name that is named, not only in this age, but also in the one to come. And he put all things under his feet and gave him as head over all things to the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills all in all. This is God's word, brothers and sisters. Thanks be to God. Let's pray for his help because we need his help Heavenly Father, we do ask for your blessing and grace as we think about these verses. It is the Spirit who gives life The flesh is no help at all. And so we we seek from you this morning the undeserved gift of your spirit working among us. We don't deserve it on our own, but in Christ we trust you will move among us and that you would help us to understand and treasure the words that are before us. We ask for this in Jesus' great name. Amen. So we're wanting to focus. We looked at verses 15 and 16 last Sunday, wanting to focus our attention on verses 17. Through 19, really verses 18 through 19 for the most part this morning. Paul prays for the Ephesians that the spirit of wisdom and of revelation in the knowledge of him. would be given to the Ephesians, and he says, having the eyes of your heart enlightened. So these Christians, they had received wonderful truth about God. That's what Paul's praising God for in verses 3-14. But just like I'm unable to see in this torrential downpour, I have eyes that see, but I'm not able to see because of the storm around me. There are spiritual forces at work around us that obscure our vision of God. And so he He's praying to the God who has already revealed these wonderful truths to them, truths that they've received. And he's praying, God, open their eyes and help them to see what they've already come to see and believe. Grant them sight. And that's what I'm praying that God would do for us this morning Especially as we reflect on these three particular glories that Paul goes on to address in this prayer report, right? He's telling them what he's praying for them. And there are three particular features of this prayer, and this is the outline of our sermon. This is what Paul is praying for. This is what he wants them to see with those enlightened eyes. He wants them to see the hope. to which he has called them. He wants them to see the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints. And he wants them to see the immeasurable greatness of his power toward us who believe And I trust that many of you, as you walk into this uh cafeteria this morning, you you're not feeling those glories. Maybe they sound idealistic. Religious jargon. Vague, theoretical, detached from the real world. of where you live. And so maybe already you've begun to think that this sermon is going to not be very relevant for you. It's going to be like a piece of fiction. I know I felt that way at times sitting where you are sitting now. That's why we pray that God will work. So Paul prays for the Ephesians to know the hope to which they have been called Literally, it says that you might know the hope of his calling. And before I talk about what this is, what he's talking about, I just want you to see first that this is a really big deal to Paul. This particular Phrase. Everything Paul is going to say later in this letter, as he would begin to instruct his readers on how they should live a life that honors the Lord, everything he's going to say is based on this particular prayer being answered and them grasping the hope to which he has called them. And the reason I say that is because of what Paul says in chapter 4. So Bibles are open. Look at chapter 4. Some of you know, I think I might have mentioned this earlier in the series that the Ephesians is structured in such a way that the first three chapters are Paul's celebration of what God has done for his people in Christ. And then in chapter four His attention focuses to how we should live in light of those blessings that God has provided for us in Christ. And so in chapter 4, he says, I therefore a prisoner for the Lord, urge you, he says, listen to this. to walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you have been called. And then he begins to spell out a little bit of what that looks like And he comes back and circles again to this call, verse 4, just as you were called to the one hope that belongs to your call. So, everything we're going to be talking about later this year from chapters 4, 5, and 6, it's all predicated, it's all built on them grasping this hope to which they have been called. Well, what does that mean? Well, let me try to illustrate it for you before I go to the Bible to explain it. Kids Uh kids, have you ever outside playing, have you ever come across a dead bird or like a dead squirrel lying on the ground? It's kind of gross, but you're nodding. I I I I don't I wonder if you've ever i if you have never done this, I want you to try do if you if you happen to see a dead bird like that this week or in the next couple weeks I want you to try this and I want you to come back and tell me what happens. If you see a little dead bird on the ground, I want you to try to get down, you know, don't have to get right in there. That's kind of great. Don't get too close, but get near the the bird and just say Bird, I call to you, get up and live. I want you to do that, and I want you to tell me if anything happens I'm guessing that you probably think, I don't think anything's gonna happen. I don't think anything's gonna happen either. The bird's not gonna move. The squirrel's not gonna move. I want you to try it and see. I have act and I just so you know, I have actually tried to do this My call cannot create what it commands. But that is what God has done in saving sinners by calling them into the hope of eternal life. And he did that. He called his people When we were dead in trespasses and sins. That's what Paul's going to go on to say. After this prayer, he's going to say, and you were dead in your trespasses and sins in which you once walked. But God, through this call, has raised his people up from spiritual death. The way he raised Lazarus and called him out of the tomb of his physical death. He he went there. Lazarus had been dead for four days. His relatives were because they're just going to smell. We don't want to open up the tomb. He said, Open up the tomb. And he said, Lazarus, come forth. And the dead man obeyed the call of the Lord Jesus That's the same thing that God did basically when He created the whole universe. He said, let there be light, and there was light. And Paul in another of his letters, he makes a spiritual connection with that. He says in 2 Corinthians 4, speaking of our conversion, speaking of this call. God, who said, Let light shine out of darkness, has shone in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. So it if you are sitting here this morning and you have experienced this calling Light has shone and you see something of the glory of God in the face of Jesus. I hope you will sing really joyfully later in this service when we sing Long My Imprisoned Spirit Lay. Fast bound in sin and nature's night, thine eye diffused a quickening ray I woke, the dungeon flamed with light, my chains fell off, my heart was free, I rose, went forth, and followed thee. That's how we got saved. Anyone who is saved, if you're a Christian here this morning, that's how you became one. God did it. You were, I was spiritually dead. Jesus and his word and his way of life and his promises, they meant nothing to you. It meant nothing to me twenty-six years ago. We did not love him Or trust him or enjoy him or obey him by our nature. We were dead to all those things. Rebellious and unbelieving and hostile. But then one day God called us. And though there are many different ways that it happened, for some it may have happened when you were four or five or six years old and you're not exactly even you don't really remember a time that that happened. Maybe for some of us we were later in life. It can happen in different ways, but it's all really through one way, and that is through hearing the word of the gospel. The good news about Jesus, that when we were rebellious, when we were hostile, when we had rejected his lordship, that God, in his love, sent the Lord Jesus, sent his one and only Son. to live a perfect life that we've failed to and to complete that perfect life by dying on the cross as a substitute in enduring the wrath of God on the cross that we deserved And then on the third day, God raised him up from the dead so that all who would turn from their sin and from their reliance upon themselves and receive Jesus would know eternal life. You heard that word. But you know what? A lot of people hear that word, and that word is folly and a stumbling block to them. They don't care. I was talking with a guy on Friday. He lives around the corner from me. His name is Renee And I just I just met him and I told him I was here to I I moved to pastor a church and I asked him if he had a spiritual background and he said he went up to the he goes to the Catholic Church, St. Ambrose Catholic Church, as a where a lot of you know right now where that is in Chevrolet And we started talking about the difference between the Protestant faith and the uh the Catholic faith. Particularly the difference in how one is made right with God, where I didn't use the word, but justified. Is it is it through our is it through grace alone and our simply receiving God's grace? Or is it grace and our works? And this man freely acknowledged to me that it is it is that no what he teaches and what he what they taught in the Catholic Church and what he believes is we have to contribute. And he actually used this phrase, he said, I need to contribute my couple of cents. I'm thinking like that's crazy. I mean I didn't say that to him. That's not winsome, as gentle as we were just talking about in this in the evangelist quest. I'm thinking, like, how really you owe a debt to God for your sin, and you want to scrounge up a couple of coins and give it to him as if that could help to pay the debt? Like that makes no sense at all. What does Renee need? He needs to be called. And in the preaching of the word, whether that's coming through a preacher or whether it's coming through a parent or whether it's coming through a roommate or a friend. When that word gets preached, God gives life. He calls people, he makes them see, and they repent and they believe. It's the sovereign miracle of God's grace. And Paul wants his readers to know, and I want you to know this morning. So that you would give him glory. So that if you are a Christian, you would give him glory for what he's done in helping you to see and to hear and to receive. But also so that you would experience and enjoy the rock solid foundation of the assurance of faith in the call of God, that you would understand the hope of his calling. Because that call of God is effective. It accomplishes what he intends it to accomplish. It creates what he commands, and that means that the hope to which he has called you is a certain and secure hope. It's this reality of God's call that undergirds one of the sweetest promises in Scripture, which Ryan actually shared with us earlier, Romans 8. 28. Right? All things work together for good to those who love God. That's part of the hope of our calling. But how can we have confidence that that promise is really good and really true for us? He says it's for those who are called according to his purpose. And then he presses down on this issue. For those whom he foreknew. This is Romans 8. 29. For those whom he foreknew, he also predestined. To be conformed to the image of his son, in order that he might be the firstborn among many brothers. Those whom he predestined, he also called And those whom he called, he also justified, and those whom he justified, he also glorified. So Paul is describing, I've heard this described as a golden chain of salvation, and it's an unbreakable chain. He's he's committed to working all things for the good of a people whom he's called, and he's guaranteed that by foreknowing that people before the foundation of the world, Paul would say in Ephesians 1, and by predestining them to be conformed, and he's He's called those predestined ones, and those predestined ones, those called ones have believed, and so they have been justified. And if they've been justified, they will be glorified. It's one unbreakable chain And where we experience that chain in time is he calls us. We hear the gospel, we believe, and we can have confidence. If he called me and made me alive in Christ, he will bring me finally to that glorified status in the end. the hope of his calling. In other words, because that just I just got on there for a long while yelling and uh some blank faces, but no condemnation. That's okay. Virtually everything that a human being could hope for Life, light, freedom, glory, everything that we could imagine or hope for. is ours in Christ because of the call of God that has come to us with the omnipotent power of the gospel If I could enlist Peter's help for just a moment, he says, after you've suffered for a little while, some of you are walking through sufferings, it does not feel like a little while. After you have suffered a little while, he says the God of all grace, listen how he again grounds this future hope in the past call of God. The God of all grace who has called you to his eternal glory in Christ. Will himself restore and confirm and strengthen and establish you. If you have embraced Christ this morning, As the wisdom and power of God, that is what happened to you, and that is what belongs to you. And we need that hope. We need this hope of his calling. Because when we look at ourselves, When we look at our church and the needs that we have and the struggles that we have, when we look at our city, when we look at our nation, there's a lot to feel hopeless about. In fact, very often as people grow older in life, they become bitter and cynical because there's so many despairing things happening around them and so much hopelessness around them. But here is Paul saying, he's he's telling them, he's praying, that no Christian ever need be in that circumstance of hopelessness. Because God, by His Spirit, grounds us in this hope of His calling. God has called us from darkness to light He's called us from the dominion of Satan into the glorious dominion of the Lord Jesus. He's called us from slavery To the freedom of the glory of the children of God. Oh, there is every reason for us to be hopeful in this world. If only we would know the hope of his calling. Would you just pray with me right now that we would know this hope? Oh, Father, we need your help. We want to see this. We want to know this hope of our calling. Help us to marvel at how you raised us spiritual rebels that we are. Help us to marvel that you you raised us from spiritual Death and called us into your own kingdom and glory and help us to trust that as sure as your call has come to us and given us new life, that you will bring us safely into the new heavens and the new earth. In Jesus' name. Amen. I'm not done the sermon. I'm sorry if you were thinking I was done. But he's praying that we would see these things. And so we should pray that we see these things. Paul has something else that he wants us to see. Something else he wants us to know. He goes on to say, not just knowing what is the hope to which he has called you, but verse 18, what are the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints? What does that mean? I'm not exactly sure. The bummer when you have to get up and say that all week after studying all week and say, I'm not exactly sure. The commentators that I consulted are split on this too, what Paul is exactly referring to with this phrase. But I can tell you this: either way, whichever interpretation is the correct interpretation, it's a win for us. It may be that Paul is praying for his readers to grasp, to know, how deeply loved and treasured they are by God. Such that he views them, that he regards them as his own inheritance. That's a wonderful Thought. It's a thought actually that we heard read from God's Word last week in our service, if you remember that. Lisa read to us from Isaiah 62, and in Isaiah 62 it says, of the people of God, You shall be a crown of beauty in the hand of the Lord and a royal diadem in the hand of your God. And as the bridegroom rejoices over the bride, so shall your God rejoice over you. I I've had that privilege on many occasions of standing at the front of a sanctuary or outdoors when a wedding is happening and and I'm standing here and the groom is He's standing right beside me, and when that bride shows herself and comes down, I always want to get a look at the groom's face And there's tears, and he's a sloppy mess of the lot of the times. But it's an affection that is so deep, and Isaiah is saying, this is the way God regards his bride. We're his inheritance. That language is used in the Old Testament. That Israel is the inheritance of his people. And we know that Paul later in this letter in chapter 3 he is going to pray specifically that the people of God would grasp how wide and long and high and deep is the love of Christ, that they would know how deeply and wonderfully He treasures them even unto death. That the Son of God would come and lay down his life to win for God a bride, that we would know how much he treasures us That might be what Paul is wanting them to grasp. I actually don't think that is what Paul is wanting them to grasp. But do you see how I said it's a win? Either way, if you want to just land there and say, I think that's what he's referring to, praise God. It's a true truth. I just don't know that it's what Paul is wanting them to grasp right here in this passage. I think actually what Paul's praying for here is captured in Some lyrics that we sang earlier in our service when we sang those words, I rejoice in my Redeemer, greatest treasure, wellspring of my soul. I think just in the same way that his calling, as it says there, the hope of his calling, refers to God as the one who issues that call. He's not the called one, he's giving the call. And just as his power, which we're going to talk about in a few minutes, refers to God as the one who gives that power, I think also here, his inheritance is referring to God as the one who grants who gives that inheritance to his people. In Christ, because of Christ We have obtained an inheritance. That's what Paul says in verse 11 of Ephesians 1. And now he's praying that they and that we would know that wonderful inheritance. An inheritance So breathtaking that Paul in another of his letters would say that he counted everything as loss, everything as rubbish, in view of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ. That is the inheritance of God's people, that he, even as it says in Lamentations 3, that he would be the portion of his people This is an inheritance. This is a treasure of such inestimable value that Jesus compared it to like a man who stumbling along in a field and finding a a treasure hidden in it and being so moved at the wonder and glory of this treasure that he buries it and then in his joy goes and sells everything that he has to buy that field. Such is the inheritance that we have in him. An inheritance so profound that the writer of Hebrews could say, keep your life free from the love of money And be content with what you have had with what you have because God has said, I will never leave you, and I will never forsake you. I love I love the logic. I love that logic in Hebrews 13, 5 and 6. You don't need don't be content with you have you have a lot, don't be too enamored with it. You have a little, don't worry too much about it. Why? Because you have God. This is a salvation, an inheritance that is so satisfying that the prophet Habakkuk could sing, though the fig tree should not blossom, nor fruit beyond the vines. Though the produce of the olive fail and the fields yield no food, though the flock be cut off from the fold and there be no herd in the stalls, yet I will rejoice in the Lord, I will take joy in the God. Of my salvation. That's an inheritance so great. Strip me of everything that this world has, I will still rejoice in the God of my salvation. Uh Michelle and I went into the city a few days ago to look at the cherry blossoms. We were a little past the peak, but we still made our trip and we went on the metro. We went and looked at the cherry blossoms. We came back. Becky Flezon is so excited. We went and did the Did the metro because she's the one who helped us to know how to do the metro. Thank you. Uh and so we're we're driving we're riding back all on the metro, uh out of the city, and I just happened to notice out the window there was some tense In the woods, there was people, I mean I didn't see people, but I'm trusting there were people living in this little tent, this blue tarp basically that was turned into a tent. And I and I as I was thinking about this inheritance and I was thinking about that blue tarp serving as a home for somebody, I I thought of of the people sleeping in that. Tent. Maybe eating out of dumpsters. All their possessions squeezed into a plastic trash bag. And I I imagine, and you have to suspend disbelief here, but just r roll with me if if you don't mind. Imagine a limousine pulling up And a man in a very fancy suit hands the individual in the tent a letter, a long-lost uncle has died and left him a fortune. $50 million. The check is going to arrive on Wednesday. That letter brings joy. The circumstances in that moment have not changed for the person living in that makeshift tent. But the cardboard, that blue tarp, that garbage does not feel as hopeless anymore. He can make it through a couple more days because the hope of a rich and glorious inheritance has arrived. And Paul is praying. that the Ephesians would would would grasp that they have an inheritance far greater than $50 million. This is an inheritance, to quote Peter again, that is imperishable and undefiled and unfading and kept in heaven. It's got no expiration date. Its loveliness and glory will never be diminished. That is the inheritance of the people of God, freely given to us, because our Lord Jesus was willing to be made poor, so that by his poverty we might become rich in him. Not rich with the stuff of this world, rich in him. And he wants them to grasp that Oh God, help us. Help us to know the glorious inheritance that you have given to your saints in yourself. Forbid Father that we should envy people with a lot in this world. Forbid that we should fritter our lives away on Netflix or YouTube or our Xbox. Being far too easily pleased with what this world can give us when you have held out to us the hope of an inheritance. Help us to know the deep wealth that is ours in Christ. In his name we pray. Amen. And yet I know where you all live, because I know where I live And it's one of the humbling things because I stand up here and I just I sound so excited. But then these this this crew here, well not the merit girls, okay. Lovely to have you with us sitting here now, but they don't all know the w when I go home. I can be sullen. I can be worrying. I can be struggling. So zealous up here. It's one of the most humbling things on the planet, having to stand up here with them looking at me. And what I'm saying when I say that is this this hope that I'm talking about, this hope of his calling, and this this glorious inheritance. We believe it, but sometimes it just feels very distant. Right? I know many of you, most of you, have come here believing this is the truth about your future. But right now, as you as you contemplate tomorrow or next month, you feel weak Maybe you scan the news headlines and you feel weak, or you you examine your own life and circumstances and there's so much weakness. And I think the Apostle Paul knows this about us. I think he knows that we are tempted to feel this despair, this hopelessness, this Apathy that really nothing can change. Like yes, there's this hope, but but there's no hope for me right now. I think he knows that about us because it's why he goes on to pray and he really drills down on this point particularly, so much so that we'll have to really return to it. in a couple of weeks to look at the rest of this prayer, verses 20 through 23. But he he presses this point particularly that we would know not only the hope of his gl glorious calling, not only the riches of his glorious inheritance, but he prays that we would know the awesome power that is ours right now. That you may know, look at the passage again, that you may know what is the hope to which he has called you. What are the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints? And what is the immeasurable greatness of his power toward us who believe? According to the working of his great might. That's very redundant There are six different words that Paul uses here to convey the awesomeness of this power. Right? It's the immeasurable greatness of his power. It's for us who believe. And then he can't stop there. He says This immeasurable greatness of power, it's according to the working of his great might. It's like his hyper-mega dynamite that God exercises towards you. And it oh it accords with the working of his mighty might. He really wants you to get this. He really wants me to grasp this Think about this mighty mite for a moment. When you look up into the sky on a clear night, which you really don't get here, but Never mind. Imagine. You see, you see what is called the Milky Way. That's the name of our galaxy. I'm not very smart, but I know that. It has about 200 billion stars in it, so they say. The disk of the Milky Way is about 100,000 light years across. That's about 600,000 trillion miles. And it's 2,000 light years thick. Our sun will take about 200,000 years to make a circuit. And besides our galaxy, there are, according to some estimates, 50 million other galaxies. And the God who Paul is praying to spoke it all into existence out of nothing. And he at this very moment is upholding it by the word of his power. But that's actually not the power that Paul grabs for when he wants to prayerfully convince you of God's almighty power that is exercised towards you on your behalf, Christians. No, the most glorious and most revealing act of God's power is not in the glory of creation, as glorious as that is, but it actually is when he raised up Jesus from the dead. That's what Paul goes on to say. According to the working of his great might, that he worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead. In Christ's resurrection, we see not just an act of raw physical power as when God created the world. But we see spiritual power. We see him undoing death, undoing the curse of sin and the damnation that is due to us because of our sin. Christ's resurrection is the triumph over sin and death and Satan and hell, and it is the firstfruits of a mighty resurrection harvest in which all who have trusted in Christ will be raised up and will mock the death of death as a new heavens and a new earth is inaugurated in which righteousness dwells forever. And Paul says that's the power. The power that raised Christ from the dead is the power that is at work towards us, in us, for us, right now, believer. It's that power that is the power that raised us up to new spiritual life in the first place. That's what Paul's going to go on to say in chapter 2, verse 5. When we were dead in our trespasses, God made us alive together with Christ and raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus. That was because of The mighty working of his mighty mighty mighty might. Or or however many mights that is But it's not just power that raised us up to new life in the first place. It's power that is still at work in the lives of those whom He has raised up. Paul's praying that this resurrection power would actually be manifested in our lives. Do you know how I know that Here's a little secret to preacher's Bible study. I just did a word, you could do this online. You don't need to have fancy Bible software, but I took this word power. Some of you might know this Greek word is the word dunymus. There's an English word that you hear in that word. That's right, dynamite. I'm all good with audience participation. I think you all know that, but I, you know, it's okay to for you to do that. It's not more than okay. I just did a word search for this word power, dunamis, and I just focused, because it's a word that's used a lot, I just focused on Paul's writings And here's what he talks about. Here's whether if it's the word the noun power or the verb empowered, here's what he's talking about In chapter 3, verse 7, he talks about Paul's power in the power of God in his call to ministry. In chapter 3, verse 16, he talks about power to know the love of Christ that surpasses knowledge. In Ephesians 6, 10 and following, he talks about being empowered with all of God's strength to wage war against the spiritual forces of evil by putting on the armor of God. In Romans 15:13, he talks about power to abound in hope. May the God of peace fill you with all joy and peace in believing that by the power of the Holy Spirit you would abound in hope. In Colossians 1. 11, he talks about power for all endurance and patience with joy. In 2 Thessalonians 1:11, he talks about power to walk worthy of God's calling and to fulfill every resolve for good and every work of faith by his power. In 2 Timothy 1, 7 and 8, he talks about power to unashamedly bear witness to Christ even amidst opposition In Colossians 1. 29, he talks about power to teach and admonish others with wisdom so that everyone would be presented mature in Christ in Romans 4. 20. He talks about Abraham being strengthened, being empowered to believe God's promises, even when his circumstances seemed utterly hopeless. And of course, we could just put the banner over all of it being Philippians 4. 13 when Paul says we can do all things through him who strengthens or empowers us. Again, can I borrow from the Apostle Peter? His divine power has granted to you all things pertaining to life and godliness. The very power that raised our Lord Jesus from the dead dwells in you, Christians. If you're not a Christian, I'm begging you, come to Jesus today. Put your faith, recognize yourself to be the traitor against God that you have been, and receive his gracious pardon right now But Christians, the power of the risen Christ is at work towards you in all these ways for all these things. And that means there is no addiction that Christ's power cannot break. No sin that his power cannot defeat No task to which you are called that his power cannot accomplish. No fruit that you are called to bear in his service that his power cannot produce. No relationship that his power cannot restore. No physical disease, hear me carefully here. No physical disease that his power cannot heal. He will heal ultimately on the last day when our bodies are raised to new life. He can heal now, but if he chooses not to, that power will sustain you through until glory He can do all of that. He says he will do all that. Paul prays that God would uh help the Ephesians and that he would help us to know this because the God we're praying to is the Almighty. Look, look at this. Okay, I get loud. You should never believe what I say because I'm loud and enthusiastic about it. So look at your Bible there in Ephesians 3:20. That Paul is praying to the one who is able. Do you see that? Who is able? Not I'm not gonna be loud about it. Do you see it in your Bible? Who is able? Is it say that? Does it say who is able? I don't actually don't have that in. It says it in there, doesn't it? Yeah, okay. I'm just trying to make sure you're with me. He's able to do far more abundantly than all we ask or think. I just thought of some things and I told you them. He is able to do far more abundantly than all that we ask or think, according to the power at work within us. To him be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations, forever and ever. Amen. And I listen, I gotta press down here. I'm it's getting a little late, but you're all attentive still. I'm almost done But I let me just say another thing or two here about this. Because I know some Christians maybe feel hesitant here in what I've just said Like you're all saying you're being receptive, you're saying amen. But I know there are some here. Maybe it feels a little bit arrogant, maybe it feels a little bit triumphalistic that I'm saying all this. Maybe some of you who feel like Romans 7. 24 is like your life verse. Do you know what Romans 7. 24 says? Wretched man that I am, who will deliver me from this body of death. And it's possible that you could be sitting here even with all that I'm saying and as loudly as I'm saying it and I just showed you Bible. Listen, I I can't live with spiritual power. I can't change in this way or that way. I'm I'm just I'm a miserable wretch. I can't do anything. And so I'm a little bit hesitant. I don't know about this And and from my experience, again, I'm new here, okay? I'm new here. But from my experience, the people who feel that most palpably are typically very sincere, faithful Christians who are sincerely relying upon Jesus for their freedom. Forgiveness. And they're not flippant about sin. They're grieved by the presence of sin in their lives. And so I don't want to scold you in saying this. There is gentleness and there is longing in my heart when I say what I'm about to say, but that is not how the Apostle Paul prays. The Apostle Paul does not pray here, Lord, would you grant them rest in your grace, since they're never actually going to be able to see or experience anything in their actual lives that would be a source of joy to them. and of praise to you because they can see the mighty power of God at work in their lives. Does not help all praise. Let me be clear. We absolutely need to, this is the treasure of our salvation, is that we come to Jesus in our sin and we find rest and we find pardon. And we're gonna have an ongoing need to find rest and to have that reapplication of the gospel goodness of his pardoning grace coming to us again and again and again in our Christian lives. That is why we make a practice even as we will in a couple of minutes. Have a time where we confess our sins and we are reminded of God's gracious forgiveness in Christ. But is Jesus so impotent? And is the Holy Spirit so irrelevant that God is unable to produce good and beautiful things in you and actually cause you to walk in newness of life, to actually walk in a manner worthy of his calling, which is the entire second half of the letter? Is he impotent to do that? Or can he do that? Because it's a newness and a worthiness that is from him and through him and therefore to his praise. Oh, God knows. Believe me, God knows that you and I can be a hot mess at times. That's why Paul's praying that we would know the immeasurable greatness of his resurrection power toward us who believe so that we could pursue living the life that he's called us to live in Christ while we rely on his grace and enablement. Would you do service for Jesus your king? There's a hymn that says, There's power in the blood. Power in the blood. Would you live daily his praises to sing? There's wonderful power in the blood. If he's got the power and the grace to call you out of darkness and into his marvelous light, and to present you blameless before the presence of his glory with great joy. then surely he has the power and grace to produce genuine goodness in you, genuine newness of life in you this week So application. Talk about that this week. After the service, talk about this. What is the storm? What is that torrential downpour in your life that is blurring you from this realization of what is ours in Christ? What are those things? And where are you longing to see God's mighty power working in your life? Talk about that and spend this week praying for each other. That you would know the hope of his calling and the riches of the glory of his inheritance in the saints and the immeasurably great power. The resurrection power that is towards us who believe and know this, beloved brothers and sisters, that you are praying to the God who is able to do far more abundantly. than all that we ask or think, according to the power that is at work within us. Amen. Father, help us Help us to believe what's true of us in Christ. Help us to not be naive to the ongoing struggle that we will have with sin. But help us to truly rely not only on your pardoning grace, we praise you for pardoning grace. Would you help us also to rely on your empowering grace, that divine power that has granted to us all things pertaining to life and godliness. And we pray, even as uh an old brother in the Lord, Robert Murray McShane said, we pray that you would make us as holy as it is possible for a pardoned sinner to be right now in this life, even as we wait for the hope of righteousness. When we will one day be like you, because we will see you as you are. Work in us, Father, what's pleasing in your sight through Jesus, that all the glory might be to him and to him alone. Amen