Well good morning, brothers and sisters. Good to be with you to share God's word to go to the God of our salvation to find hope, to find rest. To find comfort. And I do pray that that's what we find today. So let's pray towards that end one more time before we get started Oh Lord, we pray that we would delight in you right now, and that we would delight in your word right now, that we would believe it because we believe you, because we know that all of your words are true. That you are the God of our redemption, our salvation. You are our deliverer, our restorer, you're our rest, and you're our ever-present help, O Lord. And we ask that you would use your word right now in our hearts to convict us, to correct us, to comfort us, to change us, Lord, that we will look more like your son Jesus Christ as a result. And we ask in his name. Amen. On New Year's Eve, eighteen sixty two Enslaved and free African Americans gathered all around to ring in the new year together And they did this because they were watching and they were waiting for the new year to come and for the Emancipation Proclamation to take effect. President Lincoln issued this executive order, which declared the slaves in Confederate states to be free on September 22nd, 1862. But that executive order would not take effect until January 1, 1863. And so they gathered Many of them in secret, many of them in churches, many of them in fear for retribution, but all of them watching, waiting With eager anticipation for the new year and for a new layer of their freedom to be finally realized So, in a sense, they were already declared as free in September, but their redemption was only partial by that point. And that's pretty similar to where we left Habakkuk. He had heard from the Lord once again, as we talked about last week The Lord declared to him in full detail all what would happen to the people of Judah and all that he would do to correct the wrongs of the people who harmed the people of Judah And he said that God's people would eventually be redeemed. The Lord had already declared it But yet, it had not taken effect by this point in Habakkuk. And we too, as God's people, if we have placed our faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, For our salvation, the Bible teaches that we have been redeemed. And yet, here we are In these bodies of flesh. Here we are in this sinful world. Here we are experiencing suffering and trials of all kinds. Our redemption has been realized already, but not in full yet. We're living in that in-between right now. So then what should we do as God's people as we're awaiting our full and final redemption? If you have a copy of God's word, please meet me in Habakkuk chapter 3, where we will answer that question together. Habakkuk chapter 3, that's on page 786 of the Bibles that are around you. In your areas. Today we're going to cover the conclusion of the book of Habakkuk, where Habakkuk the prophet lamented to the Lord due to the situation in Judah. And also due to the Lord's apparent inaction. He thought the Lord wasn't responding. But the Lord responded by explaining to Habakkuk just what he was doing. And he even said, you wouldn't even understand if I told you. But I'm gonna tell you, he was going to discipline the people of Judah. He was going to use God's enemies in order to do it And then Habakkuk lamented again, not understanding why the Lord would choose to judge the people of Judah, but seemed to let the wicked, the Chaldeans, go unpunished. So then the Lord responded again, explaining that the righteous shall live by faith, and that indeed the Chaldeans will be judged by the Lord. And his people must wait for that deliverance to come. So here in Habakkuk chapter 3, the prophet responds again to the Lord. But this time not with a lament, with a psalm. Follow along with me as I read Habakkuk chapter 3, starting in verse 1. This is the word of the Lord. A prayer of Habakkuk the prophet, according to Shigeonov. O Lord, I have heard the report of you And your work, O Lord, do I fear. In the midst of the years, revive it. In the midst of the years, make it known. In wrath, remember mercy God came from Temon and the Holy One from Mount Piran, Selah. His splendor covered the heavens and the earth was full of his praise. His brightness was like the light, rays flashed from his hand, and there he veiled his power. Before him went pestilence, and plague followed at his heels. He stood and measured the earth, and looked and shook the nations. Then the eternal mountains were scattered, the everlasting hills sank low. His were the everlasting ways. I saw the tents of Kushan in affliction. The curtains of the land of Midian did tremble. Was your wrath against the rivers, O Lord? Was your anger against the rivers? Your indignation against the sea when you rode on your horses, on your chariot of salvation You stripped the sheath from your bow, calling for many arrows. Selah. You split the earth with rivers. The mountains saw you and writhe. The raging waters swept on. The deep gave forth its voice. It lifted its hands on high. The sun and moon stood still in their place. At the light of your arrows as they sped, at the flash of your glittering spear. You march through the earth in fury. You thresh the nations in anger You went out for the salvation of your people, for the salvation of your anointed. You crushed the head of the house of the wicked, laying him bare from thigh to neck. Selah. You pierced with his own arrows the heads of his warriors, who came like a whirlwind to scatter me, rejoicing as if to devour the poor in secret. You trampled the sea with your horses, the surging of mighty waters. I hear and my body trembles. My lips quiver at the sound. Rottenness enters into my bones. My legs tremble beneath me Yet, I will quietly wait for the day of trouble to come upon people who invade us Though the fig tree should not blossom, nor the fruit be on the vines, the produce of the olive fail, and the fields yield no food, the flock be cut off from the fold and there be no herd in the stalls, yet I will rejoice in the Lord. I will take joy in the God of my salvation. God, the Lord, is my strength. He makes my feet like the deers. He makes me tread on high places. To the choir master with stringed instruments If you're taking notes, here's our main idea for our time together in God's Word. God's people can rejoice as we remember his redemption and wait for his deliverance. God's people can rejoice as we wait, remember His redemption and wait on His deliverance. And for our time together, we're going to cover that in these three points, which basically makes up the main idea. Remember God's redemption, wait for his deliverance, and rejoice as you wait. First off, first point, remember God's redemption. So this text of Habakkuk chapter 3 is framed with musical terms and instructions all throughout. In verse 1, the psalm is introduced as a prayer of Habakkuk according to Shigeonoth. Now, most commentators think that Shigeonoth is a musical directive. It's only used one other time in the Bible, and that's in Psalm chapter 7, in which it's described as a shigeon of David. It's a lament. It's a dirge. And it's meant for the musicians to understand it and then therefore to play it and sing it in that way. So for the musicians in the room, that's like looking at your sheet music, looking at the title, looking at the top of it, seeing the temple, and then seeing words like adagio. Which tells you how it's meant to be played or how it's meant to be sung. So this is still a lament from Habakkuk. But it's one to be accompanied accompanied by other musicians, meaning by the people of God. We know this because verse 19, at the very end of it, it says to the choir master what stringed instruments. So we can assume from this, as well as the rest of the book of Habakkuk, that his lament, his fear, his confusion was not his alone. It was all of the people of Judah. The remnant of God's people in Judah. So that means that this song, this response to the Lord, is not just Habakkuk's response. It's for all of God's people. Because they are now in awestruck fear of the Lord. They are now reminded of His great goodness, His sovereign plan, His will, and they trust it. And they are content to wait. And now they have a clearer view of God. Look at verse 2 Abakakir seems to believe that the Lord will answer, but that this answer may take years. So he prays that the Lord will revive his work. He says, in the midst of the years, revive it. And in your wrath, he says, remember mercy. He's saying in essence, I've heard about what you've done before for your people. Do it again. Do it for us, O Lord. So then, in verses 3 through 15, Habakkuk recounts all that the Lord has done for his people throughout the ages as they waited for his deliverance. And that's what God's people have always done. When they're waiting for his deliverance, they remember what God's already done before. They rehearse it. They recount it to one another. And that's exactly what Habakkuk does here for verses 3 through 15. And he focuses mostly on this ark of salvation that the Lord used when he saved his people out of Egypt. He brought them through the wilderness and then into the promised land. And if you remember that from the Bible, you have a story of Exodus where God is delivering his people out of slavery, out of Egypt. He's giving him them his law. And then you have numbers in Deuteronomy, where you have the outworkings of God's people trying, and many times failing, to keep his law, but the Lord keeping them. And preserving them as they went through the wilderness because of their disobedience. And then you have the book of Joshua, where Moses died And then Joshua picks up at the beginning to lead God's people where Moses could not to lead them into the promised land. And in the book of Joshua, you don't see Joshua as a warrior. You see over and over and over again the Lord as the warrior to deliver his people into the promised land. Habakkuk is remembering all of this in our text for this morning. That's why you have all of these references. For example, look at verses 3 and 4 in Habakkuk chapter 3. Use words like Temon and Mount Peran, which are both references to the book of Exodus. Or even in verse 4, when it says that rays flash from his hand, from the Lord's hand. And that's likely referring to the Lord coming down on Mount Sinai before he gave the law to Moses. That's echoed in Deuteronomy chapter 33, where it says, the Lord came from Sinai and dawned from Sheer upon us and shone forth from Mount Peron. He came from the ten thousands of holy ones with flaming fire at his right hand. That's likely what Habakkuk is referring to. Or even in verse 5, where it says that pestilence and plagues followed at his heels Kids in the room. I know we wrapped up uh uh kids Sunday school this morning, and you had a lot of questions and answers about the book of Exodus. Plague plagues and pestilence, what is that referring to? It's related to Exodus, but what is that about, Elijah? The ten plagues in Egypt, in which the Lord used that to eventually free his people to deliver them The plagues and the pestilence, they were part of God's people being rescued, but also part of God's people, God's enemies being judged. And then verse 6 in Habakkuk 3 goes on to describe this judgment. Verse 6 says that there's a shaking of the nations. And earthquakes also in the scriptures are a sign of God's judgment. Think of Exodus again, chapter 19, verse 18. Now Mount Sinai was wrapped in smoke because the Lord had descended on it in fire. The smoke of it went up like the smoke of Achillan, and the whole mountain trembled greatly And then verse 7, the back it says that he saw the tents, meaning the people, of Kishon in affliction, and the curtains of Midian did tremble. These neighboring tribes who would have seen and who would have heard about what the Lord God was doing in their midst. They saw about it, and they heard about it, and they were afraid. And they quaked. They were in fear, just like those mountains were in fear. And then verse 8, and recalling God's mercy for his people and his wrath for his enemies. Habakkuk asked, was your wrath against the rivers? Was your wrath against the rivers, O Lord? What rivers may he have been referring to, kids? Exodus, Egypt, the Now River. What about another sea? Color? The now river, the Red Sea. The now river, which was turned to blood, the Red Sea, which was split in two so that God's people could walk through on dry ground. The Lord did all of that and more to bring about the salvation to his people. Look at verse 9, where it says in Habakkuk 3, he stripped the sheath from his bowl, calling for many arrows. That's describing the Lord as a warrior. Now, by now, as you're looking over Habakkuk chapter 3, you may have also noticed another term that appears three different times, and it's the term Selah, which again commentators debate all about what that actually means and what should you do with it. Most believe that it's also a musical directive, a musical term. It's like looking at your sheet music, reading or playing and seeing a formata, which means you kind of hold that note out a little bit. You linger there a little bit longer. Which I think should help us as we read the Bible, as we go across passages like this, when we see that word, just linger there for a moment. What does that mean? What is he getting at? What connection is that meaning? What is that saying about the Lord? And here we see that this is describing the Lord as a warrior for his people. One that defends his people to the very end. That's why it says in verse 10, if you look at it, it says that the mountains and the waters, they basically obeyed the Lord in worship. They raised their hands. They did what the Lord said. They shuddered in fear and in obedience to the Lord Even the sun and the moon would obey the word of the Lord. Look at verse 11, where it says the sun and the moon stood in their place. The reference to Joshua chapter 10, when the sun and the moon did stay still for God's people. At that time, Joshua spoke to the Lord in the day when the Lord gave the Amorites over to the sons of Israel. He gave them over. And he said in the sight of Israel, son, stand still at Gibeon, and moon in the valley of Alion. And the sun stood still, and the moon stopped until the nation took vengeance on their enemies. All of creation obeys the word of the Lord. And the Lord can use all of creation for the victory of his people. So Habakkuk is remembering the Lord as a warrior for his people. Who eventually would deliver his people. Look at verse 12. It says, You marched through the earth in fury. You threshed the nations in anger. You went out for the salvation of your people. For the salvation of your anointed. Verse 14, you pierced with his own arrows the head of his warriors. Verse 15, you trampled the sea with your horses. You see, Habakkuk was initially questioning the sovereignty of God. He was questioning the judgment of God. He was questioning the justice of God in his first and second laments. The Lord explained clearly what he was going to do. Clearly that the wicked would eventually be judged, and that all the earth should stand in silence before him. That's it back at 220. And Habakkuk now stands before the Lord in fear and awe of his justice, because he remembers what the Lord has already done on behalf of his people. The Lord redeems his people through rescuing them and through punishing the Lord's enemies. That's what he did in Egypt. That's what he did through Joshua, bringing him into the promised land. That's what he would do in Judah as well. All of this should remind us, brothers and sisters, that our hindsight is better than our foresight. Which means we may not know what God is going to do in the midst of our day right now, but We know who he is. We know what he already has done. So instead of trying to guess at what he's going to do and what's going to happen, we can look back at what he's already done Then make better predictions about who he is and what he will do and how he will be faithful to us. We can see that in his word And we will see over and over and over again that the Lord is the redeemer of his people. And that helps us to trust in him, which brings us to point two. Wait for his deliverance. Remember his redemption point one. Wait for his deliverance point two. Look back at verse two of Habakkuk chapter three. He says, O Lord, I heard the report of you and your work, O Lord, do I fear. In the midst of the years revive it. In the midst of the years make it known. In wrath, remember mercy. He wants the Lord to revive his previous work, to make it known in the years ahead, to make it known in their day, to do it for them right then. And he recalls the Lord's past redemption on behalf of his people, as he does in verses 3 through 15. And then he says this in verse 16 of our passage. I hear and my body trembles. My lips quiver at the sound. Rottenness enters into my bones. My legs tremble beneath me. So imagine Habakkuk still at his watch post, but now he's barely able to stand. His legs are trembling. His lips are quivering. He too is afraid. But his fear is different. His fear doesn't lead him to run. His fear leads him to wait on the Lord. And all throughout Habakkuk, his main fear seems to be about the leaders in Judah And also the people, the Chaldeans who are eventually come to them. He's fearing the leaders, he's fearing the Chaldeans. But now he fears the Lord more than he fears those. And therefore, he's content to wait on the Lord to answer when he chooses to and how he chooses to. That's why he says, yet I will quietly wait for the day of trouble to come upon the people who invade us. He's waiting in humility and out of fear of the Lord. So may I ask their brother or sister, who or what are you in fear of today? Are you afraid of the future? Are you afraid of an upcoming doctor's appointment? Are you afraid of a meeting that you have coming up Are you afraid of the upcoming presidential election? Are you afraid of what kind of country your children are going to be inheriting? Are you afraid of aging? Are you afraid of death? And how are you responding to those fears? Our fears normally lead us to flee, to run, and to hide To try to just numb the pain. To try to just pretend like it's not really happening. Or to fix. To try to get remedies for our situations, to try to do whatever we can in our own strength to make things better. But fear of the Lord leads to faith. And that faith enables us to wait for the Lord to deliver his people. And Habakkuk was content to wait because the Lord. Went out for his people for the salvation of his anointed. Look again at verse 13 of our passage. Says you went out for the salvation of your people. You went out for the salvation of your anointed You crushed the head of the house of the wicked, laying him bare from thigh to neck. The Lord went out for the salvation of his people. To the salvation of his anointed. And that word anointed could also be translated as Messiah Because the Lord sent the Messiah, the Lord Jesus Christ, to crush the head of the serpent. This was his plan all along. And faith in the coming of the Messiah is what sustained Habakkuk, is what sustained the saints of old, and it's what sustains us as God's people. Because if God's people were all consumed even here in Judah or even in Egypt, then how would the Messiah come? If you read through your Bible, you will see the whole time God has a plan, and He's going to keep that plan, and He's going to make sure that happens. He's going to make sure that the Messiah comes And he did. And nothing, no one would get in the way of God's plan. Egypt could not stop God's plan. Pharaoh could not stop God's plan. The Chaldeans could not stop God's plan. And not even Satan could stop God's plan of sending the Messiah to save and redeem and deliver his people. The Lord Jesus came. And the Lord Jesus was much more than a prophet. He was the Messiah and the Redeemer sent to save and deliver his people. And he did so. By living the perfect life, by dying on the cross, by rising from the grave, so that all who believe in him can be rescued by him and redeemed and restored and reconciled to God the Father. In Jesus Christ, we can be rescued from sin and from death, from hell and from the grave. Also from the sin that we've committed against God. He has paid it all. He's paid it in full. So that God could be merciful to us. Jesus took on God's wrath so that we could receive God's mercy You're hearing you're not a Christian. Know that fear of the Lord can go in two different directions. Either because you're against him or because you're with him. If you're against him Then you should be in fear because the Lord will judge just like he's going to judge the Chaldeans eventually But instead, you can run to him. You can cling to him. You can believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. You can trust that he is the only way of salvation. And you don't have to fear condemnation from the Lord, but you can live in awestruck fear and wonder and reverence to the Lord. That can start today if you place your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. We'd love to talk to you about that. If you want to talk more about what that means. Brothers and sisters in Christ, if God be for us, who can be against us? If the Lord Jesus is on our side, we have nothing and no one to fear. That means we get to stand and wait for his deliverance because we know that eventually he will deliver us. I mean he's already delivered us from sin, from death, from hell, from the grave. We still live in this world as exiles, don't we? We still are on enemy territory, as it were. We still see corruption and sin and wickedness. We still are sinned against. We still experience immense and long, prolonged seasons of suffering. We still cry out at times, how long, O Lord? We as God's people have been delivered, and yet we are still waiting to be ultimately delivered Free from this world of sin and suffering, free from these shells, these flesh, these bodies of flesh that are just wasting away. But until then we get to wait and hope. That's what the Apostle John says in 1 John 2 verse 28. Where he says, when he appears, when Jesus appears, we can have confidence and not shrink back at his coming Now, if we were enemies of God, we should be afraid. But we don't have to fear the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ because we are in Christ. Which means we get to stand and wait and long for his return. Which means, brothers and sisters, as you're reminded of the fact that we are not quite there yet, Due to your own wrestles with sin, your own wrestles with doubt, your own wrestles with shame, your own suffering, the sin that you see in the world. May we do what the Apostle John does at the end of the Bible. Use that as an opportunity to pray, come Lord Jesus. We don't have to fear his coming. We should long for his coming. For him to make everything right because he will make everything right. So Habakkuk has gone from lament to contentment. He's willing to wait for the Lord to judge the Chaldeans, even if it takes a while. But how would he wait? And how should we, as God's people, wait? That leads us to point three. Rejoice as we wait. Remember his deliverance, wait for, remember his redemption, excuse me, wait for his deliverance and rejoice as we wait. It's the part of Habakkuk that you've probably been hoping we would get to pretty quickly, right? This is the crescendo, as it were, of the book of Habakkuk. Because Habakkuk starts with this lament, But it ends with this song of praise starting in verse 17. Where it says, though the fig tree should not blossom. No fruit nor fruit be on the vines. The produce of the olive fail, and the fields yield no food. The flock be cut off from the fold. and there be no herd in the stalls, yet I will rejoice in the Lord. I will take joy in the God of my salvation In late 2017, I was concluding my time as a THBC intern uh at Capitol Hill Baptist. And being an intern is pretty great. If you were members of CHBC, you know, like the the the the interns are kind of like the the darlings of the church. For a few months, right? They get spoiled and taken out, and everybody wants to talk to them, etc. And everything's great until you're nearing the end of the internship, and then it's like, oh, what am I going to do next What am I gonna do now? Now at that time when we started the internship, we had just moved from London, like straight away. So we'd been there for three years, left everything behind, moved back to DC, kind of uncertain about what was gonna happen next. So I did what most people would do. You're surrounded by pastors. I asked a pastor, like, hey What should we do? The pastor's name was Blake, or is Blake. And if you know Blake, you know he normally responds with scripture. And his response was, though the fig tree should not blossom, nor fruit beyond the vines. And I'm like, is this like a riddle or something? The produce of the olives fail, and the fields yield no food. But there was a connection there because I kind of related. I was just like. I don't know if our situation's that dire, but I honestly don't know what's going to happen next. It says, yet I will rejoice in the Lord. And that kind of sent me on a journey to read and study the book of Habakkuk. Because I felt like that. There's no provision. I don't know where it's going to come from. Fruit, food, produce. All provisions seem to be lacking and cut off. Have you ever felt that way? Maybe financially, or maybe you've just felt like there seems to be no provision out of what I'm in right now. There's no exit strategy. There's no relief. It's just suffering over and over and over and over again And maybe you trust that the Lord will provide eventually, but you don't know when and you don't know how. What should you do as you wait Abak says, yet I will rejoice. Rejoice, but how? In what? Have you ever been perplexed by the Bible's command to rejoice? It seems strange. It doesn't compute. But God calls us not to rejoice in our trials or in our circumstances. It's during our trials and during our circumstances. But he called us to rejoice in the Lord himself. Amy Carmichael, for example, was a missionary in India and served there for over 55 years. Including serving children who were trafficked in Hindu temples. She became a mother to so many of them. She saw sin, she saw wickedness, she saw oppression, and she experienced suffering of her own. But listen to what she writes about joy. She says, joy is not gush. Joy is not mere jolliness. Joy is perfect acquiescence Acceptance, rest in God's will, whatever comes. It's like Paul says in Philippians 4:4, rejoice In the Lord always. Again, I'll say, rejoice. Paul wrote that from prison Paul was acquainted with suffering. But Paul, just like Amy, could say words like, rejoice in the Lord. Because they also knew what Paul wrote in Philippians 4:5. Let your reasonableness be known to all men, the Lord is at hand. Meaning the Lord is near. To us. Habakkuk knew the situation in Judah was dire. It was bad. He knew the Chaldeans would eventually come and that would make things even worse. But he knew that the Lord was with them right then, and that eventually he would deliver them So that the he and the people of Judah could rejoice as they waited for that deliverance to come. And as God's people, we can rejoice as we wait for his coming salvation because of the strength that he gives to us. Look at verse 19. Where he says, God, the Lord is my strength. He makes my feet like the deers. He makes me tread on high places. Beloved, the Lord doesn't just say wait. He says, remember what I've already done for you He doesn't just say wait. He says, I am going to rescue you. He doesn't just say be strong. He says, rely on my strength as you wait. That's why he says he makes my feet like the deers, the tread on high places. And deer hooves are made from keratin. Which means that they're much stronger than bones. They they can't crack. That means that deer are able to walk, to run. The stand pretty much anywhere. Any kind of teran. Even in high places, even in mountains where others will slip and fall to their doom. But beloved, we must know the Lord's way is not around the steep terrain. It's not around adversity. It's not around suffering. He doesn't avoid the valleys. He goes through it. He leads us through it. And he's able to make us as his people stand. Walk and even run on any kind of terrain that we'll experience in this life. Any trial, any kind of suffering. The Lord strengthen us so that we can stand firm anywhere that his sovereign hands leads us. And as we discussed during the first week of Habakkuk, Habakkuk's ending in a pretty similar place to where he started. His trials have not changed at all. Judah is still a mess. The Chaldeans are eventually coming, and now he knows how severe that will be when they come. But he also knows that the Lord is coming to. So instead of crying out, how long, O Lord He's content to wait. He's content to rejoice in the Lord as he waits. What does that look like? What does that sound like? I think we should remember that Habakkuk chapter 3 is a psalm or a song. There are musical directives all around this chapter of Lament. A song that proclaims God's goodness even in the midst of those trials. So I think we could apply that by deciding that we're going to sing our way through any single trial that we face in this life. Sing your way through it. Most of us are aware of the spiritual disciplines of say prayer or reading the Bible or coming to church. That may be why you're here today. But I wonder if you think of singing as a spiritual discipline. Like this is not just an add-on. This is essential to your walking with Jesus and to your standing with him. In any kind of trial and adversity that you face. There's a reason, beloved, why God commands his people to sing to him. It's not because of how he sounds. But he delights to hear it, and because it does something good for our hearts, it reminds us of who he is. It reminds us of what he's done. It helps us to wait and rejoice as we wait on his deliverance. Just grab your bulletin, for example, and turn to page 10. We already sung this song. It says, the Lord is my salvation. Just look over those words. It says lines which are truths like the grace of God has reached for me and pulled me for the Regency Or I will not fear when darkness falls. His strength will help me to scale these walls Or my hope is hidden in the Lord. He flowers each promise of his word. In times of waiting, in times of need, when I know loss, when I am weak I know his grace will renew these days. Even to the very end of our lives. When I reach my final day, he will not leave me in the grave. I will rise and he will call me home. The Lord is my salvation. Brothers and sisters, who is like the Lord our God? No one He's strong to save. He's already saved us. And right now he is saving us. And he will bring us to that final place of redemption. We get to sing as we wait for that. So sing to one another, sing to the Lord. As you sing, look around the room and see your brothers and sisters singing. And remembering God's deliverance, remembering his redemption as well. Brothers and sisters, know that you are not singing just for you, you're singing for each and every one of us who are here, holding on to our hope. Use your bulletins in your devotional time. Make a playlist if you need to to remind you of your hope. Sing it, doesn't matter how you sound. You need to sing praises to the Lord And when you gather with God's people, come ready to sing as we long for that day. The people of Judah would eventually be able to realize their redemption. Just like those slaves were eventually able to realize their redemption. So it was announced in September 1862. It was applied on January 1st. That's why those brothers and sisters were waiting. But you know your history. It was not truly realized until June 19, 1865, when those Union troops reached Galveston, Texas, to announce to those slaves that they had been free for months by now. What's the difference between all of those dates? The war by then had already been fought and had already been won. That's the difference. But if you would have seen and heard those slaves gathering on New Year's Eve in 1862, you wouldn't have known the difference. Because you would have heard them rejoicing, praising, singing praises to the Lord as they awaited their redemption. Brothers and sisters, the war is not over yet, but we know who wins. And we're on his side. Our Redeemer has come, and our Redeemer is coming again. He's delivered us, and our deliverance is coming. So may the Lord find us, rejoicing in him as we wait. Let's pray. Oh Lord, we thank you for being our rock, our redeemer, our strength, our hope, our everything. We ask you to help us supernaturally to find every reason to rejoice In the middle of our trials, in the middle of our suffering, in the middle of whatever we're experiencing right now Because we trust in you. Because we know that you've delivered us. We know you've delivered your people in the past. And we know that your deliverance will be final. Lord, help us as your people to rejoice every day as we wait until the day where we see you face to face and where we are like you. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen.