If you have not already done so, you can open up in your Bibles to Ephesians chapter 5. If you're using one of the Bibles provided for you, you'll find that reading on page 978 of those Bibles. If you're here with us and you don't happen to own a Bible, we'd be delighted for you to take that Bible home with you. Uh we'd be glad to meet you and talk with you about how you could get into reading the Bible and what the message of the Bible is. Uh please let us know if we can help you with that uh after the service. Ephesians chapter 5, we're picking up. For those of you that were here last Sunday, we are picking up. I want you to remember, we're picking up 48 minutes into a sermon. You're looking at me. Okay, I got a head nod. Somebody remembers. I said this is sort of one long sermon last week and this week in this one passage of Ephesians 5. Uh if you weren't here last week, I will try to catch you up But it is important that you all remember that what was said last week is really underneath. It's the roots of everything I intend to talk about this morning. I'm gonna read Ephesians chapter five beginning in verse twenty-two and reading through the end of the chapter to verse thirty-three. Hear God's word. Wives, submit to your own husbands as to the Lord. For the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church, his body And is himself its Savior. Now, as the church submits to Christ, so also wives should submit in everything to their husbands Husbands, love your wives, as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her, that he might sanctify her having cleansed her by the washing of water with the Word, so that he might present the church to himself in splendor, without spot or wrinkle, or any such thing, that she might be holy and without blemish. In the same way, husbands should love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself. For no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it. Just as Christ does the church, because we are members of his body. Therefore, a man shall leave his father and mother and hold fast to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh This mystery is profound, and I am saying that it refers to Christ and the church. However, let each one of you love his wife as himself. And let the wife see that she respects her husband. This is God's word, brothers and sisters. Thanks be to God. Let's pray once more before we think about those words together. Heavenly Father, we do need your help. We need your help in this hour to hear your word, to understand it, to love it. to apply it faithfully to our lives. And we know we can't do that in and of ourselves. It is the Spirit who gives life. The flesh is no help at all. And so we pray, Father, by your word and by your spirit that you would build us up, give us new life. If there's any here that don't know the Lord Jesus, we pray that you would help them even today to trust in Christ in a saving way. And we pray for those of you that, for those of us here that do know you, that you would build us up in Jesus and help us to reflect Jesus more and more in the way that we live together and especially in the way that we live as husbands and wives. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I'm glad how this worked out that we could return to this passage of Scripture on Palm Sunday. Palm Sunday is the celebration and the recognition that Jesus is king. A king Who is humble and meek and lowly, riding into Jerusalem on a donkey, preparing to give himself unto death. We read uh earlier in our service of Jesus' entry into Jerusalem. And we read that, I trust us reading it here today know that in just a few short days from when that triumphal entry happened, the soldiers of the governor As Matthew would tell us later in his gospel in Matthew 27, the soldiers of the governor took Jesus, that one who had been hailed king with loud cries of Hosanna. Just a few days earlier, they took Jesus into the governor's headquarters and they gathered the whole battalion before him, and they stripped him, and they put a scarlet robe on him. And twisting together a crown of thorns, they put it on his head, and they put a reed in his hand, and kneeling before him, they mocked him. Saying, hail, King of the Jews. And they spit on him. And they took the reed and struck him on the head. And when they had mocked him, they stripped him of the robe and put his own clothes on him and led him away to crucify him, and when they had crucified him, they div divided up his garments, casting lots for them, and they hung a sign above his cross, mocking him, reading, This is Jesus, the King of the Jews. And those who passed by were ridiculing him, wagging their heads at him, and saying, You who would destroy the temple and rebuild it in three days, save yourself. If you're the Son of God, come down from the cross. And the chief priests and the scribes and the elders, they joined in the mocking. He's the king of Israel. Let him come down from the cross, and we'll believe him. And he just stayed there on the cross. And he cried out for their forgiveness. Father, forgive them. They know not what they do. And he cried out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? And with a loud voice he yielded up his spirit. And he died. And just that phrase, he yielded up his spirit, communicates to us that it was not an accident that he died Though all those evil things were perpetrated against him, it was not finally actually done to him. It was something that he freely chose to endure. All of it. And he did that. to save those whom he'd come to save. As Paul said in Ephesians 5, he gave himself up for her. The church, his bride. Amazing love. That's why we sing that. Amazing love, how can it be that thou, my God, shouldst die for me? Now that was last week's message. You can't get marriage right until you put the gospel first. It's as the Holy Spirit puts a joyful song in our hearts because of the goodness of God to us in the mystery of Christ. It's because of that. That husbands and wives give their lives in serving the Lord. By loving each other as husbands and wives, carrying out, displaying something of that gospel mystery in the way that they relate to each other. And this morning, we want to think together about the fruits of Christian marriage. The root of Christian marriage is the gospel, is that mystery of Christ that he in love would give himself up so generously and sacrificially for hell-deserving sinners like you and me, whether you are married or single in this room. The fruits of Christian marriage are what we want to talk about this morning. And there are there's two basic points to this message. Christian wife. You are called to bear the fruit of respectful submission to your own husband. Christian husband, you are called to bear the fruit of sacrificial love for your bride. That's the message. Wives, respectful submission Husbands, sacrificial love. Sometimes we really over-complicate and over-analyze this passage, honestly And there's details, and this is really in some ways this sermon is a conversation starter. I'm not gonna be able to address every specific marital issue that there might be, but we sometimes we think, well, what about working outside the home if she's a homemaker and And how does this involve and relate to decision making? And those are legitimate things and good things to think through, but the call here is somewhat straightforward. Wives, respectful submission, husbands, sacrificial love So point number one, some words to wives about respectful submission These aren't my words. You see that. Verse 22, wives, submit to your own husbands as to the Lord Before I say anything more about that, uh two groups of people here. If you're single uh in this room, I don't mean you to check out. And this sermon is for you. It's for you in at least a couple of ways. And maybe you could think about some more. If you are single, no matter what your age is, it's for you because there is a day, perhaps one day, when you will be married, and it's good for you Sooner than later, to start thinking about what the Lord might be expecting of you and of a potential future spouse. It's not too soon to be thinking about that if you can hear and understand what I am saying. Uh and it's also good for you singles in that even if you don't marry as part of the body of Christ, you are called to support, encourage, exhort, and pray for your brothers and sisters who are married, and this will help you to do that. Even as we who are married want to think about how we can serve and care for and encourage you as single brothers and sisters. Another group of people maybe is you're here today and maybe you don't understand yourself to be a Christian and hearing these words just are like, I don't like this at all This morning I can't make a defense of everything about God's design for marriage. I'm happy to speak with you afterwards about that if you'd like. But today, I just want to commend to you, if you're here and you're struggling with even hearing, wives submit to your own husbands. Where are we? What kind of world is this that these people are living in? I would simply commend to you that we we did not create humans, male and female. God did that. We didn't create marriage. God did that. And like a like a kid opening up a big new Lego set, hundreds of pieces. Pouring all the pieces out on the ground and then throwing away the instruction booklet and trying to put it together without the instructions, that would be really impossible to do. It would be a big mess Well, our societies made marriage and gender and sexuality a big mess in a whole lot of ways by throwing away the design, by throwing away the manual. And I think even if you're here and you're not a follower of Jesus, you could see some ways that things are a little bit crazy out here in our world. And so we would commend to you considering God's good design. Maybe this sermon will help you start thinking about that, and we'd love to talk with you more about that. Now, I did say I would say some words to Christian wives about respectful submission. I include the word respectful there because of what Paul says in verse 33. He comes to verse 33, he says, however, let each one of you love his wife as himself. and let the wife see that she respects her husband. I think he includes respect there and sums it all up with respect, because I think that's the underlying attitude which gives rise to the posture and the practice of submission. It's a it's an attitude of respect. Not nagging, not condescension, or quarreling, or eye rolling, or insulting or demeaning, but respect. Respectful submission. What does that even mean Respectful submission. Well, uh I would say it's it's to support and affirm the husband's leadership role in the home. Uh this word head here Wives submit to your own husbands as to the Lord for uh as uh where is it? Uh uh I lost the word head. It's in the Bible, isn't it? The word head, is it there? It's not in my notes. As the for the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church We know from chapter 1 that Jesus is the head over all things. All things have been subjected under his feet, and he's been given as head over all things to the church. He is the Lord, he is the authority over all things and the church. So this matter of headship is a position of being over the woman. The woman is to, the wife is to submit to her husband. Let's think a little bit more about what Paul is commending here What does this submission look like? Well, we see that the motive of this submission is the honor of her Lord, who is her ultimate head. And ultimate king, that is Jesus. You see that in verse 22. Wives submit to your own husbands as to the Lord. A Paul says the same thing in verse 24: as the church submits to Christ. So also wives should submit in everything to their own husbands. Oh, we see this in verse 21 as well. Where where that opening passage says submitting to one another, and then he's teasing out in a few different relationships, in the marriage relationship, and in children and parents, which we'll come to in a few weeks, and slaves and masters, which we'll also come to. The submission is all to be carried out out of reverence for Christ. So this submission to husbands is really a part of a greater overarching submission to the Lord Jesus. And that clarifies the scope of a wife's submission to her husband, specifically when Paul says they're submit in everything to their husbands. You see that in verse 24. This in everything needs to be interpreted through the lens of a wife's ultimate allegiance to and submission to the Lord Jesus. We know, do we not, church, that Jesus is never the servant of or the champion of or the encourager of sin. So this in everything does not mean following your husband into sin. Is that clear? Is that clear? Okay, thank you. Nor does it mean remaining silent in the face of sin. Because your submission to the Lordship of Christ would not allow you to be silent in the face of sin. Matthew 18, 15, if your brother sins against you, go and show him his fault between you and your brother, is a word, is the call of Christ on Christian wives. even as they seek to show respectful submission in everything. So if there is sin, if there is uh sisters, if you are concerned about abuse in your home, Whether it be verbal abuse or physical abuse, submission does not mean being okay with that and just living with that. And if you are concerned about that, please speak to me or another pastor who could help you. That's not what submission means. It does not mean enduring and tolerating sin and being a doormat But what it does mean when it says submit in everything is that in every arena, an aspect of life Without ever undermining the supreme lordship of Christ over all, that a wife's posture is to give respectful submission That does not mean that uh a wife should not bring okay, that's that's too many knots. In the name of submitting in everything, women can and should, wives can and should still uh seek to gently and respectfully persuade her husband of maybe a different course of action on a decision if she thinks something would be best. In our relationship with the Lord Jesus, we do pray, right? We ask God to change our circumstances sometimes. We do that respectfully. But we do ask the Lord Jesus to change things in our lives. And I know I can say that my life has been greatly enriched By a wife who is willing to speak up respectfully and gently when She thinks I'm in need of that. In fact, I would say one of the great gifts of my life has come because my wife, in gentle, respectful submission, Asked me over a period of time if I would change my thinking about a particular matter. And that blessing and that gift, now he said he wanted me to mention him, and he's not here right now, but that gift is my son. Because I was really good in 2010 and 11 and 12 and into 2013. I was really just good with two kids. We were good. We were at a diapers stage and we were good. At least I thought we were good. And my wife, she did not nag me. She did not quarrel with me. I don't even know how often it was, but over a period of about 18 months, she would just gently and respectfully and humbly. I just think maybe our family's not complete. And selfishly I just kept putting, no, no, no. Well can can we pray? Can we pray? And eventually in time, the Holy Spirit convicted me that I was very selfish. And I had no good reasons, but other than my own selfishness. And uh I'm really glad I have a son. So wives, you can speak. You're not to be a silent doormat in this relationship. That's not what submission means. Last thing I'll say about this submission is that it seems to be, as I read it, though it doesn't say this word specifically, it seems to be one of gladness and not reluctance. I'm saying that because of the comparison of how the church relates to Christ. As the church submits to Christ, so wives submit to their own husbands, and it is not a burdensome thing to submit to the Lord Jesus. So this is the wife's call to respectful submission. A willing and all-encompassing support and affirmation of her husband's leadership in the home, in ultimate submission to the authority of the Lord Jesus. This submission is not dependent upon the respectability of your husband wives. Remember that the wife's motive is as to the Lord, not as to your husband's virtuous characteristics. So again, I'm not saying that you should just subject yourself to a pattern of sin and not address that at all. I'm not saying that. But you should understand, wives, that your respect for your imperfect and at times unrespectable husband can still be and is an expression of your devotion to your perfect head, the Lord Jesus Christ. And I I've got a hunch That if you take the posture of respectful submission, your respect may just be the means of your husband actually growing in respectability. That's how Jesus loves men and women by treating us much, much, much, much, much better than we deserve. And then that treat being treated better than we deserve wins our hearts in love so that we begin to change in submission to him. That's the gospel. And he means that gospel to be displayed in marriage. I think a good illustration of all this is actually the book of Proverbs. It's Proverbs 31. I wonder, sisters, if if maybe you stay away from Proverbs thirty one because when you read that passage, even as Reagan read it to us earlier, maybe you read that passage, even though Tony did set us up and he said, you know, he he he gave us a good i introduction of it, maybe you just hear that passage and you just it's just discouraging because like This woman is, she's like so good. Like, how can I possibly measure up to that? But let me just say this. Excellence does not need to be condemning. Excellence can actually inspire. Despite his current troubles, I think there's a whole lot of men and women out on golf courses this weekend. Because they saw someone really excellent at golf named Tiger Woods and it inspired them to take up clubs and play the game of golf. So this lady here in Proverbs 31, she's like the goat of biblical womanhood. You're familiar like a goat? I mean the greatest of all time. She's she could be called the goat of biblical femininity. And it's not just for married ladies, actually. If you're single sisters, if you're interested, there's a book by a lady named Carolyn McCulley called Did I Kiss Marriage Goodbye that expounds upon the book of Proverbs with lots of application for single women. She was this woman, Carolyn McCulley, was a single woman when she wrote the book. But there's some virtue in this woman that sisters, it would be okay to be inspired towards excellence as you look at her If you want a vision for living out Ephesians chapter 5 this week and every day until death parts you from your husband, verse 12 of Proverbs 31 is a good verse to live by. She does him good and not harm all the days of her life. So much so that the heart of her husband trusts in her. Which is pretty wild when you think about what the Bible says at many points about the danger of trusting in man. But it says her, his heart trusts in her. Such a woman is a rare and precious jewel. And you see, just like in Ephesians 5, the the root of that woman's virtue is her relationship to the Lord. Charm is deceitful and beauty is vain, but a woman who fears the Lord is to be praised. So uh sisters and if you're sisters if you're like when are the men gonna get their their peace? It's coming. Uh sisters Are you giving more energy and attention and time and devotion to your your physical appearance than you are to the hidden person of your heart? I don't mean to suggest that the outward person is unimportant, but as we do sing from time to time, as summer flowers we fade and die, fame, youth, and beauty hurry by. Aging, childbearing, illness, all that changes the body drastically. And sisters, if you orbit your life around your physical beauty, Sooner or later you're gonna get to the point where you have no self. You won't know who you are. But there's something more valuable than charm and outward beauty. It's the fear of the Lord. So one of the other marital conversations my wife and I had, it's a it's a bitter providence that she's not here, but I did ask her, I mean she's serving with the kids right now. I asked her if I could say this and she was I asked her like four times and she said yes, yes, yes, and yes. With a smile. Uh one of the conversations that we had early in our I don't know how early it was. Well she saw she got Michelle has some gray hair. And uh sisters, I don't know how you all process that, and I'm not binding anybody's conscience right now in what I'm about to say. This is an area of Christian liberty But we've talked about this and we prayed about this, and we look, I just, we looked at the Bible, and in the book of Proverbs, it says, gray hair is a crown of glory. And I just encourage Michelle. I said, I do not want you to deprive yourself of glory that God says is yours. So she has some gray hair that you can see if you talk to her And uh when I see that gray hair, I think, no offense to you sisters, but Michelle Lazarus is the goat. of Christian womanhood. She is a woman who fears the Lord. And she's a delight. And men, you need to hear this too. This is not just a word for the sisters, actually, because sadly, we're the ones who see women wrongly so often that lead to women being confused about who they are and where their true virtue and value is found. So often women are pressed into this cultural mold because of the expectations of men. And as Tony reminded us, Proverbs 31 is instruction given to a young man. By his mom, it says in Proverbs 31. 1. This is a mom who has taught her son about what to look for in a woman that would be his wife, and there's not a word in here about what she looks like. I mean she wears purple, but that's it. That's all that's we're told. So gu guys, single guys, if you're looking for a woman mainly on the basis of external features, And neglecting the character of her soul, you will be a very unhappy man in due time. Uh young men Like I'm talking teenage young men. Not gonna call not gonna make a stand right now. But you might you might do well to memorize Proverbs 31. 10 right now at a young age Charm is deceitful, and beauty is in vain. But a woman who fears the Lord, wow. That wow is my own interpretation, but If you are here and you're married, brothers, understand that this vision of an excellent wife, this vision of a woman doing good to her husband all the days of her life, respectfully submitting to her husband's leadership. That's where, brothers, your Lord is calling you to lead her as you submit to him. Now we're pivoting We've talked about some words to Christian wives. Now we're talking about some words to Christian husbands. Ephesians 5 And Proverbs 31, as I'm using it to elaborate on Ephesians 5, has not been appointed for you today so that you can look at your wives and then demand a better performance of her. It's not been appointed for you, brothers, so that you can look at this passage and remind her of her calling to submit to you. This passage is not a call to you to demand anything. It's not a call to remind her of anything. It's a call to you to die, lead her lovingly into that beauty that God commends. That's the call on Christian husbands. Husbands, love your wives. We might have expected it to say, I might have expected it to say, husbands, lead your wives, right? That seems to be the corollary to wives, submit to your husbands Husbands lead your wives. But it doesn't say that. That husbands will lead their wives is not called for It's assumed. So did our pastor just say that husbands aren't called to lead? I did not say. I mean I I what I said is there's not a command here to lead, there's an assumption that you will lead. 523. For the husband is the head of the wife. That is an objective reality. It's not a call to you to do something, it's the fact. The question is not what kind of uh the question is, I'm sorry, what kind of head will he be? He will lead, he will exercise influence, he will set the temperature of that home. Will he do so in a manner that is aloof and inattentive or passive or lazy or negligent or comfort-loving? Will he do it in a way that is demanding and harsh and bitter? Men lead. Men exercise influence That's the way it is all around the world and has been since the beginning of time. The distinctly Christian way of leading is leading with love, leading in a way that is cruciform, formed by the cross of our Lord Jesus, that's the call on Christian husband. Husbands, love your wives as Christ loved the church. Three times in this passage. Husbands, love your wives, verse 25. Love your wives, verse 28. Love your wives, verse 33. Love her with a sanctifying beautifying, ennobling, nourishing, and cherishing kind of love as Christ loved the church. That's what it means to be a husband. Do you know what the word husband means? We have our word husbandry. I'm no agricultural expert. Okay, let's that be clear. But we have our word husbandry in the English language, which has to do with cultivation. And when the word husband is used as a verb, it means to cultivate. So if you're here this morning and you are a husband, or if you are not a husband but you aspire to be a husband one day, This is your job. Cultivate and nurture your wife. Nourish her. Your lifetime impact on your wife, brothers, should be that her life opens up more and more and she becomes all that God wants her to be. God is calling you as her husband to so care for her, to so nourish and cherish her. The word cherish here has to do with keeping a person warm. It's used one other time in the Bible. It's in 1 Thessalonians 2, where it says like a nursing mother taking care. Cherishing her child. That's the call on Christian husbands to so nourish and cherish their wives that in her latter years she would think, what a great life I have had. My husband understood me. He cared for me. He inspired me to grow in Christ Husbands, you didn't think the call to lead was for your glory, did you? He's called you to lead for God's glory. To lead her in that walk that is worthy of the calling to which she and you have been called. How does a husband do that? Well again, Proverbs 31 is actually a helpful guide here. It was written to a man who had learned from his mom and was now teaching his sons. How do we cultivate spiritual excellence in our wives? Not by browbeating them, brothers. Not by intimidating them. Not by neutral silence, but by following the instructions even that we have there in Proverbs 31. Her children rise up and call her blessed, her husband also, and he praises her. Many women have done excellently, but you surpass them all When's the last time your wife, husbands, heard that? Charm is deceitful and beauty is vain, but a woman who fears the Lord is to be praised. I sent on January 1st of this year a long quote to the men of Chevrolet Baptist Church from Ray Ortland. That was about Proverbs 31. And I know there may be a small number of you who just heard me mention Ray Ortland's name and you're like, d is didn't he get a little woke? I think he said something a couple years ago about the election time. I don't know about you'll be okay. You'll be okay to just listen to this quote and apply it to your life. Because I don't feel like I'm an expert enough to speak to you about this, so I just want to quote him at length. I sent this out to the brothers with a New Year's resolution of my own to grow in this area. And I would certainly welcome you to ask Michelle how I'm doing in this area. I still think I have room for I know I'm confident I still have room for growing, which is why I'm quoting someone else to you today. But this is what I long to be. And I think this is what every Christian who is concerned to lead well in love like Christ loved the church should be aspiring to and longing to towards their wives in submission to his lordship. Quote I say it's a long quote. I'm just telling you. But I know that there's pizza coming, so I'm I'm paying attention to the times. Her children rise and speak respectfully to their mom, and they tell her why they esteem her as a woman of God. Where did he talk about Proverbs 31? The children rise up and praise her. Where'd the kids learn that? From dad. Key sets the tone. The key word in these verses is praise. It appears three times A husband cultivates his wife by setting a tone of praise in their home. No put-downs, no fault finding. The picture here. is of the wise woman giving herself. I think this is a great picture. Okay. I think this is a great picture of Ephesians 5. Wives. Submitting, husbands leading. Here it is. The picture is of the wise woman giving herself to her family and to others, and she's receiving praise from her husband and children at home and from her community in the gates God wants to fill our homes and our churches with this beautiful wisdom where men are not passive but overtly cultivating the excellence of their wives and the women are thriving. What does the husband say? Many women have done excellently, but you surpass them all. How does your wife excel? Tell her. Tell her in front of the children. Have this conversation at the dinner table. We did that last night. And it was it was a happy time, wasn't it? We should do it again. Maybe we'll do it again tonight. You should do this. Application point, brothers, do this tonight. Kids If it's not happening tonight or this week, maybe you could mention, hey, I thought Pastor said something about doing something at the dinner table. What was he talking about? If you can't think of any way in which your wife excels and deserves to be praised, that's on you, guys. Because God called you to husband her into excellence Is your wife becoming magnificent because she married you? The word excellently in verse 29 is the same word translated excellent in verse 10. God wants you to see your wife become more and more capable because of you. And he wants to hear you and your kids cheering her on all the way. Men, I'm still quoting, men, this isn't about a pep talk. This is about the gospel. This is about God. How you see God will inevitably show up in how you treat your family. You can fake it at work. You can fake it in ministry. But you can't fake it at home. How you really see God, not what you're supposed to believe about God, but what you really believe, it will show up in how you treat your wife If you cannot bring yourself to praise your wife and you live with her in silent mediocrity, there's a reason. And that reason is how you see Christ. You may have no complaints about him. He may seem to you to be an unobjectionable savior. But if you have no passion for him, it's because you do not see in him mighty passion for you. The truth is the Lord Jesus Christ is burningly passionate for you. See him in his grace and glory towards you. See him giving of himself for you. Guilty, vile, helpless though you be. Look at him giving himself to you, rejoicing over you with all his mighty heart. It will change how you treat your wife and a lot more My dad grew up, still quoting. My dad grew up in a Swedish-American home where they didn't express love. They didn't talk about the deep things of the heart. It wasn't their way But it is God's way. Dad understood that about God. So when Dad got married and started his own home, he made a decision. He launched a new tradition. And I grew up in a home where we openly expressed our love for each other. It didn't take three or four generations for this to evolve. Dad changed it suddenly because of who God is. Some of my best memories are the family sitting around the dinner table and dad saying, let's take time now to affirm each other. He set that tone. It was the gospel at work in our home. It's what God has for every family here starting today. Men? Let's repent of our silence and the sin of withheld love. Have we robbed our families of the love they deserve? Have we truly and worthily represented Christ to our families? Or have we, in effect, denied the gospel in our homes And here's a basic principle, men. If you don't get radical, nothing will change. Christ got radical for you at the cross, and he put you with your wife because he loves her He put you with her as a mighty blessing to her. So get radical, start changing, begin a new tradition in your home starting today. Don't you think the Lord will help you if you step out in new obedience Your family will rejoice over you. This is God's call on husbands and wives. Does this sound like a burden? It doesn't sound like a burden to me. Wives, submit to your own husbands as to the Lord Husbands, love your wives as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her. These calls, this call to submit, this call to love, they're not based on reciprocity There it's not intended for you to get in a car and have one of you say to the other, well, I'll try getting radical if you do. The calls are not based. Their calls are not conditioned on the merits or the virtuousness of your spouse. They're conditioned on the merits and excellence of your Christ. Who is king, your king and her king, and his king? We are servants of Christ, and we are stewards of a great mystery. This mystery is profound, husbands and wives. And I am saying it refers to Christ and the church. And we are stewards of that mystery. On September, I'm I'm quite close to being done, and that is my indication it's time to be quite close to being done. On September 25th, 2004, I celebrated my first birthday as a married man. And Michelle and I happened to be at a conference in Minneapolis on marriage, and there was a speaker at that conference named Ben Peterson And he said something in his message that almost 22 years later has stayed with me. He said of his own marriage relationship, speaking about this idea of marriage as a stewardship, that he was charged, that he understood his responsibility as a husband to be to give back to the Lord when it was time to give his wife back to the Lord when she died that he was called as a steward to give her back to him in a way that she was better than when she when he had first received her and when they'd first gotten married. And I was just blown away by that idea of standing on that final day to give an accounting for how I had nurtured and cultivated my bride so that on that day when she stepped into eternity I could be able to say, I, by the grace of God, I gave her back to you better than on the day that you gave her to me. As her head, that's my calling. To give Michelle back to the Lord better than when I received her on June 5th, 2004 And as my helper, Michelle must give me back to him better than she received me And together, we must give the world that we shared back to God better than we received it. The world that we had influence over, I mean. Uh Dietrich Bonhoeffer once spoke to a love-struck couple in a marriage homily. I did this wedding. I'm really gonna be done very soon, I promise, but I did this wedding homily in I I did a wedding in uh about a year ago and this couple dear couple Uh they were just they were just so all love struck that they they weren't listening to me. Like I'm preaching the gos I'm preaching the gospel at their wedding and they're kind of like Google, I can't believe it were like they were not listening to me They were they were and I don't blame them. I'm not like I'm not down on them because they're just they were is so in love and I but I thought of them because by the on this quote he said in your love And what he means is that I can't even listen to the pastor because we're just so excited. In your love, you see only the heaven of your own happiness But in marriage, you are placed at a post of responsibility towards the world and mankind. That's the mystery that we've been brought into. In a world utterly confused and raging against God's good design for marriage, we can actually do more than tweet about it. Or roll our eyes at the progressive signs that we see in our neighborhoods. We can dwell richly on how wide and long and high and deep is the love of Christ. And then we can allow our lives to be spent in praise to him as husbands and wives, loving and sacrificing. respecting and submitting in a way that shows the world. Wow, Jesus' love is pretty amazing. May God help us to bear the sweet fruits of Christian marriage for his glory in our homes And in our churches, for our kids, for our single brothers and sisters, for our neighbors, for our restaurant servers in all the world, may we serve him faithfully as husbands and wives. Heavenly Father, thank you for your grace and your kindness to us in Jesus. We pray that you would work in us what's pleasing in your sight through Jesus, and that we'd be equipped to do that even now as we eat and drink in remembrance of Christ. We ask for this in his name.