Good morning, brothers and sisters. Good to be with you once again to open up God's word with you. And to learn from it and grow to be more and more like his son, Jesus Christ, we pray. But let's pray one more time towards that end. Father, help us now as we go to your word. Sanctify us by your truth. Use your word, O Lord, to convict us, to correct us, to change us, to move our hearts Towards you. Make us more like your Son Jesus Christ, we pray. In His name. Amen. So I wonder what's on your personal prayer list. Now I understand that we live in a digital age And you may have at one point in your life carried around index cards or paper to write down prayer requests on it. Nowadays you might just put them in your phone or you might just go off of your memory, right? But what's on it? Who's on it? According to a Barna study done in 2017 on prayer, most people's prayers when they prayed were about the following things. Gratitude and prayers of thanksgiving, family and community needs, personal guidance, health and wellness, confession of sin, safety A sense of peace, blessings for meals, obviously, requests from others, and concern about the country or concern about some injustice around the world. And maybe your prayer list, physical or digital, includes some of these things. But I wonder if you ever thought what makes it to Jesus' prayer list And who makes it to Jesus' prayer list? What's on his mind? What's on his heart? Who's on his mind? Who's on his heart? And this morning we have the privilege to get a glimpse into the Lord's heart. So please meet me in John chapter 17 if you haven't done so already That's on page 903 of the Bibles that are around you and provided. The Gospel of John is one of the four gospel accounts of the life. The words, the work, and the ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ, written by the Apostle John, also known as the beloved disciple, around the year 70 A. D. And in this letter, towards the end, he spells out the purpose for us in John 20, verse 30. These were written, these things were written, so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ The Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in His name. So in chapters 14 through 16, the Lord Jesus is comforting his disciples But he's also warning them of the suffering that's going to come to them. He told them that he would soon be leaving them, but that he would be going to prepare a place for them. And that he would also send the comfort the Holy Spirit to comfort them. But he also warned them that they would face hatred from the world. That they would face sorrow and that they would even face death for the sake of his name, but that they could take heart because he, the Lord Jesus, has overcome the world. That's John 16, verse 33. So Jesus has already set his face towards the cross and the suffering that would come And for the next several weeks leading up to Easter, we're going to be focusing on John chapters 18 through 20, focusing on Jesus' betrayal, his trial, his crucifixion, and also his resurrection. But for this morning, we're going to focus on John chapter 17, where the rabbi from Galilee had finished his teaching and print and preaching ministry. Here, Jesus stops before his disciples and he prays for them. And he prays for us. And we get a glimpse to what makes it to that prayer list of Jesus. So follow along with me as I read the text. I'm going to read the whole thing because remember, this is a prayer of the Lord Jesus. John chapter 17, I'll start in verse 1. This is the word of the Lord. When Jesus had spoken these words, he lifted up his eyes to heaven and said, Father, The hour has come. Glorify your son, that the son may glorify you. You have given him authority over all flesh, to give eternal life to all whom you have given him. And this is eternal life, that they know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent. I glorified you on earth, having accomplished the work that you gave me to do. And now, Father, glorify me in your own presence with the glory that I had with you before the world existed. I have manifested your name to the people whom you gave me out of the world. Yours they were, and you gave them to me. And they have kept your word. Now they know that everything that you have given me is from you. For I have given them the words that you have gave me, and they have received them and have come to know in truth that I came from you, and they have believed that you sent me I am praying for them. I am not praying for the world, but for those whom you have given me, for they are yours. All mine are yours, and yours are mine, and I am glorified in them. And I am no longer in the world, but they are in the world, and I am coming to you Holy Father, keep them in your name, which you have given me, that they may be one, even as we are one. While I was with them, I kept them in your name, which you have given me. I have guarded them, and not one of them hath been lost, except the Son of Destruction. So that the scripture might be fulfilled. But now I am coming to you. And these things I speak in the world, that they may have my joy fulfilled in themselves. I have given them your word, and the world has hated them because they are not of the world. Just as I am not of the world. I do not ask that you take them out of the world, but that you keep them from the evil one. They are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. Sanctify them in truth. Your word is truth. As you sent me into the world, so I have sent them into the world And for their sake I consecrate myself that they also may be sanctified in truth I do not ask for these only, but also for those who will believe in me through their word, that they may all be one, just as you, Father, are in me and I in you, that they also may be in us, so that the world may believe that you have sent me. The glory that you have given me, I have given to them, that they may be one even as we are one. I and them, and you and me, that they may become perfectly one, so that the world may know that you sent me and love them even as you love me Father, I desire that they also, whom you have given me, may be with me where I am to see my glory that you have given me, because you loved me before the foundation of the world. O righteous Father, even though the world does not know you, I know you, and these know you that you have sent me. I made them known, I made known to them your name, and I will continue to make it known. That the love with which you have loved me may be in them and I in them. Isn't that beautiful? Amen. Let's spend some time focusing on this main point from John chapter 17. The Lord Jesus prays for his glory and for our witness. The Lord Jesus prays for his glory and for our witness. So our sister Faith Booker pointed out to me a few days ago, reading over this passage, Jesus models here a helpful structure for us as we pray. He prays for himself in the beginning part. Then he prays for his disciples, and then he prays for all who would come to know him. So as we pray, we can pray for ourselves and those closest to us, to those that we're trying to encourage in the faith. But then also pray for the church and also pray for Christians around the world. That's what we aim to try to model in our prayers as a church. But that also should mark our personal prayers as well. And Jesus starts this high priestly prayer by praying that he would be glorified In verses 1 through 5, he says that he's always had this glory, even before the foundation of the world, because he's eternally existed with the Father He says his whole life and ministry in the earth has been giving glory to God. And he says he even longs to be in the Father's presence to receive the glory that they shared with one another. From before the beginning. But the Lord Jesus knew that the hour had come. And that word hour is referring to Jesus going to the cross That he would soon be going there, and he would take on the father's wrath, that he would not receive glory. That he would take on wrath of the Father and be left alone on the cross. Jesus said that he had been granted authority to grant eternal life to all that would come to him and all that the Father had taken out of the world? And he even says there around verse 4 that he's already accomplished what the Father had set for him to do in the world. Even before the cross. Now, there I think he's talking about his earthly ministry. Jesus fulfilled all of the law. He fulfilled all of the righteous requirements of the law, and all that was left for him to do Was to go to the cross to take on the sins of the world. And in this section, Jesus is reaffirming his eternal existence And that he had been sanctified and set apart for the Father's work before the foundation of the world, and that he has union and unity with the Father So Isaiah 42, for example, it talks a lot about the coming of this chosen servant who would carry out the Father's will. And it says that this chosen servant in Isaiah 42 would bring justice to all nations, that a bruised reed he would not break, and a smoldering wick he would not quench. That this servant would open the eyes of the blind, that this servant would let the prisoners go free. And that this servant of the Lord will be deserving of all glory. Jesus is basically saying, Father, I fulfilled all of that. Because a servant of the Lord, the Lord Jesus Christ, had already come by this point, and he had already opened the eyes of the blind. Physically, but also spiritually. He'd already rescued prisoners out of darkness and was continuing to do that. And he would soon go to the cross And die a bloody death, and rise from the grave, so that he could bring justice to the nations, so that he could be the just and the justifier of all who would turn from their sin and put their faith in him alone. If you're here and you're not a Christian, the glorious Lord Jesus Christ is able to grant you eternal life today. He still has that authority. And this is eternal life, Jesus says in verse 3, that they know you, the only God, and your Son, whom you have sent. The only way to know God is through his Son, Jesus Christ. And we, though we have sinned greatly against this God and have earned his judgment, we can know God. We can be forgiven. We can be brought out of darkness by faith in the eternal Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. Friends, if you haven't placed your faith in the Lord Jesus, Today is the day that He is offering to you to do just that. Loads of people would love to talk to you about what it means to do just that, even today. Brothers and sisters in Christ, all of this glory that Jesus is describing here that we can't even comprehend, He says, has been given to you and given to all of us who are in Christ. Look down at verse 10. He says, All mine are yours, and yours are mine, and I am glorified in them. Or in verse 22, the glory that you gave me, I have given to them. Or verse 24. Father, I desire that they may be with me where I am to see my glory that you had given me. Remember the scripture reading? Moses couldn't see that glory. But in Christ we can see it. How amazing is that? But this glory is not about us. This means that people, by God's grace, are able to see Christ in us. through our lives, and that we, through our lives, can give glory to the Lord Jesus Christ. And that's what he spends a lot of the rest of the prayer on, focusing on his followers and praying that they would bring glory to him. But what does it mean to glorify Jesus? Well, we have an example in the world, in nature It means to reflect him. Now, like the moon reflects the light of the sun. The moon isn't the source, but it reflects the glory or the light from the source. And we are not the source of any glory, of any goodness. But by God's grace we get to reflect The glory of the light of the world, the Lord Jesus Christ. And we get to do that in the world that He's placed us in, and in the world that He's sent us to. We can give Jesus glory through our lives. And this prayer that Jesus is praying here would be necessary because, as Jesus is alluding to, his followers would not be going with him. They would not go with him to the cross. And in fact, after he rose from the grave, he would ascend to the Father where he is now, and his disciples would be here in the world. These followers, these called out ones that have been called out by God would remain in the world to be lights in the world Jesus said that these that were given to him were called out of the world in verses 6 through 8. He says also that they have kept the Father's word, which is also an outstanding thought. He's referring to the disciples. And it's like, oh, they betrayed him. They fled from him. They were faithless at times. He said, they kept my word He said they believed in me, even though at times they had very little faith. And Jesus says in verse 9 that he's praying for them. Not for the world, or for those given to him by the Father. He says in verse 11, I am no longer in the world, but they are in the world. Verse 13, I am coming to you. And these things I speak in the world, or verse 14, I have given them your word, and the world has hated them because of it, because they are not of the world. So on Jesus' mind, on his heart, on his prayer list, so to speak, as he's approaching the cross, are his followers that they would represent him well, that they would glorify him. He's thinking about his disciples that are listening to that prayer. But beloved, he was also thinking about you if you are in Christ. Look at verse 20 of our passage. I do not ask for these only. Me and the disciples, but also for those who will believe in me through their word. And if you trace that all the way back, And all the way forward, he's talking about you. On his mind and heart and on his list was you, as he was going to approach the cross. We should marvel at that. And we should take at least a couple things away from all of this. First of all, we should remember that in this world it would be hard to glorify Jesus. It's hard to glorify Jesus in the world. And he told his followers about that Trials would come, suffering would come, our enemies would abound, and we know that well, don't we? We war against the world, our flesh, and even the devil. But that's not the end of the story Because in this world, though it's hard to glorify Jesus, it's possible to glorify Jesus. So glorifying Jesus should be the main priority of our lives and also our church. And that's what Jesus spends the bulk of the rest of this prayer on: the witness of his disciples, the glory that they should give to him through their lives. So secondly, my first point was Jesus prays for his glory. Secondly, Jesus prays for our witness. He prays for our witness As Jesus prays for his disciples and all of the disciples that would eventually come to him, he prays specifically about two main things, two main areas, that they would be sanctified and that they would be unified. He prays for their holiness and he prays for their unity. And we'll start by focusing on the first part, praying for our holiness Now again, to be sanctified means to be set apart for the Lord's glory, to be holy unto the Lord. Meaning that these followers of Jesus would live like Jesus in this world. That they would be in the world, but that they would not be of the world. Many of us are coffee drinkers. And I think because we have coffee after service, many of our young people have become coffee drinkers as of late. My wife bought me an espresso machine some years ago, and I must confess that because of that machine, I've become a bit of a coffee snob. I'm a little bougie when it comes to my coffee taste. But what gives coffee its flavor? Oh, it's not initially the pounds of sugar and cream that we might put into it, right? But coffee beans are actually cherry pits from the fruit of coffee trees. And before it's in our cups, that coffee or those beans, it takes on the flavor of the soil around it. But Jesus is saying to us that we are to have the opposite sort of impact in this world Rather than taking on the soil of this world, we are to flavor the soil of the world around us by our lives. We are to be set apart and sanctified by the word of God. Look again at verse 14 of our passage, for example. I have given them your word, Jesus says. The world has hated them because they are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. But I do not ask that you take them out of the world, but that you keep them from the evil one. They are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. Sanctify them in the truth, your word is truth. If you sent me into the world, so I sent them into the world. And for their sake I consecrate myself, that they may also be sanctified in the truth. So Jesus' plan for his glory in this world involves you. Involves me. Involves us. He wants us to live holy and set apart and sanctified lives here in this world. Lives that are built upon the truth of his word and that we by faith in him by following him would actually give flavor the flavor of the gospel to the world that's around us Or in other words, that we would be salt and light, as Jesus says. So big picture, what the Lord seeks to use. To use to bring others to him in this world in part is our holiness It's us being set apart by his word for the sake of his glory. That's similar to what we learned several weeks ago in 2 Timothy chapter 2, that we ought to be clean vessels. And to be used as tools in the master's hands. And our holiness, individually and collectively, makes us effective witnesses to the Lord in this world. Brothers and sisters, when you're tempted to sin, remember that Christ has already given you a new identity and a new purpose. Your identity is in him. And your purpose, whatever you do in this life, is to bring glory to him. So when you say no to sin and yes to Jesus, you are doing it not just for yourself, but you're doing it for the sake of his name You're doing it for your brothers and sisters in Christ. You're doing it so that others can see your life and possibly put their faith in him as a result. That's what the Lord has in mind for his churches. He wants us as his people to be gatherings that are lighthouses in this dark world, that are embassies for the kingdom of heaven. That's also what he has in mind for our marriages. That's also what he has in mind for our families, for our lives. For us to be in the world, but not of the world. It's a helpful reminder to all of us because sometimes it might be tempting for us to think that if we're going to have an impact in this world, we ought to be more relatable. If we were more relatable, then maybe more people would get us and they would come to know Jesus. Or it's tempting to think that our holiness and our obedience to Jesus It doesn't matter that much. Nobody saw that. Nobody else knows. It's not a big deal. But it is. And that's why Jesus doesn't pray for us to be more relatable. And he doesn't pray for us to be removed from this world. He prays for us to be. Sanctified, set apart, made holy, and useful to the Master by the truth of his word. Which means, if that's going to happen, we're going to be sanctified by God's word. We need to know God's word. We need to be in God's word. So continue to spend time in God's word. Keep going. Keep at it. Oh, I don't think I've spent time in God's word this week. Start today. Use the sermon passage, use the notes, use the dwell newsletter that's sent out, and dive deeper into the sermon passage or other verses that relate to it. Use your Bible reading plan, even if you're behind on it God's word is living and active and profitable for all of us in every season of life. He uses it to convict us of sin, to correct our hearts and minds. and change us so that we will look more like himself in this world. His word truly sanctifies us. Now you might think that this holiness or being sanctified and this set aside time to be with God in His Word, that it looks like an Instagram post. When you got up in the morning, nobody was up to disturb you, you made your pot of coffee, the kids weren't crying yet The sun was beaming inside of your window. You opened it up. And yet it was the perfect passage, the word just for you that day And then you take a picture of it. Hashtag sanctified by the word. Well, our time in the word doesn't often look like that, does it? It might be hard. It might be a struggle. You might be reading Leviticus or Numbers right now and think, what could you have for this? For me in this, Lord? All of God's word is good. All of it is true. All of it's profitable. Keep going to God's word. Keep praying that He would show you. how he intends to use it in your life, but also through your life for the sake of others. Jesus is praying here that we will be set apart by his word, but he also prays there that we will be kept from the evil one. Again, a reminder of the fact that in this world we are facing an evil one, that we have an enemy. His name is Satan. And he doesn't want God's people to be sanctified by God's word. In fact, the same passage says that the world, not just Satan, the world will hate us because of God and his word. And yet, we are called to be bright lights here in the world for God's glory so that others can come to know Him. Jesus doesn't say it's going to be so hard that they should just leave. In fact, I'm going to take them with me. It's safer in my father's house. He does not say that, friends. He says, I want them to display my glory right where I've placed them. Just think of Google Maps, for example. Right? When you search for a place, you see it on a map, but you see the grid. You don't really see the place. Until you go to the bottom of that screen, you pick up the little yellow guy down there, it's highlighted, you pick them up, and you plop them down, and it's like, oh, now I see what we're working with I see the trees, I see the buildings, I see the schools, I see where we are, I see the street view. Well the Lord Jesus Christ. Has plucked us from the world and plopped us in the world where he has us so that we can be light for his glory right where he's placed us. He wants us to look around in the street view, as it were, and say, this is my mission field. This is what the Lord has for me to do. He wants me to glorify him right where I am right now. And maybe you're in a challenging work situation. Right now. Maybe this is the job that you've prayed for and you get the job. And you're like, what just happened? Maybe you have a terrible boss or difficult coworkers. Or maybe you're in a neighborhood where the people around you constantly remind you of the fact that we live in a sick and sinful world. Maybe your school or your campus environment is a reminder of that over and over and over again. And that's hard and it can get challenging to endure But the very reason that the Lord may have picked you up and plopped you there is so that you can be liked right there in that context. Right there in that situation. Right there. The Lord wants to use you for his glory where he has you. As Pastor Jonathan Brooks has once said, there are no God-forsaken places, just church-forsaken places. And if you're laboring in a hard place, a hard job, a hard household situation, a hard neighborhood, continue to pray for the Lord to use you Continue to strive after holiness. The Lord sees it. He wants to use it for his glory. Don't shrink back away from people. Don't shrink back away from the challenge. Continue to show up and live like the Lord Jesus Christ. You can also think of ways that your brothers and sisters can join in and that can help you in living this way for the sake of others That they can jump in and get involved with you as you serve at your school, or get involved in local government, or serve a crisis pregnancy center. Or do a Bible study with neighbors or co-workers or friends. Pray for the Lord to bear fruit through these situations and pray for more and more churches to be planted. in these hard-to-reach places, whether they're near to us or far from us. And remember that our holiness, our lives Matters to Jesus and it also matters to the world around us. And the same is true of our unity. That's why Jesus prays for our witness Which includes our unity or our holiness and also includes our unity. Look again at verse 11 of our passage. And I am no longer in the world, Jesus says. But they are in the world, and I am coming to you. Holy Father, keep them in your name. But you have given me that they may be one, even as we are one. While I was with them, I kept them in your name, but you have given me And I have guarded them. And not one of them had been lost except the son of destruction, that the scripture might be fulfilled. So Jesus is praying that we will be kept in the Father's name. He's praying that we, as his people, would be one, even as he and the Father are one. He says he didn't lose anyone except the son of destruction. Our kids, teens. Who's he talking about here when he says the son of destruction? of destruction. Ow. He's talking about Judas, who we will read about in the next coming weeks, who betrayed Jesus Christ. You might Say, well, Peter kind of betrayed him too. Well, yeah, but Peter repented. He turned back to him. As we think about unity based on these verses, we must first Embrace the glorious truth that we are united in Christ and with Christ by faith. That we have fellowship with him right now by faith. That we are wrapped up in him And that prayer is an expression of that fellowship that we have with our triune God. But do you view prayer this way? Do you enjoy praying? Or do you find it dull or or challenging? Maybe as a kid or teen in the room, you might sometimes think and wonder what many of us have always also wondered. Like if God knows everything, if he's sovereign, then why even pray to begin with? Prayer really going to change things? Does God really listen to me? Or maybe you're struggling right now with prayer because you have countless examples of unanswered prayer? But prayer is not transactional. Prayer is not us giving our list to God and then Him going to the store, picking it up, and bringing it to our house. That's not how it works. With Him. Prayer is about enjoying fellowship with our triune God. We have direct access to the God of the universe. Through the finished work of Christ, through the power of his Holy Spirit. And failure to pray, brothers and sisters, is missing now on that fellowship. But when we pray every single time, regardless of the need, regardless of what the request is, we're tapping into that fellowship that we have right now in Christ. As Michael Reeves says in his book, Enjoy Your Prayer Life, he says the following: the Son gives us the right to come boldly in his name as accepted children. Then our Father and the Son give us their spirit to precisely to help us enjoy what it is to become children. That is, to enjoy the loving, outgoing life of this God. So prayer, he goes on to say, is learning to enjoy what Jesus has always enjoyed. And that's fellow Fellowship. Our triune God. So pray about everything because He cares for you. So pray expectantly Because he still answers prayer. Pray with your Bible in mind and your Bible in hand, because our God still speaks to us through his holy word. The Lord has united us in him, and he wants our unity that we have in him to be displayed to the world. In our passage at verse 20. I do not ask for these only, but also for those who will believe in me through their word, that they may all be one, just as you, Father, are in me, and I in you, that they may also be in us, so that the world may believe that you have sent me. The glory that you have given me, I have given to them, that they may be one even as we are one. I in them and you in me, that they may become perfectly one So that the world may know that you sent me and love them even as you loved me. Father, I desire that they also, whom you have given me, may be with me where I am to see my glory. That you have given me because you've loved me before the foundation of the world. Oh, righteous Father, even though the world does not know you, I know you, and these know you that you have sent me I made known to them your name and will continue to make it known, that the love with which you have loved me may be in them and I in them. Jesus is praying here that we would be one so that the world may believe that the Father sent him to this world. To die and to rise from the grave. And then verse 23, so that the world may know that the Father loves them even as he loves Jesus. Verse 26, that the love with which you have loved me may be in them, and I in them It should remind us that God does love the world, that he gave his son Jesus Christ, so that whoever believes in him may not perish, but have eternal life. But for those of us who do not accept that call, that wrath of God that we deserve for our sin is still over our lives. You can find forgiveness and freedom today, friends. But again, brothers and sisters, remember that our unity matters to Jesus, and our unity matters to to the world. Jesus also said things like in John 13, 35, by this, all people will know that you are my disciples. If you have, does anybody know what it says? If you have love for one another Sometimes we might read that and think that Jesus may have gotten that wrong. Like, love really? Like in our love for each other? What does this love look like? What does the unity that Jesus is describing here look like if we're going to display that unity in this world? It means a ton of things. But I think it can mean in part that the divisions that exist in this world should not separate the people of God from one another. It's because what unites us are not our political views. It's not our cultural background It's not the language that we grew up speaking, it's not our social standing, it's not our tax bracket. What unites us is Christ Himself, His Word, His Gospel, His Spirit, His mission in this world. And Christ, our King, does not play favorites, so neither should his people. Just think about Jesus and his disciples, for example. You had Matthew, the wealthy tax collector. You had Simeon, the political zealot. You had James and John who were called a lot of things, but they were called sons of thunder. You had Philip, who may have been partially Greek. You have Peter and the rest of them, who basically the rest of them were overlooked by other rabbis, so that they were available for Jesus to become their rabbi. They were not good enough. Jesus says, I'll take them, all of them, I'll unite them for my glory in this world. And even think of the early church Think of the letters of Paul and others written to churches made up of Jews and Gentiles. Just even think of the book of Acts. Sometimes we think in the book of Acts that the church was perfect. It was not. There was division. There were issues there, even early on in the church, because people were different and they had to learn how to live like Jesus wanted them to live by not being enemies of each other. The Lord Jesus saw fit to make up his church with all different kinds of people. That's just the Lord's way. To unite what the world says should be divided so that he gets all the glory for it One of the most intimidating things that anybody can do in all of life is play pickup basketball You have two captains, right? You have to shoot to make it or whatever the rules are. And those captains, they kind of look around and they scout out the talent or lack thereof. They say, I want him, I want him, I want her. Don't want them. You don't want to be picked last, right? Like however old you are, however mature you are in Christ, it's still a little embarrassing. Right? But Jesus doesn't play favorites. He doesn't see with the same eyes that we have. He does a lot with a little. And he looks at us as it were and he says, I'll take her. He's kind of small. I'll take him. He can't really shoot. I'll take her, she has an anger issue. I'll take him, he still struggles in lots of ways. I'll take the wealthy one. I'll take the un-ed the the poor one. I'll take the educated one. I'll take the uneducated one. I'll take the popular, I'll take the outcast. I'll take the Jews and the Greeks. I'll take the blacks. I'll take the whites. I'll take the Asians I'll take the Hispanics And Jesus is gathering his team together so that they, in their unity, would display his glory in this world. It's just his way. It's the way that he wants it to be And make no mistake, brothers and sisters. Jesus cares about what you look like. He cares about your background. He cares about what you where you're from. Your culture and your background matters to him. He made you, he loves you. You are fearfully and wonderfully made. Your age and your stage of life matters to him. Your context and your circumstance matters to him. Whether you're married or whether you're a widow matters to him. But those things should not separate us from one another in Christ. And these differences, even in our church, even in this church, that might make relationships challenging at times, right? But that just means our unity is going to require much more prayer and much more effort, more listening and maybe less speaking, more understanding, more grace. More hard conversations when we've been offended. But it's worth the work because unity brings glory to the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's continue to pray for our church that the church would grow us in diversity of all kinds in all different areas because that's what it will look like around the throne. John, this same John, saw this revelation. He says, After this, I looked, and behold, a great multitude that no one could number from every nation. From all tribes, all peoples, all languages, standing before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed in white robes with palm branches in their hand. Crying out with a loud voice, salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne and to the Lamb. This is where we are headed, church This is what the Lord is doing. This church that Jesus is building. And this is the unity that the world does not have but desperately needs to see In us, through us, through our church. For our unity matters to Jesus, and our unity matters to the world around us. Well beloved, let's continue to strive for unity because unity does not happen on accident. So let's assume the best of each other. Let's keep short accounts with each other. And if there is a disagreement that's impacting a relationship, let's have a hard conversation. Let's bring someone into that conversation if it's going to be especially hard or if someone's not listening that well. And let's not let the talking heads, the political pundits, or your social media feed color what you say and what you see about your brother and sister in Christ. Or what you say and what you see about the church of the Lord Jesus Christ. She is Christ's bride, and she will be presented to Christ as spotless and blameless before him in glory. And that means, brothers and sisters, that all of these prayers for Jesus to get glory, for his people to be sanctified by the word, for him, for them to be holy, for them to be unified. Will be answered. God is answering and will answer all of those prayers. He will do it because he's faithful So, brothers and sisters, let's continue to strive for holiness together. Let's continue to strive for unity together. And let us live out the words of Psalm 34:3 Which says, Oh, magnify the Lord with me, and let's exalt his name together. Amen. Let us pray. Lord, help us to magnify your name. Help us to exalt your name. Help us to bring you glory. We need your help to do it in every which way. We pray that you would get the glory from our lives, from our church, from our holiness, from our unity. We pray in Jesus' name and for his glory. Amen.