Good morning again. I'm gonna have you do that awkward thing that I ask you to do sometimes, which is just just go ahead and what I'm not gonna ask you to get up and greet your neighbor, don't worry. But uh do y'all do that here, Ever? Okay, no. Clear. I'm not gonna have you do that. Wasn't gonna have you do that anyway. Just go ahead and look around. Just look look around the room. I know that's awkward. You might make eye contact with somebody, but just go ahead and and look around for a moment. Hi everyone. I wonder what you see. I wonder what you see when you look around this room. How marvelous is it for you to look around in this room? Uh I'm not sure if you've heard of an artist named Tom Yendel. Anyone hear the name Tom Yendl? Art lovers. He's a painter. And I was introduced to his uh work a while ago. I I'm not really an art lover, but He's known for his flower canvas paintings. And uh when I first saw some of his works I I I didn't really think too much of them. It's you know, nice. I I I I could ex maybe see something like like it uh maybe hanging in a hotel room that I might be staying in or something. Not nothing that you're gonna see, I don't think, in any kind of Wonderful museum. But when I was told that Tom Yendel was born without arms And that those pieces that he painted were made with his feet and his mouth Uh my view of his artwork changed dramatically. Like, what? The these flower petals? With his feet and mouth? He made them? My depth of appreciation and wonder was provoked Any deficiencies that I might have observed, not that I would really observe any deficiencies because I'm not really that much of a connoisseur of art, but any deficiencies I might have observed would be just overwhelmed by the wonder and awe that such a work could be could be composed in such an amazing way. I think something like that is what the Lord is wanting you to be reminded of when you look around this room. At this gathering of Chevro Baptist Church. That's what we want to think about together as we continue to study the book of Ephesians. You're welcome to turn there if you haven't already turned in your Bibles to Ephesians. Chapter 2, I'd invite you to do that if you're using one of those Bibles provided for you. You'll find our reading this morning on page 976. If you're new. to thinking about Christianity, if you're new to using a Bible, uh we would love for you, if you don't have one, to just take that Bible home with you. Feel free to talk to me after the service would love to help you get acclimated in the Bible and learn more about the Bible's message to you Uh in many respects when you look around as I just asked you to do, maybe the church doesn't seem all that much to look at. These chairs are not particularly comfortable. That basket is in a pretty awkward position There's lots of empty chairs and we we maybe want to see we want to see more conversions more visitors among us, although I do see some visitors among us, and I'm delighted to see you Uh uh around us the the church is marginalized. Our views on matters like uh sexuality and gender and the sanctity of life are increasingly disparaged In the world that we live in. And so the church might not look like much. But when we reflect on what God has done, how He's made the church. How it's come into existence, it can change your perspective dramatically And how the church came into existence is really all that Paul's been doing in uh as we've been studying this letter that he wrote to the Ephesians. I mean, really, from chapter 1, verse 3, when Paul says, Blessed is the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. He's lavished us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places right from the beginning. He's just been leading the Ephesians in rejoicing, marveling at what God has done for you in Christ. And as we as we come now this morning to Ephesians 2, 11, Paul is sure that we grasp that uh all this divine and wondrous artistry, if you remember In verse 10 of chapter 2, we thought about that last week, he spoke of God's workmanship, his artwork, his masterpiece. And now as we get into verse 11 and following of chapter 2, Paul's wanting to make sure that we realize that that workmanship that Paul was rejoicing in is not just a personal reality. But it's a corporate one. It's important for you to remember as you study the book of Ephesians that when you see the word you in Ephesians, the U is always a y'all. You understand what I'm saying? Seated with him in the heavenly places and created in Christ Jesus for good works. Yes, if you are in Christ, if you have trusted in Christ, that is speaking to you. It's very personal, but he has brought you into a new people A YAL. We are God's workmanship. And the nature of that we is a profound, breathtaking wonder to behold In Christ, God is not only reconciling individuals to himself, but he is reconciling, he's proclaiming peace. To diverse ethnic groups, to those who were once hated enemies, he's uniting them together. This passage is so relevant to what we are dealing with if you turn the news on. And that's true this past week, and it's true just about every week. He's reconciling bitter, hated enemies and transforming them into beloved brothers and sisters, as Dave just reminded us. That's what we want to be thinking about this morning as we open up God's Word. So let me pray as we come to the scriptures, and then I'm going to read verses 11 to 22 of Ephesians 2. Join me in prayer. Heavenly Father, it is the Spirit who gives life. And so we need not my the volume of my voice, we need not my zeal and enthusiasm, we need your spirit to be working among us to help us to see And to rejoice in what you've written to us in your word. Help me to speak faithfully and clearly the intent and burden of the Apostle Paul in writing these words and of your Holy Spirit in inspiring him to write these words. Help us to receive your word with meekness and humility and mold us more into the image of your Son this morning through our time studying your word. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Hear God's word as I read to you this morning, Ephesians 2, verses 11 through 22. Therefore, remember that at one time you Gentiles in the flesh Called the uncircumcision by what is called the circumcision, which is made in the flesh by hands. Remember that you were at that time separated from Christ. Alienated from the Commonwealth of Israel and strangers to the covenants of promise, having no hope and without God in the world But now in Christ Jesus, you who once were far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ. For he himself is our peace, who has made us both one, and has broken down in his flesh the dividing wall of hostility by abolishing the law of commandments expressed in ordinances, that he might create in himself one new man in place of the two. So making peace, and might reconcile us both to God in one body through the cross, thereby killing the hostility. And he came and preached peace to you who were far off and peace to those who were near. For through him we both have access in one spirit to the Father. So then, you are no longer strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God. Built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus Himself being the cornerstone, in whom the whole structure, being joined together, grows into a holy temple in the Lord. In him you also are being built together into a dwelling place for God by the Spirit. This is God's word, brothers and sisters. Thanks be to God. It it could it would take many sermons to dig into all the details, and I might not touch on every detail that you would like me to address, but there's a big idea here. And that's what I really want to focus on this morning. And the big idea is this. I'll just put it in a sentence. And this is basically the outline for our time this morning in God's Word. You were far from God But now you've been brought near, and it's all because of Jesus. You were far off. You were far from God. That'll be point one. You were far from God. But now you've been brought near, point two. And it's all because of Jesus That's sort of point three, but really it's just two points, because I'm not I haven't really figured out how to separate the you've been brought near and it's all because of Jesus. So it's it's point one and a longer point two. You were far from God, but now you've been brought near, and it's all because of Jesus. So point number one, you were you were far from God. The you here is a y'all, you Gentiles, you see there in verses eleven and twelve. And that's That's almost everybody here in this room today. This passage does have some things to say about the Jewish situation And the fact that they too were far from God in their own way, and we all need the same peacemaking work of Christ to bring all together. But these words in verses 11 and 12 are primarily written to the Gentiles in the congregations in Ephesus. And and you get a taste, just there in verse eleven, of the hostility between Jew and Gentile. They were regarded, the Gentiles were, as the uncircumcision. And that was a term of derision. Maybe you remember, uh kids, I bet you love reading the story of David and Goliath. That's a great story to read in the Bible. And there's this one part of the story where David says of the champion Goliath, he says, is this uncircumcised Philistine going to defy the armies of the living God? To call the Gentiles the uncircumcision was a way of communicating something revolting about them. So you see there's a very clear us versus them mentality. And apparently in Ephesus, and this was true in other places where the gospel began to take root in the first century, there was still tension between the Gentiles who had been brought nearer to Christ and the Jewish people who had been From the time of Abraham, as we read, the people of God. There was a big separation in their minds. There was hostility between the Jews and the Gentiles, and that hostility was reciprocal. I came across something this past week in my studies in the the Midrash, which was a Jewish commentary on the uh on the Torah, which said that the Gentiles exist. Only as fuel for the fires of hell. If a Jewish young man married a Gentile young woman, his parents would hold a funeral for him. He would be dead to them. So there was hatred between Jew and Gentile. And that kind of prejudice was inexcusable. It was contrary to God's design for the nation of Israel. But yet the Gentiles did truly have a God-ordained distance from all of the promises and blessings that He had given to the nation of Israel. Paul traces that out in verse 12. He speaks of a five-fold separation That marked Gentile existence in relation to the true and living God. You see that there in verse 12. They were separated from Christ. That word Christ there is speaking of the Messiah. Kids, you you know that the name Christ, Christ is not Jesus' last name. Right? The way the way AON your last name is Stockland. That's not Christ is not Jesus' last name. Christ means the Messiah, the anointed king. But the Gentiles, they were separated from Messiah. They had no hope of a king who would come and restore all wrongs in the world, who would bring peace on earth They were alienated from the commonwealth or the citizenship of Israel. They did not have a place in the people of God. They were not citizens of the city that has foundations whose architect and builder is God. There was a dividing wall. Between them and the commonwealth of Israel. That that dividing wall was actually vivid in the temple that was present in the days of Jesus and at the time that Paul wrote this letter. The the temple where the Jews would gather to worship it had a wall. And it literally barred Gentiles from entering into the inner court where the Jews were allowed to worship. And there was uh archaeologists have found inscriptions uh that communicate That it that wall had a sign on it basically that said anyone who crosses this boundary it was speaking to the Gentiles particularly anyone who crosses this boundary will have his own self to blame for his ensuing death They were alienated, the Gentiles. You Gentiles. Not just they out there in Ephesus in the first century. You here, you were far off Separated from Christ, alienated from the commonwealth of Israel, strangers therefore to the covenants of promise. They were outside the covenant that God made with With Abraham and that he made with Moses that he made with David, and therefore they had no claim on the wonderful promises of God No claim to God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. No claim to that wonderful 23rd Psalm. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. No, no steadfast Love of the Lord never ceasing. His mercies never come to an end. They're new every morning. Great is your faithfulness. No, no. None of those promises were for them. They were strangers to the covenants of promise. And therefore they had no hope. No hope of Isaiah thirty-five ten the ransomed of the Lord shall return to Zion with singing. And everlasting joy shall be on their heads. And all sorrow and sighing should flee away. No hope, because they were strangers to the covenants, because they were separated from the Messiah. No hope and without God in the world. No fullness of joy And pleasures forevermore at God's right hand of them, because they were without hope and they were without God. And this, Paul says, was the condition of All people without Messiah, without the Christ If you've happened to come this morning and visiting among us and you're not a follower of Christ, you don't have Christ, you've not trusted in Christ, Do you have a plan for how you're going to get on in this world without hope? What is your hope? Do you remember the coronavirus? Do you remember when the whole world was brought to its knees by a microscopic virus? That's our world. Sorrow and tribulation and terrorism and wars and oppression and Freak accidents and death and all of it is due to mankind's hostility against God Because rather than have God as our God, human beings, all human beings, Jewish people and Gentile people, all chose to go their own way. And that Going our own way is hostility to him, and it has brought the whole world into bondage to futility and corruption. So what do you have to look forward to in such a world? What are you banking your existence and your future on? Will you hope in good health? Will you hope in good looks or a good job or a vibrant economy or a retirement fund or pension or Spouse or children or a sports team or a hobby, what good will all those things be when you die and stand before your maker to give an account for your life See, that's the condition that the Gentiles were in. That's the condition that all people are in apart from Christ. But for for the Gentile Ephesians As it is for so many of us here today, something had happened. And if you're here today without Christ, it can happen for you today with Christ. Something had happened to them. Paul speaks of it in verse 13. And now we're moving on to point one. You were far from God, but now you've been brought near. Paul says in verse 13, but now Does that but now sound familiar? Very similar to Ephesians 2, 4, right? When in verses 1 through 3, Paul had described the wretchedness of the human condition And then said, but God being rich in mercy. And now it's a very similar dynamic, but it's not just to the individual Christian, it's to the church. It's corporately. You were far off, you were strangers, you were alienated, you were without hope, you were without God. But now In Christ Jesus, you who once were far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ. You were far from God, but now you've been brought near, and it's all because of Jesus. It's not because of your ethnicity. It's not because of any other outward distinctive that makes you you. It's all because of Jesus. And that's true for everyone. That's true for both Jew and Gentile. Paul Paul makes that clear. Even as he primarily addresses the Gentiles, did you notice here in verse 17? Bible's open still, I hope. He says he came and preached peace to you who were far off and you who were near. The Jews were the ones who were near. They were near because they had certain privileges and blessings that God had given them, circumcision being one of them. Again, we we heard Tammy read that passage to us from Genesis 17. Paul would say in another of his letters in Romans chapter 9, he would speak of this blessing, this nearness that the people of Israel knew. He said, They are Israelites. And to them belong the adoption, the glory, the covenants, the giving of the law, the worship, and the promises To them belong the patriarchs, and from their race, according to the flesh, is the Christ. You see, they were they were near. They had all these blessings, they had all these promises, they had the law. But Paul wrote those words to the Romans out of unceasing anguish in his heart, that with all those privileges, all that nearness that they enjoyed, They were still separated from Christ. They had rejected their Messiah and they were on their way to hell unless they repented and turned to Jesus. See, the the laws related to circumcision and unclean foods, they were they were a part of God's commandments to the nation of Israel. to help them to maintain a distinct identity among the nations. They were to be a set apart people. Not so that they could look down with disdain upon the other nations, but so that they might be preserved as a people devoted to the Lord. So that they could be a light to those nations. That was what God had said to Abraham when he first came and appeared to Abram in Genesis 12. He said, all the nations of the earth will be blessed in you and in your offspring, Abram. But in the years and centuries that would follow The nation of Israel had taken those commandments of God, which were intended to help them rem retain a distinct identity among the nations, and they had turned it into a ground of boasting. And disdain towards other peoples who didn't have all of those privileges, even while the Jewish people were committing idolatry with and mingling with the false gods of the nations whom they were called to bless and bear witness to. So the Lord says through the prophet Jeremiah, Jeremiah chapter nine Days are coming when I will punish those circumcised merely in the flesh. You hear a little echo there in Paul's words in Ephesians 2, 11, right? He talks of the circumcision. Circumcision made with hands. The Lord said to the people of Israel through Jeremiah, Days are coming when I will punish those circumcised merely in the flesh. Because all the house of Israel are uncircumcised in heart. Whether far off from God, Gentiles, or near to God, Jews, all were cut off from God. So uh if if we were let's say on the coast of Ocean City, New Jersey, favorite spot of the Lazarus family, if we were on the coast of Ocean City, New Jersey, and and let's say there were Three people and we were all going to make effort to swim from the coast in Atl in uh Ocean City, New Jersey to the coast of Ireland. Swim across the Atlantic Ocean. And let's say those three people, I'm one of them, and then Michael Phelps, the most decorated swimmer I think in the history of the Olympics, he was another one of the people. And then a man with no arms or legs was the third person. And we were all going to swim over across the Atlantic to Ireland. Who would win? Kids, who would win? No one would win. That is a very good answer. We might want to think, well maybe Michael Phelps. No, no one would win. Michael Phelps, he'd get out there, he's bringing it, he'd get out there some miles Uh he he you know I would get out uh not very far. The man with uh no arms and legs would just collapse right into the ocean and sink. But all of all three of us would drown So maybe maybe Michael Phelps would get a little nearer, but his little nearer would be still incredibly far. And so the Jews may have had some nearness, they may have had some advantage, but all had sinned and fallen short of the glory of God, such that Paul would say, there's no distinction between Jew and Gentile. All have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. You were all far off, but now, here's the good news of the gospel, but now Jew and Gentile having been made alive in Christ by grace through faith, we've all been brought near, and it's all because of Jesus. We've been brought by blood into a new community, as we sang earlier, and that blood is the blood of Christ. Let me let me read to you this these verses at the heart of our passage again so that you can see. And I just want you, I I I'm not gonna hit on every detail here But just notice as I read verses 14 through 18 again, notice that the how Jesus it is. Notice how it's all because of Jesus in this passage. And notice how all because of Jesus he's made two into one. Look at verse fourteen. For he himself is our peace. He himself, who? Jesus. He himself is our peace, who has made us both Who's the us both? Audience participation. Who's the us both? Jews and Gentiles. He himself is our peace who has made us both one and has broken down in his flesh. Jesus' flesh. He's broken down in his flesh the dividing wall of hostility by abolishing the law of commandments. expressed in ordinances. I spent a lot of time thinking about that phrase. What is that? What is this law of commandments expressed in ordinances? How exactly was it abolished? And boy, there's a lot that people have written about it, but I was really helped by thinking about Colossians 2. 14. Paul uses this word ordinances one other place in his writings, and it's Colossians 2. 14 where it says that Jesus canceled the record of debt that stood against us with its legal demands. And that word It's one word in the original language, legal demands, is this word ordinances here. So he he abolished the law of commandments expressed in ordinances. He, in his flesh, he took the punishment. He canceled the record of debt that stood against us with its commands. He paid the penalty. He paid the price for our sin against God and so abolished the law's claim against us all, which is death. He abolished all of that for Jew and Gentile, so that it's not through law-keeping that we might be brought near to God, but it's through Christ. It's through the blood of Christ, it's through his sacrifice that he might look at the passage, that he might create in himself Jesus in himself one new man in place of the two He didn't create a Gentile track alongside of this Jewish track. You know, the Jews have the promises and they've got the law. Now I'll just make another way for the Gentiles. Everybody can get to God, but it'll be two separate tracks. No, no. The two brought into one that he might create in himself one new man in place of the two, so making peace, and might reconcile us both, us both. Who's the us both? Jews and Gentiles, that he might reconcile us both to God in one body through the cross. See how how it's all because of Jesus. Thereby killing the hostility and he came, who's he? Come on now. This is easy. What's this? This is a Sunday school answer. He came, who's he? He came and preached peace. Jesus came and preached peace to you who were far off. Who were they? Gentiles. And peace to those who were near. Who's that? The Jews, all right, we're we're you're with me, good. This is this pretty this is a pretty remarkable thing, by the way. Because I I read this, I thought to myself, well how did I mean Jesus never showed up in Ephesus And preached the gospel. Jesus went to heaven and the apostles went out. Paul's the one who started the church in Ephesus. What he's saying is, I think When a when an apostle or a pastor or a parent preaches the good news of Jesus, and preaching, you understand, you can preach Jesus without being as loud. uh and waving your arms around as I'm doing, okay? When a when an apostle or a preacher or a parent or you, uh young people, when you at at school school or in your neighborhood when you declare the good news of Jesus to somebody and you tell them about his life and his death and his resurrection and about how people Need to trust Jesus and turn away from sin to be reconciled to have a new relationship with God. When we do that, it's as though the Lord Jesus Himself is the preacher. He came and preached peace to you who were far off and peace to those who were near, for through him, who's him, through him, Jesus, we both, who's that? Jews and Gentiles have access in one spirit to the Father. So there's a whole lot of detail in this passage that I've not touched on, but do you see the main point? It's in your face. You were far off, Christians, Jew and Gentile. You were far off, but now you've been brought near, and it's all because of Jesus. All the promises of God find their yes in Jesus. So he says in verse 19, you're no longer strangers and aliens. But your citizens, you're citizens along with the saints and members of the household of God. You're one and it's such a it's such a strong foundation That I just can't even get on the whole passage today. I'm gonna come back and we'll talk about verses nineteen through twenty-two next week But do you see you were far off and you've been brought near and it's all because of Jesus. Our differences. And we have differences in this assembly. Whether they be ethnic differences or any other kinds of differences, those differences are relativized at the foot of the cross. But your identity, Christian. What makes you you at the deepest level is nothing about your flesh But it's about your relationship to Jesus. And no one outside the church will tell you that. So it needs to be said loud and clear. What defines you, who you are, your identity, is either an in-christ one or a not in Christ one. That is the most important thing about anyone's identity. And that's shared experience. When we have two people, no matter how different they might be, they might be different ethnically, they might be different in terms of their stage of life. One might be married, one might be single, one might be young, one might be old, one might have a real high-paying job, one may be unemployed. But when two people have the same Jesus, that experience, that shared experience of grace and peace, peace being preached by Jesus, the very one who should have destroyed us came and was killed to kill the hostility between us and God and between us and each other, that shared experience, it shuts down conflict. between those who are in Christ. It's really hard to feel hostility towards another Christian brother or sister when you realize that it's all because of Jesus that you're even in this family anyway. For me it was in the garden. He prayed, not my will, but thine. He had no tears for his own griefs, but sweat drops of blood for mine. When you're singing that and believing that and rejoicing in that, how can you experience hostility to any other one who has also shared in that same blood-bought peace with you? How would that even be possible unless you are suffering from some kind of gospel amnesia? Which which we're given to, and that's why Paul says there, remember. Remember this. Remember it, Gentiles. Remember it, Jews. It's all because of Jesus. As as heat radiates from a fire Family love just radiates from the gospel of Jesus Christ. We love, the Apostle John said, because he first loved us. And that love is for all different kinds of Christ lovers. Paul would say something similar in Colossians chapter 3. Here, he says, here in the church, there's not Greek and Jew, circumcised and uncircumcised, barbarian, Scythian, slave, free, but Christ is all and in all. That's why James says partiality. You can't hold the faith of our Lord Jesus and show partiality to the rich. It's not even possible because we know the cross is the great leveler. And we are one. We are many. We are one joined together in the Sun. This is part of what Jesus died for. Not just to save you, praise God, he died to rescue you from your sin and the wrath of God that you deserved, but he died to make a new humanity, a new race Peter would say, you're a chosen race, a holy nation, a royal priesthood, a people for his own possession, that you may proclaim the excellencies of Him who called you out of darkness and into His marvelous light. And oh how that proclamation is adorned when his people, when his very different people experience a profound unity because of Jesus. That's the passage. That's the message. But I'm not quite done yet. I want to close by just reflecting a little bit on some implications of that for us as a church You were all far off. I was too, just for the record. I keep saying you, because that's what Paul says in Ephesians. You, but you and I, we all, were far from God, but in Christ we've been brought near. It's all because of him. Nothing about our ethnic differences or any other fleshly difference about us. It's all because of Jesus. I think that has some impact on our congregation that I want to just think about for a few minutes with you in closing. The first thing I want us to do is is remember this. That is what it says right there. Remember And I've told you a number of times that remember is the only command that we're given in the first three chapters of Ephesians. The only thing Paul, he just glory, he glories in all that God has done for his people in Christ. And all he says in those first three chapters is remember this. And I've been telling you that just about every week. I mean every sermon in this series has been an effort to help us remember the glory of your salvation in Christ. And that is true again today, but I mean a little something more than just that when I say remember. On the basis of this text, I want you to remember That even even as you remember the graciousness and the glory of your own reconciliation with God Remember that a united and diverse church, diverse in lots of different ways, but especially as it says in this passage, diverse ethnically. That a rec a reconciled church, I just want you to remember that that's very dear to the heart of Christ That's not a liberal woke thing. That's a Jesus thing. If we care about the death of Jesus Then surely we would care about the design of Jesus' death. And one design that Paul spells out here in Ephesians 2, 11 through 22, is that Jesus designed in his own death to reconcile the peoples, the nations, the ethnicities into one new humanity. So Christians should care about this. Not because it's a politically correct one. Maybe maybe the one politically correct issue that Christians would actually agree with our culture about. Not because of that. Not because it's a cool social issue, but we should care about it because the one we love most, the Lord Jesus, shed his blood to ransom people from every tribe and language and people and nation. In glory, and I want to read to you one text maybe when we come to take the cup together and when we drink in a few minutes, but in glory All of his people from every nation gather around his throne without distinction. All united together singing salvation belongs to our God And I don't see, when I read Revelation 7, I don't see a little pocket of Chinese over here, and a little pocket of Japanese over here, and a little pocket of European over here, and a little pocket of uh young singles over here and a little pocket of uh married empty nesters here. I don't see that when I look at Revelation 7. I just see them all together. Around that throne, singing, praising God, salvation belongs to our God. We are one in Christ. And we should remember that. Paul's going to go on in chapter three to say this is part of the great mystery of the gospel. The mystery, this is chapter three, verse six, is that the Gentiles Are fellow heirs, members of the same body, and partakers of the promise in Christ Jesus through the gospel. And all this gets highlighted very vividly and very sweetly to the glory of God when all different kinds of people unite in worship of the God who saved them and granted them to share in that same spirit through which we have become one in Christ. Kids. Kids, have you ever sung a song at home? I don't know if you sing this in in children's uh ministry or not, but have you ever s sung a song I bet your parents know it? Jesus loves I'm not gonna sing it because nobody wants to hear that. Jesus loves the little children, all the children of the world. Red and yellow, black and white, they are precious in his sight. Jesus loves the little children of the world. world. You ever heard that song, kids? That's a very good and important song to know and to sing But it's more important that you actually know what it means and treat other people, treat other kids like that more than important that you know the words of the song. Kids, kids, kids. Never make fun of somebody Uh here's a way that you can uh make some sense of all that I've been standing up here yelling about for the last half an hour uh ish. Kids never make fun of someone because of how they look. Because of their skin color, or because of how they talk, or because of their hair. It's like making fun of God when you do that, who made all these different kinds of people to show off how glorious and beautiful He is. So don't ever make fun of somebody because they look or talk or sound different than you. And if you ever hear someone doing that, it would be good for you to stick up for that person who's being made fun of. That'd be very sweet to the God who made different kinds of people to be united in love and praise for his son Jesus. Let's remember this, church. And and lastly, and very quickly, let's just reflect. This may be something even good to think about in a few minutes as you would be holding the bread in the cup. Or just that minute or two as the elements are passed and you're holding it. Let's just reflect on any ways in which our own preferences or traditions or prejudices might make our lives or might make our church unwelcoming to different kinds of people This passage seems to be saying to me that it's good and beautiful when Christians of different ethnicities And just different social demographics, when different kinds of Christians live and worship and recreate and eat together in joyful Harmony that magnifies the Christ who has brought them together and made them one. And so it'd be good for us to think. Are there any ways that we may be living together in such a way that we're obscuring that? That we're not reflecting that. God has done it. He has made his people one in Christ. But are we living in the enjoyment of it is what I'm asking. I'm asking you to reflect on that. I don't have an agenda and asking you to reflect on it. I'm just asking you to reflect on it. Are we living in the enjoyment? Can we know more of that joy of dividing walls being brought down and one new man in the church united in love for Jesus? Can we positively cultivate an environment and spirit in the church where it's clear to people who come in and are visiting amongst us? That this church is not for any particular kind of person, whether ethnic or any other cultural distinctive Can we seek to cultivate an environment where we declare Christ is more to us than our ethnic heritage? Christ is more to us than our marital status. He's more to us than our generational era. He's more to us than our musical preferences. He's more to us than life. He is our all and he's in all. And I believe he has done that among us in ways maybe that you don't even realize. Maybe as you reflect on it, you'll be praising God for that. We should praise God where he has done that. And we should reflect and we should ask for the help of the Holy Spirit if there's any way that we could be doing that more faithfully. Any ways that we could be demonstrating that we're so captivated by the cross that we would count it joy to reject our preferences, that we would outdo one another in showing honor. And think less of ourselves and more about others, pouring contempt on our love for comfortable affinities. By treasuring the differences that we have, even while making sure that we don't treat those differences as the things that define us. Well, I think that would be a good and right thing before the Jesus who has reconciled us together and who will on that final day be worshipped by those from every tribe and nation and tongue and language. So let's be remembering and reflecting on all that, brothers and sisters, especially even as we come to the Lord's table. Join me in prayer. Heavenly Father, thank you for Jesus. We thank you for his reconciling work. We thank you that when we were all far off That you've brought us near. And it's not at all because of anything in us. What we could do, what we could bring, anything distinctive about us. It's all because of Jesus. Help us to rejoice in that. Help us to remember it. And help us to increasingly reflect that reality in our life together as a church. We do praise you for how we've known that, how we have experienced that. We pray that you would give us wisdom, give us love, give us joy in our salvation and in the cross of Christ, that we might experience it more and more. We ask for all this in Jesus' name. Amen.