Well good morning. It's good to see you. It's good to to be with you to share God's word. Merry Christmas. Thank you for sharing that back with me. We are going to spend our time today diving into a beautiful verse reflecting on God's glory and sending his son. I'm going to pray though before we dive in. So please pray with me. Father, we ask you would use this time They challenge our thinking about you. They even challenge our small thoughts of you at times. Or would you allow our view of you to become greater, our love for you to become deeper, our affection for you to become more intimate? Through the hearing and preaching and doing of your word. Use your word to convict us, to correct us, and to change us to look more like your glorious Son. In Jesus' name. Amen. I wonder if you thought recently why we exchanged gifts. For Christmas. Maybe you've asked that yourself that question just out of curiosity, like where did that tradition come from? Or maybe you've been looking at your bank account lately, seeing all the money that you've been spending, and you're like, why are we doing all this again? Well, gift exchanges is synonymous with celebrating the Christmas holiday. That can be traced back to many sources. I'll focus on two of them. One would be Saint Nicholas. The fourth century bishop from Turkey who was known to give gifts to children and to the less fortunate. The other goes back way further than that. To wise men who would travel nearly 900 miles from Persia to see a child named Jesus. As it says in the Gospel of Matthew, chapter 2, verse 11, and going into the house, they saw the child with Mary, his mother, and they fell down and worshipped him. Then, opening their treasures, they offered him gifts, gold, frankincense, and myrrh. So St. Nicholas gave to children and the less fortunate to be generous. But why would these wise men bring these gifts to Jesus? As it says there in that verse, they did so to worship him. They worshiped this child, this king, the Lord Jesus Christ, by giving to him. But Jesus, that child, would eventually give far more than anyone else to give to him And if you haven't turned there already, you can meet me in your copy of God's Word in 2 Corinthians chapter 8. If you're using one of the Bibles provided around you, that's on page 967. Today we're going to focus on another text. That's going to remind us of the glorious good news of Christ coming to us as we reflect on this Advent season. Last week, Ryan Payne so wonderfully helped us reflect on God's redemption to us through Christ. And our new position in Christ because of his coming from Galatians chapter 4. And today we'll land in the middle of another letter by the Apostle Paul at 2 Corinthians. And this is likely Paul's third letter to the Christians at the church in Corinth. The first was 1 Corinthians. The second seemed to be a severe letter that Paul referred to in actually 2 Corinthians chapter 7. He referred to this severe letter that went out to them. That's not even recorded in Scripture. But then he sends another letter, which is in our Bibles, 2 Corinthians. Where here, Paul's not meaning to rebuke He's meaning to offer comfort, encouragement, guidance, and direction to Christians. He even wants to encourage them in their ministry, in their giving towards the ministry of the gospel. So look with me at 2 Corinthians chapter 8. I'm going to read verses 1 through 7 right now just to give us a little bit more context of what Paul is talking about here. He says, we want you to know, brothers, about the grace of God that has been given among the churches of Macedonia. For in a severe time or a severe test of affliction, their abundance of joy and their extreme poverty have overflowed and a wealth of generosity on their part. For they gave according to their means, as I can testify, and beyond their means as as their own accord, begging us earnestly for favor of taking part in the relief of the saints. And this Not as we expected, but they gave themselves first to the Lord, and then by the will of God to us Accordingly, we urge Titus that as he started, so we should complete among you this act of grace. But as you excel in everything, in faith, in speech, in knowledge, in all in earnestness, and in out in our love for you, see that you excel in this act of grace also Stop there for a moment. Paul mentions this act of grace in a couple places. And he's talking about their giving. He's talking about the generosity of the people, the Christians in Macedonia. He says over and over again what defined them. They gave. They gave to the Lord. And they gave to the ministry of the gospel, even though they were very poor. Paul sharing all of this, not as a command, but as an encouragement to the church in Corinth. He says that in verse 8. And then, in the middle of this encouragement, He goes beyond the Christians in Macedonia. He appeals to the Lord Jesus Christ himself. That's where we'll focus our time for this moment. And what did Jesus do? He graciously gave. You're taking notes. This is the main point of our time together in God's Word. Jesus graciously exchanged our spiritual poverty for his glorious riches Jesus graciously exchanged our pure spiritual poverty for his glorious riches. Now let me read the verse that we'll focus on this morning. 2 Corinthians chapter 8, verse 9. Where it says, For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sake he became poor. So that you, by his poverty, might become rich. Amen That verse preaches all by itself. We'll meditate on these glorious truths found in that one verse, the greatest of exchanges. By asking and answering these four questions in our time together. How rich was Christ? How poor did he become How poor were we, and how rich have we become? Question number one: How rich was Christ? Should be noted here that though the question asks, how rich was Christ, as in past tense, we know that Christ is rich, present tense And forever and ever. He right now is glorious. But Paul uses was here because he's pointing back. To something. He's not pointing back to Christ's life on earth, but he's pointing back to Christ and his eternal glory. How do we know that? Because of Jesus Christ, Paul writes things like this in Colossians chapter 1. Where he says, he, as in Jesus, is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation. For by him all things were created in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities, all things were created through him and for him. He is before all things, and in him all things hold together. All things means all things, like everything Jesus eternally existed, and Jesus is eternally glorious What do I mean by glorious? That word glory is referring to the Shekinah glory or the blinding glory of God's presence. God so glorious that Moses in Exodus chapters 33 and 34 needed to be hidden by the Lord in the cleft of the rock only to see the back of the Lord. Because the glory of God will consume Moses because he, like all of us, was a man with sin. And yet, Paul says that Jesus is the very glory of God. And that in Jesus we have seen the glory of God. Listen to 2 Corinthians 4, verse 6. For God, who said, Let light shine out of darkness, has shone into our hearts to give us the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. The Lord Jesus Christ is also the one that the angels for all eternity past have been singing about. So glorious that even the angels had to hide their faces from the presence of his glory. Think about Isaiah chapter 6, where in that year King Uzziah died. And Isaiah says, I saw the Lord sitting upon a throne, high and lifted up, and the train of his robe filled the temple. And above him stood the seraphim, and each had six wings, and with two he covered his face, and with two he covered his feet, and with two he flew And one called to another and said, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is filled with his glory Now someone might think, how do we know that that was about Jesus? That was in Isaiah Listen to what the Apostle John writes in John chapter 12, verse 41. We're speaking of Jesus Christ, and after Jesus quoted the prophet Isaiah, John explains for us what that means. And he says the following in that verse. Isaiah said these things because he saw his glory, and he spoke of him. Who's glory? Jesus' glory. So when Paul says that Jesus was rich, he's saying that Jesus was gloriously rich So rich, so glorious, that we can't even comprehend it. And how would this king, the Lord Jesus Christ, spend his glory? What would he do with it? Well, Jesus, as the humble king, would actually conceal his glory. That reminds me of a story about Queen Elizabeth II, who one day was out near the Scottish royal castle, out with her personal assistant, her personal protection officer. Some tourists approached the queen and the officer, but they didn't recognize her. They didn't know that she was the queen. They engaged in some small talk. The tourist asked, Where do you live? He's like, I live in London But I've been vacationing here for over 80 years, vacationing at the castle that was hers. She didn't say that, but that's what it was. Eighty years in London, they said, you must have seen the queen before. You must have met her She's like, no, but my assistant meets with her regularly. The tourists, after some more small talk, they ask the queen to take a picture Of them with the assistant, because the assistant said that they she had met he had met the queen before. And the queen took the picture. The queen was standing right before them. But the queen concealed her glory. And in an even greater way The King of Kings, the Lord Jesus Christ, concealed his glory by coming to the earth Jesus was so concealed in his glory and humanity that the Bible says that Jesus came to his own and his own did not recognize him. John 1, verse 10, he was in the world, and the world was made through him. Yet the world did not know him. He came to his own, and his own people did not receive him. They missed him. The King of Glory, the Lord Jesus Christ, would enter into this world cloaked in flesh. He would humble himself. And he would become poor. Question number two. Question number two. How poor did he become? How poor did Jesus become? The question of how poor Jesus became is answerable when you compare what Jesus lived through and what he experienced with his glorious grace. With the riches of his glory. But Jesus being rich in glory did not stay there. He came to this earth And in this earth, he lived as a human. He lived in poverty, and he experienced suffering. Let's talk about Jesus and his humanity. The wonder of the incarnation is that this gloriously rich king would become man. That the eternal word of God would become flesh. Think about that for a minute. All of us who live in our bodies, those of us who are starting to feel more and more that we're living in bodies that are frail, that are wasting away. He just put on that in coming to this earth. The author of all creation wrote himself into the story. And as we already heard from Jonathan Lehman this morning, from St. Augustine, I'm going to read this quote again. Where he says, Man's maker became man. That he, the ruler of the stars, might nurse at his mother's breast, that the bread might hunger, the fountain thirst, the light Sleep the way be tired on its journey that the truth might be accused of false witness, the teacher might be beaten with whips, the foundation be suspended on the wood, that strength might grow weak. That the healer might be wounded, that life might die And in Jesus putting on humanity, that means that he experienced human emotion. And if you read the Gospels, you see several examples of that. Jesus got angry. Jesus got tired. Jesus got sad and needed time away after the death of his cousin John the Baptist. Jesus rejoiced. Jesus celebrated. And Jesus wept at the tomb of Lazarus with Mary and Martha. Jesus was even tempted, and yet he was without sin. Jesus didn't just put on humanity to experience human emotion like we do. He also put on poverty. Think about it. Jesus could have entered into human history, into the highest ranks of society. But he didn't. He was born in a little town of Bethlehem. I don't know if you've ever been to Bethlehem. It's pretty small. You'll miss it. It's insignificant. Jesus was born in a stable, which is actually more like a cave. He was born to poor earthly parents. Mary and Joseph. This thing about the sacrifice that they offered in the temple after Jesus was born. They gave two doves or two young pigeons. Why? Because in Leviticus, it says that those who could not afford a lamb Should give either two doves or two pigeons. The thing about Jesus' parents, his earthly parents, Mary and Joseph entering the temple with their doves. And yet the Lamb of God, who paid for the sins of the world, was also with them. And what did Jesus say about himself later on in his life? Jesus said. Foxes have holes and birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head. Jesus didn't go out and heal people and then go back in his mansion to take a break. That's not how Jesus lived. Or even think about when Jesus, the glorious Lord Jesus Christ, entered into Jerusalem on Palm Sunday. Kids and teens, do you remember hearing about or reading about this glorious and triumphal entry into Jerusalem? Jesus entered into Jerusalem on an animal. What animal was it? The donkey. A donkey. Not a mighty horse. A donkey. A borrowed one at that. So Jesus, the King of kings, would not only put on humanity and poverty, but he would also experience suffering. And we can hear about that in lots of places in the scriptures. But I think Isaiah 53 sums it up really well And in it, it says striking things about this servant of the Lord. It says things like he had no form or majesty that we should look at him. Which means we probably would have missed him too. He had no beauty that we should desire him. He was despised and rejected by men. He was a man of sorrows, acquainted with grief. Because he bore our griefs and he carried our sorrows. We esteemed him stricken, smitten, afflicted by God. And that he was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. It says that the Lord laid on him the iniquity of us all. He was oppressed, he was afflicted, he was cut off from the land of the living. This wasn't an accident. Isaiah 53 says, it was the will of the Lord to crush him. He has put him to grief. And he poured out his soul to death. Make no mistake, brothers and sisters. There's no one that's ever stooped lower than Jesus. Jesus, the King, suffered greatly in his life on earth and also in his death on the cross. But why would a king stoop so low Paul's answer from 2 Corinthians 8 verse 9, so that you, by his poverty, might become rich. As I mentioned earlier, Paul used the Macedonian Christians in this section as a reference point. They were extremely poor, and yet they were extremely, exceedingly generous. So I think this quickly rules out any notion that Jesus came so that we could be monetarily rich. Not white king. That means that Paul's talking about something else. He's talking about spiritual riches. He's talking about eternal glory that Jesus shares with his people. Before we talk about how rich we've become if we are in Christ, we've got to reckon with how poor we are apart from Christ, which leads to question number three. How poor were we? How poor were we. Apart from Christ We lived in extreme spiritual poverty because of our sin. The Bible teaches that we have all sinned, all fallen short of God's glory. The Bible also teaches about sin that the wages of sin, meaning what we've earned because of sin, is death. Listen to Paul in Ephesians chapter 2, verse 1. And you were dead in your trespasses and sins. In other words, you didn't just need a little bit of salvation. You and I didn't need just a little bit of Jesus. We weren't treading water. We were dead in our trespasses and sins. Verse 2, in which you once walked, following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience. Among whom we all lived in the passions of the flesh, carrying out the desires of the body and of the mind. We were all, by nature, children of wrath, like the rest of mankind. It's a problem, isn't it? Apart from Christ, we're unrighteous, dead, broke before God. We're dead in our sins. The Bible says that our righteousness before God are like filthy rags. There's nothing that we could offer the Lord to pay for our debt. And when people have debt, you can do a few different things with your debt, right? You can consolidate your debt with the company And maybe get a lower interest rate or get it all paid off in one place, one source. You can pay monthly payments to try to chip away at that debt if you want to. But think about housing. It kind of doesn't really work all that same way. It comes to a point where that payment needs to be satisfied And God is not interested in a debt repayment plan. Our money is no good in his kingdom. And what happens when you can't pay off the debt? The property might be taken away from you. Or you could be arrested and thrown in prison. And our spiritual state, apart from Christ, will leave us bankrupt and eternally separated from the Lord at the end of our lives. That's bad news. But thanks be to God that Jesus the King did not leave us there. Back to Ephesians 2 Verse 4, but God, being rich in mercy, because of the great love in which he loves us. Even when we were dead in our trespasses, he made us alive together with Christ. By grace, we have been saved. That's why Jesus came to this world concealing his glory, laying aside his riches, living a perfect life, dying the death that we should have died on the cross And in doing so, Jesus paid it all. He paid off all of our spiritual debt that we owe because of our sin. And he rose from the grave so that all who put their faith in him Who put their faith and hope and trust in Him can have all of their debt, past, present, and future, forgiven and wiped clean because He is glorious, because He paid for it all on the cross. You're here and you're not a Christian this morning. You can't do enough good works to pay off your debt before God. Your money is no good in God's kingdom. But you can place your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ today and have your spiritual debt wiped clean and be saved And you might say, that sounds too easy. That sounds too good to be true. There must be a catch. While salvation is freely offered to us, salvation was not free. It was costly to the Lord Jesus Christ. And note that this offer is available today because we don't know, none of us do, how much time we have left. We urge you, if you haven't done so, put your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ today. Brothers and sisters in Christ Our Lord has exchanged his glorious riches for our poverty so that we might be rich in him. That's the most lopsided gift exchange ever. Kids and teens, or even adults, maybe you've been part of some white elephant exchanges lately. Our youth, we did that a couple of weeks ago. When you play white elephant or whatever you call it, it's like a thousand different names, right? There are rules that come along with it, right? Part of the rules are that the gifts that you bring to exchange, they must be wrapped and they must be around a similar value to all the other gifts So there's a $5, $10, $15 limit that's put on the the game to make sure that all the gifts are balanced in some way. But imagine you playing white elephant at your company party or with your youth group and you bought your little gift that's wrapped from five below. To exchange and yet you leave with a brand new iPad. Or brand new phone. Or brand new car. That would feel so lopsided. That would feel so good to be true. And yet that is such a dim picture of the greatest of exchanges that the Lord Jesus made with us. Christian, do you know how rich you truly are? We're going to talk about that more right now. Question number four. How rich have we become? Christian, we have become eternally and gloriously rich. Let's think of Paul again in 2 Corinthians chapter 4. He says, so we don't lose heart, though our outer self is wasting away, our inner self is being renewed day by day. But this light and momentary affliction, he's talking about suffering there, is preparing for us an eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison. Do you know what that means, beloved? That means that Jesus is going to share his glory with you, with me, and with us. Let's think again back to Galatians 4 from what Brian Payne shared last week. That if we are sons and daughters, we've been brought into God's family, we are heirs with God. And we are co-heirs with Christ. And we don't just get some of the rights and privileges in God's family, we get all of them. And this is not just for pastors This is not just for church leaders. This is not just for men. This is not just for super saints. There are no second-class citizens in the kingdom of God. We all get in on sharing with the Lord Jesus Christ and his glory. And the Lord Jesus Christ, as our elder brother, does not begrudgingly let us in. He does not begrudgingly share with us. So all of us know what this feels like if you're the younger sibling where you want to share with your brother or your sister, you want to play with your brother or your sister, and they don't really want to spend time with you. So then you tell your mom and dad, and then they have to say, go play with your brother. And then the big brother or big sister might roll their eyes and comply because they have to, right? Jesus isn't like that. He's not rolling his eyes at us. Like, I guess I'll let them in. I guess I'll share my glory with them. No, he does so gladly. He does so willingly. He does so lovingly. What does Jesus say in John chapter 14? He says, in my father's house there are many rooms. I'm going away to prepare a place for you. And I will come back for you, so that where I am, you might be also. Aren't you glad that the Lord Jesus Christ makes room for us? And he's not mad about it. He's not frustrated. He's not annoyed with you. He welcomes us as his people. Jesus says, you will come to me and you will make yourself right at home. He says that to all of God's people. He says that my father's house is his people's house. Have you ever been to the White House before? Maybe inside. I've never been inside. I've been outside a few different times. 2014, 2016, 2017. What I know is about each year. That I was there, the people were further and further away from the gates of the White House It's like this is supposed to be the people's house, right? Like, what's up with that? Now, obviously, there are good reasons. There are names and stories for why people are not that close to the White House gate anymore. You can't just roll up to the White House unannounced. That will not go well for you. So the people's house is a lot more symbolic than it is realistic. You can't just put your feet on the table in there, but it's not like that in our father's house. He says this is my people's house. He says there will not be any gates there. There will not be anything wicked there. There won't even need to be any light there because my glory will be there. And the Lord Jesus himself welcomes all of us and says, there's room for you too. Come right on in. Make yourself at home. And that's all glorious, isn't it? And we should all long for that day where we'll be in our Father's house in glory. But what about today? What about right now? Are these riches in Christ that we have like our 401k or our retirement plan? Where we might eventually get it, where we might live long enough to actually use it. Or we can tap into it right now, but it'll cost us. We'll be taxed for it. It's not like that with the Lord. Because Paul, in 2 Corinthians, before he reminds them of the glorious exchange of their poverty with the riches of the Lord Jesus Christ, he'd already been telling them about what they have right now in the Lord Jesus Christ. In Christ, all of his people have the comfort of God. We have the God of all comfort who comforts us in all of our affliction, Paul says We have the confirmation, the truth that we are being transformed and renewed day after day after day We have a new covenant in the Lord Jesus Christ. We have the very mercy of God. We have treasure in jars of clay, Paul says. We have the Holy Spirit dwelling within us as our guarantee, as the down payment for our future reward. We have the Lord dwelling with us. We have the ministry of reconciliation. We have the ability to give generously. And we have the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ each moment of each day. Brothers and sisters, the riches that we have in Christ are eternal, but we get to cash in on those riches right now. In him. Jesus graciously exchanged our spiritual poverty for his glorious riches. So if you are in Christ, do you live like you're rich? Are there signs of the riches that you have, not just in the future, but also right now, of Jesus and his glorious grace? Maybe you've seen on social media these these memes, these posts that will say things at the top like, if I became rich, I wouldn't tell anybody, but there would be signs. And you see a picture of somebody with a giant bucket of popcorn at the movie theater or something like that. Right? Or purchasing premium gas instead of regular gas? Like money is no objects. But Christian, you are rich, gloriously rich, far beyond what you can even understand or comprehend. So since you are so rich, there should be signs. Well in closing, let's talk about a few of what those signs should be. Few application points. Sign number one. Sign number one. A knowledge of his grace. A knowledge of his grace Paul says in 2 Corinthians chapter 8 verse 9, for you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ. You know it. This is true. You understand it Paul could have used any term he wanted to at that point. But since Paul is talking about a gift that we've received, I think that's why he's used the word grace. We cannot earn it. There's nothing that we could do to deserve it. Christian, do you know this grace? And I don't just mean that you know it in your head. I mean that you know it in your heart. Not just intellectually, but you know this grace intimately I encourage you over the next several days to spend time reflecting on this glorious grace. As you give gifts, or even as you receive gifts, For everybody. Remember, you will never outgive the Lord. Maybe spend some time reading Luke chapter 1 and Luke chapter 2. Talk about it with the people you spent time with for Christmas. Pray together. Spend time singing some of the hymns that we were just singing this morning. And ponder over the words. Just think of even what we're going to sing in just a few minutes. Thou who was rich beyond all splendor, all for love's sake became as poor Thrones for a manger, did it surrender, sapphire paved courts for stable floor Spend time dwelling in the riches of God's grace. Make sure that you know it, not just in your head, but in your heart as well. And even share with one another how gracious the Lord has been with you. So, firstly, know his grace. Secondly, give graciously. Give graciously. Again, the immediate context for this verse that we spent our time on is giving towards the spread of the gospel. is giving towards the work of the ministry. So give generously, give graciously, steward your resources as if you are a manager and not an owner. Doesn't belong to you. Doesn't belong to any of us. We should steward our resources well. But maybe you can consider some of your year-in giving using that to support some of our missionaries Or even using that to give towards our church's benevolence fund or our church's counseling fund. The Bible Says that we should give faithfully. And we should give cheerfully because God loves a cheerful giver. And hasn't He given so much to us already? Know his grace, give generously. Thirdly, suffer graciously. Suffer graciously Maybe you are encouraged by the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, but at the same time you are discouraged by your own suffering this past year. If I could put 2024 in a word, for me, that word would be intense. It's been a pretty intense year. I don't know what word you would use, but I think some of us fall into that similar category. It's been a lot. Many of us are tired. Many of us have been suffering in many ways for a very long time. So suffer graciously? That sounds insensitive, doesn't it? Until we remember that this is the Apostle Paul who's sharing these things. The Apostle Paul, among many things, was given a thorn in his flesh. He pleaded with the Lord. He begged the Lord to take it away. Maybe you've been begging for the Lord to take your suffering away. And the Lord didn't do that He didn't answer his prayer in that way, but instead the Lord says, the Lord Jesus says in 2 Corinthians 12, My grace is sufficient for you. My power is made perfect in your weakness. As you endure suffering, beloved, remember that your Lord is gracious. Remember that your Lord is strong. And He's proved to be the strongest when you are the weakest. And remember, it wasn't just Paul who suffered, but our Lord Jesus Christ suffered as well. He not only shares his riches with us, but he calls us to share in his suffering as well. Meaning he gets it, meaning he understands, meaning we can go to him even as we endure suffering. Though he was rich, yet for your sake he became poor, so that by his poverty you might become rich. And Jesus wraps this marvelous gift to us in grace. Aren't you glad for this glorious exchange that the Lord has given us Let's thank the Lord once again for his gracious gift. Let's pray. Oh Lord, we cannot Outlove you, we cannot outserve you, we cannot outgive you. We thank you for graciously giving to us. Though we deserve nothing from you but your judgment, you've given us your salvation. You've given us your Holy Spirit. You've given us your comfort. You've given us your presence. And you are preparing a place for us. Lord, help us to live like we are. We are not poor in you. We have become eternally rich. We pray that you would help us to live like that and marvel all the more in your riches that you give us. In Jesus' name. Amen.