While I was in high school, I attended the 93rd Street Missionary Baptist Church. It's the first church that I regularly attended. The first church where I heard the gospel preached, though I wasn't a Christian at the time and I wasn't a believer at the time. It was also the first church where I heard about how Christians should live with each other and how they should depend on each other. And I heard that in a song. A song by Hezekiah Walker called I Need You to Survive And what's different about this song versus other songs that we will sing in that church is that this song was meant to be sung primarily to the other members of the church. Some of the words. I need you. You need me. We're all a part of God's body. Stand with me. Agree with me. We're all a part of God's body. It is his will that every need be supplied. You are important to me. I need you to survive. I'm gonna be real with y'all, at the time I thought that was a little corny. It seems strange to me. But the older I get The more that makes perfect sense. In fact, I think it clearly explains our passage for this morning and even the rest of Philippians chapter 4, it clearly explains life in the local church and why it's so important. It helps to explain how any of us can stand firm in the Lord together. Philippians 1, if you remember from last week, Paul called the brothers and sisters there in Philippi to stand firm in the Lord. But as we talked about last week, that standing firm was less like a soldier standing by himself with his armor on. And more like the Roman Testudo Formation with the walled of shield below and above you with lines of soldiers You're standing there together. You're protecting not only yourself, but you're protecting the one to your left, to your right, to your front, and also to your rear. So how is your stand in the Lord this morning, beloved? And how will you and I resolve to stand firm in the Lord in 2026? I think we can stand firm in the Lord this year together. You haven't done so already, please meet me in the book of Philippians. You'll find that on page 982 in the Bible's provided. Last week we focused on Paul's word to the church in Philippi about the return of the Lord Jesus. And about us waiting as eager citizens of heaven. And our passage this morning gets really practical to help the church and help us And what it should look like to actually stand firm in the Lord and resolve to stand firm in the Lord. So we need the Lord's grace in order to do that. And we also need each other in order to stand firm in the Lord. Let me read the passage for us, Philippians chapter 4, starting in verse 1, I'll read through verse 9. This is God's Word. Verse 1, therefore, my brothers, whom I long and long, who I love and long for, my joy and my crown Stand firm thus in the Lord, my beloved. I entreat Euodia and I entreat Synthki to agree in the Lord. Yes, I ask you also, true companion, help these women who have labored side by side with me in the gospel together with Clement and the rest of my fellow workers whose names are in the book of life Rejoice in the Lord always. Again I will say, rejoice. Let your reasonableness be known to everyone. The Lord is at hand. Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything, by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your request be made known to God And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. Finally, brothers, whatever is true, whatever is honorable, whatever is just, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is commendable, if there's any excellence If there's anything worthy of praise, think about these things. What you have learned and received and heard and seen in me, practice these things, and the God of peace will be with you. It's God's word. Amen. If you are taking notes this morning, here's the main idea for our time together. As citizens of heaven, awaiting our Savior, stand firm in the Lord together As citizens of heaven, awaiting our Savior, stand firm in the Lord together And as we walk through this passage, we'll see what this resolve to stand firm in the Lord should look like. In four points or four resolutions. Resolution number one, reconcile with God's people. Resolution number one, reconcile with God's people. Look again at verses one through three of our passage. Where Paul is calling these brothers and sisters beloved. He's reminding them that they are united together as family in Christ. He calls them his joy and his reward. And then he immediately addresses some kind of conflict, some type kind of tension within the church between two sisters there. Now the passage doesn't say specifically what the issue was, or whatever the issue was, it was wide enough that it warranted in this public letter that was meant to be read to the entire church To mention these two sisters by name. So it wasn't a secret. Then we can conclude that. And it was also important enough that Paul was urging them to quickly, to urgently Agree in the Lord. And that's what it means by saying entreat. I entreat Uodia and Synthki to agree in the Lord, meaning do so quickly, reconcile quickly But I think we can rightly assume that their disagreement, whatever it was, it was not about the gospel. It was not about the person and work of Jesus Christ. And what we know about the Apostle Paul in his letters to various churches, that he wasn't shy about addressing sin whenever it was there. about calling out those who who deny the gospel and who try to divide and split churches. He even called churches to step up and to discipline to respond, how the church should respond when people are in a repentant sin in 1 Corinthians, for example. But he doesn't do any of that here He also says some encouraging things about these sisters. Did you catch it? He says that they were co-laborers of his in the gospel, also with Clement. He said that they worked side by side with him for the sake of the gospel. And he even affirms that their names are written in the book of life. This reminds us of a few things this morning. First of all, true Christians can have sincere disagreements with each other. True Christians, even members of the same church, awaiting the same Savior with the same heavenly passport in hand, can disagree about stuff Paul knew about this himself. Paul, in God's word, we see that he had sharp disagreements with Barnabas, for example, in the book of Acts, that led them to go in separate directions. Paul had a sharp disagreement with Peter and he confronted him to his face about it. Right? So true Christians can have sincere disagreements. Secondly, We may need help in reconciling with each other. We may need help in order to reconcile You see, Paul asked this true companion to help these sisters to agree in the Lord. And we're not exactly sure who the true companion was, but it's likely a member of that church. Or maybe he could be addressing the whole church in general. Either way, Paul asked for help in the reconciliation of these two sisters. A third thing, our disagreements can hinder the work of the gospel. Our disagreements can hinder the work of the gospel. I think that's also why Paul urges these sisters to quickly and urgently agree together in the Lord. And that phrase, agree in the Lord, translates to having the same mind. being of one mind. And Paul talks about this one mind that they should have throughout the letter of Philippians. Philippians chapter 1, for example. Verse 27, only let your manner of life be worthy of the gospel of Christ, so that whether I come to see you or am absent, I may hear of you, that you are standing firm. In one spirit, with one mind, striving side by side for the faith of the gospel. Or you've been encouraged the church. Who may have had other kinds of disagreements in general, to have the humble mind of Christ. Philippians chapter 2. Starting in verse 2, complete my joy by being of the same mind, Paul says, having the same love, being in full accord, and of one mind. Do nothing from selfish ambition or conceit, but in humility count others more significant than yourselves. Perhaps these sisters weren't doing that at this time. Let each of you not only look out to his own interest, but also to the interest of others. Perhaps that was the issue there. Having this mind among you yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus. And then Paul goes on to explain the humility of Christ and his condescension to the world But let's remember that Jesus, the Lord Jesus Christ, before he went to the cross, he prayed for lots of things, but namely he prayed for our unity. John 17, 21. Jesus prays that they may all be one, just as you, Father, are in me and I in you, that they may also be in us. Why? So that the world may believe that you have sent me. So our disunity can harm and hamper our witness to the world around us. Now in 2026, there will be lots of reasons for us to disagree as brothers and sisters in Christ. Like, how should Christians view our country's foreign policy? How should Christians view immigration Or what does it look like for us to be faithful witnesses in this world? What does civic engagement look like? Or what should we do with our kids? I mean, this world is crazy, right? Should we homeschool them? Should we private Christian school them? Do we send them to public school? What about technology? Do we give our kids a phone yet? Or never? What about AI? Should we embrace it? Should we avoid it But what about those issues that have already impacted our church more directly? Matters that we've already had disagreements about. Like when are we gonna get a church building? Where should it be? Are we saving enough money What if it's not in Chevrolet? Should we potentially rename the church Or baptism. At what age should a professing child be baptized and brought into membership of our church? What does case by case really mean? What does it mean to look for fruit? Or, even recently, how does one actually do Robert's rules of order? Too soon? These are all important matters, and I don't want to undermine any of them. But there is evidence sitting in this room right now That dearly loved, blood-bart children of God awaiting our heavenly citizenship and the return of the Lord Jesus Christ can disagree on these matters. And more. That's not not even to mention all the interpersonal things that happen between brothers and sisters in Christ just because we have to relate to each other. We have to talk to each other. We have to communicate to each other, right? There's all sorts of reasons for disagreements. So what do we do about that? Paul says we agree in the Lord. That means that we don't just avoid disagreeable topics. We humbly discuss them. We address them. That doesn't mean that our conclusions will necessarily change. We might walk away from conversations with brothers and sisters with the same conclusion. But if we walk away in humility and we walk away with more love for our brother and sister in Christ, that's a win. That also means we should pray. Because just because we have a view or perspective about lots of different things, it doesn't mean that ours is the right or biblical one. It also means that we should humble ourselves and extend a lot of grace to each other, knowing that just because someone disagrees with me does not mean they're not in God's family That also means we may need help in some of these discussions. We may need help in reconciling with a brother or sister in Christ that we know that we have some kind of tension Or unspoken animosity with So we need to pray Pray for us as elders as we hope to lead the church. And not only these matters that I discuss, but also all sorts of matters. If you have specific questions about baptism or our church building or Robert's rules of order, reach out to Pastor Larry. He'd be happy to talk to you about I'm just kidding, all of us were willing to have those conversations. But our differences that are non-gospel matters that are not of first importance. They should not hinder our firm standing in the Lord. That means we have to strive for unity in all sorts of ways this year. That means we should aim to keep short accounts with each other. Overlook offenses when we can. And when we can overlook them Meaning we'd rather not see them, we'd rather avoid that person. That's probably a time where we should not overlook that offense and address it in humility Maybe we could even approach a brother or sister through questioning, right? Like maybe asking, hey, are we okay? Seems a little bit different. Are there any ways that I've offended you? Or maybe it means spending more time with that brother or sister that hasn't really done something to you, but they just kind of rub you the wrong way. Maybe you'll get to know them a little bit better. And in doing so, maybe you'll love them better and love them more Another helpful thing we can do in our reconciliation, our unity with one another as brothers and sisters in Christ is well on the passages of Scripture Where we have all of the one another uh scripture references or commands in God's word. They're all over the Bible. I have some sheets here that I gave out during our side-by-side study, which has lots of verses that talks about our relationship with one another. Come find me after church after church if you're interested. I have several copies of this or I can send the email out. Lots more can be said about our unity and about reconciliation, but the point is That we are called to take our unity in Christ very seriously, so that we don't hinder the work of the gospel among us. And through us here. Let's resolve to reconcile with God's people. Secondly, a second resolution. Rejoice in God's promises. Rejoice in God's promises. Joy comes up in this letter of Philippians somewhere between 16 and 20 different times in four chapters. That's a lot. Lots of examples. Here's a few of them Paul says he sent Ephroditus to the church. Why? So that they may rejoice. That's Philippians chapter 2. He tells them to receive Ephroditus with joy. Also chapter 2. He calls them to rejoice in the Lord in chapter 3, verse 1. He calls them his joy and his crown in chapter 4, verse 1. And then twice in this passage, there's the call to rejoice in the Lord. Philippians 4, verse 4. Rejoice in the Lord always. Again I will say, rejoice. Paul doesn't want us to miss that. We are called to rejoice in the Lord always. He continues, let your reasonableness be known to everyone. The Lord is at hand. Remember that these calls to rejoice in the Lord and rejoice in the Lord always are coming from a man who's imprisoned for the sake of this gospel. Who's living under the threat of death? Who's acquainted with trials and hardships and suffering in his life But as we discussed last week, Paul could actually rejoice, not because of his sufferings, but despite his sufferings, because in suffering he was sharing in the sufferings of Christ Himself. Jesus Christ came to this world and he suffered shame and humiliation and hardships and trials God's word teaches that Jesus was a man of sorrow and acquainted with grief. Jesus suffered on the cross in Paul's place And in our place, for our sins. He suffered, Paul says, until the point of death. The humiliating, excruciating death on the cross separated from his good and gracious father and taking on his father's full wrath for all of our sins. And Jesus rose, beloved, on the third day, conquering sin, conquering death, conquering hell, conquering the grave. And he ascended to the right hand of the Father, and he will soon come back. For his people to save us from all of the effects of sin. He will transform our bodies and he will transform the world and put it all under his rule. But do you rejoice in this Lord? We can only rejoice in the Lord Jesus Christ if we belong to the Lord Jesus Christ. If we've come to the Lord Jesus Christ by faith, if we have peace with God through the Lord Jesus Christ by confessing our sins to Him, repenting of our sins, and receiving His grace and mercy. And if you're here and you have not done that, That's the biggest thing that you need this year. More than anything else, you need to be reconciled with God. And you can be reconciled with God today by faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. And if that's you and you need to be reconciled to God, please settle that very soon, like urgently, like today. The Bible teaches that today is the day of salvation. We don't know what will come tomorrow. And brothers and sisters in Christ, do you rejoice in the Lord? Always. Do you? You're like me. Joy doesn't easily pop up on your emotional wheel Any of y'all have those emotional wheels in your homes, on your refrigerators? In fact, believe it or not, I've been told most of my life that I'm a little too serious Do you believe that? But the joy that Paul is describing here is not a matter of personality, and it's not a matter of our circumstances. The matter of location. Notice the phrases in this passage, litter through them. Stand firm, Paul says In the Lord. The call for Uhia and Syntheci to agree in the Lord. And we are called by Paul twice here to rejoice in the Lord. So the main location of our stand, of our agreement, and our rejoicing is in the Lord Jesus Christ himself Paul was able to rejoice in the Lord throughout all of his circumstances because he knew of God's nearness. And that led to humility in Paul. Again, that from verses 4 and 5. Look at that little phrase at the end of verse 5 where it says, the Lord is at hand. That means that the Lord is near. And I think Paul's talking about two things there. I think he's talking about the second coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. We talked about that in Philippians 3:20 and 21. The Lord's return is imminent and near, and we should eagerly long for it. And I think Paul also means that the Lord is near to him Just like the Lord is near to us in all of our suffering and all of our trials and all of our afflictions The Lord was near to Epaphroditus, his friend that he refers to in chapter 2. When he was near death, he was near to the church in Philippi in all of their afflictions. That's why he called them to rejoice. The Lord was near to Paul even in prison. And beloved, the Lord is near to you today. We should dwell on the Lord's promises. And in that, remember that we have every reason to rejoice. And now also humble us in the midst of any affliction And I think that's why Paul says, let your reasonableness be known to all. Reasonableness as in gentleness or graciousness. As in humility that's visible for others to see. And one way that our Humility, our reasonableness in rejoicing in the Lord can be visible for others to see is through our singing So when we gather, let's sing like these promises in God's word are true and they're ours. Because they are. And also include the spiritual discipline of singing in your regular life. Regular life. That's a strange phrase. mean it like that. In your daily life. There we go. That's better. Meaning sing in your homes. Sing in your car. One thing that helps me when I'm struggling with my joy is to sing. In fact, you might find it weird. I have a playlist in my phone that's titled Hope. I put that on, reminds me of God's truth, and eventually I'm able to rejoice in the Lord like I should In 2026, just like in 2025, we can rejoice in the Lord. Because even though it's a new year, we have the same Lord to rejoice in. He doesn't change. That's what his word says, Hebrews 13, 8. Jesus Christ is the same. Yesterday and today and forevermore. Aren't you glad that he doesn't change on you? Aren't you glad that his mind doesn't change about you? His love hasn't changed for you. His promises for you have not changed. And he's not going anywhere, beloved. And he's coming back for you. And for us and all of us who long for his appearing Therefore, because of all of those things, we can rejoice in the Lord. Always And we can also request for his help. Resolution number three. Resolution number three. Request for God's provision. Verse 6 says, Request for God's provision. It says, do not be anxious about anything. But in everything, by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, which translates to with rejoicing, let your request be made known to God. And the peace of God that surpasses all understanding will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. Now, before we can even get to the matter of prayer, though, we have to talk about anxiety, don't we? I mean some of us were anxious because we knew this passage was coming. So we knew that we would talk about being anxious and being anxious for nothing. It's like that makes me anxious. What does that mean? And I think there's some well-meaning Christians Who believe that all kinds of anxiety or all any sort of anxiety is sinful. I don't think that's true. Some people are more prone to anxiety than others for various reasons. Some people have faced overwhelming circumstances and traumatic events that might cause or lead to their anxiety Yes, there can be a sinful kind of anxiety, a desire to control everything, but not all anxiety is sin. In fact, Paul in Philippians 2 was anxious himself about the well-being of his friend Epaphroditus. Verse 227, indeed he was ill, Ephroditus, near to death. But God have mercy on him and also on me, lest I should have sorrow upon sorrow. I am the more eager to send him, therefore, that you may rejoice at seeing him again, and that I may be less anxious. So the kind of anxiety that Paul had for his friend is the kind that you and I have for our loved ones when they're ill or when our parents need a lot more care than they used to need or various things that happened in this life. Those are concerns, real concerns that our God deeply cares about. So we need to hear Paul's call here to not worry or not be anxious, not as God's indifference, but as an invitation to pray in the midst of all of our cares and all of our concerns. The Bible is teaching here that the antidote for all of our anxiety is prayer. That's why it says do not be anxious about anything. But in everything, pray. Paul urges the Philippians to away from anxiety and towards prayer because he knows what's true about all of us is that our anxieties, our trials, our cares can tempt us to move away from the Lord and forget that He cares for us. Our natural inclination during these moments is to hide or to retreat. But there's a better way, beloved, there's a much better response we can have, and that's to go directly to the Lord with our cares. Because in prayer, through supplication with thanksgiving, we are taking our cares, all of them, any and all of it, to the one that can pick them up and clean them up for us. Some weeks ago at our home we cleaned out our shed, which meant that we were not only cleaning out our stuff that we added to the shed, but all the stuff that was left there by the previous owners in the shed. And it was a lot of work. And we had a lot of trash to get rid of afterwards. But you can't just take out all of your trash and leave it on the side of the road, can you? Because City of Bowie doesn't pick up everything. Right? They have rules. They have guidelines. Right? They have certain days of the week where they pick up our trash. And other days where they won't pick up anything. That's probably why many of us through these windstorms we had the last week had our recycling flying all over the neighborhoods. But sometimes we can treat the Lord like He's some sanitation crew that has rules and guidelines and that's selective. And there's certain mess that he'll pick up on particular days, but if it's the wrong day, the wrong mess, he's gonna leave it there. The Lord is not like that, beloved He cares about all of our mess. He cares about all of our cares, all of our concerns. That's why he says we can cast all of our cares, all of our anxieties on him. When? Whenever. Why? Because Peter says in 1 Peter 5, because he cares for you. Not the you that you hope to be in 2026. Not the you that you were when you were previously on fire for the Lord. He cares for you right now and all of the cares that you have right now. Beloved, don't allow your trials, whatever may come in 2026, to cloud the truth that God loves you, and you can cast all of your cares upon Him in prayer. Paul goes on to say we should pray with petitions and with thanksgiving. In other words, we should pray all kinds of prayers for all kinds of reasons and in all kinds of seasons. Kids and teens. This is one way that you can exercise your faith right now. Do you believe in the Lord Jesus Christ and you love him and you long for his return? Pray. Take all of your cares and concerns to him. It doesn't matter if you think that they're immature or that they're juvenile or that they're not a big deal and there's other stuff God's too busy to worry about that. No, he cares for you So strengthen your faith this year, however much faith you may have, by strengthening your prayer life. So we can make all of our requests made known to God, and we can also make our requests known to God together That's why we pray in our church gatherings. And as we pray, and yes, some of the prayers are long, give your attention to them. And also give your amen to them at the end of the prayer. And that means that you agree with it. And you're saying, Lord, take this and do whatever you will with these prayers. Join us for our prayer meeting. Our next one is next Sunday, January 11th. And as you speak to each other and as you learn about people's other people's burdens and concerns, Take the moment, right then and there, to pray for them. Because with all of our anxieties, we all have an invitation from the Lord. We can take them to the Lord because he picks up our mess, he cleans it up, and we can in exchange receive his peace. Which leads us to resolution number four. Resolution number four. Remain in God's peace. Remain in God's peace. I think peace is a central theme to this whole passage. What was going on with Yodia and Synthki? They did not have peace with each other. Rejoice in the Lord always. Why? Because the Lord is near, and in that we can have peace and rejoice. What should we do with our cares and concerns? Give them to the Lord In exchange, we receive his peace. And even in verses 8 and 9, Paul talks about how we should be thinking and how we should be living in a way that remains in God's peace. Verse 7 again, and the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus This reminds us that our hearts and our minds need to be guarded. And when we pray, God can give us the peace that helps us to guard our hearts and guard our minds. In fact, we look outside and the trash isn't there anymore. And I think this is how Paul was able to rejoice, because he was a man of prayer, and he had people praying for him, and that was able to give him Reminds me of a dear sister, affectionately known as Conchita. She's part of our home church in Miami. She's well into her 80s now. challenging family issues all throughout her life, health issues that she continues to go through. She recently broke her hip, for example But she has an infectious joy about her. She has the best laugh. And she has a peace amidst any trials. And every time I see her, she reminds me that she's praying for me and she's praying for us. And I know that she wakes up at four in the morning, every single morning, to go to the Lord in prayer. In fact, she carries around a book of prayer requests that she has from people throughout the years. I think that's how she's able to remain in God's people. He's a woman of prayer. And I think that's what the peace of God looks like. It's prayerful persistence in the faith that leads us to God's peace It's continuing to follow Jesus even though the health issues abound. It's continuing to pray for your relatives, maybe even the relatives you spent time with over the holiday, even though they still show very little interest in the things of the Lord. It's continuing to come to church and sing through tears. It's not having all of your answers, but knowing that you still have the faithful presence of your faithful Lord. It's believing the words of John 6, John 16, where Jesus told his disciples about the manner that he was going to die, and that he would be arrested and crucified, and that they would have trials and hardships too. But he says, I have told you these things, so that in me you might have peace. In this world you will have trouble, Jesus says. That's a certainty. Here's another certainty. He says, take heart, because I have overcome the world Brothers and sisters, this Jesus, the Prince of Peace, this Jesus who provides the peace of God surpasses all understanding. This God who we have peace with because of his finished work on the cross This Jesus has overcome the world. And this peace is ours. So we must dwell on these promises of God and see things as they actually are. And in doing so, we can remain in God's peace. And I think that's what verses 8 and 9 are about. Verse 8. Finally, brothers, whatever is true, whatever is honorable, whatever is just, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is commendable, if there's any excellence, if there's anything worthy of praise, think about these things. And what you have learned and received and heard and seen in me, practice these things, and the God of peace will be with you. Our hearts and minds need to be guarded. And that also means that our peace needs to be guarded. And I think that's how this passage all fits together. Dwelling on unhelpful thoughts, for example, about a brother or sister in Christ, or untrue thoughts about a brother or sister in Christ can cause us to be distant from the church. Or unguarded thoughts, whatever they may be, they might hinder our joy in Christ. Maybe entertaining the lies of the enemies. And if we believe those lives, that might keep us from going to the throne of grace and praying with all of our cares. Maybe lies like God is not listening to you. It's been all these years. He hasn't answered that prayer We need to guard our hearts and we need to guard our minds. And we do that with prayer and also by dwelling on the promises of God. And Paul here is not calling for a mindfulness, right? That's an emptying our mind, like let's get rid of everything, let's not think about anything. Paul's not saying that. Paul's saying we should fill our thoughts, our hearts and our minds, with the goodness of God. And we should also filter our minds and our thoughts on the goodness of God. That's why it says there in verse 8, whatever is true, meaning whatever is right and what's true and what's accurate. Whatever is honorable, meaning worthy of dignity. Whatever is just, meaning just according to God's word and God's ways. Whatever is pure, meaning wholesome and holy. Whatever is lovely, meaning whatever promotes peace and harmony. Commendable, whatever is admirable. And if there's any excellence or anything worthy of praise, Paul says we should think about these things. And everything on that list, beloved, can be ascribed to God Himself. Just think of some of the promises that Paul has shared with the church and Philippi throughout this letter. He told them things like the Lord will faithfully keep his people, you'll complete the good work that he started in you. He reminds them that the Lord sent his son to humbly die on the cross and rise from the grave, and that every knee will bow and every tongue will confess that Jesus is Lord. And that Jesus will soon return, and he will rule over and reign over all things. And that the Lord is near to his people and he is continually with his people. We need to dwell on those promises. Brothers and sisters, if you want peace in 2026, dwell on the promises of God. How can we do that? Two ways. Fill our minds with God's Word and filter our thoughts with God's Word Fill our minds with God's Word, filter our thoughts with God's Word. We fill our minds with God's Word by by reading the Bible regularly, by listening to the Bible, by by showing up to church and hearing God's word preached. By sharing scripture that's encouraging for you with others. And normally that becomes contagious. They start to share scripture back with you. And even filtering our thoughts with God's word. I think one thing we could all do, kids and teens alike, commit Philippians 4. 8 to memory, maybe even this week. Use that verse as a filter for the things that you dwell on in your minds. A lot of our thoughts won't pass the inspection. Our thinking, though, needs to be supplemented by our doing, by our actions, by our manner of life, being uh living worthily as citizens of heaven And I think that's why Paul exhorts them to do, put into practice what they have learned and received and heard and seen in Him in verse 9. Paul is saying there: follow me as I follow Christ. And what they had learned and seen and heard and received from Paul, primarily through this letter, is Paul's rejoicing in the Lord despite his trials and despite his suffering. Paul is saying there that this commitment to rejoice throughout trials and rejoice even in the midst of hardship and suffering And lead to another promise that the God of peace will be with you. Did you catch the bookends of God's promises there? Verse 7, the promise given that when we pray, the peace of God surpasses all understanding will guard our hearts and minds. And then verse 9, the promise that the presence of God will be with us. The God of peace himself will be with us as we follow these examples, as we rejoice even in the midst of our suffering. We should know that our God not only gives peace that surpasses understanding, he is the God of peace himself And this God of peace that we have through Christ not going anywhere So a big part of our discipleship and our relationship with each other in the local church, in this church, is walking alongside people and doing life with people who actually believe that all of those promises are true. There is examples of this sitting in this room right now. Now, I will say, and that's point at this point, I thought about there's an example from church history that I could give here about faithful persistence and endurance in the faith. I think that's good and helpful and true, and we will be with those brothers and sisters in glory one day. But sometimes I think we can overlook the people sitting to our right and our left. Who have persevered through trials. Some of whom among us have walked with Jesus for decades. Like Miss Caroline. Or Carrie and Sue Barnes. Or Brother John. Or Brother Melvin Jones Dear brothers and sisters who demonstrate quiet strength and persistent faith and stand firm in the Lord. Dear brothers and sisters, if you haven't heard it in a while, we need you here. We need your faithfulness. We need your strength. We need your persistence in rejoicing in the Lord. And we're grateful for you And just to widen the net a little bit, it's brothers and sisters among us who are persevering through severe trials. Something that you won't ever see. Like chronic illnesses and pain. Like this new season of caregiving for parents. You don't even know where to start. Or really struggling with your kids. Or still longing for your spouse to come to know the Lord. If that's you, you might feel sometimes like you don't have much to offer to this church. But let me tell you, when you show up and take your stand We are all witnesses. We all need it. And we are also grateful for you. Beloved, there's a wealth of spiritual wisdom and persevering in Christ here among us. We need to look for it. And if we do, we find it. We need these examples to remain in God's peace We need each other, don't we? Survive. That's how that song concludes Because I pray for you. You pray for me. I love you. I need you to survive. I won't harm you with words from my mouth. I love you. I need you to survive. It is his will that every need be supplied. You are important to me. I need you to survive. Do you believe that's true? Do you believe that you need your brothers and sisters to survive? I think Paul believed that was true. And I think as we believe that's true, we will stand firm in the Lord together. Let's pray. Oh Lord, we thank you that we don't have to stand firm by our effort or our grip. And we don't have to stand all by ourselves. We can take our stand together today, and we thank you for that, Lord. Because your son took his stand and went to the cross all by himself and took on the wrath of God that we deserve. Lord, we thank you that in today, that even today in Christ we can stand together. And Lord, we help, we pray that you would help us Stand firm in the faith together this year, as a church, locked arms, united in you And help us to take our stand until the Lord Jesus Christ returns for us. In His name we pray. Amen.