Good morning, brothers and sisters. Good to see you. Good to be with you to share God's word. In case you don't know me and you haven't met me, my name is Tony. I'm one of the pastors here, and glad you've joined us this morning, this Lord's Day. For us to give him glory because he's worthy of it. And as we just sung, he rules by the power of his word. He rules the heavens, the earth, the stars, the animals, the seas, everything, and every one. So in coming to his word, we should listen and pay attention and we should ask for his help one more time before we go to his word. So please pray with me Lord, you are the one who deserves all glory, all honor, all thanks, and all praise. And so we ask that you would help us to give you all glory, all honor, all thanks, and our praise, even right now, as we hear and respond to your word. We only have your word because you desire to speak to us. So we say that we are listening, Lord. Give us grace to hear and respond, use your word to convict us, correct us, and change us, to make us look more like your son Jesus. We ask in his name. Amen. She was known as the mother from far away. To translate it, meaning of the nickname, Mama Whooptu, which was the nickname given to a woman by the name of Maria Fearing, Mariah Fearing. She was given this name by a group of school children that she helped in the Congo. And she arrived there as a missionary at the age of 56. In the year of 1894. And she worked as a school teacher and as a Bible translator. Getting the Bible in the hands of these little kids that she served She established the Pan Top Home for Girls in the Congo. And these were girls who were abandoned, who were orphaned, and who were abused. And she welcomed them into her home, and therefore they called her the mother from far away. But how did she get there? How did she go from Alabama to the Congo? Well, after slavery ended in 1865, Mariah learned how to read, and she worked in Alabama and saved her money so that she could buy a home, which was amazing in that time. And then she sold her home in order to pay her expenses to go overseas. But that only answers part of the question. How did she get there? What would turn this former slave into a mother from far away Moriah prayed for years for the opportunity to go to Africa. And the Lord heard and responded to that prayer by sending her. Along with this missionary couple that she went with. And while she was there, she also learned about the wickedness of the king over the Congo at the time and the misery of these poor orphan girls. And so she worked to ransom these girls into her home. So what happened? She prayed. The Lord heard, and the Lord sent. We'll see in our text for today that's how this Jewish cupbearer named Nehemiah Would leave from the comforts of Persia next to the king, and he would go into the ruins of Jerusalem. And with God's help, we'll also see that the Lord is still the Lord who hears and sends his servants in response to their prayers to him. If you haven't met me there already, please turn to the book of Nehemiah, chapter 1. That's on page 398 of the Bibles that are provided around you. We're continuing in this study through the book of Nehemiah, which captures the main theme of the Lord working to restore his remnant people, to right fellowship and right worship of him. When we last saw Nehemiah, this cupbearer to King Artaxerxes had received some terrible news about God's people in Jerusalem. They were in great distress, and so was Jerusalem itself. So Nehemiah would weep, he would mourn, he would fast, and he would pray as a result. But how would God respond to Nehemiah's request? We'll see that answer in our text this morning, but before we get to the text, let me give you the main idea for our time together if you're taking notes. And it's this. The Lord restores his remnant people through hearing and sending his servants. The Lord responds, the Lord restores his remnant people through hearing and sending out his servants. Therefore, we'll unpack that in two headers or two main points. Point one: the Lord hears his servants. We'll go from verse 5 through verse 11 of chapter 1. And then point two, the Lord sends his servants. That's chapter two, verses one through eight. I'm going to start reading the text, but I'm going to pick up from verse four of Nehemiah chapter one. For now, I'll just read through the rest of chapter one. Please follow along with me. This is the word of the Lord As soon as I heard these words, I sat down and wept and mourned for days, and continued fasting and praying before the God of heaven And I said, O Lord God of heaven, the great and awesome God who keeps covenant and steadfast love with those who love him and keep his commandments Let your ear be attentive and your eyes open to hear the prayer of your servant that I now pray before you day and night for the people of Israel, your servants. Confessing the sins of the people of Israel, which we have sinned against you. Even I and my father's house have sinned We have acted verily corruptly against you and have not kept the commandments, the statues, and the rules that you have commanded your servant Moses Remember the word that you commanded your servant Moses, saying, if you are unfaithful, I will scatter you among the peoples. But if you return to me and keep my commandments and do them, though your outcasts are in the uttermost parts of heaven, from there I will gather them and I will bring them to the place that I have chosen. to make my name dwell there. They are your servants and your people, whom you have redeemed by your great power and your strong hand. O Lord, let your ear be attentive to the prayer of your servant and to the prayer of your servants who delight to fear your name and give success to your servant today, and grant him mercy in sight of this man. Now was the cupbearer to the king. We'll stop there for now. Again, point one: the Lord hears his servants. You may have heard this already as I was reading, but Nehemiah uses the phrase servants or the word servants in lots of different ways, even in just his prayer. Verse 6 of chapter 1, hear the prayer of your servant. Verse 7, the people of Israel, your servants. Verse 7, your servants Moses. Verse 8, your servant Moses. Verse 10, they, as in the people of Israel, are your servants and your people. Verse 11, your servants and your servants, talking about himself, and then also talking about the people of Israel And then, even if you look over it in chapter 2, verse 5, you'll notice that he uses the same word in a different way In talking to Arta Xerxes, when he gets before him, he says, if your servant has found favor in your sight. So, Nehemiah is acknowledging that he is a servant of God. You want some quick application? You should acknowledge yourself as that if you are a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ. Before anything else. You are a servant to him. So he acknowledges his role. He acknowledges the people of Israel and their role. And he even acknowledges his role as a servant to the king, King Araxerxes. That's why you have that reference there at the end of verse 11 where it says in chapter 1, verse 11, now I was a cupbearer to the king. Kids and teens in the room, you know what Nehemiah means by saying he was a cupbearer. What does it mean, Micah? That's exact. Talk about the role of a servant, right? And Micah, that's an outstanding answer. Thank you for that. That's very clear. Cutbearers, right? Because the king was in a position of authority, and a lot of people wanted his crown So eventually they figured out we need to have someone who stands in the gap, who intercedes, if you will, to make sure that this king is not going to be killed. So therefore Nehemiah was a cupbearer, which meant that he needed to be trusted, right? And kids, if your parents are like me, your parents often serve as your cupbearers, trying the food and the drink before they give it to you. Right? That's a different story. Again, kings also often have people who are around who are wanting their throne, so the cupbearer would try the wine first to make sure that everything was okay. He had to be someone that was trustworthy. He had to be someone of authority. He had to be someone who would be there to give help to the king. And he also had to be someone of favor. And in chapter 2, verse 5, it seems that Nehemiah did have favor with the king. It meant he did his job well. But Nehemiah doesn't just say in response to the trials that are going on in Jerusalem, I've gotten good enrolls with the king, I need to go to him first. No, remember, chapter 1, he spends days, probably weeks, going before his faith, before the throne of mercy to the king of heaven in prayer. And what would the Lord, the King of heaven, hear from Nehemiah? In this prayer, I think you can break it up in three categories: He would hear praise, confession, and faith. Back to chapter 1. Look again at verse 5. O Lord God of heaven, great and awesome God who keeps his covenant and steadfast love with those who love him and keep his commandments. That's starting with a prayer of praise. And that's a good place to start our prayers. Now we don't have to always start every prayer of ours with acknowledging God for who He is. But it's appropriate for us to do so, isn't it? It's good for us to remember that in bringing our problems to God, we can also bring our praise to God because He's big enough to handle our problems and He's worthy of all of our praise. So Nehemiah calls on the God of heaven, the great and awesome God, to bend his ear to hear from his people. Beloved, don't miss the fact that the Lord, the God of heaven, bends his ears to hear from you. Not because of anything we've done, but because he delights to hear from his people. And God is not like us in his hearing. One of the markers that you could say about people in my age range or in my generation is that our cell phones have been on vibrate since like 2012. We don't want to hear the ringer for some reason. I'm not sure why, but that's the default. And for me, the only exception to that is when I know that somebody's gonna call me and I want to answer. Just this past week, ADT was gonna call me. I turned my ringer on to make sure that I did not miss the call, but beloved, the Lord's ringer is always on for his people. He does not send us the voicemail. He always hears the cries of his people. That's why Nehemiah calls on the God of heaven. And he calls him the one that makes and keeps his covenant and his steadfast love with his people. That's a reference to God's very character, the character that he revealed to Moses. Jeff and I spent maybe 30 minutes talking about this the other day over coffee. Exodus 34, 6, which says, The Lord, the Lord, a merciful and gracious God, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness. Those are the most repeated verses or words in all of Scripture. As Sam Alberry puts it, if God had a Twitter account, that would be his pinned tweet. It's always there. It remains there and it remains true about him. Because the Lord is the covenant-making and the covenant-keeping God, who is abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness for his people. And Nehemiah tells the Lord that. Why would Nehemiah need to remind the Lord about what he already knows about himself? Or even think of verse 8 in chapter 1 when Nehemiah says, remember the word to your that you commanded to your servant Moses. He's not asking the Lord to remember something as if he forgot. He's not trying to refresh his memory. He's asking and pleading with the Lord to act in accordance to keeping his covenant and in accordance with his character. That's why Nehemiah is constantly asking the Lord in this prayer to hear, to listen He's not questioning his ability to hear or listen. He's asking him to keep in accordance with his love and with his covenant. And in prayer, as we go to him and we give praise to God, we need to often acknowledge the things that we often forget about the Lord: that he is the King of glory. That he is the one that rules all the nations. That he sits in heaven and he does everything that he pleases. And he does everything well. And the Bible also says that the earth, the earth that we don't even understand yet, is his footstool. This high king, this king that is mighty and exalted and lifted up, is also gracious. And merciful and slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love. He hears our prayers and he hears our cries for mercy. And I think that's why after Nehemiah spends time praising the Lord in verses 5 and 6, he pleads for his mercy. He confesses his sins to him. Look at verse 7 again. Or actually, the end of verse 6. Be attentive to the prayers that I bring before you night and day for the people of Israel, your servants, confessing the sins of the people of Israel, which we have sinned against you. Even I and my father's house have sinned. We have acted very corruptly against you, and have not kept the commandments or the statutes or the rules or the command that you commanded your servant Moses. Nehemiah is acknowledging the reason for their exile to begin with. As we discussed last week, God's people had been disobedient to God's law. But notice he's not saying they sinned, they did bad. He says, we have sinned. 'Tis even I and my father's house have sinned against you. What did they do? What was their sin? He says they failed to keep the commandments, the statues, and the rules. Now why would Nehemiah stop here and confess sin? I mean, sin at a time like this, think about the people in Jerusalem. Think about what they're experiencing. Why does he just go to it to his ask? Why does he just ask the Lord to intervene and help them? I think it's because since he knows that the Lord keeps his covenant, that he is gracious and merciful, he also knows Verse 7 of Exodus 34, that he will by no means clear the guilty. Because the Lord is holy, because the Lord is righteous. But since he also knows again that the Lord is faithful and he's gracious, he's saying, I can give my praise to you, but I can also give my pleas to mercy for you. So in praying prayers of praise, we are reminding ourselves of the Lord's very presence, his transcendence. He's high and lifted up. But also his imminence. He's near to us. He's near to his people. But confession allows us to bow down before the king in his presence, as we should. That's just what you do before a king. Now I'm not talking about today. I'm not talking about many, many thousands of years removed from that, from those cultures and so those customs where we might think, bow. I'm not gonna bow to anybody. No, if a king walked into a room, you would bow down. You don't try to measure up to them. Do you have a conversation with them? You don't try to compare your goodness with their goodness You don't compare scorecards. You don't puff up your chest. You bow down. But our king The king of heaven, the Lord of glory, does not leave us there. He lifts us up. Just think of Isaiah chapter 6. When Isaiah saw the Lord high and lifted up, angels worshiping him, he fell down and he said, Woe is me, I'm a man with unclean lips, for my eyes have seen the king. But that's not where it ends. And what it could say next is that therefore, because of Isaiah's sin, he was banished away from the presence of the Lord. But instead, it says the following. And one of the seraphim flew to me, having in his hands burning coal that he had taken with tongues from the altar. And he touched my mouth and said, behold, this has touched your lips, your guilt is taken away, and your sin is atoned for. And then a few verses later, the Lord sends Isaiah, that wicked man with unclean lips, to speak, to declare his word to the nations. Do you see the pattern here? We lift up the Lord in praise, in confession. We bow down before him and we allow him to lift us up and then eventually send us out in his name. Remember that our King will not banish us from his presence. He is the one that welcomes us and has welcomed us through Christ. So we can boldly approach the throne of grace and receive mercy because Christ, dear brother or sister, has already atoned for your sins. Nehemiah here acknowledges God and confesses his sin to him. And he's also confident that that same covenant that he made many years before then. It's the same covenant that he would keep, which is why this prayer starts with praise, goes to confession, and then it ends with a prayer of supplication or prayer of faith. Look at verse 8 where he says, Remember the word that you commanded your servant Moses, saying, if you are unfaithful, I will scatter you among the peoples. But if you return to me and keep my commandments and do them, though your outcasts are in the uttermost parts of heaven, from there I will gather them and bring them to that place I have chosen to make my name dwell there. Those words that Nehemiah is referring to likely come from Deuteronomy chapter 4, in which it says, in verse 27, and the Lord will scatter you among the peoples. Nehemiah is probably thinking and saying, yeah, that has happened. And you will be left in few few uh in few of number among the nations, where the Lord will drive you. Probably thinking, yeah, we were exiled here. But verse 29, from there you will seek the Lord. Your God and you will find him if you search for him with all of your heart and all of your soul. Nehemiah is glad that the verse didn't end with verse 27. That you will be driven away. He says, if you seek the Lord, you will find him. And Nehemiah's holding on to that. Nehemiah's faith was not in wishful thinking. He's not, well, if we just try really hard, then maybe the Lord will hear from us. He trusted in the Lord's character, and he trusted that the Lord would keep his covenant. And he knew that though their sins were many, he trusted that his Lord's mercy was more. Brothers and sisters, that's praying in faith Nehemiah trusted in God's character, and he trusted that God would keep his covenant. So when you pray, it's a good idea to pray with scripture in mind. Think of passages from the scriptures that you have put to memory. Bring those up to mind or ask the Lord to bring them up to mind as you are praying. Or if you struggle with memorizing scripture, pray with your Bible wide open. Look in His Word, see those very words, and use that, apply it to yourself, apply that to the people that you are praying for. Not to remind God of anything that He's forgotten, He doesn't forget, but to remind your heart that the Lord is the same, covenant-making and covenant-keeping God that He's always been. Because the words of Deuteronomy are still true. The Lord is still redeeming, He's still gathering his people. Even though we've all sinned against God, even though we've all fallen short of God's glory. But the Lord would indeed remember the words to his servant Moses. He would indeed remember his covenant, and he indeed would be the one to keep it. And while servants like Moses and even Nehemiah were used by God, they needed that same mercy that they wanted for everybody else. And that's true of all of the Lord's servants, save one of them, because that's not true of the Lord Jesus Christ. He had no sin to confess, but only our sin to atone for, and that's why he came. The King of Kings would be sent to us as the suffering servant, Isaiah calls him. The Savior from far away came to this land, to this world to ransom many, not to be served, but to serve. He left his throne for the cross. He traded in his crown of glory for the crown of thorns. He was buried And then he rose from the grave so that we by faith in Jesus could trade our sin with his righteousness and receive it and have it forevermore. His forgiveness, his standing, his love, his mercy, and his righteousness would be ours if we would give our sins to him in exchange. If you're here and you're not a Christian, this is part of what the Lord is still doing. In fact, if you're here and you're not a Christian, this is what the Lord is intending to do in your life right now. Today, because the Bible says today is the day of salvation. Not tomorrow, because we don't know what tomorrow will bring And if you wait and you do not have tomorrow, then you will face the Lord as your judge. Because he will judge you for your sin in righteousness. Turn to Christ today instead by faith and see him as the wonderful, merciful Savior that he is We'd love to talk to you about that if you have questions about what it means to give your life to Jesus. Brothers and sisters, remember, the Lord is still working He has gathered you and he will keep you. And the Lord Jesus is the one that said, He will not lose you. You will stay in his grip. No one can snatch him out of your hands. So keep going to him in faith. Give him praise. Acknowledge him for who he is. Confess your sins to him. Bow down before him. You don't have to wait to come to church to do that. Do that whenever you recognize your sin. Because through Christ you already have access to the Father and give and go to Him in faith, remembering all that He's done. And remembering all that he can do if it is his will. The thing about what Nehemiah is asking for in verses 10 and 11. He's basically asking for God to do what he's already done. Look at verse 10. They are your servants and your people whom you have redeemed by your great power and your strong hand. I thought they were in exile, though. Nehemiah seems to be referring to another redemption, another time where the Lord did step in and did redeem his people. He's thinking about Moses, his servant. He's thinking about how Moses led God's people out of slavery in Egypt. And he's basically saying, Lord, you've done it before. I'm asking you to do it again. You saved your people out of Egypt. Now saved your people out of the ruins in Jerusalem. But this is more than just a Lord help those people over there kind of prayer. This is a hear my send me kind of prayer. And I think that's the case because if you look at verse 11, you'll see what's already coming in place for Nehemiah. Just let your ear be attentive to the prayer of your servant and to the prayer of the servants who delight to fear your name. And give success to your servant today. And grant him, talking about himself, mercy in the sight of this man. What man do you think he's talking about? Just for anybody. A king. King Artaxerxes. It seems like Nehemiah had enough faith to pray But also had enough faith to be willing to be sent in response to his own prayers. Which leads us to point number two. The Lord hears his servants. Point one, but the Lord also sends his servants. How does the Lord respond to his people when they cry out to him? He hears. And he also sends his servants. That's points two. How would Nehemiah have known that? Well, I think in part because he gave these prayers to God and he gave it a lot of time. Look at Nehemiah chapter 2, verse 1. Here we have another timestamp that was talking about last week. It says there in the month of Nisan. Which would have been in March or April. In Nehemiah chapter 1, when this whole thing started, when he heard about what was happening in Jerusalem, this was the month of Chislev, November or December. So we can assume, I think, collectively, that Nehemiah was praying and weeping and asking of the Lord, what should be done? What should I do? What will you do in response, Lord? For months. Before he decided that he will step before the king and ask anything of him. So, beloved, as you go to the Lord in prayer, go boldly, yes. But also go patiently to the throne of grace. Which means it's okay to pray the same kinds of prayers repeatedly for the Lord. He doesn't get tired of hearing them. Luke 18 is a beautiful example of that. The persistent widow, the parable of the persistent widow. You might want to read that later this afternoon. Luke 18, verses 1 through 8. The Lord delights to hear from his people. And if it's his will, he'll respond in according to what we're asking. So that means when we're asking for the Lord to respond, we should not just be looking for affirmation of what we already want to do. We should be watching and waiting for the Lord to respond. So in short, give it time. Keep praying But Nehemiah also understood that the Lord can and does send his people out in response to the cries of their people. Again, I think he has Exodus in mind. Exodus chapter 2, some of the most beautiful words in all of Scripture. Starting in verse 23. During those days, those many days, the king of Egypt has died, and the people of Israel groaned because of their slavery and cried out for help. Their cry for rescue from slavery came up to God. He heard them. And God heard their groaning And God remembered his covenant with Abraham, with Isaac, and with Jacob. God saw the people of Israel, and God knew Our God is the one who hears. He heard his people in Egypt. He saw the mystery of these orphan girls in the Congo. He heard about his people and their ruins and their misery in Jerusalem. And he knew. So then therefore he responded by sending his people out. And last week we talked about after Exodus chapter 2, you have Exodus chapter 3, where the Lord appears to Moses and then sends him out. Or in like the brief story I told you about Mariah Fearing, the Lord sent her out to the Congo. She didn't know why she was going, but the Lord heard the cries of those people there and sent her in response. And the Lord placed Nehemiah before the king for just a time as this to send him to the ruins in Jerusalem. Our God is indeed working. And our God, as a good father, loves to take his children to work with him Kids and teens, maybe you've gone to work with your parents before. I'm not sure about PG County, but that down in South Florida they have a thing called Take Your Child to Work Day. Where you take the day off of school, yay, but then you go to work with your mom or your dad. And what you should be doing is being fully immersed in the work that they're actually doing. Your parents aren't just scrolling on their phones all day, or at least they shouldn't be. They are actually actively at work, and you get to join in with them, even for a few hours, in that work Beloved, our Father loves to take his children, you and I, to work with him, as he is seeking to redeem those, as he is calling those to bow their knees before the Lord Jesus Christ. He's actively at work, and he wants us to join with him in this work. So, question: Where is your father calling you now to join at work with him? Where are you burdened for? What people are you burdened for? What misery grips your heart? Maybe it's your co-workers or your family members or maybe it's college students or maybe it's the nations or a specific country or certain city. Maybe a part of an underserved community that needs a gospel witness. Or maybe you're burdened for the lives of the unborn or women who are in Christ's pregnancies. Or maybe your burden for the children of our day or the youth of our day and the specific burdens that they face living in 2024. Maybe you're just burdened for your neighbors to rightly hear and respond to the gospel. If so, pray. If so, ask and ask the Lord if He would desire to send you as a response. Again, you might have a burden that's large and that's unusual. If so, pray and ask for counsel or wisdom Tell your brothers and sisters, maybe tell members of your small group, maybe talk to one of your elders or someone that you trust. Hey, I feel this burden. I don't know what to do with it Humbly ask the Lord to respond to those needs, whatever they are, wherever they are, with you or without you. Because if Nehemiah didn't go, somebody else would have gone Because that's just the Lord. He's going to get his work done. He wants to use you, but he will do whatever it takes to send you there. Think of Jonah, for example. He wants you to serve in that way. He will send you there. But he wants us to go willingly That could mean a bunch of different things for us. That might mean moving to a different city, state, or country for the sake of the gospel. That might mean starting a certain ministry within church, within this church. That might be starting a Bible study at your job. Seeing who will show up. That might mean serving at a crisis pregnancy center. That might mean getting involved at a local school, trying to meet neighbors. That might be serving children through children's ministry or youth ministry or awanas, like so many of you already do. Well that might mean walking across the street or next door and knocking on your neighbor's door, building relationships, boldly asking them what they think about Jesus In either way, may we all have the posture that says, Here am I, Lord, send me wherever you want me to go. But the thing about the burdens that we bring to the Lord, there's also other burdens that we bring to the Lord, right? Like maybe those burdens aren't related to a specific group of people or or sharing the gospel elsewhere. Maybe those burdens Or because of your circumstances or people that you love, maybe healing is slow to come and the pain persists. Maybe the suffering of this season is continuing to intensify Maybe grief and loneliness seem to endure forever. Maybe singleness endures when you long to be married. How does the Lord respond to those kinds of burdens? I think he responds the same way. He sends his people to serve his people. 2 Corinthians 1, verse 3 says, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies and God of all comfort, who comforts us in all affliction. So that we may be able to comfort those who are in any affliction with the comforts which we have received ourselves from God. I don't know what the Lord's doing in your life and your suffering, but part of it, I think, is because he wants to use you eventually to comfort others in their suffering. Beloved, we must be willing to be sent to comfort others even in that way. And we also must be willing to receive comfort from our brothers and sisters in Christ in that way. Nehemiah is confident that his God is the covenant-making and keeping God. And that's what makes him bold enough to go before Artaxerxes to go and make all these requests which he makes in chapter 2. So we're going to go to chapter 2, and we're going to walk through this, and I'm going to pull out just some points of application as we walk through these verses. Look back at chapter 2, verse 1. Month of Nisan, in the twentieth year of King Artaxerces, with wine was before him, I took the wine and gave it to the king. Now I had not been sad in the king's presence. And that's because it was dangerous for Nehemiah to do so. If he was sad in the king's presence, he could have been sent by the king to death. So Nehemiah was trying to be careful about his emotions here, which is interesting in itself. He had no fear of bringing all of his burdens and cares before the king of the heavens. But he didn't do that, all of that, for Art Xerxes. Look at verse 2. And the king said to me, Why is your face sad, seeing that you're not sick? This is nothing but sadness of the heart. Then I was very much afraid. The king is basically saying, What's going on with you? What's your problem? Right? But again, Nehemiah was happy to share all of his burdens with the king of the universe. And we should be able to do the same. And if I must say, we should also, like Nehemiah, be willing to go to the kings of the universe, or I'm sorry, the kings of the earth the rulers of our nations or our bosses, etc. , to ask for help and intervention. But don't place your hope there. That's the wrong place. Nehemiah did not place all of his hope in Artic Xerxes Because he's already given his hope over to the Lord. Look at verse 3. And we see that in verse 3, he trusts the Lord enough to even submit to his king. He says in verse 3, I said to the king, let the king live forever. So just so you know, like I'm okay. I'm not going to turn it turn on you or everything. Why should my face not be sad when the city, the place of my father's graves, lies in ruins and its gates have been destroyed in fire? Now maybe Art Xerxes didn't know this. He had a lot of people that he was ruling over. So maybe he didn't know about that specific matter in Jerusalem. But notice here that Nehemiah didn't go AWOL. He didn't plan to sneak out of Persia. That probably wouldn't have been wise, but he didn't plan to do that. He prayerfully went to God and then decided to ask of the king. And in asking of the king, he honored the king, but he did not notice appeal to the covenant-making, covenant-keeping God. He assumed rightly that Artaxerxes didn't care anything about that. Instead, he appeals to common grace. Right? Look at it. What does he say? He says, the place of my father's graves lies in ruins. The king would have understood that. The king would have understood legacy. He would have understood looking after your family or your lineage, etc. He sought after common grace. And that's a good thing. But for those of us who work in environments that are either indifferent to the faith or even hostile to the faith, ask the Lord for wisdom and ask the Lord to help you to find areas of common grace. With your boss, with your coworkers. The Lord can use that for future opportunities to share the gospel, for opportunities to pray for someone when they're desperate and when they're broken. And he can even use it for the good of his people somehow. But what would make him so bold to be sad in the presence of our Xerxes? and ask, not only, as we're going to see, for an extended leave of absence, but also for resources for him to rebuild in Jerusalem I think two separate things. He trusted in the Lord, and he faithfully served the king in his job. Look at verse 4. He trusted in the Lord. Then the king said to me, Okay, what are you asking? So I prayed to the God of heaven. This is very different than his prayer in chapter one. That seems structured and orderly. You have praise, you have confession, you have faith, boom, boom, boom, right? This is not like that. This is probably a silent prayer as he's standing before King Xerxes. That's probably an N-word, okay Lord, or help me, Lord, or right now, Lord, I need you, and then he persists in asking He's already, I think, been praying about that moment, that opportunity where he would stand before the king and have his ear, even for a few minutes. I think we can learn from this because we often only think of prayer in those extended blocks of time that we want to have with the Lord. And yes and amen, we should strive for that. Maybe early in the morning before kids get out of bed. 30 minutes, 20 minutes, whatever it is, right? That's good and right for us to have those extended blocks of time, morning or evening, it's all good. But make room for praying in the moment. While you're in school, while you're in class, right before you're about to have that conversation, right before you knock on that neighbor's door, right when something comes out of nowhere. The Lord hears and honors and answers those prayers too. Look at verse 5. Nehemiah trusted in the Lord, we talked about that, but he also faithfully served the king. So now he's basically appealing again, not to God, using common grace, he's saying, I've served you faithfully. If I found your favor, would you grant this request? Look at verse 5. And I said to the king, if it pleases the king, and if your servant has found favor in your sight That you send me to Judah, to the city of my father's graves, and that I may rebuild it. Now that's a big ask, isn't it? That's a big ask. But since he already trusted in the Lord, like I could ask the king anything. He could say yes or he could say no. He says, if it pleases the king, if I have found favor in your sight, would you grant what I'm asking? Another point of application. Pray that the Lord would give you favor at your place of work. Or if you're a student, with your teachers, because you don't know how he plans to use it someday. He might use it for the sake of his purposes. And surprisingly, the king says yes to this. Look at verse 6. How does the king respond? The king said to me, with the queen next to him. Maybe he had to ask the queen to to double check before. I don't know. But the queen is there. Because how long will you be gone and when will you return? So it pleased me. So it pleased the king to send me when I had given him a time. Now the Bible doesn't say how long that was. But Susa was about 900 miles away from Jerusalem. So that trip along with the things that they they would have needed to pack for that journey, most scholars say that that would have taken at least Four months to get there, another four months to get back, and then you add in the time that Nehemiah is actually there in Jerusalem. He's asking for a year off. And the king said yes. That might give some of us confidence as we have our upcoming PTO requests, conversation we want to have with our boss this week. Whatever the amount of time was, Nehemiah had thought this already through. He prayed, but he also planned. And then he asked for more. Look at verse 7. And then I said to the king, If it pleases the king, let letters be given to me by the governors of the province beyond the river, that they may let me pass through until I come to Judah. He's asking for safety and protection. and a ladder to Asaph, the keeper of the king's forest, that he may give me timber to make beams for the gates of the fortress of the temple, and for the wall of the city, and for the house that I shall occup occupy. He's asking for resources. He says we need to rebuild. I don't have anything to build with, but I need it. And the king said yes to that. All of it. Because Nehemiah planned? Because Nehemiah had strategy? Or because Nehemiah had such a good favor and relationship with his king No. Look at the end of verse 8. Says, and the king granted what granted me what I asked for. For the good hand of God was upon me. He closes the loop on that initial prayer request in chapter 1 by giving glory back to God. When the Lord answers your prayers and you see it and you notice it, give him glory, give him praise, give him thanks. He's saying, This is not down to me, this is not down to anything I've done. This is down to the Lord and his gracious hand being upon me. So along with praying, beloved, let's make sure that we are watching. And waiting to see how the Lord might respond, how the Lord might want to use us, and even how he might send us. And as we see him answer those prayer requests, give him praise and thanks. Back to Maria Fear, Mariah Fearing. She passed away at the age of 99. She never married. She never had any children on her own. But she was the mother from far away for scores of Congolese girls who were orphans. She was used by God in response to her prayers and likely their prayers For relief. But how did she get there? How else did she get there? Moriah, as a little girl, learned about the God who makes his covenant with his people and keeps his covenant with his people. The God who rescued his people out of Egypt, and the God who left the comforts of heaven to come down to this world to give his life as a ransom for many. And therefore, she ransomed lots of girls out of slavery and into her home. But again. We must give glory to God here. Here's how Dr. Karen Ellis puts it: it wasn't Moriah during the Rex the ransoming. It was God ransoming these children from spiritual death. from physical death and from physical mutilation. And he did it through Moriah fearing. It wasn't Moriah In our story, it wasn't Nehemiah. In our lives, it's not going to be us. It's God who's doing the ransoming, and he wants to do it through us. May his hand be upon us, brothers and sisters. May we continue to hear. May he continue to hear, and may he continue to send us into his service. Let's pray. We praise you, Lord, for being the God that hears and sends. Lord, that's how we even know who you are Because you've heard the prayers of our parents or our pastors or school teachers or whomever for us to rightly hear and understand the gospel and we thank you. For hearing and answering those prayers and sending those people. And Lord, we ask that you would send us wherever to whomever with that same gospel message. That you make your covenant and you keep your covenant and that you are still calling people to dwell where your name will dwell. And that's not in Jerusalem. That's not in Chevrolet. That's in the New Jerusalem to come. That's where your people are rightly gathered to you. That's in your church. That's among your people. That's with your people. And Lord, tell all that we say, here we are, send us and use us in your service. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen.