I want to talk to you this morning about a subject that uh may have bored you in elementary school. You know, we have some elementary school students here. I'm not sure if it bores you, kids. It bored me when I was a kid. But it's a subject that is really, really important. in the school of the Lord Jesus Christ. And that's the subject of grammar. I want to talk to you this morning about grammar. At this point, I thought about putting a dictionary definition of the word grammar for you, but when I read that definition online, I thought that would be too boring so as to aggravate you too early in the sermon. I decided not to do that. But most simply, grammar is about how the language that we use actually works. So if you've if you've ever learned a foreign language, you know that every language has its own grammar. And one of the challenges in acquiring a new language is discovering the ways that a foreign language works differently from the way our own language works. So uh to speak or write it properly To make sense in that language, you need to know and follow the rules of grammar. Are you pretty excited about this sermon so far? This is good. Okay, John Malone is excited. Linguist that he is I think it actually does get pretty exciting because the Christian gospel has its own grammar. Uh we could call it gospel grammar. We actually are going to call it gospel grammar. Because if you grabbed one of those bulletins this morning and you look down and it said gospel grammar. That's a that's a phrase that I first heard, I believe it was Sinclair Ferguson. Who I heard use that term and it it immediately came to mind when I looked at the one verse of scripture that is going to be the focus of our study this morning. And that's Ephesians chapter 4, verse 1. You can go ahead and turn in your Bibles to Ephesians chapter 4. Uh if you're gonna use one of those Bibles that is provided in a seat around you, that's on page 977 of those uh do we call them chair bibles, pew Bibles? You know what I mean. It's those Bibles around you. Uh we've not been in Ephesus for a few weeks, so I I do want to remind you of where we are as we jump back into the middle of this letter. If you're thinking that a grammar lesson Even a lesson on gospel grammar is going to be somewhat stuffy or cold or academic. Uh I sure hope that's not the case because that's not the context or the climate. uh in which this lesson on gospel grammar arises in Paul's letter to the Ephesians. Ephesians was written, remember Not as a doctrinal dissertation intended to be analyzed in a seminary classroom. It was written by a missionary Who brought the good news of Jesus Christ, the gospel, the word gospel means good news. It was brought, uh Paul brought this good news of Jesus to Uh the city of Ephesus, an important city in the Roman Empire. It was a notably idolatrous city And yet, God in his kindness brought such gospel fruit in the city of Ephesus that there was a bit of an economic crisis that ensued because of the city's transformation. The idol making industry was suffering financially because these people were devoted to Jesus. They were burning their idols. They weren't interested in the idols anymore. And so the idol manufacturers started a riot. You can read about this in Acts chapter 19. And Paul, they wanted to kill Paul. Paul was almost killed. They would have torn him to pieces. But but the Christians there said, Paul, you got to get out of town. And Paul moved on and he carried on in his missionary travels. But there were believers in Ephesus who stayed there in that hostile environment. Uh Ephesus. Maybe like we experienced a little bit around here in the DMV. It's not it was not any easy place. To love Jesus and live for Jesus. So uh having been driven away from the work, Paul, a year or two after being driven out of Ephesus, he wrote a letter to the Ephesians to ground these young believers in the faith, reminding them of what God had done for them in the Lord Jesus Christ and and instructing them how to live uh in light of all that God had promised to them and all that he had done for them. And we're right in the middle of this letter. In chapter four, verse one, we're right in the middle, and we're right at the turning point of that shift from All the the good that God had done and promised for the Ephesians and for us who are believers in the Lord Jesus to how the believers should live in light of all that goodness and grace that God had showered upon them. And if we don't see that shift, if we don't understand that shift that takes place, we miss everything. We miss the whole point of Ephesians. We may, in fact, miss the whole point of the Bible. We might miss the whole message of Christianity if we don't note and observe this shift that takes place in Ephesians chapter 4, verse 1. I don't think that's an overstatement. That's not me just trying to get your attention since I just told you we're gonna be talking about grammar today. I really think the shift that takes place here is that important. And that's why I just thought it was worth our time today To just focus on one verse this morning. That one verse, as I've told you, is Ephesians 4, verse 1. I'm gonna pray and then read you that one verse. Ephesians for is where we're going, but first let's pray and ask for the Lord's help because surely we need it. Heavenly Father, we Thank you for this opportunity to be together and to sit under your word. We pray that you would give our minds focus Free us from distracting thoughts about what may be happening later today or this week. Keep our minds, even as we've sung, stayed upon Jesus Help us to learn from you, to be more conform to Christ's likeness, and to be equipped for a life that glorifies you. We need your help. It is the Spirit who gives life. The flesh is no help at all. So we pray that your Spirit would be mightily active among us as we look into the words that He inspired. We pray for all this in Jesus' name. Amen. Ephesians 4, verse 1. The Apostle Paul writes this: I therefore. A prisoner for the Lord, urge you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you have been called. This is God's word, brothers and sisters. Thanks be to God, indeed. Two observations from this text. I'm going to read that verse to you a bunch, but two observations from the text that I would like for us to consider this morning. I want us to consider first The possibility of a worthy walk. You see that emphasis there, walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you've been called. So I want us to consider first. the possibility of a worthy walk. And then secondly, I want us to talk about the pattern of a worthy walk. The possibility of a worthy walk and the pattern of a worthy walk. Let's just hear this verse again. I therefore A prisoner for the Lord urge you to walk in a manner worthy. Literally, it says to walk worthily of the calling to which you have been called. That's the appeal that Paul makes here. Walk worthily of your calling. And it's an it's an urgent appeal. He says, I urge you. Other translations say exhort or appeal, or the old King James language, I think, is I beseech you. This word is uh translated in other places of the Bible. I plead with you. So it's it's not a mild suggestion here. You know, maybe I don't know if you would maybe consider later Uh maybe if you're up to it, live a worthy life. No, this is an urgent appeal And it's an appeal that is not coming from some armchair theologian, but one who is himself living as a prisoner for the Lord. As we've noted before in our study a few weeks back, Paul wrote this letter to the Ephesians from jail. He was literally a prisoner for on behalf of the Lord Jesus. And so in calling the Ephesians and us to walking worthily of the Lord, Paul, I think maybe maybe he inserts this. We don't know exactly why he would say that he already had told them that he was a prisoner. But maybe he's saying that here to just remind them, hey, I'm not calling you to something that I'm not myself willing to walk out. I'm a prisoner for this worthy walk, but that's how worthy the calling is. And you should take the same mindset that as I have been willing to suffer even imprisonment to walk worthily of this calling, oh that you might also walk in that way too. It's not just an isolated statement here in Ephesians, though, that this idea of walking worthily of God's calling emerges from Paul's pen. This is actually a somewhat regular exhortation of his. This is a longing in Paul's heart for the disciples of Christ that he ministered to. He wrote to the Philippians Philippians 1. 27, only let your manner of life be worthy of the gospel of Christ. For the Colossians, he had heard a great report about what God was doing among the Colossians, and he said that he was praying for them to be filled with the knowledge of God's will and all spiritual understanding. so as to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord. He prayed that way for the Thessalonians as well. If you read 2 Thessalonians, the beginning of 2 Thessalonians. You see, the Thessalonians were suffering. They were being mistreated. There was lots of injustice happening against the Christians there. And Paul says, to this end, we always pray for you. Not that they're Mistreatment would end, actually, and that's a fine thing to pray. But he doesn't pray that the mistreatment would stop. He prays that our God may make you worthy of his calling. And in his first letter to the Thessalonians, Paul reminding them of his ministry among them when the church in Thessalonica was first established, he said, you know how Like a father with his children, we exhorted each one of you and encouraged you and charged you to walk in a manner worthy of God, who calls you into his own kingdom and glory. So you see, this is a significant idea in Paul's mind and thinking, not just this one verse in Ephesians 4 Now I could have labeled this point. I said we're talking about the possibility of a worthy walk. I could have just said this was the call to a worthy walk. That is what it is. But I chose to use the word possibility to impress upon you a fact that I just have a suspicion some of us Maybe even many of us doubt, though it's sitting right there in plain view of the text, that this worthy walk. is really and truly actually possible. It is actually a thing that can happen And I'm suspicious that maybe some of you don't really believe that. I could be wrong. I'm gonna play the I'm relatively new here card again. Said I wasn't going to do that anymore, but I've been a pastor for a decade and a half, so I'm using some of my 15 years of pastoral experience. I don't want to project it on you necessarily, but I have my suspicions. And maybe I can frame my suspicion this way. I'm going to just ask you a question and let it sit with you for a moment. Does your manner of life. As you would consider the last week, maybe the last month, last year Does your manner of life look worthy of the calling to which you've been called? Are you living worthily of the gospel? Of the Lord and of his calling. How would you answer that? It seems to me like Paul saying you should, you should, you should do that. You should be able to say, yes. But I wonder if if some of us here maybe be confused or even fearful of saying something like that, as if it was arrogant or prideful Maybe some of us would think, gosh no, Larry, I mean, I'm just I'm just a sinner saved by grace. My even in the Bible my righteous acts even are like filthy rags to God. Doesn't the Bible say that? What if you were to talk to somebody after the service? And you asked them, you know, how are you? How's your walk with the Lord? And they said, you know, praise God. It is all of grace. Praise God. I think I'm walking worthily of him. I wonder if you'd walk away from that conversation and be like, I think that guy's a little boastful. Does he not realize? Is he not self-aware? Does he not realize? Well when when I read Paul It doesn't seem like that's the result, that's the answer he's after. It seems like he's praying and exhorting in such a way that, yes, this this way of life that he's actually appealing for is a life That is possible. That's why I'm saying it's the possibility of a worthy walk. I think this This verse, I think this call, is protecting us from what is maybe an overly pessimistic view of the Christian life Now it is it is possible that we could have an overly optimistic view of the Christian life, where people think that because they're new creations in Christ. And God's Spirit lives in them, that there's not going to be a struggle with our old sinful nature. And then when they see that struggle continuing on, When they begin to see themselves stumbling in many ways, as the Apostle James says, we all do, they see that And they've been led to expect that they won't be experiencing that anymore. Then they see that and they become hopeless and discouraged. And maybe I know some have even done this. I know people who have done this. They've just quit on living for Jesus altogether because they thought they should be farther along than they actually were were. So we could have an overly optimistic view of the Christian life The Bible guards us against that overly optimistic way of thinking by saying things like James says in James 3, verse 1. We all stumble in many ways uh by saying things and and and Ryan pointed this out even in the uh welcome and the call to worship. We are now God's children But what we will one day be has not yet appeared. So we are already holy and righteous in a sense, but we're not yet what we one day will be Even in this letter of Ephesians, as we continue moving in chapter 4, Paul's going to tell these saints, these ones who have been made holy, who have been declared righteous. who he expects to be walking in a way worthy of the calling, he tells them that they're gonna have to go on putting off the old self and its practices, and putting on the new self. So there's going to be this ongoing reality of putting off and putting on and confessing and repenting. That's there, that's a reality. But we do need to be careful. That in our acknowledging the ongoing reality of sin in the Christian's life, and we do that, we're going to do that at the end of this sermon. We're going to have a prayer of confession We do that every week. I don't think that we take sin lightly here at Chevrolet Baptist Church. But we do need to be aware, even as we acknowledge the reality of sin in the Christian's life. We want to be careful that we don't just normalize sin and act as if it's a an unusual or abnormal or unattainable thing for someone to actually be a godly person. For someone to actually acknowledge that a person could come to the place where by the help of God's Spirit, they're more and more regularly obeying God faithfully and zealously where they are walking in a manner worthy of the calling to which they've been called. Not sinlessly, but sincerely and devotedly. That's something that is possible. We all stumble in many ways. But God forbid that we should all embrace a mindset of living for Christ where we think that nothing good could ever happen in our lives. No victory could ever be achieved, uh achieved, no change could ever be made. I really want you to believe this as we enter into Ephesians chapter 4 and 5 and 6. I mean, if you don't believe this, it's going to be a colossal waste of our time to gather together and be studying all these ways that Paul is going to expound on this worthy walk. Paul's practical takeaway from this rich gospel exposition that we've been celebrating in chapters 1 and 2 and 3, the practical takeaway is not Therefore, Christians, in view of the wonderful grace that you've been shown, remember that you're big failures, and that's really all you're ever going to be is a big failure. So it's a good thing that you can find solace in God's sovereign choice of you because you're never going to see anything in your life that would actually confirm that choice of you and become a source of joy to you as you perceive his powerful grace working in you, producing a manner of life That is worthy of this glorious calling to which he's called you. Don't worry about all that. You just wallow in what a miserable sinner you are. That's not the practical outworking, that's not the practical application. Of chapters 4, 5, and 6. What he does is say, I, therefore, a prisoner for the Lord, I urge you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you have been called. And there's so much to say about what this worthy walk consists of. Right? I mean, I just stopped our read I stopped our passage right in the middle of a sentence, right? If you just look at the rest of that sentence, it's he talks about humility and gentleness and forbearance and love and and In eagerness to maintain unity. And he's going to use this word walk again and again. It's not just these one or two sentences right around here that is describing that worthy walk. It's really everything else that he's going to be talking about. He's told the believers already. He sort of prefaced this back in chapter 2, verse 10. You got your Bibles open, right? Let's just do a crash course on the word walk in Ephesians. There's one notable one that I'm going to leave out for just a minute. In chapter 2, verse 10, he talked about the importance of how God had saved them and rescued them and prepared good works for them to walk in. Now in chapters four, five, and six, he begins to talk about what those good works to walk in are. In chapter four, verse seventeen, he's going to say, don't walk as the Gentiles walk In chapter 5, verse 2, he's going to commend walking in love. In chapter 5, verse 8, he's going to talk about walking as children of light. In chapter 5, verse 15, he's going to talk about learning how to walk wisely, that we would know how to best use our time. So, really, everything that he's going to be saying in the rest of this letter is about this worthy walk. And it's and we're not gonna gloss over it. We're gonna dig in here just as much as we dug into all those gospel riches in chapters one to three. We want to dig into all the ways that Paul commends that we live in light of that grace. And it's an all-of-life thing. We'll you'll see that. I'm gonna actually a little bit later in this service encourage you to just sit in silence with Ephesians 4, 5, and 6 so that you can acquaint yourselves with it if you're not currently acquainted with it. But you're gonna see it's an all-of-life thing. It's about our thoughts and our attitudes and our behavior and our words. It's in the church, it's in the home, it's in the workplace, it's an everywhere, all of life, all the time kind of thing. There's so much to say about this worthy walk But right now I just want to make sure that you are aware as we get into it that it's possible. Paul urges and appeals to you and to me to walk worthy of the calling to which you've been called. This is God's will for our lives. Sometimes we wonder, what is God's will for my life? Well, here's one way to answer that question biblically. God's will for your life is that you would walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you've been called, Christian In everything. Not merely to ask, as uh some people tend to do Is it wrong if I do such and such? Would it be a sin if I did such, such, and such? As if the standard of Christian holiness is getting as close to the line of sin as is possible, but not crossing it. Is it a sin if I do this? Would it be wrong if I did this? Am I free to do that? An even better question would be: as you weigh uh a decision, as you weigh an ambition, as you weigh a word that might come out of your mouth, or a priority that might is this worthy of the calling to which I have been called? It's as though the calling is the norm or the standard or the measure to which our manner of life ought to conform. Walking in a manner that is worthy of the calling to which you have been called. And to suggest that this is a way to live. This is a way that we should be aspiring to live, growing in our way of living. That's not a naive. I mean, I I can be loud. I do to say this to you from time to time. Do not agree with what I am saying this morning because I said it loudly and enthusiastically. Agree with what I'm saying only to the degree that you see it in God's word My understanding of God's word and I could be corrected afterwards if if I need to be But I don't think it's naive or pie in the sky or drab or depressing to say we can walk worthy of the calling to which we've been called. I mean, it can't be drab and depressing because it's a life commanded by and flowing from the heart of the King of Kings, who is the King of love, who gave himself for you. It can't be bad news. God's commands, we even read that in Deuteronomy, that his commandments are for our good We're not moving on from good stuff to hard bad stuff as we move from the first half of Ephesians to the second half of Ephesians. We're moving on from the a good God and his good and gracious salvation to the good ways that he calls us to honor him and reflect him with our lives. And that's the big bit of grammar that we need to get into, and that's the pattern that I said we need to talk about. That's point number two. The pattern of a worthy walk. I just spelled it out, but let's think about it more together for a few minutes. This this worthy walk that Paul is appealing for, that he's urging the Ephesians toward. Is i I'm contending it is really possible for the people of God to live in. And it's built, this life, this worthy walk, is built on a conjunction. That's why I called it gospel grammar. It's built on a conjunction and it is expressed forcefully. Through the contrast between indicative and imperative verbs. Are you ready for some grammar? Can't believe I just said this to you. I just used the word conjunction and indicative and imperative. I'm gonna do this. We're doing this because it's it's it's right here. You've got to know this, or we're going to lose Christianity if you don't see these things. You don't need to know those words. But if you don't get what these words indicate, we lose the whole gospel. So verbs, kids, what is a verb? Like what is a verb? What's the point of a verb? It's what? It's a word that is describing An action. I heard somebody say, was that an adult who said action? Was that an adult? Okay. Verbs describe actions. Indicative verbs, an indicative verb is a verb that states fact I'm going to the prayer service this afternoon. Now I know you should I should put in Lord willing there, but I'm going to the prayer service. The verb I'm going is an indicative. I'm stating a fact. Imperative verbs. Are you with me, kids? Are you with me, grown-ups? Imperative verbs are verbs that are used to give commands. They're not a statement of fact of what is, they're a statement of what someone should or must do. Go to the prayer service this afternoon. Now, I don't have authority in the Lord to command you to do that, but I'm just giving you an example. I would commend to you that you come to the afternoon prayer service. But if I say go to the prayer service this afternoon, the verb go there is an imperative. Do you understand the difference between indicative and imperative? So Let's see if we get this. Kids. I'm gonna use the verb is call. You tell me if this is an imperative or an indicative God called you when you were dead in sin. Is the word call? God called you when you were dead in sin. Is that a an indicative verb or an imperative verb? I hope that what the murmur that I heard was indicative. It's saying something that happened. God called you. Now let's try this one. Walk worthy of the calling to which you've been called. What is the verb walk there? It is what? An imperative. I'm hearing it. I'm hearing it. It's quiet, but I'm hearing it. Now, let me take a sip of water Don't don't analyze what verbs were in that sentence. I've told you this before, but in Ephesians 1 through 3. There's one imperative in Ephesians 1 through 3. One commandment in Ephesians 1 through. I've said this to you before. Do you remember what it is? Anyone remember? What is the one commandment in Ephesians 1 through 3? It's the word remember. Ephesians 2. 11, remember. So there's one commandment in the first three chapters of Ephesians, and basically all it is is remember all the goodness of God in the gospel. Really, almost the entirety of chapters 1 through 3 is just reveling in that gospel goodness, as if Paul is putting our mouths to a gospel fire hydrant and just sh pouring out onto us the innumerable, inexhaustible spiritual blessings that God has lavished upon His people in Christ. And then we get to chapter four. Okay, just one one command in chapters one through three, and it's remember all the goodness of the gospel. Then in chapter 4, beginning in chapter 4 and 5 and 6, there are 39 commandments. There's still reminders of what God has done. We'll come to those, but all the commandments come after Don't walk as the Gentiles walk. Walk in love. Walk as children of light. Look carefully how you walk. Don't get angry. Don't get drunk with wine. But be filled with the Spirit. Husbands, love your wives. Wives, submit to your husbands. Be kind to one another. Walk as children of light. Commandment, commandment, commandment. But first comes the indicative. First comes what God has done for his people in Christ. Then comes the imperative. Then comes the commitment. What we do in worshipful response to what God has done for us. Do you see that pattern? Who you are in Christ because of Christ leads to how you live for Christ. And if you mess that up, you lose Christianity. If you say, I'm gonna live wholeheartedly for God so that God will accept me, we've lost Christianity. We're like every other religion in the world. Do do do and you'll find life. If you're here this morning and you're inquiring about Christianity, I just would want you to hear that's the big difference. that we Christians believe from really every other religious and philosophical system in the world. Every other tradition, every other religion, every other philosophy is, do this, attain to this, and then you can experience this blessing or good. Christianity is just the opposite. It gives us a new status and a new identity, which we receive by faith alone in Christ. And then it leads to us living in a different way in response to the goodness and love and kindness of God that He's shown us. in Christ. Who you are in Christ leads to how you live for Christ And the hinge that is connecting these two halves, Ephesians 1 through 3, with all of its indicative goodness. And chapters 4 through 6 and all of its imperative goodness is a conjunction Conjunction, junction, what's your function? Did anybody sing that one? Yeah. Were you waiting for that when I first said conjunction? I pulled that song up on Spotify. I was playing it for my kids this week. It was interesting. What is it what are conjunctions? Well conjunctions are little words like but or and or so or because Little word that connects other words or sentences or phrases. So Uh I think Sunshine stepped out. She's working with the children, right? But I I thought of Sunshine at this point. So I had an illustration. Uh sunshine was a little antsy to get home from the members meeting a couple of weeks ago. Therefore, she shot her hand up and made a motion to adjourn the meeting before I'd even asked if anybody was willing to make a motion. Tell her she was mentioned in the sermon. Therefore, she wanted to get home. I'm assuming those motivations, to be honest, but she wanted to get home, therefore she made a motion to adjourn the meeting. What comes after the word therefore is the result or effect or consequence of what came before the word therefore. What comes before the word therefore is the ground or basis or cause of what comes after the therefore. Are you with me? We're talking about grammar, but it's gospel grammar. Paul Finishes three chapters of awe-filled, heart-soaring, joyful praise to God for his gracious salvation. And then he turns to application by saying, I therefore urge you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you have been called. And so the point of that little conjunction. Conjunction junction, what's your function? The function is to say that all this worthy walk stuff that we're going to be spending some months talking about is all built on, it's rooted in, it's the result of, the effect of, the consequence of what God has done for his people in Christ. who we now are in Christ because of what God has done for us. So I I found one old commentary Put it this way, the man's name was Robert Jameson. I don't know if that's possible, because it's not the Bobby Jameson that we know, but it it said Robert Jameson. I never I didn't know there was more than one But I thought this was so well put. He said the exhortations of this part of the epistle, he means chapters four, five, and six, the exhortations of this part of the epistle are built on the conscious enjoyment of the privileges mentioned in the former part, chapters 1 through 3. That's gospel grammar. Oh, how good it is. Because could you imagine, I mean, could you imagine the horror of being welcomed in to all the breathtaking privileges highlighted from Ephesians 1, verse 3 on? Imagine being welcomed into all those blessings if we first had to successfully attain to the manner of life described in chapters 4 through 6. That'd be horrible. That'd be exhausting. I mean, we would never know. How how ex have I done enough? Am I good enough? Am I worthy enough? But praise God, that's not the way God is. Praise God, that is not how the language of heaven operates. You do, you live worthy enough, and then God will bless you. Praise God, that's not the language of God. But the language of God, and this is not just true in the gospel life, this is always true of the character of God. We heard this in the reading from Deuteronomy 10 earlier. There were calls to obey But they were those calls to obey, and you can go back and read this passage again later, they were rooted in this is what I've done for you. These are the promises that I fulfilled for you That's actually the whole the way that the Ten Commandments are built in Exodus 20. Right? In Exodus 20, God says, I am the Lord your God who saved you from the people, from bondage in is in Egypt. Have no other gods before me. Indicative first and then imperative. And this has all come to fulfillment. This has all come to fulfillment in Jesus. He draws attention to these privileges, Paul does, of of uh the blessings that we have in Christ. And then he says, walk worthy of that calling. Not walk worthy so that you would be called. We could talk about past tense versus future tense if we really want to talk about more grammar. He doesn't say walk worthy so that you will be called. He says walk worthy of the calling to which you have been called. To walk worthy of his calling is to walk in a way that is befitting or appropriate to the worth of the calling. It does not mean I have to make myself worthy of God calling me. It means the calling itself is of such great worth. Live in a way that is harmonizing, that is in step with the weight of glory of this calling. Do you remember how weighty and glorious that calling is? It is a calling of incalculable worth Paul Paul prayed that the Ephesians would have illumination from the Spirit, this is back in chapter 1, to grasp the hope of their calling. And what I told you back then when we talked about those verses is this calling. Is a calling out of spiritual death, the same way that Jesus called Lazarus out of physical death. I know I like to refer to Lazarus, my namesake, but it's a very good illustration of what God has done for us in saving us. Lazarus was dead. Lazarus was in a tomb, and the omnipotent call of Jesus, Lazarus, come forth. That call created life in a dead man. And Paul's saying basically that in the call of God, this is what God has done for his people. We were the walking dead. I said there was another reference to walk that I was going to pass over, and now we're at it. Ephesians 2. 2. You were dead in the trespasses and sins in which you once walked. We were the walking dead, right? We were not floundering and flailing in the ocean, begging for a life preserver to be thrown to us so that we would be saved. No. We were buried in the bottom of the ocean, a lifeless corpse, only ready to rot and disintegrate. But it was then, when we were dead, that God made us alive in Christ. If if you're here this morning and you have trusted Jesus, that's the way you became a truster in Jesus You were spiritually dead. Jesus and his word and his way of life and his promises and his commandments meant nothing to you. You did not love him, you did not trust him, you did not enjoy him, you did not obey him. You were dead to all of these things. Paul says you are a slave in chapter the beginning of chapter 2, a slave to the devil and to your own passions and lusts, and by nature you were children of wrath. But God, when you were dead, God called you, having chosen you from before the foundation of the world having predestined you for adoption to himself as sons enacted in history through the redemption found in Christ's blood, his sacrifice for our sins. He died for us so that all who believe would receive forgiveness of sins and the inheritance of eternal life, with the Holy Spirit now given to his people as a down payment of all the full blessings yet to come. Oh, this is your calling. This is the calling to which we've been called. We were dead. We were without God, he says in the middle of chapter 2. We were without God. We were without hope. We were separated from Christ. We were strangers to the covenants and the promises. But we who were far off, we've been brought near because of our own efforts Because of our labor for him? No. Because of Christ, because of his blood. And through the shedding of Christ's blood, God removed the hostility that existed between him and us. And in breaking down that wall, he united his people together into a family, being built together into a dwelling place for God. We're now no longer strangers if we've trusted in Christ. We're no longer strangers and aliens. But we're fellow citizens with the saints We are redeemed in Christ. We are adopted in Christ. We are beloved in Christ. We are justified in Christ. We are bound for the promised land because of Christ. We are not destined for wrath. But to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ. So that whether we're alive or whether we die, together we'll be forever with him. We have all that, all that is signed, sealed, delivered, sure, not because of our works, but because Jesus' work is done, because he finished it all and rose from the grave to prove it. There's so much more I want to say to you. This is one of the reasons, this is why we gather every Lord's day. We need to be recalibrated in the grammar of the gospel. Here's the practical this has not been the most practical get me some application. What do I do? Have a conversation this afternoon with a brother or sister What what do you do? How do you get your mind stayed upon Jesus each and every day? How do you do that? We we I I like that song. I I I picked that song. So I'm not gonna I'm gonna make a criticism of the song, but I actually like the song and I'm the one who chose it. So there's not a criticism of I've had a lot of mornings as a follower of Jesus. I don't generally wake up with my mind stayed upon Jesus I wake up dull, cold, weary, stressed, anxious. I have to work More gospel grammar. Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling because God is working in you to will and to work for his good pleasure. I have to I have to do some work, some spiritual work, some grace, spirit-empowered work to get my mind stayed on Jesus. Maybe y'all wake up stayed on Jesus. I have to work to get my mind stayed on Jesus. And I would just commend to you to ask maybe one another, how do you do that? Like what's helpful for you? Corporate worship is one of those ways. That we renew our souls in the language of heaven As we rehearse gospel grammar in our singing of the gospel, as we pray reminders of the gospel, as we preach the gospel, as we see the gospel depicted to us in the taking of the Lord's Supper. We live our lives on the fuel of this grace. It's the love of Christ. that controls us, 2 Corinthians 5 says, the love of Christ controls us because we've concluded that one died for all and therefore all died, and he died for all, so that those who live should no longer live for themselves. but for him who died for them and for their sake was raised. Our life flows out of His grace and our enjoyment of those spiritual blessings and privileges that are ours in Christ There's a way to live that calls attention to that great worth. So, therefore, in view of how God has so bountifully lavished you with kindness in Christ CBC, let's be serious in the next months as we read chapters 4 and 5 and 6 about walking in a manner worthy of that calling. We want to make a difference in our community for the gospel. And there's a lot that we could do. There's a lot we could get involved with. A lot of good things that we should do, that we are doing, and that maybe more that we should consider doing But there is no substitute for living worthily of the calling to which we've been called. I trust that in the coming weeks and months, as we study chapters 4 and 5 and 6, there will be many opportunities in a multitude of ways and settings. for you to walk worthily of the calling to which you've been called. So many of you are doing that in so many ways already There's so much evidence of God's grace that we could celebrate the way some of you have persevered in a church where some of your preferences and desires are not being fulfilled, but you persevere in love. Of the ways that you open your home and show hospitality to strangers. Of the way you provide meals and rides for one another. The ways that you Some of you patiently and humbly bear witness to unbelieving loved ones, some of whom even live in your own home. The ways that you endure through chronic illness. or through loneliness, with contentment and even joy. Because you love Chevrolet Baptist Church and you want to be faithful and stay here. The ways that you give sacrificially and generously to support the ministry. The sacrifices that many of you are making to care for aging loved ones. So many ways that God is working and that by his grace you are walking worthily of the calling to which you've been called. So, brothers and sisters, as we study these chapters, let's let's be in earnest prayer over these months That our manner of life would commend the greatness of our calling in Christ. It's what we're gonna sing here in a moment You are worthy to be praised with my every thought and deed. Oh great God of highest heaven, glorify your name through me. Would you be praying that regularly? Mindful of the fact that when we bring our prayers, we're praying to the one who is able to do what's the what's right before this call? To walk worthily, our God is the God who's able to do far more abundantly than all that we could ask or imagine through his power that is at work within us. So we are going to get to taking the Lord's Supper, but first we're going to respond and we're going to sing that prayer to God. We're going to sing, then I'll come back back up and lead us in the taking of the Lord's Supper. Let's pray and then we'll sing. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your grace and your kindness to us in Jesus. We pray that you would help us. We need your help. We are utterly dependent as we're going to sing. We're dependent upon your grace. None of us can live worthily of you without you. But with you, by your grace, through the empowerment of your spirit, we can walk worthily of the calling to which you've called us Help us. Help us to grow in this. Help us to encourage each other to this. And may you be pleased to do immeasurably more, far more abundantly than all that we could ask or imagine. As we study this worthy walk in the weeks and months to come, we pray for this all in Jesus' name. Amen.