Well it's great to be with you all this morning. As John shared earlier, my name is Paul Billings. I uh lead, I'm the director for Campus Outreach DC, a college ministry that you all have gotten to know More recently through our staff and students being uh being here from the University of Maryland. Uh my wife is Stephanie, we have four daughters. We are uh members at Capitol Hill Baptist Church, and so the church brings its greetings to you. It's a joy to be with you this morning to bring God's word. I remember vividly getting invited to Malcolm's table. It was tenth grade. I went to a all-boys school growing up. And I had a good group of friends. We were kind of uh the nice guys, quiet guys. We tended to stick together. One day, though, I got invited to sit at Malcolm's table. Malcolm was the life of the party. He was popular and he was funny. I didn't necessarily resent Malcolm. If anything, I was a little jealous. And so when Malcolm says, hey Paul, come over and join us, what am I going to say? No? It didn't take much to compel me to come. Well, I remember that lunch like it was yesterday. I had a turkey sandwich. It was on white bread. With some cheese and some lettuce and tomato. And Malcolm and his buddies began to engage me in some small talk as I sat down. And then Malcolm said, Hey Paul, could you get us some napkins? I mean of course. What am I going to say at this point? No? So I get up, get some napkins, I come back, I put them, put them in the center of the circ, you know, the circle table we were sitting at, and I enjoyed a moment or two of feeling like I had ascended to Malcolm's social tier. And then I took a bite of my sandwich. As soon as I took a bite, my expression began to change. My face became red. My forehead began to sweat. I started to take deep breaths I needed water. I reached for my ice water to drink, and then again and again and again, so much so I had to go get some more. Finally it dawned on me, and I opened my sandwich to see an alien invader Underneath the turkey and the cheese, wrapped in the lettuce on top of the tomato, was a red-hot habanero pepper. The hottest pepper that my friend Malcolm had grown at his house, at his farm, specifically to bring to lunch for a victim like me. Of course, because it was Malcolm and because I went to a boys' school, the story spread like wildfire. And sure enough, that was my last time at Malcolm's table. In our passage this morning in Luke chapter 14, Jesus gets invited to a table and into a trap But as we'll see, when Jesus comes to the table, he turns it. He doesn't just turn tables, he clears them And he clears them so that he can hold a greater banquet, where he is the host, and where he is the main course, and where we are his desired guest. We're in the Gospel of Luke this morning, and in nearly every chapter in Luke, Jesus is at a meal of some kind. So much so that he's accused of being a glutton and a tax collector. Or a glutton and a drunkard. Luke 14, verse 1 to 24, is where we are. It's page 873 or 874 if you're using one of the Bibles provided. And it's all about tables. These scenes are all about tables and hospitality and feasts and banquets, both human and heavenly ones. If you think about it, tables and feasts are kind of like microcosms of the world. They show our values. They expose the depth of our relationships They reveal to us who matters and who doesn't. How you behave at the table is a sign of how you behave elsewhere. I'll read the passage section by sec section by section as we walk through the kind of four big moments In the passage. Our outline has four points, if you're taking notes, each built around a specific challenge Jesus brings to those at the table. We'll see that when Jesus comes to the table, he challenges first our customs. That's verses 1 to 6. Our customs. Second, our cravings. Verses seven to eleven. Third, our currency, verses twelve to fourteen. And lastly, our calculations about who will be at the heavenly banquet. Jesus comes with a challenge to our customs, our cravings, our currency. And our calculations. And my prayer is that what when in seeing what Jesus comes to challenge, you would be encouraged to see who Jesus comes to save. So point one, Jesus comes to challenge our customs. This is in verses one to six. Read it along with me One Sabbath, when he went to dine at the house of a ruler of the Pharisees, they were watching him carefully. And behold, there was a man before him who had dropsy And Jesus responded to the lawyers and Pharisees, saying, Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath, or not? But they remained silent. Then he took him, and healed him, and sent him away. And he said to them, Which of you having an ox? Having a son or an ox that has fallen into a well on a Sabbath day will not immediately pull him out. And they could not reply to these things. So our text begins with Jesus dining at the house of a ruler of the Pharisees on a Sabbath. Now, for ancient Jews, the Sabbath was a day like no other, and for good reason. In the beginning God made the world in six days and rested on the seventh. And when God gave his people his law in Exodus chapter 20, he told them to pattern their weeks after his. Work and then rest. And since receiving that command, if you read the Old Testament, the Jews had gone back and forth. in obeying it. At times they neglected it to the point that God judges them, sends them to sends them into exile for profaning the Sabbath. But at other points, Sabbath observance was treated as if it was the only thing that mattered. And by Jesus' day, traditions had formed. just to ensure there was absolutely no hint of Sabbath violation. So for instance, you could travel, but only 2,000 qubits, not 2001. You could write a letter, but you couldn't write two. You could help someone sick But only if it was life-threatening, and you couldn't improve their condition moving forward. You could only get them to a place of stability And so these traditions were right in the wheelhouse of the Pharisees and the lawyers Jesus is at dinner with. If they could catch Jesus breaking the Sabbath, they could discredit him. And so in verse 1, it says they were watching him closely, like a cat watching a mouse, eyes wide. Ears tucked back, weight forward, ready to pounce. Let's see what Jesus does. And that's where this man with dropsy enters into the picture. Verse 2 says, Behold, Or lo, if you got the King James Version, lo, there was a man before him. Well, how did he get there? This isn't hard to Figure out you don't just sneak into a ruler of the Pharisees' house if you're a man with dropsy. He was there because they wanted him there. But Jesus will show in this interaction he is not the mouse. He's the cat. Verse 3, he responds to the lawyers and the Pharisees. Isn't that interesting? He responds. He responds to what? At this point, we've heard nothing from the Pharisees. We've heard nothing. They haven't spoken. So what exactly is he responding to? Well, he's responding to their intentions. He's responding to their schemes. We see here God doesn't just care about what we do. He cares about why we're doing it. He cares about our intentions, about our unspoken plans. And that's a theme throughout the whole passage. Even hospitality can be done with evil intentions. Jesus responds. And he responds with a question: Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath? Jesus isn't the mouse, he's the cat. And now in the question, the trap has been set. Because if they say yes, Well, what are they doing? If they say yes, it's lawful, they're admitting that they've been wrong about their traditions and they're setting a stage for Jesus to heal the man and demonstrate that he's a true and faithful Israelite. The exact thing that they're trying to discredit him for. But if they say no, it's not lawful, well, how does that look? They'd appear heartless and cruel. And so they remain silent. Their own moral intuitions witness against them. They have nothing to say. Jesus takes the man with dropsy, heals him, and sends him away. And that word take might be better translated as beheld. He beheld the man. He didn't just take him as another thing. He beheld him as a person. Jesus won't allow this man with dropsy to be used as a prop. He's treated as a person. He heals him. And he gets him out of surely what would have been a very embarrassing situation. Props don't belong at Jesus' table And just to seal the deal, Jesus brings a biblical reference into their mind. He asks in verse 5, which of you having a son or an ox that has fallen into a well on a Sabbath day will not immediately pull him out? In Deuteronomy chapter 22, verse 5, God had instructed his people that if they saw a donkey or an ox belonging to their neighbor fall into the well fall into a well, they were to help them. And Jesus is saying, if even an ox deserves that kind of dignity, wouldn't a son as well? They could not reply to these things. Jesus goes after their customs. The ways that they had begun to major on the minors. And to add to the Word of God. These customs had caused them to become hardened to the needs of people around them. They had taken a command about rest and turned it into a means to create stress in their customs with their customs that they had made The result was sick people needed to stay sick. Lost people needed to stay lost. Blind people needed to stay blind. And here is the great irony of this scene. The man they bring before Jesus has dropsy Perhaps you haven't heard of that before. Dropsy was a medical condition in which water would accumulate in the body. One afflicted with dropsy was swollen because of excess water in the body, and yet In a bit of a paradox, at the same time, would be always persistently thirsty. The man with too much water wants nothing more than water. And in the ancient world, dropsy was associated with excess. Those who love money, who love sex, who love pleasure were called dropsies. And so the irony here is thick. Behold, a man with dropsy appears at a feast. But in reality, the entire table is filled with dropssies. The Pharisees and lawyers had given themselves to excess, excess in human tradition, on tradition, on tradition, always thirsty for more, always thirsty for more honor, always thirsty for more status and praise. And sick to the point of death. Jesus comes with a challenge to man-made traditions and customs, to adding to the Word of God. He challenges the inner Pharisee in all of us. We all have some Pharisee in us. Beware. Beware of majoring on minors. Beware of using your religion as a means. To gain power or to treat people as props. Jesus comes to challenge our customs. And connected to this point two, Jesus came to challenge our cravings. Look at verses seven through eleven. Though the man with dropsy left, everyone else remains, and Jesus notices something. It says, Now he told a parable to those who were invited when he noticed how they chose the places of honor, saying to them, When you are invited by someone to a wedding feast, do not sit down in a place of honor, lest someone more distinguished than you be invited by him. And he who invited you both will come and say to you, Give your place to this person. And then you will begin with shame to take the lowest place But when you are invited, go and sit in the lowest place. So that when your host comes, he may say to you, friend, move up higher Then you will be honored in the presence of all who sit at table with you. For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted. Jesus notices that for the guests, the dinner wasn't so much about the food or the fellowship. It was about rank. It was about prestige. It's fair to say that the guests arrived that evening not craving the stake, but the status. Right? That's why they were there. They were looking for the places of honor and they jockey for one another. Because see at the table, a guest The guest seated closest to the host was of the highest glory. So the closer to the host you could get, the higher glory, the greater status you had over the ones further away. We as human beings are incredibly capable of detecting status and of creating symbols that signal status. So where you sit means something. What brand you wear means something. What car you drive means something. Do you drive an SUV or a minivan? I I read about company. I read about a company recently that gave all its vice presidents those Uh stationary sets, you know, like a single pin, like golden pin that you would pull out and write stationary with. And a company gave all its VPs a single pin stationary set. And the next day One of the VPs said, you know what? I'm going to get a two-pin set. And he put a two-pin set on his desk. Within four days, all the VPs had three-pin stationary desk sets. Life is one big status game, and we're all participants. And Jesus calls this out. And he appeals to common sense. But he also appeals to the scriptures they claim to know. So in Proverbs chapter 25, verses 6 to 7. It says, do not put yourself forward in the king's presence or stand in the place of the great, for it is better to be told, come up here, than to be put lower in the presence of a noble. Jesus is showing he's a new Solomon of sorts. He's a wise king giving advice to wayward sons. And it's good advice, isn't it? Just at a practical level. I mean, try it at work. Resist self-promotion. Just put your head down and do excellent work. And see what happens. Volunteer for less glamorous tasks and wait for recognition. Because it's just not a good look To pr assert yourself to a place of honor only to be put back in your place. There's a scene in the comedy show, The Office. Where Michael Scott, who's the boss, is asked by one of his employees, Phyllis, who's getting married To push her elderly father in his wheelchair as he escorts her down the aisle. And Michael is very, very excited about this. And so the doors open, the procession begins, and Michael pushes her father's wheelchair in front of Phyllis, the bride This annoys the elderly man so much that he shoves Michael behind, he he musters all his strength and gets out of the wheelchair And holds his daughter's hand and begins to walk down the aisle. And when the when the church sees it, the crowd is amazed and they start clapping. They can't believe what they've just seen. Meanwhile, Michael fades into the background, angry. About what had happened. He's interviewed right after this, and here's what he says: Me walking Phyllis down the aisle was supposed to be the highlight of the wedding. And now there is no highlight of the wedding. Jesus knows what he's doing. Because those at dinner claimed to care about God's approval. Remember that. And yet they were jockeying with God for position. They were treating their customs and traditions as the very word of God. They were quite literally in this moment vying with the Messiah for influence. These at the dinner were the ones who claimed to most purely represent the priorities of God, and yet they had been totally co-opted by a pagan uh obsession with honor and shame. And it's evident even at this dinner. And so Jesus reminds them, and he reminds us that in this life and in the next Everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted. Think about your own life In your own life, what kind of recognition feels most satisfying to you What what are your go to techniques to signal to others? That you're intelligent, that you're spiritual, that you're beautiful, that you're important We all crave status. We all fear humiliation. And so we play games. To get glory and avoid shame. But Jesus' table involves a different kind of status game. At his table, the lowly are exalted. And he is at the seat of honor, not because he asserted himself, but because he gave himself, God becoming man and dwelling among us, humble to the point of death. Even death on a cross. Living light of eternity changes our daily priorities. Eternal rewards are to motivate us as disciples. That's where Jesus is going next. He makes this clear in his challenge point three. Jesus came to challenge our currency. Our currency, verses 12 to 14. Look at it with me. He said also to the man who had invited him, When you give a dinner or a banquet, do not invite your friends or your brothers or your relatives or your rich neighbors, lest they also invite you in return in return, and you be repaid But when you give a feast, invite the poor, the crippled, the lame, the blind, and you will be blessed, because they cannot repay you, for you will be repaid at the resurrection of the just. The drama is thick. A game that started as let's get the guest has become a game of hammer the host. Jesus turns to the host and tells him to stop inviting people just so he can get an invitation back Instead, invite people who have nothing to give: the poor, the crippled, the lame, and the blind. And with this, he comes with a challenge to the prevailing social currency of the day. Now, kids, in my hand, I've got my nine-year-old daughter Emma's one and only $20 bill. Here it is. This is precious. With this $20 bill, Emma can go buy one of her favorite books. She would call my dream books. We could go today to the bookstore and she could buy one of those books. Now, if I took her there to the bookstore, she picked out the book and gave the clerk the $20. The clerk would accept it as currency. Why? Because Emma and the store manager agree on the value of the $20 bill. But you know there are other types of currencies besides just dollar bills. So what if we went to the bookstore today without any money Well Emma could do this. She could find the store's owner and say, look, I really want this book, but I don't have any money to pay for it. So here's what I'll do instead. I'm a really good artist. I'll paint you a sign out front. About your store. And I'm telling you, every nine-year-old girl in the neighborhood is going to want to come when they see this sign. And the store owner said, you know what? Have the book. That's a pretty good I'll take it. There's other kinds of currency. Well in this story, this the currency at the table isn't money or a painting, it's dinner invitations. It's if I invite you over to dinner, I'll get what I want. I'll get an invitation back. And in the process, I'll get a social promotion. I'll grow my status. Quid pro quo. I scratch your back, you scratch mine. And you can see how in this system what it would do to relationships. Relationships would inevitably be shallow And segregated. Think about it. They're shallow because the focus in your relationships is what you get from the other person. There's no depth there. There's no vulnerability. Because why would there be? Transparency gets in the way of a transaction. This is purely an exchange. Quid pro quo, I scratch your back, you scratch mine You can see how these relationships will be inevitably segregated. Because by inviting only those who can pay you back, you limit your circle to people who are either just like you or if you're lucky. Maybe just a little ahead of you. But you know who never ends up at your table? The poor, the lame, the crippled, the blind, the ones with no ability to pay you back. And so it's as if Jesus shows up to dinner with a needle, and when he turns to the host, he pops the social bubble that they've made. Jesus' message is completely different than I scratch your back, you scratch mine. At his table, the guests say something like: We give fully And God, we give freely, and God re gives God rewards fully. We give freely to you, and God rewards us fully. And a community that truly embraces that will have deep relationships because both parties want to give without expecting anything in return. Both parties understand that God is involved in their relationship. And a community that embraces this will look different from the world because it will include people not on the basis of what they can pay, but on the basis of how much they are loved. And you'll find yourself in relationships with people who have little in common with you apart from Jesus So Chevrolet Baptist Church. This church has a reputation for hospitality. And the fact that this passage is even in the Bible reminds us that God clearly cares about what we do with our tables. And it's one of the reasons why I wanted to preach this passage here when I was asked to preach. You all do this well. Thank you for your witness in these areas. And I can say as the director of CO here in D. C. , we're thrilled to have uh staff and students from the University of Maryland at your church. And one opportunity, I wonder if you've thought about it, one opportunity you have with college students in your church is to do exact what Jesus is saying we should do. Invite people into your life who cannot pay you back. They have less money than you They have less education than you. They have less wisdom than you. They are less experienced with kids than you. They will probably be in this area for less time than you will be And if they're anything like I was, which I know some of them, they have more anxieties than you. They have more debt than you. They have more daily opportunities with intense kinds of temptations to damage their public their Christian witness publicly. They have fewer family members close by than you do. They can't repay you. Only God can repay you. Did you notice that when Jesus says, when you give a dinner or a banquet, do not invite your friends or your brothers? Don't invite your brothers. So is Jesus saying, hey, I know Thanksgiving's coming up next week, there better not be any family members there. I don't think that's what he's saying. No, he's saying your tables should generally defy convention. Your tables should be different While we're on the subject of college students, my wife, Steph, was once a college student, and she and her friends one Sunday visited a church nearby, their campus, for the first time. The service felt unfamiliar. The hymns were old, the sermon was long, the service was long, but something extraordinary happened afterwards A mom from the congregation approached them and invited them over for lunch. Spontaneous, without knowing them, come on over for lunch. Now that invitation itself was generous and kind, but what struck her even more was the timing. Because it wasn't just any Sunday. It was Mother's Day. It was Mother's Day. And in Steph's house growing up, Mother's Day was sacred. No outsiders, no big meals, definitely no hosting. Now, I am not saying you must change your plans for Mother's Day. I'm not saying that. But consider what message it sends. When a Christian mom invites a group of college students she doesn't even know into her home on a day like that Here's what it says. We give freely, and God rewards fully We give freely and God rewards fully. Jesus came to challenge our social currency. The world's currency revolves around reciprocity I scratch your back, you scratch mine. Jesus' currency revolves around generosity and eternal rewards He says, you will be repaid at the resurrection of the just, that great day promise that we heard Stephanie read about from Isaiah chapter 25, where Jesus will return. Bodies will be raised, the world will be judged, God will host this incredible feast. Those counted righteous will spend forever in glorified bodies with him. Jesus says, you'll be repaid then. Which brings us to the end times. And that is what Jesus is going to start to talk about, really key in on in verse 14 and the rest of the passage. Which brings us to our fourth point. Jesus came to challenge our calculations about who will be at his heavenly banquet As we've seen, Jesus is quite the dinner guest. I mean, can you imagine being at this dinner? Things escalated quickly that night. The mouse became the cat. Jesus challenged their authority. He's exposed their deepest cravings. He's popped their social bubble. He's shown himself along the way to be the Lord of the Sabbath. A new and better Solomon, the very embodiment of wisdom. He's shown himself to be the divine judge who can even perceive their thoughts and intentions. He's shown himself to be the humble one who himself will be exalted. And every time he speaks, he brings correction, either an individual to an individual or a group. And I think that's what he's doing in this last. So look at verse 15. When one of those who reclined at table with him heard these things, he said to him, Blessed is everyone who will eat bread in the kingdom of God. When the man hears Jesus mention the resurrection of the just in verse 14, it's as if he kind of perks up for a moment. He chimes in eagerly. Blessed is everyone who will eat bread in the kingdom of God. Now on the surface this sounds pious. It's certainly true, but beneath it, I think there's some presumption It's as if he's saying, yeah, yeah, yeah. Let's let's let's stop talking about these uncomfortable social realities and talk about Talk about heaven, talk about the the the resurrection to come. And you know why I want to talk about that? Because surely we, us wealthy, influential, and righteous people, we're the ones that will be there. Here's his calculation. And it's not just his calculation. You can find this in plenty of other places in the New Testament. Rich now means rich later. Powerful now means powerful later. That is the underlying assumption. That is the the way that they calculate who's going to be rich and powerful later. Is do you have those things? now, to which Jesus then tells a parable that unsettles, that should unsettle him and us in those assumptions. Look at verse 16. We'll read the rest of the passage together. But he said to him, A man once gave a great banquet and invited many. And at the time for the banquet he sent his servant to say to those who had been invited, Come, for everything is now ready. But they all alike began to make excuses. The first said to him, I have bought a field, and I must go out and see it. Please have me excused. And another said, I bought five yoke of oxen, and I go to examine them. Please have me excused And another said, I have married a wife, and therefore I cannot come. So the servant came and reported these things to his master. Then the master of the house became angry And said to his servant, Go out quickly to the streets and lanes of the city, and bring in the poor, and crippled, and blind, and lame. And the servant said, Sir, what you commanded has been done, and still there is room. And the master said to the servant, Go out to the highways and hedges and compel people to come in. that my house may be filled, for I tell you, none of those men who were invited shall taste my banquet. Well, if you're new to Christianity and you want an image in your mind that captures its essence, I think verse 16 is a good one A man once gave a great banquet and invited many You know, life with God isn't boring. It's like a banquet. It's dynamic and joyful and exhilarating and satisfying. And it's not just for a few people. Many are invited. And yet here is the great tragedy. And it was a tragedy in Jesus' day and in ours. Verse 18. But they all alike began to make excuses. In the context, Jesus has now completely turned the tables, and he is clearing them out. He is at dinner with people who have watched his ministry and heard of it, who have heard his invitations. Who have even at that very night seen him heal a man with dropsy And they've hardened their hearts and made excuses. They've come up with new ways and new ways to reject his lordship, just like the men in the parable. Think about those men in the parable. I mean, why exactly do you need to go see the field you bought now? I don't f my house isn't going anywhere. Live about seven, eight minutes from here. When we bought it, we bought it on June 30th. It was in the same place on June 31st. It's not going anywhere. Why exactly do you need to go see it now? And why did you buy five yoke of oxen without examining them examining them in the first place? Oxen were really expensive and extremely important for your future. You mean you you would buy five yoke of oxen without examining them? Notice how there's an air of respectability to these excuses, especially the third one. I've married a wife, and I cannot come. It's as if he's saying, look, things with family are just a bit crazy. Happy wife, happy life, you know. Surely, surely you'll understand. Jesus is a master storyteller. He's showing just how lame the excuses to his invitations actually are. These characters are like the sluggard in Proverbs 26, 13. Proverbs 26. 13, the sluggard says, There's a lion in the road. There's a lion in the streets. Now, question, is there a lion in the road? Is there really a lion in the streets? The sluggard knows there's not a lion in the road or in the streets. Actually, he's creating an excuse so that he can stay in his bed where he's comfortable. And so it makes sense that the master would take this personally, because they have said a field is apparently more important than he is, an animal is more important than he is, a spouse sure is more important than he is. And so the story ends with a haunting last sentence in verse 24: None of those men will taste my banquet. Heaven is going to be a surprising place. Some you think will be there won't. And the scandal in this text is that Jesus was willing to come to their house, but they weren't willing to come to his And so in the parable, the master says to his servant, go, go, invite the poor, the crippled, the lame, and the blind. And after, when there is still room, go to the highways and hedges, the further outskirts of the city, and compel them to come. Because I want my house to be full. Did you know that there are people right now this morning who aren't in church, and I don't just mean this church, but aren't in any church, simply for the reason That no one has invited them. That person exists. They're not here because they haven't been invited. Now with some, they have been invited, and they will need to be, I like that ver that verb with the people on the highways and hedges, compelled. They will have to be compelled to come. They perhaps don't expect to be invited to a feast. They don't think they belong there. They're reluctant to come. But whether it's inviting or compelling, he wants his house to be full. It's important to remember Jesus tells this story during a stop on a kind of road trip to Jerusalem. In Luke chapter 9, verse 51, just a few chapters earlier, Luke tells us that when the days drew near for him to be taken up, he set his face to go to Jerusalem. Jesus was headed to Jerusalem, of course, to die, but before dying, to host another meal With bread and wine. Bread to symbolize his body being broken for us. Wine to symbolize his blood being poured out For our forgiveness. Jesus wants the feast to be full, so much so that he willingly goes to the cross to suffer and die, not for his own sins. But for the sins of people like us, those those who have been spiritually blind, those who have been lame, who have come up with all kinds of excuses, have prioritize all kinds of Even respectable things over God. He took the punishment that we deserved. He took the cup of wrath so that we could have his cup of blessing. He took our eternal famine so that we could have his eternal feast. And three days later, he rose from the dead. God accepted his sacrifice. And now Jesus is at the right hand of God. He's at the head of the table. The table's ready. And he's saying to you, Come come for everything is now ready. Come, forgiveness of sins It's ready for you. New life in Christ is ready for you. A peace that surpasses understanding is ready for you. A seat at the heavenly table, it's ready for you. Even now, the church is ready for you. Brothers and sisters and mothers and fathers and lands in the church is ready for you now. Come. The time is now. The men who made excuses, it seems like their problem was it's just a it's just timing. It's a timing issue. Master, thanks for the invitation. Just a timing issue. But will the timing ever get better? Will it ever be easier to turn from sin than now? Will it ever be clearer that Jesus is ready to receive you? Come. That's what he invites us to. And be encouraged. If you have come To continue coming to him. Come to him in a new way, in a fresh way, even today, even this week. Continue to come to him. And be encouraged because it might feel like at times there are not many others coming with you. But remember what the master said. Jesus said, I will build my church, and the gates of hell will not prevail against it. He will fill his house. If you're a Christian, isn't it incredible that you have a seat at the king's feast? That even now you get this foretaste of what that banquet will be like forever. Isn't it amazing? I I imagine how those on the outskirts. From the highways and hedges. I imagine how they felt as someone had gone to them And compelled them, compelled them, perhaps even held them by hand to come. I can imagine as they walked from the outskirts of the city through all kinds of neighborhoods they never thought they would belong to. And into a mansion, and the doors open, and there's a king with a feast and a seat next to him for you. Can you imagine what that person would feel Why am I here? This is too good to be true Well, friends, it really is that good. And it really is true. Jesus sets the table for you not to trap you like Malcolm trapped me. But to lavish his love on you. Let's pray. Lord, thank you that you are such a generous and good God. Lord, we confess that we have so often uh vied with you for authority. We confess that we have come up with excuses time and time again to resist your invitation Oh Lord, help us now to come. If any haven't come to you in a saving way, we pray that you would, by your spirit, cause that to happen. Open our eyes. Give us sight for those who are blind. Lord, we pray that you would bring us to your feast. We want to persevere to be at that last day that we read about in Isaiah 25. Help us now even strengthen us, strengthen us as we Soon take the Lord's supper together. In Jesus' name, amen.