Are you a person of integrity? Is the person who you say you are, who you mean to be, the real you? Are you integrated like that of integrity? Well, our text this morning helps us to think about that. Go ahead and turn to James. Chapter 2 in your Bible. If you're using that little black Bible in the chair around you, it is page 1011. And also you'll find the outline of my remarks and a few extra aids there on page 8. I'm going to read the text and point out the structure as we go. Okay? Verse 14, we're going to read 14 to 26. What good is it, my brothers, if someone says he has faith but does not have works? Can That faith save him in many respects. That that's sort of the point of everything that follows. That's the headline. We need saving faith. What does saving faith do? It works, it produces And then he gives an illustration of that in verses 15 and 16. If a brother or sister is poorly clothed and lacking in daily food, and one of you says to them, Go in peace, be warned and filled. Without giving things needed for the body, what good is that? Okay, that's the illustration. Then he comes back and makes the point again. So also, faith by itself, if it does not have works, is dead. Okay, so simple passage, faith without works is dead, illustration, repeat the point, and then we get some objections In responses to that objection. So verse 18, but someone will say, you have faith, I have works. And James offers us four responses. Demons, Abraham, Rahab, body and soul. Four responses to that objection that we can divide them Verse 18, but someone will say, You have faith and I have works. Response number one, show me your faith apart from your works, and I will show you my faith by my works. You believe that God is good. God is one. You do well. Even the demons believe. And shudder. And response number two, Abraham. Do you want to be shown, you foolish person, that faith apart from works is useless? Was not Abraham our father justified by works? When he offered up his son Isaac on the altar. You see that faith was active along with his works, and faith was completed by his works And the scripture was fulfilled that says Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness. And he was called a friend of God. See that a person is justified by works and not by faith alone. Response number three, Rahab. And in the same way was not also Rahab the prostitute justified by works when she received the messengers and sent them out by another way. And then response number four, in concluding this section, for the body apart from works is dead, so also faith apart from works is dead. Okay, so that's the text. That's how it's put together. A statement, an illustration, a restatement, and then objection, and responses to those objections, and a restatement again at the very And let me unpack it for us this morning with three basic points you see there on page eight of your bulletin. Point one, faith without works is a fake faith. Faith without works is a fake faith. One of the more difficult personal and pastoral challenges inside of Christianity, I would contest, is the challenge of fake faith. I think most of us recognize, even intuitively, that there's a difference between real and fake faith, living and dead faith. And sure enough, the Bible throughout makes this very distinction. Beginning with our passage this morning, verse 17: so also faith by itself, if it does not have works, is dead. In verse 19, you believe that God is one, you do well. Even the demons believe. Shudder. In other words, the demons have faith in one sense. They believe God exists. They have no Doubt whatsoever in God's existence. And yet, would any of us want to say that the demons have saving faith, saving belief? Well, no. And neither do they, they shudder. Shudder at the prospect of who God is and their eventual damnation And that's just the point. Fake faith does not save. Look at verse 14. What good is it, my brothers, if someone says he has faith but does not have works? Can that faith save him That's a rhetorical question. The implied answer, of course, is no. Fake faith does not save. It might look real Just like that stuffed grizzly bear or mountain lion in the hunter's lodge looks real. It's not. It's dead Look at verse 26, that final illustration. For as the body apart from the spirit is dead, so also faith apart from works is dead. I trust. Many of you have watched through walked through the Natural History Museum. Kids, when you walk into the Natural History Museum down on the Washington, D. C. Mall, when you walk in, what's the first thing you see, anybody? It's a big, massive something. What is it? Anyone just shout it out. An elephant, right? It's pretty cool, right? You look at that amazing. Then if you're walking in from the mall side and you go left into the hall over there, then you you see giraffe. Zebra, bears, and they look really real. Are they real? Are they hunting, playing, breathing, jumping around? Well, no. They don't move. They don't breathe because they are finally dead. And such is fake faith. It looks real. But it's not breathing. It's not alive. It's not producing. There's no spirit And as I said, the fact that not all faith is real faith is one of the more difficult personal and pastoral challenges inside of Christianity, it's personal because we often find ourselves wondering, am I really a Christian? And it's a pastoral challenge because we often find ourselves in conversations with others. They're doubting. We're thinking, okay, do I encourage this person? Do I discourage them? Do I challenge them because I don't think they are? Or do I try to assure them because they think they are? What do I do? What do I say in this moment? It's a tough pastoral challenge. Remember when my daughters were younger, I can't tell you how many times they would say to me, Dad, do you think I'm really a Christian And sometimes they would say, I think I am. And other times they'd say, I don't think I am. And of course it's not just kids, it's adults too I've had conversations with one or two of you. I've had conversations with myself. You stumble into a sin again and you think to myself, ah, I did it again. Am I really a Christian? As a child, as a teenager, I dedicated my life to Christ. How many times I remember praying a prayer at 3. I went forward and got baptized at 7. I dedicated us again at 13, 17, 19. You go to way to camp, you hear a really impactful sermon. The song just grips you. But tears come to your eyes. The preacher says something about giving your life to Christ, abandoning everything, and you think, yes. And everything in that moment seems really clear. You want Christ. So you do whatever he tells you. You go forward, you kneel and pray, you write your sin on a little piece of paper, and you tack it to the cross he tells you to tack it to down front. You get rid of your secular CDs. Maybe you break up with the girl or guy. You're following Jesus now. Then a few weeks pass. A few months pass. A few years pass. Little by little, you're just kind of living the same way again. And you think to yourself, am I really a Christian? I know I had that heated emotional experience back there at camp, but is this real It's not just children and adults who think this. It's even the dead Matthew 7, Jesus remarks, On that day many will say to me, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name or cast out demons in your name and do mighty works in your name? And then I will declare to them, I never knew you. Depart from me, you workers of lawlessness. In other words, it sounds as if people show up on the day of judgment Understanding themselves at that moment before the whole thing trans, understanding themselves to be with Christ. I prophesied in your name, I cast out demons in your name, I preached sermons in your name, I took my kids to Sunday school in your name. And that phrase is a little scary, isn't it? In your name. It's not just like, yeah, I trusted God. It's like, no, I did these things in the name of Jesus Christ. And Jesus says, Never knew you. Depart from me. It's scary. And the problem Jesus is identifying is the same problem that James identifies. I skipped a verse when I read from Matthew 7. It actually begins this way: Lord, not me, everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven. But the one who does the will of my Father who is in heaven. Jesus is interested in those who do the will of the Father. Theirs is the kingdom of heaven. James uses the language of works, doing the will of my father, same idea. Is my faith real? Or is my faith fake? Now, some streams of historic Christianity have tried to solve the personal and pastoral problem in this kind of subjective psychological angst we can feel. Is it real? By fiddling with the gospel and mechanizing salvation And so, with all due respect to our Roman Catholic friends, what the entire Protestant tradition has opposed is the idea that you can guarantee salvation simply by Participating in certain objective rites, apart from the nature or the quality of faith. Infant baptism, it clears away original sin. Going to the priests and confessing and receiving the supper clears away ongoing sin. Now, mechanizing salvation like that does seem to solve one It removes the drama, the psychological drama of examining your faith and asking whether or not it's real. The problem, of course, is that it changes the gospel of Jesus Christ, the gospel that he died for our sins. That he rose again, that he accomplished our salvation. And we don't do it. All we got to do is reach out and grab it by faith. It offers a false salvation. It creates a church filled with people who, in some sense, believe they have a nominal faith, a faith in name. But they're finally relying on themselves, relying on the rights. And of course it's not just Roman Catholic churches It's Protestant churches. It's Baptist churches. We too can mechanize our faith. I went forward. I prayed the prayer. I was baptized. I went through that mechanism, you see. I'm a Christian. Okay, so there's such a thing as fake faith. Faith that looks like real faith on the outside. I believe. And it's dead on the inside. What makes fake faith fake? Well, the clear answer from our passage this morning is that it doesn't produce Works. Faith without works is dead, says the passage. Fake faith does not do the will of the Father in heaven, says Jesus. Fake faith is more concerned about doing what's convenient. or easy or comfortable than in following Jesus. Fake faith tells itself that it loves Jesus And intellectually, sincerely, it does in some sense. But really, fake faith loves itself most of all. And it follows Jesus insofar as love of self and love of Jesus overlap and are going for the same things. But the second love of self and love of Jesus go in a different direction. Love of self basically always wins. I want you to think about that for a second. Jesus offers things that unregenerate Unholy spirit, circumcised hearts, non-Christian hearts, want. Think about what Jesus offers: a sense of purpose. A sense of meaning, a sense of not being guilty for sins, eternity. You don't have to have a born-again heart to want those things. Everybody wants those things: a sense of meaning, a sense of purpose, a sense of not being guilty or ashamed, eternity. I mean, who doesn't want that? Right, you offer me that, and I think, yeah, I want that. Sure, of course. Do I really love Jesus? Now let's say add to those internal incentives, add some external Social incentives and affirmations as well. Suppose your family congratulates you for becoming a Christian. Suppose the larger social or cultural circles that you live inside of Offer you social affirmation. But between the internal and the external affirmations, I dare say the majority of people will say, yeah, of course. That's why you go back and you watch movies from Britain in 1800 and everybody's a Christian. That's why you go around different countries of the world today. Everybody's a Christian. Dare say the majority of people with those internal incentives of what Jesus offers, And social affirmation, of course we're going to choose that. But I don't finally need to be a Christian to want those things. That's why the historians. Of revival of how to say, okay, what's the difference between true revival and false revival? R. C. Sprole writing about Jonathan Edwards and the series of revivals that Edwards witnessed in the early 1700s explained. The dilemma, he says, is the revival genuine, or is it a mere outburst of superficial emotion? Do we find empty enthusiasm backed by nothing of substance? Or does the enthusiasm itself signal a major work of God? In every recorded revival in church history, the signs that followed it are mixed. The gold is always mixed with the dross Every revival has its counterfeits. Distortions tend to raise questions about the real. The gift of the Holy Spirit are aped and mimicked by Satan. This is why it is necessary to provide marks that can help us distinguish between the true spirit of God and false spirits. What are the signs of true revival? Well, one crucial part of the answer, according to Edwards, was the love of God, which manifests itself in holiness. We could say in works and obedience. Where there is true revival, you see love and holiness. You see obedience. Let me take a brief tangent and talk about preaching for a second A typical Christian sermon can do one of two things. It can, following the Bible, unsettle people in their sins. Or it can reassure people in grace. And over time, a healthy church with good preaching will do some of Both, according to the passages of Scripture that are being preached. If you find yourself in a church where all it does is unsettle you in your sin and call you to work harder, You've probably found yourself in a moralistic pharasia church. Whereas, if you find yourself in a church where all it does is reassure you in who you are, You've probably found yourself in a cheap grace, maybe even liberal church. Good church, good preaching over time, follows the Bible And sometimes the Bible assures. Sometimes the Bible unsettles. What is James trying to do in this passage? I think he's trying to unsettle us a little bit. Notice his argument of posture, verse 18, but someone will say, okay, I don't think you're getting me, I'm gonna come back at you here, he says. And then look at the language in verse 20. Do you want to be shown, you foolish person, that faith apart from works is useless I mean that's that's some pretty sharp language. If I said to you, okay, you fools, you guys would be like, whoa, Jonathan, right? But what is James trying to do? He's coming up to us, he's sort of shaping, shaking us by the lapels, and saying, you gotta get this. Wake up. Get this. He's trying to unsettle them. In other words, I do think today's sermon, if I'm going to be faithful to this text from James and the Holy Spirit behind James, it should cause us to ask some questions. Is my faith accompanied by works? Is my faith real or fake? You might think of the poster that hangs in how many youth group room walls Says if you were charged with being a Christian, would there be enough evidence to convict? A little cheesy, but it makes the point. This is why Paul in 2 Corinthians 13 says, Examine yourselves to see whether you are in the faith. Test yourselves. Is my faith accompanied by works? Well you can picture a marital situation. The wife says to the husband, I know you say you love me And I know you sincerely mean those words in some sense, but then she lists all the ways he never keeps his promises, never does what he she asks, never helps, is never tender, only shows tenderness and kindness when he's angling. for something. What she's saying is, you don't really love me. And so it is with fake faith. doesn't produce works. Works are to faith what heat is to a flame. A flame produces Heat, right? No heat, no flame. Give me a flame that doesn't prove heat. That's not a flame. And so with a faith, a true faith, produces works. Take away the works, then I'm going to say you don't finally have faith. It is very much What you guys don't know about me is when I go and preach elsewhere, I often use whiteboards. I'm kind of a whiteboard guy. What we have here is faith produces Works. Okay? That is the relationship the text establishes for us. And that brings us to a second call. What about works to faith? Well, point two, works demonstrate and complete faith. They show you that real faith is present. Look at verse 18. But someone will say, You have faith and I have works. Show me your faith apart from your works, and I will show you my faith by my works. In other words, works demonstrate Faith. Faith produces works. Works in turn produce faith. They got a virtuous cycle here. But not only that, they also are active in faith and they complete faith. Look at verse 22. You see that faith was active along with works and faith was completed by works. Active in completed By works completed by faith. And I trust, friends, that this relationship between faith and works Works demonstrating, proving faith is not a tough one to grasp. We get it, I think, intuitively. If I have faith, in this chair to hold me, I can rest and I will rest my weight on this chair, trusting that it will hold me. Or many of you have heard a kind of an overused sermon illustration, but still useful, about the man uh Gathering a crowd at the side of Niagara Falls, and he says, who has faith? Who believes I can walk across the Niagara Falls on this tightrope And the crowd cheers. And then he says, okay, who who believes I can walk across this tightrope with a person in a wheelbarrow? And the crowd cheers. And then he says, okay, who will get in the wheelbarrow? Crowd is quiet at that point. Right? I say you can do it, but I'm not really going to rest myself in the wheel bear. I'm not going to rest myself in the chair. Do I have faith? Well what does Jesus mean by works? Well, he uses the illustration in verses 15 and 16 of caring for someone in need. Tony helped us think about that a little bit last week. Yet I think the good works that Jesus or that James has in mind here go beyond just kind of those good deeds that we might do out there as such. Consider the next three illustrations: demons, Abraham, Rahab. What did the demons not do? They don't obey. But what about Abraham? Verse 21 tells us he obeyed, even though it meant potentially sacrificing his son. Verse 25 tells us Rahab obeyed, even though she meant risking herself. She told the spies who came to her, I know the Lord has given this land into Israel's hand. In other words, by obedient or by works, I understand James simply to mean obedience. Abraham and Rahab were obedient. Let's just think about their particular acts of obedience for a second longer. Abraham, literally, as we we read about a little bit earlier, put that which was most precious to him A son, an heir, on the altar. He put family on the altar He put his identity and hopes for the future on the altar. After all, what would an ancient Near Eastern man find identity and hope for the future in? Well, in his son. His faith in God led him to put his future, his identity, that which was most precious to him, over to God. Let's talk about your faith Is there something you're holding back in life, something significant? Something you won't sacrifice But friend, you realize you can call yourself a Christian and yet clutch that thing all the way to the grave. All the way to damnation. That's precisely what this text is warning us about. To say, I want Jesus, I'm going to do mighty works in Jesus' name. And yet I'm going to continue to coddle this thing and tell myself I can have both. What that means is actually I don't love Jesus. I love the benefits of Jesus. I'm using Jesus for his benefits. Well, while Abraham sacrificed that which was most precious, Rahab put herself at grave risk. How grateful I am for the way Tony and Erlene put themselves at risk by moving to Maryland to serve us. Grateful I am for Angela, in the way she flew to Jordan a couple of weeks ago, to serve the saints and the missionaries there, who themselves were putting themselves at great risk to serve in Central Asia in the Middle East. As I said a moment ago, Rahab told the spy she knew the Lord had given the land of Israel into their hand. Well, we no longer have a land we're seeking to protect. Rather, now we're called to go to the nations. Friends, do you realize the Lord has given the nations? into our hands. That's why he tells us whether they love us or hate us, whether their political uh borders and their governments would say we can or can't come in, the Lord says to us, they are yours Have you ever considered going as a missionary? Putting all that you have at risk by going as a missionary? Is that something you've you've thought about and prayed about? I think a faith showing itself in works, according to this text, in its New Testament location, would call all of us to consider that thing, that possibility. Would Christ call me to go, my family to go? Or, even if you wouldn't call us to go, are you determined to stay and sacrifice yourself to send those who would go and support those who would go? As I know so many of you do. Here's another example. When our kids were little, doing hospitality felt like a risk. In many ways. Shan especially would feel exhausted after being with the little kids all day. And you know how that is at times, you're like, I can't even think straight. And now we're to host people. Serve people? Well, it required working hard to do so by faith. She was a wonderful example of doing that kind of work by faith, serving the saints In those occasions. Faith produces works, obedience. Obedience demonstrates, is active in, is completed by. Faith. And I appreciate the way the James illustrates the points with Abraham and Rahab. Abraham was a man. Rahab was a woman. Abraham is the father of the Jews. Rahab was a Canaanite. Abraham was a holy man. Rahab was a prostitute. Abraham prepares to sacrifice his own son's life, and Rahab prepares to sacrifice her own life And yet here they are, both as illustrations of saving faith for us. He, as I said, father of Israel. She would eventually marry Salmon, who would father Boaz, who was the grandfather of David. Who is in the line of Christ. In other words, friends, I don't care if you grew up in a church and you're a good church kid Or someone who's grown up far away from the church and living in a hard, rebellious life, the invitation of this text is the same. Trust in Christ He died for sinners. He rose again. And now he calls us to repent and follow obediently after him. Always that will look like devoting your days to following him and loving him and neighbor. Now I've contrasted fake faith with real faith. Dietrich Bonhoeffer used a similar language. He talked about cheap grace and costly grace. He's watching the hypocritical German church, German churches of the 1930s, and cheap grace, he said. Is the preaching of forgiveness without requiring repentance, baptism without church discipline, communion without confession, absolution without personal confession Cheap grace is grace without discipleship, grace without the cross, grace without Jesus Christ living and incarnate. Costly grace. It's costly because it calls us to follow. And it is grace because it calls us to follow Jesus Christ. It is costly because it costs us our life. It is grace because it gives us the only true life. Goshly grace doesn't mean we never Sin. It means we fight against sin. You I feel like I say this almost every other sermon. I'm going to keep saying this. The difference between a Christian and a non-Christian is not that a Christian never sins It's that when a Christian sins and discovers that fact, he or she then takes God's side against the sin instead of sin's side against God My wife repeated that to her first graders over and over, and it was like a motto in the class. One of the parents then came to Shannon and said, My six-year-old said to my four-year-old Following Christ means like you're driving a car and you turn around with the wheel and you go in a different direction, and you take God's side against the sin instead of sin's side against God. In other words, kids, we can all understand this basic idea. Now, as we're thinking about that relationship, I admit that the message, faith leads to obedience, and obedience demonstrates faith, can feel Heavy. It's the heaviness of looking at the whole law, thinking, do I need to obey the whole law? It's the heaviness, the feeling like, do I need to do more? I gotta walk out of here this morning and do more. Is that what you're saying, Jonathan? Friends, I wonder if you've ever looked around the room and you've compared yourself to others and you're thinking, man, they do so much, I don't do as much as them. Or you've gone to a Sunday afternoon prayer meeting and prayer requests go out, and you think, oh, I'm just feeling more and more guilty, all these opportunities. I can't do all of these opportunities, but does that mean I'm a bad Christian? The same times it's interesting, isn't it? Because Jesus says his yoke is easy and his burden is light. Why would he say that? If we're called to do the will of the Father in heaven, obey the whole law, why would he say his yoke is easy and his burden is light? Why would the psalmist say, I delight in following the law? Well, I think because true faith more and more really loves Jesus Wants to follow Jesus. Back to the marriage analogy. When a man is in love with a woman, he doesn't find serving her a burden but a light. The works of faith possess the inevitability of love. Think of how Jacob worked for seven years to gain Rachel's hand in marriage. Jacob served seven years for Rachel, and they seemed to him but a few days because of the love he had for her. I think of Paul's words in Galatians 5, for in Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision counts for anything, but only faith working through love. Faith working through love. Are you calling me to do more, Lord Jesus? Hold on. Do you love him? Is he what your heart most wants? True faith shows itself in love. If you're Christian, friends, I trust you know what it is to grow in your love for Christ. You obey, you do, you act because you love. You have this new love You did not before. You have new desires. Work and obedience aren't finally about duty. They are finally about desire. Faith produces, but also desires Because it has a new love, obedience, and following So if you're looking around the room and you're comparing yourself to others, you're missing the point. This is about you and Jesus, finally. Whether you have two cents like the woman in the parable or the rich man, we're called to spend it all. Whatever we have. For Jesus. If you have a little bit of time or you have a lot of time, a little bit in your emotional wallet or a lot in your emotional wallet, that's what you're dispens Then we have different amounts of stamina, different amounts of energy, different amounts of I can deal with other people. This is not just a message for extroverts. Whatever you have. Commit it to Christ by faith. Spend it. And if you're proud of yourself because of how much you're doing or spending or caring, be careful. Who do you really love? If you're giving out of your strength or out of your wealth, you just might be giving less than you think. But for everyone, to answer the question, are we really following him? We begin to have to, by examining the fruits of our lives, yes, but then we also look to our hearts. Does my heart most love Christ, or does my heart most love Maybe it's not the big things holding you back from loving and following Him, like giving up your career to go overseas as a missionary. Maybe it's the little everyday things Of food. Alcohol. Control and anger. Reputation. What people at school, work, think of you. Friend, whatever that thing is, do not let it damn you. Do not be fooled by the fake animals at the Natural History Museum Or by fake faith. Lean into what you believe The word integrity, I said, means integrated And the two Christian has an integrated life. You do not want to live The disintegrated self. That's not saving faith. When we disintegrate our faith and our works Our faith and our obedience when we separate those two things. Our consciences will warn us for a little while But eventually our consciences will wear down, they'll become calloused, they'll eventually even go quiet and stop talking That is not where you want to be. Where we want to be. So how are you training your conscience today towards integrity? Or towards disintegrity, disintegratedness. Point three Our works justify or prove the reality of our faith. And the third point is essentially making the same, repeating the second point. Point two was: works demonstrate faith. Point three is works justify or prove faith. I'm, as I said, saying the same thing, and yet I'm separating it out to give us a chance to think about this concept of justification. Which is crucial to the passage and which leads many people to think, well, is James contradicting Paul? Because Paul seems to say we're justified by faith alone, but James is saying, well, faith and works. Are they contradicting one another? We need a moment to think about that. Turn back to Romans 3, just to see this for yourself Romans 3. 23, all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God, and are justified by his grace as a gift. Into verse 25, to be received by faith. In verse 28, we hold that no one is justified by faith apart from works Or we hold, I'm sorry, we hold that one is justified by faith apart from works of the law. Okay, so justification is a gift I receive the gift by faith. I'm justified, declared righteous by God's sovereign unilateral declaration. Just He does it. He's accomplished it through Christ's work on the Christ. He declares it just. I receive that by faith My works, even the work of receiving by faith, has nothing to do with my justification. Faith is simply reaching out and grabbing what has been handed to you. It's not a work as such. Right? It doesn't justify me in any sense whatsoever, says Paul. But now we go back to James. James 2. Look there again. James 2. 21. Was not Abraham our father justified by works when he offered up His son Isaac on the altar? Verse 24. You see that a person is justified by works and not by faith alone. In verse 25, in the same way was not also Rahab, the prostitute, justified by works. Years ago, I think I've told you this story before, I met regularly for dinner with a PhD student in the New Testament at Catholic University was a convinced Roman Catholic. He and I would get to dinner together for dinner. And basically all we would do is argue about justification. Probably not the best strategy to build a friendship and to share the gospel, but that's what we did It was useful, I think. And you can bet your bottom dollar, he was all about James. And he kept pointing to James and saying, John and I were justified by faith and works. Don't you see? It's it's how it works One person illustrated the relationship between faith and works as being like two oars of a boat. You got the faith oar, you got the works oar. And you need both to row your way into heaven. That illustration is damnably wrong. Heaven is a gift. Justification is a gift. You don't row there. You reach out with faith to accept the gift. The person who does this is then working with both hands. The key, I think, here is to recognize that the word justification is used in at least two ways in our Bibles. Paul Uses justification language in Romans 3 and elsewhere to identify, and I have this in your notes, to identify the cause or the ground of our justification. Think of it like Purchasing a Costco membership. Fill that in the blank. Costco membership in that first blank. Somebody's got to go up to the counter. You pay for the membership. And now that you have the membership, you can go in, right? The membership has been purchased. They hand you the car. I got the card. They bought the car. I got the card. Right. At the same time, justification can be used. James uses it. And sometimes Paul, interestingly, also uses it in a different way. Look at verse 18. Show me your faith apart from your works. I will give you my faith by my works. James's interest is in the demonstration or the living proof of proof as we've discussed. In other words. It's the card. Kids, what happens when you and your parents go into Costco or Sam's Club? What do your parents show the person Anybody ever gone to Costco? What do they show you? What do your parents have to show? Have to show the card, right? And the card says, well, what does the card say? Card says, I'm a what? Anybody? I'm a member. Now is that the purchasing of the membership? No, it's just like I'm a member. Here's my card. I'm going on in That is how James is using the concept of justification. There's the purchase of membership, that's Paul. And then there's a, hey, check it out, here's my card. I'm a member. It's been purchased for me. That's James. Now, interestingly, as you're reading the Bible, it's just a little tangent, a little tip, as you're reading your Bible, sometimes Paul uses it this way too. So if you're to look at Romans 2, for instance Romans 2 verse 13 he says, For it is not the hearers of the law who are righteous before God, but the doers of the law who will be justified. That's interesting. Scripture talks about a present justification by faith, but then Scripture also talks about a final justification, which is by works. We show up on the last day. And our works will be considered. And for those who are truly trusting in Christ, there will be works, proving they got the card. You see? They got the membership Our works will be functioning it rather as that card. So you have a final justification by works throughout scripture. You see it in John as well, but then you have a present justification by faith alone. What grants us salvation? It's what Christ did. And I'm holding on to it by faith. What then demonstrates I'm saved? Well, the fact that I'm I'm repenting and I'm I'm walking in a new direction in life. I've turned the steering wheel of the car and now I'm Following after him. You can see this all summed up with the sentence I gave you in the bulletin. We're justified, put the word there, by faith alone. But the faith which justifies is never alone. We're justified by faith alone, but the faith which justifies is never alone. It's accompanied by, it's lived out like heat from a flame, works, obedience Jonathan Edwards, I said a moment ago, was both an observer and a preacher during the First Great Awakening of the 1730s and 40s. His church in Northampton, Massachusetts, had some of the first and the earliest revivals. Going on. And those revivals were criticized by some as not being true revivals, not being true works of God, but nothing more than unchecked emotionalism. Right? And it's true. There were excessive displays of emotions in those those early revivals of swooning and fainting and convulsions and And so forth. And critics would come along and say that that's all fake. That's people kind of whipping themselves up into a frenzy. And so in response Edwards, studying the scriptures and watching what happened, pinned several works to defend what true revival was and to distinguish true revival from its counterfeits, and he knew that whenever God acted, satanic counterfeits would follow. We have to have eyes for both. The five biblical signs of true revival, he said, are The operation exalts Jesus. The Spirit attacks Satan's interests The Spirit exalts the holy scriptures. The Spirit lifts up sound doctrine And the Spirit promotes love to God and man And that last mark he unpacked like this. He said, What is the surest character of true, divine, supernatural love that distinguishes it from the counterfeits that arise from a natural love of self? It is the Christian virtue of humility that shines in it. Divine love above all others renounces and abases what we term self. Christian love or true love is a humble and holy love. In that person, we see a sense of his own Smallness, vileness, weakness, and utter insufficiency. We see a lack of self-confidence. We see self-emptiness, self-denial, and poverty of spirit And we see a following after Christ. These are the manifest tokens of the Spirit of God. Relatedly, a century later, British pastor J. C. Rile said this True holiness does not consist merely of believing and feeling, but of doing and bearing It does not consist merely of inward sensations and impressions. It is much more than tears and sighs and bodily excitements and a quick impulse and a passionate feeling of attachment to our favorite preacher. And our own religious party, and a readiness to quarrel with everyone who does not agree with us, it is something of the image of Christ Which can be seen and observed by others in our private life And habits and character and doing. Friend, are you a person of integrity Am I a real Christian? The good news is that finally Doesn't depend on how strong my faith is, how hot that flame is. It depends on the object of my faith. And who I'm reaching out and holding on to. The resources are not in me. The resources are not in you. And we're holding on to Christ by faith. And we're following after him. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, we confess to having small faith, weak faith. Too often we wonder fake faith. Lord, is our fake, is our faith fake? If it is, forgive us. Have mercy on us. Pity us, we ask Condescend to show us grace and mercy once more, we ask, so that we might follow you in obedience and holiness So that we might give ourselves over to you who are most lovely. You who are most good. We pray this all in your name, Lord Jesus. Amen