Good morning. It is a joy to be looking at God's Word together with you this morning. Uh just as we were gathering at the beginning of the service, uh Sunshine said Reading scripture is a big deal, like because it's it's the word of God that that works in people's hearts and changes hearts. And so I appreciate that reminder of the sobriety of it, but also the power of it. So I'm excited to look at God's word together with you. So please pray with me before we do that. Lord, we pray that you would open our eyes That we may behold wondrous things from your law, from your word. Your word is truth, O Lord. Sanctify us in the truth this morning We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. The year was 1781. The day, October nineteenth, the time, ten thirty a. m. The location. Anybody? Any American Revolution nerds? Good guess. Yorktown. Yorktown, Virginia. The American War for Independence was ongoing, but the Continental Army, led by General George Washington with the support of French troops, had engaged with and surrounded the British troops in Yorktown. And after a three week siege which included bombardments and ground assaults, the British troops surrendered at ten thirty a. m. on October 19, 1781. This was a globally significant event and moment. The inauguration of a new government idea in the American colonies is big. And the significance of this moment in history was captured in a recent popular Broadway show. And the lyrics of a section of a song go like this. We negotiate the terms of surrender. I see George Washington smile. We escort their men out of Yorktown. They stagger home single file Tens of thousands of people flood the streets, there are screams and church bells ringing, and as our fallen foes retreat, I hear the song they're singing. The world turned upside down. The world turned upside down. Stop there so we don't all start singing. Then in the song, Marquis de Lafayette exclaims, freedom for America, freedom for France! In this moment, in this unlikely turn of events, the world as they knew it was turned upside down. And what did it mean for them? It meant freedom It meant liberty. Well, now as we open God's word together, we're continue or uh we're going further back to approximately 30 AD Where we will see a moment where the world was turned upside down, meaning it was disrupted, it was rattled. And what does it mean for us today? Freedom. Liberty So please turn with me in your Bibles back to 30 AD, to Luke 4. We'll be reading verses 14 to 30. That's page 859, if I looked it up right in your Bibles. Luke four, fourteen to thirty. Please read or listen along as I read. Beginning in verse 14: And Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit to Galilee, and a report about him went through all the surrounding country, and he taught in their synagogues, being glorified by all. And he came to Nazareth, where he had been brought up. And as was his custom, he went to the synagogue on the Sabbath day, and he stood up to read And the scroll of the prophet Isaiah was given to him. He unrolled the scroll and found the place where it was written: The Spirit of the Lord is upon me. Because he has anointed me to proclaim good news to the poor. He has sent me to proclaim liberty to the captives and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty those who are oppressed. To proclaim the year of the Lord's favor. And he rolled up the scroll and gave it back to the attendant and sat down. And the eyes of all in the synagogue were fixed on him. And he began to say to them, Today this scripture has been fulfilled in your hearing. And all spoke well of him, and marveled at the gracious words that were coming from his mouth, and they said, Is not this Joseph's son? And he said to them, Doubtless you will quote to me this proverb Physician, heal yourself. What we have heard you did at Copernaum, do here in your home town as well. And he said, Truly I say to you, no prophet is acceptable in his home town. But in truth I tell you, there were many widows in Israel in the days of Elijah, when the heavens were shut up three years and six months, and a great famine came over all the land. And Elijah was sent to none of them, but only to Zarephath, in the land of Sidon, to a woman who was a widow. And there were many lepers in Israel in the time of the prophet Elisha. And none of them was cleansed, but only Naaman the Syrian. When they heard these things, all in the synagogue were filled with wrath And they rose up and drove him out of the town, and brought him to the brow of the hill on which their town was built, so that they could throw him down the cliff. But passing through their midst, he went away. This is God's word. The main point of this text that will guide us as we go through the passage is this: Jesus goes in power to any heart that will receive his good news of liberty. Jesus goes in power to any heart that will receive his good news of liberty. And for the purposes of outlining the sermon, what was helpful for me, or if you're taking notes this morning, I'm going to be asking a few questions of a simplified statement taken from the pinnacle, the apex of this passage. The statement is, Jesus proclaims liberty to the captives. Jesus proclaims liberty to the captives, and the questions we will ask of this passage are, how? How will he do that How can he do that? When? When is this liberty? What captives? And how do we respond? We'll go through each one of those. Well let's look at the word together. Verses 14 and 15 are the inauguration of Jesus' ministry in Luke, placed immediately after his baptism and temptation. And when a ministry begins, you want to set the tone. You want to establish expectations, explain what you'll be about. And Luke places this passage here at the beginning of Jesus' ministry, and it serves to lay that foundation, set the tone for the rest of Luke. Everything else in Luke makes sense. Well here we are at the beginning of his ministry, and the first descriptive words of Jesus' ministry in verse 14 help to answer our first question: how? How can Jesus proclaim liberty to the captives? Who is he? Well, what case does Jesus make in this passage for that authority and power to set at liberty those who are oppressed? On whose authority can he do these things? Look at verse 14. Jesus returned from his temptation in the power of the Spirit to Galilee. That's the first thing Luke tells us as Jesus' earthly ministry begins, that it is spirit-powered. Jesus is a pneumatic character. He is spirit-powered, ministering in the power of the Spirit. So whether it's Zachariah being filled with the Spirit and prophesying after the birth of John the Baptist, if it's David writing Psalms in the power of the Spirit, if it's the Holy Spirit giving the disciples the words to speak. The Holy Spirit empowers gospel ministry, ministry of the Word of God. So Jesus Himself is powered by the Spirit What's the result of that? What are the effects? What's the outcome of the early ministry of Jesus? A report went through all the surrounding country. He's teaching in the synagogues. People are hearing. Word is spreading. He's trending. And he's being glorified by all. Glorified by all. Remember that. The power of the Holy Spirit at work results in people glorifying God. The power of the Holy Spirit at work results in people glorifying God. So he went to Nazareth. He stands up to read from the Isaiah scroll, and he reads, The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, as Luke already told us. Because he has anointed me. Proclaim good news to the poor. And he goes on. So he is sent by God. He is anointed by God. The Spirit of God is upon him. He is a messenger of God. He is God. In the Gospel of John, he tells us I and the Father are one. He is not claiming here to be anything less than that. Therefore, he, as God, has the ability to do these things. He has the power to do these things, namely proclaiming liberty to the captives And I know that's common knowledge now. But be there. Put yourself in 30 AD This is the one whose words possess authority, as it says in verse 32 of chapter 4. He professes to be the fulfillment of Scripture This is him of who it has been prophesied. And now he is here. And now he is establishing who he is, what his authority is, and he's about to tell them what he's going to do. So how can Jesus proclaim liberty to the captives? He is the God-annointed, spirit-powered fulfillment of Scripture He is the Messiah that they have been waiting for and that we desperately need. Let's look more carefully at this passage that Jesus reads from Isaiah. To understand what these various statements mean for the original hearers. And actually, um, just call this a this just uh a surprise point. The question, what What is liberty to the captives? I think that'll be helpful to understand what we're uh if if you need that outline in your mind for the next few minutes. So what? Jesus comes to his hometown of Nazareth in the power of the Spirit, and he has established a custom of going to the synagogues on the Sabbath. And on this day he is appointed as the one to read from the prophetic scrolls and to teach or preach for the service. And the scroll of Isaiah is handed to Jesus, and he turns to Isaiah 61. They've heard of this teacher, Jesus. Reports about him have gone out. He's being glorified, and now he's standing in their synagogue. And he reads the following. And I'll read it again, starting in verse 18. The Spirit of the Lord is upon me. Because he has anointed me to proclaim good news to the poor. He has sent me to proclaim liberty to the captives, and recovering of sight to the blind. To set at liberty those who are oppressed, to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor. Then Jesus rolls up the scroll, hands it back, sits down, and says, Today this scripture has been fulfilled in your hearing. We're gonna stop here for a minute and just marvel at all of this for a little bit, just like the original hearers. Jesus has come for who? For the poor, for the captives, for the blind, for the oppressed. Now, is he referring to a literal, a physical, or a spiritual state of poverty, blindness, captivity? Definitely both. We have examples throughout scriptures where these conditions have been both physical and spiritual. Immediately after our passage, we see Jesus address the physical needs of people. In verse thirty five he cast out a demon, setting a captive of Satan free. In verse thirty eight he heals Simon's mother, who had a high fever. Verses forty to forty one he heals many sicknesses and casts out demons. He gives sight to the blind later. Jesus in his ministry wasn't singularly focused on teaching, but was aware of the people. He was aware of their physical needs, their broken condition in a fallen world. He had compassion on them and he was sent to heal them. But he also knew they had a greater need than their physical condition. And we know from chapter 19 of Luke that in a spiritual sense, Jesus, the Son of Man, came to seek and to save the lost. Not the physically directionally challenged lost, but the spiritually lost. And the prisoners who are to be set free are those trapped in the bondage and oppression of Satan's grip through sin. So what does that mean for you today? How should that comfort or convict us today Were you lost in darkest night? Thinking that you knew the way? The sin that promised joy and life was leading to the grave Do you remember that we all, like sheep, have gone astray and turned every one of us to our own way? You former captives to sin. Jesus came and proclaimed liberty for you. You were unshackled. Your chains fell off. Your heart was set free to no longer follow after sin, no longer follow after the flesh. But to follow after your Savior. That's what He came to do. You poor, you pour in spirit. Good news is proclaimed to you by Jesus You blind, you now see. You have been given eyes to see. You have spiritual sight to behold the glories of God, the wonders of his power and love, the tenderness of his patience and grace. Boys, teens, young men, all men, Jesus proclaims liberty to the captives Do you feel captive to sin at times? Neutralized, made ineffective by the guilt and shame of sin, wondering how you can ever be free. Jesus proclaims liberty to you. And he offers forgiveness. Find strength and hope in these words. Girls, young ladies, Jesus sets at liberty those who are oppressed. I was reminded again this week and grieve that our society preys on you young ladies especially with lies. They want you to think that you need to look and dress a certain way, and that if you don't, you won't be loved or accepted. These lies are not true. And listening to them will not free you from any oppression, but will deepen it. Jesus sets at liberty those who are oppressed. He came for you. Truth is found in the Word of God. You oppressed, you weary, you heavy laden, you have been given liberty in Christ. You oppressed You weary, you heavy laden, you have liberty in Christ. He's talking about the spiritually oppressed, those crushed by the cruel grip of Satan's power And praise God for that. Praise God that Jesus came to free us not necessarily from the oppressions of this life, but to free us from eternal judgment and separation from Him. That doesn't suddenly make the anxieties and stressors and legitimate challenges of this life wash away, though, does it? But it is worth dwelling on. To help illustrate that, I have maybe for the first time in history an illustration. Uh when I was in the military. I was given a unique set of skills. And one of the things I remember learning that was really cool to me was how to identify people far away when there's a lot of thick brush. Underbrush, bushes, hedges, whatever. When you look at a bush, you see a bush. You can't see anything on the other side. However, if you have a scope and you set yourself back a little ways from that bush, If you look, you see lots of little tiny specks of light. And if you change the focal point of that scope where it's not focusing on the bush, but it's focusing on those little specks of light, something crazy happens in the scope. It washes the bush away and it focuses on those little specks and you can see something far away on the other side of that bush. We called it burning through the bush. You wouldn't be seen, they would be seen. It's a good thing. The brush was still there, but our focus was way beyond it. I am the first to say, amen, that challenges of this life and anxieties and frustrations, they are real and they loom large May loom large for some of you right now, this morning, and as soon as you leave from here. But when we open God's word and we seek out and dwell on truths like we see here in this passage, We can be reminded that we were spiritually oppressed and we have been given liberty. Today we don't know what Monday will bring But we do know that when it comes, we will be free from captivity to sin. We will be free from the grip of sin. And that freedom comes through the good news of the gospel. God is holy and perfect. We are sinless, or we are sinful. He is sinless. We've been separated from him, but God sent his son Jesus in the form of man who lived a perfect life Who died on the cross for our sins. And for those who repent and trust in him as their Savior, they can have forgiveness of those sins. They can have liberty. They can have Sight instead of blindness. You were captive to sin, oppressed, destined for the nation that our sins deserve, but you can be washed. Sanctified, justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and by the Spirit of our God. So if you're here today and you see what is written here, What we're talking about, and you don't have that assurance of liberty from sin, the assurance of salvation offered by Christ, and in your heart you want to know more, or you want that confidence of liberty. And freedom. Please speak to myself after the service or someone near you. There's nothing we would rather talk with you about. So, this isn't just a reading from Isaiah. This is a reading from Isaiah by the Son of God, speaking in the power of the Spirit, taking ownership of this prophecy. It has begun. I am here. I am the Spirit-Anointed One, and you just heard my mission statement. The world is starting to turn upside down. But just wait, because our next question to answer from the passage is, when? When will Jesus proclaim liberty to the captives We just wondered at the introductory words of Jesus' ministry, but also of note in this reading of Isaiah 61 is what Jesus does not say. So flip to Isaiah 61 in your Bibles. That's page 621. Very top left verse of page 621. To see this for yourselves. And then keep a finger at Luke 4. In Isaiah 61, we're starting at verse 2, it says this coming anointed one. Who we knew to be Jesus is going to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor and the day of vengeance of our God. But in Luke, Jesus does not say that last line. The vengeance is not there. Significant? I think it probably was. These residents of Nazareth lived in a land occupied by a foreign power. Rome. For all of their history they had regularly been terrorized by, attacked by, and waged war against surrounding Gentile nations, Moabites, Canaanites, Amalekites, Babylon, Assyria, Egypt For those in the original audience who knew what the next line was in Isaiah, they were probably looking forward to hearing that part of the prophecy, the coming of judgment from their Messiah. But they didn't. Friends, the absence of that line about vengeance is very good news for us. We live in an age not of judgment, but of mercy and grace. In an age of withheld judgment Jesus did not come for vengeance. That was not part of his mission statement. John 3:17 says it clearly: for God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world. But in order that the world might be saved through him. He came to show mercy, to offer salvation. But Jesus is returning. And when he does, he will judge the living and the dead. So call on the Lord for mercy and forgiveness while he may be found. When is Jesus proclaiming liberty to the captives? Right now. But not forever. Salvation, but not yet judgment. The world is turning a little bit more. But the next question to ask of the text, what captives? What captives are going to receive liberty? Let's look at this passage some more. Just after Jesus explains in no uncertain terms that the Isaiah prophecy is referring to him, we have verse 22. Which starts by saying, All spoke well of him, and marveled at the gracious words that were coming from his mouth. But that's countered with a critical or incredulous murmuring from the crowd. Isn't this Joseph's son? And at face value in Luke, we could question whether that was said in admiration or not, but the parallel passage in Mark includes that same remark: Isn't this Joseph's son? And follows up with, And they took offense at him. They're not impressed with Joseph's son. They're skeptical. Either way, in our passage this morning, Jesus starts off by being glorified by all in verse 15. Them feeling some sort of way about Jesus here, and by the end the crowd is ready to push him off a cliff. What he says to provoke that hostile response is the answer to our question. What captives? After we hear the crowd's response in verse 23, Jesus begins to address them again. Doubtless you will quote to me this proverb: physician, heal yourself. That's a traditional saying with a number of surviving parallels in classical and rabbinical literature. And the thrust of its meaning is: Jesus, look to your own needs. You seem to be offering to us what you do not have for yourself. And I think what they may be saying is that Jesus' humble state and low status doesn't align with the glories and riches of the coming Messiah that they envisioned. Jesus furthermore predicts their heart's response for a demand for some signs and wonders, like he did in Capernaum. So some ministry has taken place in Capernaum And we know from Scripture that signs and wonders did little to convince the hearts in Capernaum As they were listed among the unrepentant cities in Luke 10. And in Matthew 11, Jesus said, it would be better for Sodom. The city that was destroyed by fire, than it would be for Capernaum, because Capernaum did see the mighty works of God and rejected him. So Jesus is predicting that they'll ask for signs and wonders, but knows that those alone will not change hearts. If you're ever sharing the gospel with somebody or having a conversation, and they finally say, look, if Jesus stood right before me, or if you turn that chair into a bird, I'll believe. Well, we have examples right here that that is not the case. And you don't put God to the test Jesus then tells them that it is no surprise he is being questioned or doubted in his hometown. That's a prophet's fate. And it lines up nicely with all of Israel's history, where prophets are rejected by Israel and go to the surrounding Gentile peoples. And he provides two examples. One of Elijah going to the Sidonian widow, even though famine was over the entire land, and Elisha cleansing only Naaman the Syrian, even though lepers abounded in Israel. In both instances, the Gentile person is faced with a solution to their physical affliction that requires faith in an unlikely solution provided by God For the widow it was using the last of her food stores, and trusting that she would not run out. For Naaman it was bathing in a river, and trusting that it would cleanse him of leprosy. Like the Anacasia River. They were presented with an opportunity to deny an unexpected plan of God or to trust it. And they chose trust. They accepted the prophet of God and it changed their lives. Nazareth, Jesus' hometown, will deny the Son of God. In sharing these illustrations, Jesus is pronouncing a judgment on his hometown and any town or village or heart that will not receive him As you are treating me like the prophets of old, so will my message and ministry be like the prophets of old. Because you have rejected me, I will show mercy and freedom from captivity. Even to the Gentiles. The world turned upside down Did you know that 2,000 years ago it was not common knowledge that Gentiles would be folded into God's redemptive story? John the Baptist, who baptized Jesus, wasn't aware. The people of Nazareth certainly seemed to be caught off guard by this clarification. This reality was a mystery to them and to all preceding generations. Ephesians 3 says so. And I know Pastor Larry is taking us through Ephesians, and at our current rate, we'll get to chapter 3 probably within the next five years. So we won't stay there long, but Let me read Ephesians 3, verses 4 through 6, where Paul is talking about the mystery of Christ, which he describes starting in verse 5. This mystery of Christ, which was made known to the sons of men, I'm sorry, which was not made known to the sons of men in other generations, as it has now been revealed to his holy apostles and prophets by the Spirit. This mystery is that the Gentiles are fellow heirs, members of the same body, and partakers of the promise in Christ Jesus through the gospel. What does that mean for us? What does that mean for you? That Gentiles are fellow partakers in the promise in Jesus Christ through the gospel It means everything. It means we have world-turned upside-down levels of hope and good news. The offer of salvation through Christ is for all who will believe As big reveals and plot twists go, this is the granddaddy of them all. People from every tribe, nation, people and tongue, Jews and Gentiles will now confess Jesus as Lord and be saved. What wonderful news for all of us who believe. To what captives does Jesus proclaim liberty to? All of us who will believe in faith. With this mystery revealed, that Jesus came for all who are lost, our next question of the text is, how do we respond? To help answer that, let's look at the response of Nazareth. Jesus simply states that he will be unwelcome, just like the previous prophets, and then implies that he will take his mission to the Gentiles And they respond to Jesus' words by trying to murder him, taking him outside to push him off a cliff. Jesus has gone from glorified to despised. We know what Jesus said, so what about Nazareth and the people there caused this crowd to respond the way they did? Pride, for one. Their habitual response of rejecting God's messengers, their habit of being opposed to God was called out. It was confronted And when confronted with that, repentance was not their response, but indignant, murderous rage. Another cause of their response? A misplaced construct of God. They glorified Jesus when he taught But only until he deviated from the Messiah they created in their own minds and hearts. The Messiah who judges and exacts vengeance on Israel's enemies, not extends mercy and salvation to them. Also jealousy. The Gentiles, the Messiah is for us, not for them You're going to show them liberty and good news and favor? That's not fair. The Jews viewed the Gentiles as unworthy recipients of God's grace That's how Nazareth responded. Now let's consider how we should respond. When confronted with their opposition to God, people of Nazareth were violently proud. I wonder how do we respond when our opposition to God is confronted in our lives? Our opposition manifests in our sins, so when our pride A short temper, a harsh word, a gossiping tongue is addressed or called out by someone. How do we react? Do we respond with humble repentance? Or do we proudly shift the blame or paint the sin as something other than opposition or rebellion to God? Kids Kids. Listen and ask yourself if any of these responses sound familiar to you when somebody's offering a word of correction. You just don't understand. Yeah, but they hit me first. Or the old standby. Kids, uh when you respond that way to loving correction, it more closely aligns with a love of sin than a love of Jesus and a desire to obey Him. Adults, those are for you to consider as well. Those justifications still exist in our hearts. When confronted with sin, do we humbly repent or do we attack? The fool does not receive instruction. Nazareth rebelled when Jesus deviated from their expectations for the Messiah. When God's plan for our lives deviate from what we expect or what we want, how do we respond? We know that he is working all things for our ultimate good and for his glory, but do we rebel in our hearts? In circumstances that we didn't plan for, or even when it is really hard to discern how any good for us or glory for God can emerge from the trial you're in the midst of. Well the gathered group in Nazareth probably thought nothing good can come from offering good news to the Gentiles. But would they have been right? Praise God, no. And the Jews jealously viewed Gentiles as unworthy recipients of God's grace. Do we see all people as being worthy recipients of God's grace? Do we? What about the coworker who has never treated you kindly or with respect? What about the neighbor who's openly hostile to God or other things that are important to you? What about the family member who has deeply hurt you? What about the drug addict? The panhandler? The person who cut you off on the road or who is driving down the shoulder? Planned Parenthood, employee. The cyberbully. Do you interact with them like they are worthy recipients of God's grace? Are we keeping the good news for the poor and liberty for the captives for ourselves or for those who we deem worthy And another point of application for all of us, God knew that by extending grace and liberty from sin to all people The homogeneous synagogues of Israel would be replaced with heterogeneous, diverse, varied gatherings of Christians Christians with different cultural backgrounds, different native tongues, different skin colors, different political leanings, and maybe not even leanings, but firmly established political convictions Different musical preferences, different passions and opinions, different strengths and weaknesses. So how wonderful it is. How unique it is, how essential it is in our world today that in our church, where all of those differences do exist in a gathering this small We come together every Sunday, not divided over those differences, but unified in Christ our Savior. So continue to pray for the unity of the Spirit, as our church covenant says, which we'll read together in our meeting here in a little bit. And continue to seek and pursue unity. In your conduct, and in your words. To how do we respond to proclamation of liberty to captives? by examining and guarding our hearts against pride, rebellion, or viewing others as unworthy. Also, Jesus just walks through this murderous crowd. It just gets an O by the way mention in the passage, but God is sovereign over all things, and no mob will harm him until his time has come, and he allows a mob to harm him. All for love's sake. As we conclude, I have three points of additional application and then a bonus question. One, remember. Before Leanne and I were married at a previous church, there was a lady I sat next to. She was 95 years old. And uh just before we got married, I asked Bessie, uh, what's her name? I said, Bessie, what advice do you have for me for marriage? And she said, remember how it all began often. I thought that was good advice. Remember how you fell in love in that context. Well, for Christians, under the New Covenant, this passage in a sense is how it all began For us. And it's good to remember. Also, remember when you specifically were given liberty and captivity from oppression of Satan and sin. Remember your testimony of faith in Christ. Our lunchtime for most of us today is going to be pizza on our laps. But tonight, maybe around a meal, ask to hear from others, their testimony of trusting in Christ. Don't let that miracle of God's mercy and grace grow stale. Remember. Second, proclaim. In keeping with the evangelism study that we just ended last week, proclaim liberty to the captives Share with others that Jesus brings good news and proclaims liberty. However, pray for yourself and for one another for courage and endurance in that Because Jesus' ministry didn't even make it 15 verses before the hatred of him and his message were made very clear by his audience. We can expect the same. But as Jesus ministered in the power of the Spirit, he has also given the Holy Spirit to us. And remember that it is not us that powers gospel ministry, it is the Holy Spirit. Thank God. And it is not us that causes some to glory in God. It is the Holy Spirit at work. Thank God. And three, praise. Maybe this is an application for every sermon you ever hear, but praise. Praise God for liberation from captivity Take some time to reflect on that. He came with that message and endured hatred that led to death. And judgment would have been easy. But he didn't. And it was all fueled by obedience to the Father and love for his children, the church So we'll get to do that praising together here with our last song in a little bit, so stay tuned for that. And now a bonus question. Where do we go from here? To answer that, let's go back to Yorktown. The British have surrendered and their troops are marching away, and legend says that the song they played as they marched was titled The World Turned Upside Down. That's a real song. It's an English ballad from the 1600s. And if you haven't already made the connection, that world turned upside down title is taken from the Bible. It's in Acts 17. In that chapter, Paul and Silas are in Thessalonica preaching. And guess where they're preaching? In a synagogue. A synagogue of the Jews. They are proclaiming Jesus is the Christ for Jews and Gentiles, reasoning from Scripture And listen with me to this account starting in verse 4 of Acts 17 and see what similarities there may be to our passage, besides what I've already mentioned. And some of them, the people listening, were persuaded and joined Paul and Silas, as did a great many of the devout Greeks, Gentiles. and not a few of the leading women, but the Jews were jealous. And taking some wicked men of the rabble, they formed a mob, set the city in an uproar, and attacked the house of Jason, seeking to bring them out to the crowd. And when they could not find them, they dragged Jason and some of the brothers before the city authorities, shouting, These men who have turned the world upside down have come here also. And Jason has received them, and they are all acting against the decrees of Caesar, saying that there is another king, Jesus. In other words, these people aren't doing things the way we think they should be done. They're turning the world, maybe read that as my world, they're turning my world upside down. And we want them dead. The message of the gospel to Jews and Gentiles alike, the message that Jesus is the Christ, the King of kings, is the message that has been turning the world and lives and hearts upside down for over two thousand years. And the mission statement of Jesus was handed down to his church in the Great Commission. We actually sang it in by faith, verse 4. By faith the church was called to go in the power of the Spirit to the lost. To deliver captives and to preach good news in every corner of the earth. We are called to turn the world upside down So, where do we go from here? We go with courage and boldness to any heart that will listen. Please pray with me. Father, we praise you, we thank you that the Holy Spirit is what powers ministry of the Word What powers the words that we read together today. So work in our hearts. Pray that you would comfort us, that you would convict us through it. We praise you for your mercy. We praise you for your withheld judgment. And we praise you that the gospel is for all who will believe. Pray these things in your name. Amen.