Good morning, brothers and sisters. Good to be with you to share God's word, sit under God's word, to hear from Him, and to follow Him in love and in joy and in obedience. My name is Tony. I'm one of the pastors here. If I haven't met you, I'd love to talk with you after our time together. This is our time where we get to focus on the Lord and his word and what he says, see what it means And hopefully rightly apply it to our lives. We need God's help to do that, so I'm going to pray one more time, and then we'll go ahead and get started. Lord, be merciful to us as you already have, but we ask that you will be merciful right now in the hearing, believing, loving, and doing of your word We pray you would use your word this morning to do only what you can do, convict us, correct us, and change us so that we will look more like your son Jesus Christ as a result. We ask in his name. Amen. My least favorite thing about watching HG T V It's about watching the renovation projects that they do. Because they make home renovation look so incredibly easy. Maybe you've seen these shows. You'll have a house that's falling apart. You'll have an expert walk in. And they'll talk to about to the couple about what they should do, and they'll say, oh, just put this wall over there, just move the bathroom over here, and just blow up the kitchen, and then put it back together again And for some of us in here, that is easy. But for the rest of us, that's troubling. Because we watch these shows like I do with my wife. Who then gets the confidence that we can do some of this DI work DIY work ourselves. And yet her husband is not very handy. So it doesn't usually work out. Part of the trouble with any DIY project is that you have to have not only the right desires, but you also have to have the right tools. Right? If you don't have the right tools, even if you want to accomplish something, you can't get it done The flip side of that is the right tools in the right hands can accomplish a great deal The people of Jerusalem and Nehemiah are part of a rebuilding project of themselves, which we'll hear more about today. But what's interesting that we'll hear and learn about in Nehemiah chapter 2 and 3 is that we don't see a bunch of expert craftsmen. We don't see lots of skilled builders, but we see faithful instruments who are placed in the master's hand, in the redeemer's hand And then therefore their efforts are effective. If you haven't turned there already, please meet me in the book of Nehemiah. If you're using the Bibles that are provided around you, that's on page 398. And where we last left off last week, in this story, this memoir about Nehemiah, he had gone before the Lord in prayer. And then he went before the king, Artaxerxes, to make some requests that he had on behalf of God's people in Jerusalem, who were in ruins, who needed help, who needed to rebuild. In our text today, we're going to see that he got way more than what he asked for because God's hand was upon him. So Nehemiah would go to Jerusalem. He would help to restore God's remnant people. But think about even that task itself of restoring God's remnant people. Who would be up for that task? Who would be sufficient for that task? How would the Lord even accomplish it? And as we've already heard about this morning, and as we already sung about, Jesus Christ is building his church. But what instruments would he use to get the job done? Answer: people So if you're taking notes, here's the main idea for our time together in God's Word. You can go ahead and write this down Because the Lord will restore his remnant people through equipping leaders and laborers for his work. He equips leaders and laborers for his work. What tools does God use in his work of redemption? He uses people. We'll cover that in three points as we cover Nehemiah chapter two and three. Point one, we'll focus on Nehemiah's leadership. That'll be basically verses 9 through 20 of chapter 2. Point two, the Lord's work. And then point three, the Lord's laborers. Points two and three will cover chapter three of Nehemiah. Point number one, Nehemiah's leadership. Let me get to God's word. I will start at verse 7 to lead us through our time. Nehemiah chapter 2, starting in verse 7. This is the words Lord, the word of the Lord. And it reads. And I said to the king, If it pleases the king, let letters be given to me to the governors of the province beyond the river, that they may let me pass through until I come to Judah And a letter to Asaph, the keeper of the king's forest, that he may give me timber to make beams for the gates of the forest of the people. and for the wall of the city, and for the house that I shall occupy. And the king granted me what I asked for, for the good hand of my God was upon me As we discussed last week, Nehemiah prayed, and his prayers were heard by God, the God of the heavens. And then he went before King Artaxerxes. And Artaxerxes gave him much more than what he asked for. So as we talk about this first point of Nehemiah's leadership, we're going to see a few different things that come out as we walk through this passage of chapter 2. About Nehemiah's leadership. First of all, we'll see that he prayed. Nehemiah prayed. His prayers were heard by God and they were answered. And God did that and then some. Look at verse 9 of Nehemiah chapter 2. It says, Then I came to the governors of the province beyond the river, and I gave them the king's letters. So just like it, like he asked for. Now the king has sent me with officers of the army and with horsemen. Now I'm not sure from the passage, but I don't think he asked for all of that, and yet he received it Because God's hand was upon Nehemiah. And then therefore he would go to Jerusalem to assess the damage of the ruins. Unfortunately, though, as Luke referred to, Nehemiah was not warmly welcomed by everyone. He had opponents. He had opposition. Look at verse 10. But when Zambalat the Horanite and Tobiah the Ammonite servant heard this, it displeased them greatly that someone had come to seek the welfare of Israel So Sandbalat and Tobiah are mentioned various times in the book of Nehemiah. They're mentioned again in a lot more detail in chapter 4, which we will Lord willing cover next week. But they're also mentioned at the end of chapter 2. So stay there, stay in Nehemiah chapter 2. But I want you to look down, scroll down to verse 19 of Nehemiah chapter 2. Nehemiah chapter 2, verse 19. But when Sambalat the Horonite, and Tobiah the Ammonite, the servant, and Geshem the Arab heard of it, of the work that Nehemiah was doing. They jeered at us and despised us and said, what is this thing that you are doing? Are you rebelling against the king? I'll stop there for a moment. I'll point out that these enemies of God are identified by their people group Right? You might have already noticed that. The Horonite, the Ammonite, and the Arab. That's not to demean them. That's not to put them out there or anything like that. But that's just to make clear that they are not part of God's people. And their opposition to Nehemiah makes it clear throughout the book of Nehemiah that they are not part of God's people. They attempted, these men and others, to threaten Nehemiah by accusing him of rebellion. Are you rebelling against the king? That might not seem like a big deal to us, but if you remember what we discussed a few sermons ago, the first sermon on Nehemiah. That that same kind of threat of opposition and that same kind of charge of going against the king is the very reason why God's people in 538 after they arrived from Persia back to Jerusalem that they stopped rebuilding the temple for nearly 20 years. Same kind of opposition. You can read about that in the book of Acts of Ezra. So that opposition was a big deal But notice that Nehemiah as a leader, he prayed, but he also persevered. He persevered. And we can read this perseverance in verse 20. Look at verse 20. Then I replied to them, The God of heaven will make us prosper, and we, his servants, will arise and build. But you have no portion or right or claim in Jerusalem. It was clear. He was direct. We have a job to do, and we will keep doing that. What made Nehemiah persevere? What made him so confident? I think it's because he prayed His perseverance was directly impacted by his prayers. And for those of us in leadership positions of any kind, in our home In our places of work, in the church, or college ministry, know that you will face opposition for that You will face opposition. Your determination will at times be tested and will run thin. So pray and persevere. Allow the Lord's faithfulness to you yesterday. What He's already declared to you, what He's already done for you. Help you to remain faithful and persevere today and what He's called you to do and what He's placed Before you. So Nehemiah prayed, Nehemiah persevered, and he also prepared. Go back to verse 11. Same chapter, Nehemiah chapter 2. Nehemiah had to go to Jerusalem. He had to assess the damage, and he had to rally God's people in order to work. So he went to Jerusalem, verse 11. He says, I was there for three days. And then I arose at night, I and a few men with me. He took others with him. And I told no one what my God had put in my heart to do for Jerusalem. There was no animal with me but the one in which I rode. Nehemiah needed to prepare. He was already sent by God there. Our Xerxes already allowed him to get there, right? He had to get there and then prepare by assessing the damage to see what workers would be needed. And also to help the people to rally around the work. And that's what he did. Look at verse 13. I went up by night to the valley gate. To the dragon spring and to the Dungate. And I inspected the walls of Jerusalem that were broken down, and its gates have been destroyed by fire. Again, remember, that's the context. That was the problem. That's why they're there to begin with. Then I went on to the fountain gate and to the king's pool, but there was no room for the animal under me to pass. And then I went in the night by the valley and inspected the wall, and I turned back and entered by the valley gate, and so returned. He's doing an inspection. He's seeing what the damage is. And he's also trying to prepare God's people to go into the ruins with him to help with the damage. Look at verse 16. And the officials did not know where I had gone or what I was doing, and I had not yet told the Jews, the priests, the nobles, the officials, and the rest who were going to do the work. All of those different kinds of people come up in chapter 3, verse 17. Then I said to them, you see the trouble that we are now in? How Jerusalem lies in ruins and its gates are burned? Come, let us build the wall of Jerusalem that we may no longer suffer derision. And notice verse 18. He doesn't just say, follow me, I have a plan. He says, look back to what God has already done. And I told them of the hand of my God that had been upon me for good, and also the words that the king has spoken to me. And they said, Let us rise up and let us build. So they strengthened their hand for the good work. So Nehemiah's preparation here involved not only seeing and assessing the damage, but getting God's people in the work of rebuilding in Jerusalem. And he rallied them by telling them just what God had already done. Brothers and sisters, if you want to grow in your leadership, in your home, among your friends, or even in the church, start by simply reminding God's people of what God has already done for them in Christ. Start there. Do so over and over and over again. Encourage them with God's truth. Encourage them with God's word. They, just like you and I, need to constantly be reminded of what God has already done. Nehemiah's leadership was effective because he didn't just rely on what the king had sent them to do He didn't get there and decide this is what's going to happen and I'm going to do it all by myself. No, he got God's people involved in the work. He didn't lift a single thing until God's people were able to rally around his leadership and work towards rebuilding of Jerusalem. And that's what good leaders do. They get people involved. They don't stand afar off, they come alongside. And as I was working on this, I was reminded of a school principal of mine that I worked for. Her name is Ann Barker. Amazing woman. She's my principal when I worked and lived overseas. And before school, I signed up for this um Uh before school care duty, where you would basically stand outside, you would watch the kids, make sure that they didn't kill each other before school started. You would welcome them, you would greet them, etc. Now on this particular day, it was cold. I was tired, and I don't think I had had coffee yet. So I was not in the greeting of students kind of mood I was kind of just standing there, right? And on this cold and bitter English morning, Miss Barker came up to me, cheerful as ever. And she greeted me, she said good morning, and she stood next to me for all of about 30 seconds and greeted every kid that walked by by name with a smile and warmly welcomed them She did it four or five different times while she stood next to me. And then she said, have a good day and walked away. Now I think she was trying to tell me something. Right? Like, come on, you need to cheer up, you need to smile. You are supposed to be welcoming and greeting these kids. But she showed me how to do it, and then therefore I did it. Her point was clear. Brothers and sisters, remember that in our places of leadership, wherever that is, good leaders do not just dictate from on high, they come alongside. They encourage people in the work that's before them. And that's what Nehemiah did. That's what God's people would need if they were going to help to rebuild Jerusalem. Because the work before them was great. Which brings us to point two. We talked about Nehemiah's leadership. Now we're going to focus on the Lord's work. The Lord's work. This will bring us to Nehemiah chapter 3. If you've read Nehemiah 3 in preparation for this passage, you probably ran across a lot of names and places you probably thought, what in the world are we going to do with this? Well, Nehemiah 3, remember, he's writing this as a memoir, right? He's retelling history. He's detelling what God had done for them in Jerusalem. And so in Nehemiah chapter 3, you have lots of names of people that are mentioned, these workers, but then you also have the work that's detailed. Right? Now you might think, why would it need to be detailed? Nehemiah, I think, wants to give us a scope of the great amount of work that needed to be done in Jerusalem And so, therefore, if you glance over Nehemiah chapter 3, you'll see that he says a lot about gates, which is what we're going to focus on, because these gates would have gone around the entire perimeter of the city of Jerusalem. And that would have been 4,018 meters. Or for the rest of us, 2,497 miles. Right? So it was a lot that God's people needed to do. And the lack of gates specifically meant that God's people were not safe. They could not secure themselves. But it also meant that God's people could not safely gather for fellowship. They could not safely gather for worship. So the work was vast and the work was important. But what we're going to do now in Nehemiah 3, as we focus on these gates, we're going to try to get an idea of the work that was before God's people. We're going to focus on various different kinds of gates. And see why this was a vast and important work. So keep Nehemiah open. Look at chapter 3. And let's start with verse 3. Where it says the son, the sons of Hanasseh built the fish gate. They laid its beams and set its doors, its boats, and its bars. Now, merchants would have used this gate when they brought in fish from the Mediterranean Sea. It was a poor area and it was also a key entrance into the city. And the fishermen of Galilee would have brought their catch here in order for their fish to be sold. But you have a lot more gates. You have the gate of Yanasseh, for example, in verse 6. Look down at verse 6. And this gate of Ganasseh is probably known, or it might be in your translation, known as the corner gate. The corner gate. This gate was also very important. It was the old gate and it was also the corner gate. But then you have the valley gate. Look down at verse 13. Nehemiah began his inspection there at the valley gate in chapter 2. This would have been on the southwest corner, about 500 yards away from the Dung Gate. Which is talked about in Nehemiah chapter 3, verse 14. The Dungate was at the southernmost tip of the city, near the pool of Siloam. This gate would have been used as the main exit near the valley of Hemnon, also known as Gehenna. And this is where Jerusalem disposed of its garbage and burned it there. Now, years before this, King Manasseh used this same area beyond these gates, the Dungate, to sacrifice children. That's wicked. And then King Josiah had desecrated that place by turning it into a rubbish heap. This is not good for anything else except for rubbish, for trash. The people of Jerusalem took their trash there and they burned it. The giant trash pile. Then you have the fountain gate. Verse 15. The east wall, north of the Dungate, near the pool of Siloam as well. It was an important source of water for the city. And people would go to the fountain gate to cleanse themselves before they went to the temple. Scroll down to verse 26. You have the water gate. And the water gate was led from the old city of David. It was led from the old city of David To the Gihon Spring next to the Kindred Valley. And at the Watergate in Nehemiah chapter 8, that's where Ezra opened the scroll before God's people and read the law that they had not heard in years. Then the horse gate, which is self-explanatory, verse 28, that's north of the water gate. The east gate, verse 29, it led directly to the temple. Now, about the Eastgate specifically, the prophet Ezekiel saw the glory of the Lord depart from the temple at the east gate. And the prophet Ezekiel prophesied that the Lord will return to the city in that same way. The East Gate. More on that later. You have the muster gate in verse 31, northwest corner of the city. Some translations call this the inspection gate, where the army arrived and they reviewed their materials, etc. Now Jerusalem was vulnerable to attacks, and just like this north side of the city was vulnerable to attacks, this was important for them. All these various gates. You might be thinking, yeah, that's a lot. Why are we talking about all this? They all had their importance. But in Nehemiah's retelling about these gates, he bookends it with the sheep gate. In verse 1 of the passage and also in verse 32. Look at verse 1 of Nehemiah chapter 3. Then Elisha, the high priest, rose up with his brothers, the priests, and they built the sheep gate. They consecrated it and they set its doors. They consecrated as far as the Tower of the Hundred, as far as the Tower Tower of Henenel The high priest, these high priests, and these sheepgates are mentioned also in verse 32. Look down at verse 32. Between the upper chamber of the corner and the sheepgate of the goldsmiths and of the merchants they repaired Now, we could spend a lot of time talking about the significance of all of these different gates, but let's focus on the sheep gate. Because the sheep gate is where sacrifices would have been brought in and out of. Sacrifices were brought here because this gate was next to the temple. And God's people would need to offer sacrifices in order to go to the temple. But notice also that this gate was different than the other gates. Other gates, like the fish gate, for example. It had beams, and it had doors and bolts and bars. That's verse 3. And the gate of Yasena, for example. That also had beams and doors and bolts and bars. The valley gate, verse 13, it was rebuilt and it was set with doors and bolts and bars. And then the Dungate was rebuilt, and it was set with doors and bolts and bars. In first 14, verse 15, the fountain gate, it was rebuilt as well, and covered, and set its doors. And bolts and its bars. All of those different gates had bolts and bars and doors and locks except for the sheep gate And the sheepgate, instead of having bolts and bars, was consecrated. Now, what does that mean? That means that it was anointed with either oil or blood. Again, the sacrifice. And Jesus picks up this language. He picks up this picture of the sheepgate in John chapter 10, and he says the following. Truly, truly, I say to you, I am the door or the gate of the sheep. All come before me are thieves and robbers. But the she did not listen to them. I am the door. If any one enters by me, he will be saved, and will go in and out and find pasture. The thief comes only to kill, to steal, and destroy, but I have come that they may have life and have it more abundantly. I am the good shepherd, Jesus says. And the good shepherd lays down his life for his sheep. The sheep gate was not locked or bolted, but it was anointed with blood. Of the Lamb. And even today, salvation, that picture of salvation, the door of salvation, is open and it is covered with the blood of the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world, the Lord Jesus Christ. The Good Shepherd who laid down his life for his sheep. He was the final sacrifice for his people. He was crucified, not even at the sheepgate. But he was crucified outside of the gates of the city, outside of Jerusalem. But Jesus rose from the grave so that all who turned from their sin and put their faith in the Lord Jesus Christ Can have him as the good and faithful shepherd. They can be brought into the fold. They can be forgiven of their sins. They can be reconciled to God. And if you are here and you are not a Christian, you are not part of that fold. You need to be reconciled to God. You need to be forgiven of your sins. And today you can be by placing your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. He's already done the work, but he calls us to put our faith in him. And then doing so, you can be part of his remnant people. We'd love to talk to you if you want to know what that means. If you have more questions about what it means to put your faith in Jesus as the door or as the gate. of salvation. And brothers and sisters in Christ, remember that the store of salvation, that gate of salvation is still open. Because the Lord Jesus Christ is still building his church, which means that there is still work to do, even today, for all of us who are in Christ. Which brings us to point three as we focus on the Lord's laborers. Nehemiah's leadership, we saw the Lord's work, the amount of work that needed to be done. We're going to focus on the people now and the Lord's laborers. The work of rebuilding and restoring right fellowship and right worship of this awesome God would require people Think about that. The God of the heavens, the God of the universe, who does all that he pleases, whatever he wants, doesn't look at us and say, I'll do it myself. He says, no, I want to use you in this work of redemption. Just read the book of Hebrews. He doesn't even call angels into this kind of work. He says, no, I am going to use people for this work. The Lord Jesus, for example, looked over Jerusalem And he saw that the people were helpless and harassed like sheep without a shepherd. And then he says to his disciples in Matthew 9, 37: The harvest is plentiful, but the laborers are few. Therefore, pray earnestly to the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into his harvest. And if you keep reading and just go to Matthew chapter 10, at the beginning of that chapter, what does Jesus do? He sends out his laborers, his disciples, into that same harvest. Brothers and sisters, people are God's chosen instruments in his plan of redemption. It's always been that way with the Lord. People are who He chooses to use. And that's why in Nehemiah chapter 3, you have nearly 40 different individual people that are named. And you have over 40 different groups of people that are identified. And then you even have groups of people that are not identified by name. So God's work requires people and a lot of people. Now, again, we would assume that if they are rebuilding the walls of Jerusalem, then that will require a group of especially skilled people. Right? Builders. People who are really good with their hands. And maybe they were part of that, but their giftedness was not a requirement to be part of God's rebuilding project here. God wanted faith and God wanted obedience to use these people. Just even think about Nehemiah himself We know that he's a what? Kids. Do you remember from Nehemiah chapter 1? At the end of that chapter, he says that he was a blank, a what to the king Elijah, a cupbearer. He was a cupbearer. It doesn't say that he was a community organizer It doesn't. It doesn't say that he was a project manager. It doesn't. That would have not been on his resume. And yet we know from Nehemiah chapter 1 that he was faithful, that he was obedient, and that he was trustworthy, and that he was willing to be used. And that should remind all of us here Especially those of us who are elders, especially those of us who are deacons or ministry leaders, or even those among us who aspire to be leaders in some way, shape, or form in the church Do not let your giftedness outpace your character. As the apostle Paul will remind his son Timothy in the faith, watch your life and your doctrine closely. The task before Nehemiah meant that he needed to depend on these people, all kinds of people with all kinds of gifts and abilities, working together for a shared purpose. And again, this was not mere construction. God had more in mind. He wanted to restore right fellowship and right worship with him, and that is still the Lord's plan. The Lord Jesus has a building plan in mind. He says in Matthew 16 that he is building in the church, and the gates of hell, or Gehenna, will not prevail against it Again, back to the kids and teens, our resident Bible scholars. You remember that story from Matthew 16 when Jesus was saying this. He was talking to his disciples, but this was primarily a conversation between he and one of his other disciples. What was that disciple's name He spoke up a lot. He got in a lot of trouble for speaking up too much. Anybody remember his name? Peter, thank you, Bible scholar. Peter, Petros, as in a little rock The Lord Jesus would use that little rock, Peter, in part for the building of his church. And that same Peter, that same mess of a guy, Peter. Hint the words from our scripture reading this morning, which says, as you come to him, a living stone, rejected by men, but in sight of God, chosen and precious. You yourselves, like living stones, are being built up as a spiritual house to be a holy priesthood, to offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. Jesus is building his church, his remnant people, as living stones, as little living stones, all of us who are in Christ He wants to offer spiritual sacrifices to him. That means you and I, if you are in Christ, we are part of his building project. He we are part of his special instrument that he wants to use. So that means if you belong to the Lord Jesus Christ, regardless of your resume, he calls you to join in in this work. Just look at Nehemiah 3 and all the different kinds of workers that you have in Nehemiah chapter 3 working side by side to rebuild these walls. You have ministry leaders who led through their service. Levites who are mentioned in verse 17. And Levites would have been like the worship leaders, right? You have temple servants. Mentioned in verse 26, who would have served God's people as they were in the temple. You have the high priest and other priests who weren't so high and mighty that they could not serve God's people. They're mentioned in various places. Verses 1 and 20 and 22 and 32. You have men of Jericho, who doesn't say much about them. Besides the fact that they came from Jericho. They have no distinction, but they had willing hands, which means that titles are not required to serve the Lord and to serve his people. You also have people who were in the financial sector. Look at verse 8, where it mentions perfumers, people who would have sold perfume. And goldsmiths. And then, verse 32, you have merchants who are mentioned. These people would have made a lot of money. They would have been pretty well off financially. And yet there they are, getting their hands dirty. Families are also mentioned here as in building and working together. In verse 3, for example, and even in verse 18, where it says, daughters are also mentioned as building with their fathers. And then you have political leaders. You have various rulers of different districts You have rulers in Jerusalem, verse 9, in Beth Hakaram in verse 14, in Mizpah in verse 15, Betzur in verse 16, Goliath in verses 17 and 18. What's my point? All kinds of people here from different social background, probably from different economic standings, with different gifts and different skills and abilities They all gathered together. They all work side by side to restore right fellowship and right worship in Jerusalem. What does that sound like to you? That should sound a lot like God's plan through his church. Because today God still restores his remnant people through his gathered people serving together towards his purposes. In his church. And you have ministry leaders in the church, you have people of different social standings, different economic backgrounds, different gifts, different skills, different ability, gathered together with the mission of making disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ. With co-laboring with Christ as he builds his church. So if you belong to the Lord, there's work for you to do today. And maybe, maybe you are here as a member of CBC. Maybe you've been here for a while as a member of CBC. And maybe you've ever thought things like, I really like CBC, I love our church, but I wish that we would just fill in the blank. You ever had that thought Maybe serve more in the community. Maybe minister to young adults. Maybe have more young adults. Maybe have more older people. Maybe grow in diversity or whatever the case may be A few thoughts, if that's you, a few encouragements, if you've ever thought anything like that, related to this church specifically. Firstly, pray about it. Go to the Lord about that very thing. Secondly, ask about it. Talk to an elder. Talk to one of your pastors. You might find out that these are actually things they've been working towards by God's grace for years. You might find out that these are actually things that we've been praying about as a church for many years. Pray, ask. Thirdly, consider. Consider whether the Lord has given you that particular burden or interest and placed you here. For you to help lead us as a church in doing something about it. Because he might be. Because he often does that. And there's certainly a lot more work that needs to be done. Than can be done by our staff, by our elders, by our deacons, or even our volunteers. Church, we need each other And we are called to do spiritual good to each other. And none of you need a title to do that. You've already been commissioned by the Lord Jesus Christ to live as disciples and to make disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ. So again, if you belong to the Lord, there's work for you to do. And if you're a member of CBC, there's work for you to do here among us as a member of Chevrolet Baptist Church. But I will say, back to Nehemiah chapter 3, there is a report here of people, of God's people, who didn't join in the work. Look at Nehemiah chapter 3, verse 5. Next to him were the Tegekites repaired. But their nobles would not stoop to serve their Lord. Now Tokoah was about eleven miles away from Jerusalem Which means that people came from very far in order to help with this rebuilding process. The Tekites were also mentioned in two different places, verses 5 and verses 27. So they got to work. Other people came from various other places like Jericho and Gibbon and Mizpah to come to Jerusalem to help with that effort. So these Sekekites were faithful. They were helpful in God's work. But not their nobles. These nobles would not stoop, Nehemiah says, to serve their Lord. They didn't want to get their hands dirty. Maybe they thought too highly of themselves. Now scholars debate: are we talking about the Lord as in the Lord as in I? Or are we talking about just supervisors or other leaders? Or are we talking specifically about Nehemiah? It could be a combination of the three. Scholars debate that. The point is, they did not get involved. They did not serve. And Nehemiah says they would not stoop so low to get involved. Remember We serve the Lord, who stooped all the way from heaven to earth, who got his hands dirty, who didn't just sit on a throne and bark out orders. He dwelled among us. He touched the unclean and made them clean. He spent time with tax collectors and with sinners and was criticized for it. He gave his life on the cross for us. There should be nothing in serving the Lord that is beneath us as God's people. And I'm saying this to a church that's very faithful in serving God's people. And many of you already doing so in the margins of a very full and busy life. So brother and sister. If you are already serving faithfully, this is not to heap on any sort of guilt on you. Continue to serve faithfully. But what you need to remember is that you are not doing it all by yourself. You have other people who are doing it alongside of you. So it might be appropriate for you to take a step back occasionally. It will definitely be appropriate as you are serving, as you are leading in various ways, to bring somebody else along with you that you can train, that you can help to do the same thing that you're doing, and then you can take a step or two back from it. Lord wants to use us all in his service. And maybe you're here as a member and you're not sure what you can do. You're not sure of what you should do. And I encourage you not to keep that to yourself. I remember a conversation at a previous church with a dear sister, an older saint, who we were talking with. And she shared to us that I'm getting old now. I don't think I'm useful to the church anymore. That's heartbreaking, isn't it? That's devastating. None of us should ever feel that way. And maybe you feel I am too young. I'm still in my 20s. I'm not useful to the church. Maybe you might think, I'm not married. A lot of these people are married, so I'm not as useful to the church. There's a lot of families, and I'm not useful to the church. That's the furthest thing from the truth. The Lord has equipped you. He has brought you here. He has commissioned you to make disciples for as long as you are here, here. So go to him, ask of him, ask of your brothers and sisters in Christ how you can serve one another, how you can serve the church, however long you are here as members of this church. He calls us all to be part of this building effort. Again, thinking more about Chevrolet Baptist Church, our church specifically. With our 100 and so members, maybe 110 right now, working in our little corner of the world, little corner of PG County, kind of buried in this school. With our Sunday services, we have awanas, we have VBS, we have our prayer services, we have our sharing of the gospel, we have other things that we actively do as a church. We have all the work that goes seen and all the work that goes unseen, sometimes unnoticed. You might look around at your neighborhood that might seem unchanged. Or you might think about the people who are no longer sitting next to you because they've moved on to other churches for various reasons. Or you've reflected over the past year. Build without a church, building of our own, anticipating the lead pastor vote that will be coming up next week, Lord Willing. Maybe you thought in this grand plan of redemption that God has, that this church that Jesus is building, we haven't even made a dent. What have we really accomplished? What church are we building? But think back to Nehemiah 3 and those 40-something names who I didn't name them all, as you notice. Some of them are very hard to pronounce But those over 40 names that are mentioned, they were simply working on a section of a wall in Jerusalem. Or helping to repair a gate side by side with others doing the same exact thing. They may have thought the same thing. What are we really doing? What are we really accomplishing? What's the purpose? What is this all for? And yet, several hundred years later, the long-awaited Messiah would come to the city of Jerusalem. And out of Galilee he would call and make fishers of men. He would stand near the Dungate, and declare that he will build his church, and the gates of hell or Gehenna will not prevail against it. He is the fountain of life, and he is the one that makes us clean. He would give living water, for example, to the woman at the Samaritan woman And say that she would never hunger or thirst ever again. He would enter into the East Gate on Palm Sunday and then be led to the cross by Friday outside of Jerusalem. He was his final sacrifice, the shepherd who was slain for his sheep. Jesus, crucified outside of the very city. Those people working on that wall in those days had no idea about all of that. They did not know all that the Lord would use them for in his great plan of redemption. But God did. God does. And He knows exactly what He's doing. And brothers and sisters, the Lord knows exactly what He's doing with us. In His hands, we are in good hands. Because he's already told us in his word what the new city, the new Jerusalem will be like. Revelation 21. This is what the apostle John saw, and this is what is coming for us. He says, I saw no temple in the city. For its temple is the Lord God, the Almighty, and the Lamb. And the city has no need of sun or moon to shine it for shine in it, for the glory of the Lord gives its light. And its lamp is the Lamb. By his light the nations will walk, and the kings of the earth will bring their glory into it, not against it. And the gates Will never be shut by day, and there will be no night there. They will bring their glory and their honor of the nations But nothing unclean will ever enter it, nor anyone who does what is detestable or false, or those who are not written in the Lamb's book of life. That is what is awaiting us as God's people. That's where this train of redemption is headed. So, brothers and sisters, do not lose heart. The Lord will use his people in his work of redemption. He will restore his remnant people. And in his hands, he can do a lot with a little, even if that's us. Let's pray. That you can do a lot with a little. We thank you that you can use us in all sorts of ways for your glory and your glorious plan of redemption. And we praise you, Lord, that you are no respecter of persons. But you call us, get involved. You want to use us. And as the master builder, you know exactly what you are doing. So help us to be faithful. Help us to not lose heart. Help us to do what you've put in front of us to do, trusting that you can do far more than we can ask or think. In Jesus' name. Amen.