The topic, as I said, a moment ago is marriage. This week we're going to think about marriage and creation. What are the blueprints? What did God intend it to be? Next week we'll think about marriage and the fall. How have we distorted it And the week after that, Lord willing, we'll think about marriage and redemption. I should warn you, the top uh the talk this morning, the sermon this morning, will be a little longer than usual If you had afternoon plans and you need to get out early, that's completely fine. We do understand. You weren't warned. Every time I do premarital counseling, one of the first things I say to the couple is: the most important thing for you to understand is The gospel. The gospel. If you're married, you're married to a sinner. And so is your spouse. And it's the gospel which interprets What life together between two sinners is and should be. And it the gospel is the tool that enables us as then walk through Living together with another sinner. Paul David Tripp says, the street address that God has chosen for our marriages is the fallen world. That's where we live. And therefore, we need the gospel, which hopefully this Sunday and the next Sunday, little by little, will unpack for us. Last Sunday I mentioned to a couple of friends, or actually a friend reminded me, oh, you're going to start preaching on the marriage next Sunday. And my first thought was, Yes, this is a delicate matter, isn't it? And it's probably worth admitting up front, anytime you're preaching or teaching on marriage, it's hard not to preach and teach better than you are. As I look back on almost 20 years of marriage with Shannon, next next January, January will be our 20th, it's hard for me to look back and not think about all the ways I've failed her. And fail to be some of the things I'm going to preach about. Even this last weekend. I got a little too impatient with her Still, I thank God for Shannon. She is a wonderful and amazing wife who compliments and strengthens and encourages me in ways I could not have imagined when we got married. I mean, of course, we experience challenges through all of that. I'd say our first year in particular was somewhat challenging. I think in large part because I was 31 when we got married. I was fairly independent, fairly confident, fairly certain of my own ways. Shannon discovered that she lived with a man who lived as if he was still single You're not a single man, Jonathan. I discovered that marriage didn't quite conform itself to my expectations. I think one of the greatest challenges to happy, healthy marriages are unmet expectations. And here I found myself in this relationship with this other person stuck all the time with this other person. person who had her own ways of doing things, her own strengths, her own weaknesses, which didn't map over my strengths and weaknesses, or her own plans for Oh, that's how you cut an onion? No, I think you should cut an onion like this. What's wrong with you? Nobody cuts an onion like that. But from the beginning, by God's grace, we have learned to fix our eyes on the gospel and to interpret everything in our marriage through the gospel. God's plan, remarkably, works by bringing two sinners together. A Paul David trip again tells a story about doing premarital counseling in which the woman says, I don't think I could ever be angry at him. Tripp then says, I was immediately afraid for that marriage. You shouldn't start by closing your eyes to what's true of everyone. We're sinners. The one thing your marriage needs. is a savior. Well, though the world tells us marriage exists purely for romantic happiness and to fulfill our relational Needs and that we're free to define it as we please. The Bible has better and higher purposes for our marriage, both for those of us in marriages and those who are not and are simply witnessing and seeking to serve and help Those marriages in the life of the church. And as I say, it'll take several weeks to fill out this picture. This week we will begin with the biblical blueprints That God provides in Genesis 1 and 2. Go ahead and turn there. And I've divided my remarks this morning into five lessons. And each one of those five lessons is accompanied by a diagnostic question for the married folk in particular. Lesson one: marriage is a partnership of equals Question for the married folk. Have you been regarding your spouse as an equal? Our world today loves the idea of equality Even worship it. And our world today fails to recognize there's both a demonic version of a quality And a godly version of a quality, the demonic version We'll discover when we get to Genesis 3 where the uh the serpent says to Eve, you can be like God. And we think, I like that. Godly our demonic equality tells us that we are all gods and marriage exists to serve us, and we can define it in our roles as we please. The godly version of equality, however, begins right here in chapter one, verse twenty seven. So God created man in his own image. In the image of God, he created him. Male and female, he created them. Men and women, husbands and wives, are equal Not because of our jobs, our roles, our bodies, our responsibilities, our personalities. Indeed, a godly understanding of a quality is not intimidated by Or threatened by differences in jobs, roles, bodies, personalities, even hierarchies Indeed, godly equality delights in difference and insists on difference Between man and woman, husband and wife, that's because godly equality roots in the fact that we are all made in God's own image. The husband is not more valuable or worthy or deserving what he wants. His wife is made in God's image The wife is not more valuable or worthy or deserving of what she wants. Her husband is made in God's image. Your fundamental dignity, friends, your spouse's fundamental dignity does not depend on what your parents think of you. Your spouse thinks of you. Your employer. Your friends think of you. It depends on the fact that your spouse and you are made in God's own image. Your spouse's dignity is not fundamentally in how she compares to other women, physically or spiritually. How he compares and what skills he has, how talented he is. It's in the fact that he, she, was made in God's own image. The there's a fundamental equality between you and your spouse that has nothing to do with your talents, your abilities, your personality, your appearance, your roles. A number of years ago a a friend said to me that sometimes he felt tempted to regard his wife as holding him back from becoming an elder or pastor. And with that a sense of self-pity followed uh condescending sense of like I'm better than her. Can't believe I'm stuck with someone not as good as me. Now, it may be that his spouse genuinely held him back. That does happen. But that doesn't mean he's better than her. In fact, apparently, brother. God has reasons to hold you back. Apparently you're not the man you think you were. There's no room for self-pity. So, brother husbands, do you ever demean her or passively ignore her Sisters, do you quarrel with him? Regard him with contempt Another roll of the eyes. The fact that you are God's imaging equals Means that you're both called to listen sincerely to each other. Your spouse, said Mark Dever Is sort of like God's antenna or satellite dish through which you might hear from Him. And brother, what that means is when she says, I think you're working too many hours and the kids need to see you more She's not giving you the revealed word of God, but God does mean for you to probably listen to her A sister, that means when your husband says, You're staring at your iPhone a lot. That doesn't mean he's giving you the revealed word of God. But God does give you hi uh you him probably to hear that Not only that, both of you should care more what your spouse thinks than your parents think, your children thinks, your boss thinks, your friends think. Listening is a crucial way we honor one another as God imagers And we listen because we deeply care for what God is doing in the other person's life. We're invested in that. Shannon, as you know, is a first-grade teacher. I can't tell you that I'm naturally interested in the goings-on of the average first-grade classroom. But at the end of the day, when she wants to care share about her first grade classroom, I deeply care about that, or I'm called to deeply care about that. After a few weeks, I should be getting familiar with some of the names. I should be interested in what's going on with the special events and so forth. In her book, The Toxic War on Masculinity, Nancy Pearcy reports the findings of a psychologist named John Gottman who says. The health of a marriage depends primarily on the husband. In his research, Gottman found that a majority of American husbands, 65%, do not, in his words, accept influence from their wives. They disregard their wives' opinions, feelings, and concerns. They ignore, criticize, and drown out their wives' voices. They accuse them of overreacting. You're too sensitive When men behave this way, not surprising, their wives feel disrespected and devalued. In fact, Gottman concludes that husbands' disrespect for their wives is the major cause of marital instability. Statistically speaking, when a man acts this way, there's an 81% chance that his marriage will self-destruct. Gottman's aim, says Pearcy, is to help men realize how much power They actually have to make their marriages better. Awareness of their impact gives men a very powerful lever to change course and improve the marriage. I don't know if Gottman's right in all of those number analyses, but I think there's something true there that most of us probably intuitively recognize. So, brother husbands, do you take an interest in your wives and in their world? Yet also let's turn it around. Wives. Do you take an interest in your husband's life and God's purposes for his life? Do you recognize that he's not just another version of you? An extension of your hands and feet to get done around what you know needs to get done. The Bible does call him to lead. Equal does not mean the same. Same jobs. Come back to that. For now, both listen Both take a deep interest in the other. Both honor. These are the blueprints. Lesson two. The purpose of marriage is to represent God's rule over creation in partnership together The purpose of marriage is to represent God's rule over creation in partnership together. So the question for the married folk is: have you been working? Together to represent God's character and rule, life-creating rule, in whatever dominion He's given you Look at Genesis 1. 28. And God blessed them, and God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth and subdue it. And have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the heavens and over every living thing that moves on the earth. So when a single man asks me for advice on dating someone, I'll tell him It might be helpful to look for opportunities to do a work project or or serve other people together. For instance, here's a very practical first date idea Go visit older members of the church who are shut in. The point is Marriage is not simply about staring into one another's eyes all days, as any married couple in here will tell you. It's about undertaking life together. It's about building the house, filling the house, decorating the house, purchasing the field, tilling the field, planting the field, plowing the field. Reading the Bible, sharing the gospel, offering hospitality, teaching them to pray and to sing. And then finally, waving goodbye as they go off as adults. All of that is where marriage happens. Husband and wife partnering together in this magnificent endeavor of dominion and imaging God, representing him So I'll say to the young man, if that's where you're going to live out your life with a woman, maybe test that in dating. Sure, sitting in the coffee shop and staring into her eyes might be enjoyable, but is she a hard worker? Is she competent? Does she fixate on herself or on others? Does she understand forgiveness and mercy? Those are the questions you want answers to And naturally, I say the same thing to my teenage daughters, both as they as they consider what kind of women they want to be, and as they consider what kind of man they are looking for. Is he a hard worker? Is he competent? Will he lead you to take dominion and serve others and do so with integrity and trust in God? So, of course, dominion is bigger than marriage. Dominion belongs to every human, married and single. It's a human thing, not just a marriage thing. What makes marriage unique, then, is that husband and wife pursue dominion. Together, God says to them, fill the earth. Be fruitful, multiply, fill the earth, and subdue it. So Marriage serves dominion, yet marriage also serves the purpose of oneness. Perhaps there is a time to sit in the coffee shop and stare into one another's eyes. In our marriages, there should be a fundamental sense of partnership, collegiality In other words, it's as if the husband takes his eyes off the landscape, turns to her, takes her hand, and says, I want to do this with you. Will you do this with me? So when Shannon and I did our premarital counseling, the pastor said to us, Marriage is not like one piece of the pie. Amidst all the other slices in your life, as you got the work slice and the parenting slice and the neighbor slice and so forth, that that's the wrong metaphor. Instead, he said, marriage is like The lens through which you're looking at all of life, the whole pie, as it were So those who sacrifice their marriages for their careers are, ironically, not just sacrificing their marriages, they're sacrificing something to which God calls them in their careers and in their work. Eight months after we got married, Shannon and I moved to Grand Cayman, where I served as an interim pastor of the First Baptist Church of Grey Cam Grand Cayman. It was a 400-member church, which means there was lots to do every single evening, and every single evening, therefore, I went out and did all of that stuff, and then I remember one evening she said to me, You're gone too much. We're newly married, you're gone too much. And I remember at that moment, resentment Creeping up in my heart. Don't you know I'm doing ministry? Don't you see this? How important what I'm doing is? I was missing the point of our joint partnership. The joint partnership doesn't mean that she's necessarily to go with me. It means that wherever I'm going, whatever she's doing, we're working it out together. She might have a slightly different job assignment. I'm on the tractor, she's in the barn. But we're figuring this out together. We're attacking the plot of land that God has given us together. Sometimes you'll hear Dad say, well, my wife's out of town this weekend, so I gotta babysit the kids. Ever heard that And I think, brother, those are your kids. You're not babysitting. You're just as responsible for them as she is. I'm pretty sure you were invested when you made the kids. You're still invested. Consider the fact that the Dominion mandate begins with be fruitful and multiply, fill the earth. Those are commands And what that means is, intentional childlessness is generally a sin. There may be exceptions due, say, to health circumstances, but certainly not due to a job or sense of calling Genesis 1. 28 integrates being fruitful and multiplying and filling the earth with subduing the earth I've told a couple of you the story that when Shannon and I were dating on one occasion, I said to her, I don't think I want to have children. I was in seminary and I had zealous plans for the Lord. And as soon as I said, I don't think God's calling me to have kids She said, we're broken up. Just like that. Once you know it, 24 hours later, I wanted kids. Make no mistake, hers was the godlier and wiser instinct And to be sure, marriage hinders a certain kind of productivity, but it engenders other kinds of productivity. When I was in my PhD program, a professor told me That men who are married and have kids actually, on average, finish their PhDs more quickly than the men who are single. The fact that they're married and have kids forced them to become more organized. and efficient in how they went about their work. Married folk. You're married for purposes of dominion and dominion together. Are you working it out together? Lesson three. Marriage was God's idea and is God's doing. Luke especially prayed that, I hope you notice this morning So question for the married folk. Have you been treating and regarding your marriage as something God designed, something God established? So after that introduction, that global introduction in chapter one, chapter two zooms in and gives us a closer look Look at verse seven, chapter two, God forms the man from the dust of the ground, breathes life into his nostrils. Then skip down to verse eighteen. Then the Lord God said, It is not good for a man that he should be alone. I will make a helper fit for him. So out of the ground the Lord God formed every beast of the field and every bird of the heavens and brought them to see man, to see what he would call them, and whatever the man Called every living creature, that was its name. The man gave names to all livestock and to the birds of the heavens and to every beast of the field But for Adam there was not found a helper fit for him. So the Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall upon the man. And while he slept he took one of his ribs and closed up the place with flesh. And the rib that the Lord God had taken from the man he made into a woman, and brought her to the man. And the man said, This at last is bone of my bones, flesh of my flesh, she shall be called woman Because she was taken out of man. Ish-esha in the Hebrew Therefore, a man shall leave his father and his mother and hold fast to his wife, and they shall become one flesh. And the man and his wife were both naked, and were not ashamed. There's a number of things that we can draw from these verses, but before anything else, notice that marriage is God's idea and God's doing. Adam does not initiate and say You know, it's great hanging out with all these animals, but I'm a little lonely. Hey God, what else you got? Fact More likely, Adam was at home, hanging out with the animals, not showering, feeding the dog from the table. And driving without anyone in the passenger seat, telling him he's being careless, God is the initiator. Verse 18, it is not good for that man for that the man should be alone. I will make a helper fit for him. And so Shannon offers me useful instruction about how I can drive in a way that's more considerate of other people in the car and other drivers. In verse 22, he brings her to the man right away. Adam recognizes this is a helper that is suitable. In God's perfect wisdom, he provides a woman to complete him. Then verse 24, look there. Therefore a man shall leave his father and mother and hold fast to his wife, and she shall becomes bone of my bone, flesh of my flesh, her bone, my bone, her flesh, my flesh It's a Hebrew idiom for saying she's my flesh and blood. And then the text. illustrates it the two shall become one flesh, one biology. Beth read to us what Jesus said about this. Jesus commentary. God made them male and female. Therefore a man shall leave his father and mother and hold fast to his wife, and they shall become one flesh, so they are no longer two but one flesh What therefore God has joined together, let not man separate. Jesus. Interpretation Turns out that God himself unites the man and the wife. It's not finally the minister. The vows, the rings, the legal documents, or the marriage bed God supernaturally joins them together a born-again biology Typologically speaking. It's a kind of new creation. I remind you of anything So, who is the one, brothers and sisters, who are married? Who is the one who actually joined you to your wife in such a deep and mysterious level? Paul's word, divine mystery, profound mystery. That Jesus says no man can separate you. A person cannot do it. God does it. There's no such thing as no-fault divorce, apparently. What does all this imply? Well, it implies several things. It implies that the God is the Lord of marriage. The Creator has rights of lordship. He defines it and sets the boundaries. For it. It implies that marriage is not just a social, cultural, legal construct. It implies that the government, neither the government nor the voters, have the authority to redefine marriage. There is no such thing as same-sex marriage. That is a fiction. It implies that your union with your spouse Fundamentally depends on an action of God, which means it's a sin against God to break your marriage or to act against it or to betray it Let's see if we can fill this out with lesson four. Lesson four, marriage entails a one-flesh union between a man and a woman Lesson four, marriage entails a one-flesh union between a man and a woman. Question for married folk: Have you been faithful to your one-flesh union? To be clear, you can be unfaithful to your one-flesh union by going outside of your marriage. Or by failing to give love within your marriage We can be unfaithful as sins of commission, what we do, or sins of omission, what we neglect to do, leave undone. So Adam celebrates this is bone of my bone, flesh of my flesh. The narrator then tells us the two become one flesh, lest there be any doubt that the author is talking about physical intimacy. A later biblical author, Paul, would forbid becoming one flesh with a prostitute He's talking about physical intimacy. What happens in the moment of physical intimacy? Will two bodies become one? And this accomplishes at least four things. First, it seals the marriage It makes it official. We see this throughout the Old Testament. And Isaac went into Rebekah, and they became man and wife. Seals the marriage. Number two, it affirms us as relational beings. We were created to be in relationship with one another in the most intimate and vulnerable way. Which is why sin in this arena is so profoundly destructive. Perhaps more destructive than other kinds of sins that we can commit. Against others, against ourselves, against the Lord. A third, a physical intimacy constitutes us as a family This is now bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh. As I said, that this is the Hebrew idiom for saying flesh and blood. So I'm saying this is my family. This is the person to whom I am by covenantal choice, as it were, biologically New creation biologically united. So a man leaves his biological family of birth The ones with whom he shares DNA, he leaves them and cleaves to his wife as this new creation biological covenantal family. And then that issues forth It's illustrated in the One Flesh Union and then issues forth in children, family. So travel the world, friends, and you'll discover that in Muslim cultures and Hindu cultures and Confucian cultures. Very often the wife is treated as joined to the man's family, and he will continue to show greater allegiance to them than he will to her. She is, as it were, along for the ride. The Bible, Christianity, pictures something different. Married children should honor and respect their parents, yes But a man's wife takes precedence over his parents. A woman's husband takes precedence over her parents But not only that, our spouses possess a certain kind of precedence over our children as well How many stories, sadly, I could tell, especially in unhappy marriages, where people begin to invest more hope and affection in their children than in their spouses. Which isn't good for the children because it places a burden on them that they were not bent to bear. The children leave. Spouses should not. Not only that, I'm convinced children are most happy when they know mom and dad are in love with and committed to each other Therefore, moms, you should not feel guilty at all when you have to say to your kid, sorry, sweetheart, this is daddy time. Just this week, one brother told me that though his wife devotes an unbelievable amount of time to his kids, there's no doubt in his mind that she makes him her first priority. What a beautiful picture. Fourth and finally, I'm still under the sublist of what does the one-flesh union do? Fourth and finally, the physical intimacy of marriage anticipates the pleasure of heaven. And the intimate knowledge of God. It provides a kind of symbolic language For understanding union with Christ. I don't mean we will be united with Christ in that way. It's not what I'm saying. What I'm saying is just a symbol of something even greater. After all, Jesus tells us that marriage and physical intimacy ends in heaven. We will not experience it in heaven. Does that mean we're losing something good? Remember when I was a teenager, I worried about that. No. It means the shadow is giving way to the substance. The shadow of this pulpit is a little two-dimensional, wispy nothing, whereas the pulpit is something. For all the power that marriage and physical intimacy possess, it is only a two-dimensional shadow Pointing to the substance of our union with Christ one day as a church. How great and marvelous and ineffable! Can't describe it Will that be? Bible scholar Don Carson writes It is as if the only pleasure and intimacy in this life that comes to anticipating the pleasure of the church and her Lord being perfectly united in the last day is the sexual union of a good marriage. John Piper writes similarly. We were given the power to know each other sexually so that we might have some hint of what it will be like to know life Christ supremely. Not amazing. Now it's common in marriage books and seminars to say that you should think less about yourself When it comes to physical intimacy and more about serving your spouse. I think that's true. I dare say it's even more true that you should think about serving the union. In other words, don't think me, don't think just her or him, think us. This act serves to unite and grow us. That's why Genesis says, and the two become one flesh What that means, friends, is that succumbing to those temptations to marital unfaithfulness, whether the temptations of act acting outside your marriage or the reversed temptation to avoid and shut out your spouse and run from all intimacy shows we're missing the point of the physical union and we're missing the really good stuff We're missing the God-given means for enjoying and strengthening the relational connectedness He intends for us, as well as the deepening of ourselves and who we are. Because as the self grows, the self grows as you learn to live in union With invulnerability towards independence upon another, or at least another who is trustworthy And loving. No doubt much sin and selfishness and violence has characterized this whole area. People have been terribly hurt. And we'll consider Some of this next week when we think more about marriage in the fall. Still in the blueprints this week. We need to understand them. Even if we don't live right now anywhere near them to know what God intends for us. Lesson five. Marriage involves distinct roles. Marriage involves distinct roles. Question for the married folk. Have you been fulfilling God's distinct role for you Husband and wife have been both created in God's image and are equal in dignity and worth. They have been given a joint commission to represent him to the world, but also God has given distinct Let's start with husbands. God has given husbands authority or headship in the marriage for the purpose of cultivating oneness in the shared work of earthly dominion. The husband's headship can be seen in a number of ways in Genesis 1 to 3. And here I'm drawing from what Paul does with Genesis 1 to 3. First, Paul says he notes that God created Adam. First, and woman was created from man. Take a look at 1 Timothy 2 if you want. Second, Paul observes that God created woman for the man to be his helper, leading him to call the wasman the head of the wife. Look at 1 Corinthians 11. Third, he notes that God ascribes the first sin to Adam. Though Eve ate the first fruit, he had commanded Adam to protect the garden And he failed to do so. Therefore, God addresses Adam when he shows up From the first man came sin, says Paul in Romans 5. And then fourth, man names the woman. Both before the fall, she shall be called woman. And after the fall, she shall be called Eve. And naming would have been a work of authority. So men have been given the unique authority and leadership responsibility for the marriage relationship as a whole. What this means, brothers, is if that if the Lord Jesus shows up at your door and he wants to talk with someone because he's concerned. About things going on in your marriage or home, whatever the issue is, or whatever area of marriage is involved, the Lord Jesus is going to ask to speak to you first. That's why I think it's a deeply complementarian point for that psychologist to say most marriages fail because of the men They're not doing what they should do. How many times have I sat alone with a married man and keep saying, but she To which my response is something like, sorry, brother, that sounds hard. But brother, I'm calling you to step up and die to yourself Enough of the blame game. Jesus is knocking on your door Forget all the petty childish stuff. How are you taking responsibility? What are you doing to build up and encourage and unify and lead Now, God gives people authority for different reasons. A parent has authority to train, a pastor to disciple, a policeman to protect. What about a husband? Well, God has given him authority to cultivate oneness, as I said, in the work of dominion. As I said, his job is to take his eyes off the field, look to her, grab her hand, and say, let's do this together. I'm going to help us do this together. And it's tragic then how often pastors hear from wives who feel neglected by their husbands, either because they spend long hours at the office or because they're emotionally absent even when home. Such husbands have abandoned their first duty, seeking oneness with their wives. They have failed. They're sinning. They're negligent And while such a marriage will probably be only too happy to exercise and experience oneness in the marriage bed. Perhaps the more important work is living with your wife in an understanding way As Peter said. It's knowing her, understanding her, her frame, her gifts, her vulnerabilities, her hurts, her joys, her opportunities to grow and to flourish Every husband is his wife's head. And what's crucial to recognize is this is inevitable. Once married, a man doesn't need to make himself the head, he simply is. He can be a life-giving head or a life-stealing head, a present head or an absent head, but he is the head It's wired into creation itself. It's how we were built. The only matter which is up for graduates is what kind of head a man is, a faithful one or an unfaithful one. Does his presence lead or does his absence lead? Does he nourish and cherish his wife? To use Paul's words for how a man treats his own body. Or does he use abuse her? The inevitability of headship is one reason why a husband's abuse can damage a woman so profoundly. Now, to be sure, abuse of wives undermine their husbands too, leading to anxiety and depression and withdrawal and other such problems in men. Men and women are capable of equally sinning against each other, and a foolish woman can tear down her house, says Proverbs four times. Still, an abusive head even more can undermine, shrivel up, crush, or destroy a person's spirit And few things on this earth, in my experience, and reading Scripture can strengthen, embolden, empower, encourage, enliven, or build up a woman, like a head who is devoted to her good. This is not to deny God's all-sufficient provision for the woman who never marries or the woman in a broken marriage. It is to affirm the wonderful gift that God has given to many. And brothers, one way you can know you're leading like this is that your wife actually grows in loveliness, even as her body declines over the years. There's a growing confidence and peace and contentedness and strength in her eyes and her smile. So brothers. Are you leading in marriage? Meaning, are are you Casting a vision and setting a direction. Have you located a territory and said, okay, the wagon train is going this way? Well we're gonna we're gonna take over this territory and and build a town here. That vision includes a vision for the home for the work, for church, for neighboring, for your entire lives before God. Now certainly she should be involved in thinking it through. She's pretty smart It's going to keep you from making dumb mistakes. More of ideas that you don't have. Are you taking the initiative and saying, okay, let's have a conversation? There's a place we got to get Which means, brothers, using any authority to serve yourself or to lord it over your wife in some ways is completely wrong-headed, and not why you have been given authority. It will bring judgment. Sisters. I hope you see that having a burden bearing man who sees it as his responsibility to faithfully lead you along with him in obedience to God is a great gift and should be a source of rejoicing Does your heart say, yes, I want him to be strong? I want him to lead because I know it's going to be good for me and the kids and everyone Is that your heart's desire? Well, enough about husbands. What about wives then? Well, wife's job, Genesis tells us quite simply, is to be a suitable helper. On the one hand, she's suitable. As a relational and suitable companionship That a wife brings, and that should be at the heart of every marriage. Women were made in a way that is suitable to men so that they were created for deep, fulfilling companionship. Furthermore, the woman is a suitable helper. Helper for what? For their joint stewardship to rule and subdue The earth is God's representatives, and the woman is to carry this out by following, encouraging the husband's leadership in that shared responsibility. So as the husband sets the trajectory of their life together, the brother the wife brings her entire resume. of gifts and skills and intelligences to complement, to help, to complete, to carry through the husband's leadership. A theologian Alistair Roberts has observed that the work which Scripture gives to men tends to correspond to the first three days of creation. Where God establishes the basic arenas of life, dividing light from darkness, sea from sky, land from water. The woman's work tends to correspond with days four, five, and six, where each of these arenas are then filled. And beautified with plants and trees, fish and birds, animals and humanity. So it's as if he divides and conquers, and she fills and beautifies and makes things harmonious. I'm grateful for Abigail Dodd's article, The Beauty of Womanhood. She writes. The vision of womanhood, our culture offers, is a sad consolation that exchanges the glory of feminine strength for a treadmill to nowhere. When we forsake our feminine glory in pursuit of the uniqueness that belongs to men, we abandon our God-given glory. We become usurpers, persistently insisting that our uterus and biology are equal to nothing. Irrelevant Women believe the lie that in order to be relevant in a man's world, you become like the man. When the opposite is true. You want to be relevant. Then shock the world and be what you are made to be, a fearless, unflappable, God-fearing woman. Do not abandon the very differences that make you essential She continues. The unique influence of a godly woman is in transforming things. A woman is to be compared to a crown on the head of her husband, Proverbs 12, 4. This is not because she's merely decorative, but because she is the thing that makes her good man great. She transforms a promising bachelor into a purposeful, respected husband. He gives his seed, and by some miracle and mystery, God has designed her body to mature and grow a new person. In this transformative role, whether single or married, a woman mimics her Savior Like him, she submits to another's will. And also, like him, God uses her to take what was useless on its own and shape it into glory. Remember, we're talking blueprints here. Dirty things clean. Chaos turned to order. An empty kitchen overflowing with life and food. Children in want of knowledge and truth, and a mother eager to teach. A man in need of help and counsel, and a woman fit to give it. Friends and neighbors with a thirst for truth, and a woman opening her home and heart to share it with them. Last paragraph. From Dodd. A woman is a prism that takes in light and turns it into an array of greater, fuller glory. So that those around her now see the rainbow that was contained in the beam She constantly radiates reminders of God's faithfulness. God has made us for glory, women. Not glory that terminates on us, but glory that spends itself, glorifying everything given to us, and points in all things to Christ. Who is the radiance of the glory of God, the Savior and ultimate transforming one? How does Shannon do this for me? So many ways. I'd love to take an hour and tell you. She would not like that More probably would you. She is gifted at discernment. Whether that's in hearing and improving my sermons or in understanding people, she has Extremely strong spiritual sensibilities, emotional intelligences that I do not have She helps me understand my daughters, what they need, when I would step all over their toes. In the early years, especially, she pushed me towards having fun, meaning not just being that book guy, but being a more well-rounded, full person. You may not think I'm fun, but you should have seen me before. I could keep going. Wives. How do you do this for your husbands? Or did you explain early in your marriage that you're gonna keep playing singles tennis, not doubles? And husbands, have you spent any time helping your wife discover what the unique feminine glory in dominion means for her? Or are you content to simply let the culture shape her? Wives, who are you being shaped by in your ambitions? Well, friends, as I say, those are the blueprints, when we step back, we take a look at God's original design for marriage. We see a beautiful picture of a complementary relationship between a man and a woman working together under God as stewards of the earth, and what a remarkable gift it is There is equality and difference. There is work and pleasure. There's an outward movement into the untilled fields and unconquered territories. But then there's also oneness and partnership. Now many of us do not experience it like this, as I've said several times. Many of us experience much something much more broken. As I say, we'll think about that more next week and the following week. A final question for this week might be, what does this vision exactly teach us about the gospel? Next ink we'll think about how sin distorts the blueprint, and the week after that, how Christ's redemption restores it. But even before we take those steps, is there anything about the gospel that we might see now? Well, number one, I hope you can see something of the triune God. And the relationship between the incarnate Son and the Divine Father, says Paul. I want you to understand that the head of every man is Christ, and the head of a wife is her husband, and the head of Christ is God. Well, that might take some time to unpack, but at the very least we can see that in marriage there's a testimony somehow, the divine father and the incarnate Son. I hope you can also see, number two, something of Christ, who sets the trajectory of our lives together and calls us to rule with him. 2 Timothy 2. If we endure, we will also reign with him. Reign. Literally in the Greek, be kings with. Him. In Revelation 20 and 22, they will reign, be kings with Christ, forever and ever We're gonna be kings with Christ. He calls us to be kings with him, to rule with him. Marriage points to that The blueprint of marriage itself points us to the promise and the trajectory of the gospel, where we are going. Did you realize, brothers and sisters, that your marriage is that sacred? That special? Let's pray Father, we confess that we think too little of our marriages because we think too little of the gospel. At the same time, Lord, help us not to think too much of our marriages, setting our final, ultimate hopes on them. But setting our hope on Christ and ruling with Him. Beginning even now. In His name we pray. Amen.