On June 5, 2010, Erlene Bettencourt and yours truly were married. At a ceremony in Miami, Florida, in front of our family and friends. For some reason she said yes to me. We committed to forsake all others, for better or for worse, through sickness and in health, as long as we both shall live. We did, and by God's grace we still do. Now those vows that we took were serious. If you've ever been to a wedding yourself and heard the vows, you know that they are serious. But why the taking of these vows or vows like them before witnesses? I think one reason is so that it's clear to the witnesses and also to the parties involved. that they truly know what they're getting themselves into. Right? But our ceremony wasn't the start of our commitment. To one another. That commitment had been years in the making at that point. And nor was it the end of our commitment. As anyone who's married knows. Saying I do is one thing, but saying I do each and every day is another. It's hard. It takes work. It takes commitment And what we have this morning in Exodus chapters 19 through 20 is a ceremony of sorts where commitments are made. But this ceremony would not be the start of God's commitment or God's covenant with his people. We know from God's word that that began before the foundation of the world. And it would not be the end of their covenant commitment together. And we understand that as well as God's people. As any one of us who are followers of Jesus knows, saying I do to Jesus is one thing, but living in the I do each and every day of your lives takes work. It takes commitment. So if we're going to say I do to the Lord and continue to say that each and every day. We need to know what kind of covenant commitment we've gotten ourselves into. Or rather, I should say, what kind of covenant has God gotten us into And for that, meet me in your copies of God's word in the book of Exodus. You'll find that on page 60. We're going to be in Exodus chapters 19 through 20. Or most of chapter 20 today. Again, you'll find it on page 60 in the Bible's provided. It's been a minute since we had our time in Exodus as a church together. So Let me give you a quick overview and a quick summary of what I think summarizes the book itself. God mightily delivers his covenant people from slavery. For worship and into his presence. God already mildly delivered his people from slavery. That basically sums up chapters 1 through 18, and we learned about that. There were people who cried out to God in Exodus chapter 1 and 2, and God heard their cry, and he sent Moses out And Moses, though he didn't want to go, he eventually would, and he went to the Pharaoh. And Pharaoh, though he didn't want to listen, eventually relented because these plagues that the Lord used to strike Egypt. Forced Pharaoh's hand. And then God's people were led out by Moses. You have the Exodus. So the Exodus chapter 12. They were delivered under the blood of the Lamb. And then Pharaoh changed his mind, so the Lord had to deliver them again, this time through the waters of the Red Sea. God's people were delivered and God's enemies were judged. God's people rejoiced in their salvation. And then shortly after that, they started grumbling, and yet the Lord continued to provide for them and sustain them in the wilderness. Proving that he was already at work and keeping his covenant commitment to his people. He knew what he was getting himself into, and he still delivered them. But what did God deliver his people for? Well, for worship. Think back to the refrain, let my people go. Why? So that they may worship me. God delivers people for worship and so that they could dwell in his presence. And I think that kind of sums up chapters 19 through 20. But for our time today The Lord will clearly establish the terms of this covenant relationship with his people. And here it is, which is the main point of our time together in God's Word, if you are taking notes. It's simple and yet profound. God loves his people and wants them to love him back. God loves his people, and he wants them to love him back. Let's read Exodus chapter 19, verses 1 through 24. This is the word of the Lord. On the third new moon, after the people of Israel had gone out of the land of Egypt, on that day they came into the wilderness of Sinai. And they set out from Rephedim and came into the wilderness of Sinai, and they encamped in the wilderness. There Israel encamped before the mountain, while Moses went up to God The Lord called to him out of the mountain, saying, Thus you shall say to the house of Jacob, and tell the people of Israel, You yourselves have seen what I did to the Egyptians. How I bore you on eagle's wings and brought you to myself. Now therefore, if you will indeed obey my voice and keep my covenant, you shall be my treasured possession among all peoples For all of the earth is mine, and you shall be to me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. These are the words that you shall speak to the people of Israel. So Moses came and called the elders of the people and set before them all these words that the Lord had commanded him. All the people answered together and said, All that the Lord have spoken, we will do. And Moses reported the words of the people to the Lord. And the Lord said to Moses, Behold, I am coming to you in a thick cloud, that the people may hear when I speak with you. And you may also and may also believe you forever. When Moses told the words of the people to the Lord, the Lord said to Moses, Go to the people and consecrate them today and tomorrow, and let them wash their garments, and be ready for the third day, for on the third day the Lord will come down on Mount Sinai in the sight of all the people. And you shall set limits for the people all around, saying, take care not to go up into the mountain or to touch the edge of it. Whoever touches the mountain shall be put to death. No hand shall touch him, but he shall be stoned or shot, whether beast or man, he shall not live. When the trumpet sounds a long blast, they shall come up to the mountain So Moses went down from the mountain to the people and consecrated the people, and they washed their garments. And he said to the people, Be ready for the third day. Do not go near a woman. On the morning of the third day, there were thunders and lightnings and a thick cloud on the mountain and a very loud trumpet blast, so that all the people in the camp trembled Then Moses brought the people out of the camp to meet God, and they took their stand at the foot of the mountain. Now Mount Sinai was wrapped in smoke, because the Lord had descended on it in fire. The smoke of it went up like the smoke of a kinland, and the whole mountain trembled greatly. And as the sound of the trumpet grew louder and louder, Moses spoke, and God answered him in thunder The Lord came down on Mount Sinai to the top of the mountain. And the Lord called Moses to the top of the mountain. And Moses went up And the Lord said to Moses, Go down and warn the people lest they break through to the Lord to look, and many of them perish. Also let the priests who come near to the Lord consecrate themselves. Lest the Lord break out against them. And Moses said to the Lord, The people cannot come up to Mount Sinai, for you yourself warned us, saying, Set limits around the mountain and consecrate it And the Lord said to him, Go down and come up, bringing Aaron with you, but do not let the priests and the people break through to come up to the Lord, lest he break out against them. So Moses went down to the people and told them. And we'll stop there for point number one. Again, the main point: God loves his people. And he wants them to love him back. So we'll answer it, we'll ask and answer a few questions based on that main idea coming from Exodus 19 and 20. Question number one, who are God's people? Who are God's people? I think we see at least two answers in Exodus chapter 19. Answer number one, God's covenant people are dearly loved. God's people are dearly loved. Look back at verse 4 of Exodus 19, where God says, You yourselves have seen what I did to the Egyptians, how I bore you on eagle's wings and brought you to myself. If indeed you will obey my voice and keep my command my covenant, you shall be my treasure possession among all the peoples. For all of the earth is mine, the Lord says Because we shall be, or his people should be a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. The Lord reminds them that this deliverance that they've entered into was already won by him He took the first step. He made the initiative. He led those his people out of slavery in Egypt and he brought them into his family. That's what this covenant commitment was about And this shows that his covenant was already set in motion. And I think that's why he called, he said thus, so or say this thus to the house of Jacob, as in Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. God's people. And he is saying that he is keeping his covenant that he had already previously made generations before. He knew his people and he knew what kind of covenant he was getting into. But God is saying, I've already kept my end of the deal and I will continue to do so. And so God's people, his dearly loved people, were called, because of that love, to live for him and love him and live holy lives as a result. That's why the Lord tells them to obey his voice. And if they do so, they shall be a treasured possession, a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. We learned about this many, many moons ago in the book of Ephesians, right? Ephesians chapter 1 Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places, even as He chose us in Him before the foundation of the world. That we should be holy and blameless before him. It goes on to say, in love that he predestined us to be adopted as sons. This should beg the question for the people of Israel and even for us. Why these people? You ever thought that? You ever sat in church and looked around? Like, why these people? Why would the Lord choose these lowly former slaves? This group of grumbling and stumbling and fumbling sojourners. Well, it's because of his great love. That's what he says in Deuteronomy chapter 7, verse 7. It's not because you were more in number than any other people that the Lord set his love on you and chose you. You were the fewest of all peoples, but it's because the Lord loves you. And is keeping the oath that he swore to your fathers, that the Lord has brought you out with a mighty hand and redeemed you from the house of slavery, from the hand of Pharaoh, king of Egypt. So God loves his people because he loves his people. Right? Kids, have you ever asked your parents why they love you? They might tell you a few reasons why they love you, but if you push hard enough, you keep asking, eventually they'll just say, I love you. Because I love you. You're mine. That's what God says to his covenant people. He sets his love on his covenant people not because of their loveliness, but because of his love. And God wants his people to love him back. It seems like his people are committed to do so, right? Look at back at verse 8. But he says, all that the Lord says, we will do. Moses reports those words back to the Lord. The Lord tells Moses to come back to He will come back in a thick cloud in the hearing of the people. He wanted them to hear his word so that they would also believe and know that Moses was a reliable prophet. In verse 10, the Lord spoke to Moses again, telling him to consecrate the people and let them wash their garments and be ready for the third day. When the Lord will come down in the sight of the people Again, Moses was to consecrate this people, meaning set them apart as holy, because this was a special occasion where they would hear the voice of the Lord. They'll be ready to draw near to the Lord, and they needed to wash their garments. Why would they need to wash their garments? This is because though God's covenant people are dearly loved, they are deeply flawed. They are broken. They are sinful So, since the Lord would come out on the third day, the people needed to get ready to meet with God. And they were warned: don't touch the mountain, or that will be a death sentence. This is pointing out the holiness of God and the sinfulness of his people, even his dearly loved people. So Moses consecrated them, which probably signifies a time of prayer and intercession for them. They were meant to cleanse themselves and clean their garments And cleaning their garments in the literal sense would have taken a couple of days to do. They were also told not to go near a woman, at least the men were told that. This meant that they needed to have devoted, fully devoted time to be undivided for this meeting with the Lord. They needed to be ready because the Lord wanted to speak to them. So quick question. How do you prepare to hear from the Lord? How do you prepare to gather with God's people? God was assembling his people together so that they could hear his words, and they were intended to be consecrated, meaning set apart for this special occasion, to be undivided, to be intentionally focused. So that they could hear and respond to God's word. And we gather weekly as God's people to be his people, to hear from his word Now there's not thunder and lightning as I'm preaching right now because I am not the Lord. But question: how do you prepare to gather with God's people? There's a couple things we can do to prepare for our gatherings, because our gatherings, though they seem mundane, they are not. The Lord intends to meet with his people all together. So what can we do to prepare? First, we can pray. Pray for the gathering itself. Pray for your own hearts. If you're listening and you're like, I'm not feeling stirred right now, or I feel so distracted, you can pray right in your seat. We can prepare, we can pray and confess our sins to the Lord. And in case you didn't know, you don't have to wait until Sunday morning to confess your sins during the prayer of confession together. You can confess your sins whenever you notice them. Pray for the singing of the church. That we would be encouraged and edified through the singing. Pray for the preaching of the word. Pray for the time of fellowship. Pray that the Lord would save others through what's done here. So pray. Secondly, pursue the Lord. Pursue the Lord It'll be hard to get what the Lord wants us to get out of these gatherings if during the week we are not pursuing him at all. We might show up and feel distant from the Lord. So in your your regular rhythm of prayer and being with the Lord in His Word, that is doing something So persist in it. Persist in your pursuit in the Lord. Anytime the Lord meets with his people is a special occasion and we are called to treat it as such. Because the Lord shows up to meet with his dearly loved people and deeply flawed people. Look at verse 16. Where the Lord says that he is going to show up in his people's mist. Chapter 19, verse 16. On the morning of the third day, there were thunders and lightnings and a thick cloud on the mountain, and a very loud trumpet blast, so that all the people in the camp trembled. Then Moses brought the people out of the camp to meet God, and they took their stand at the foot of the mountain The Lord showed up on the third day, just like he said he would show up. Moses brought the people out to meet with God at the foot on the mountain, and the Lord descended to the mountain. The text says that the whole mountain itself quaked and trembled in the presence of the Lord And then the Lord called Moses, and he gives this warning again. That's in the last few verses of that section, starting in verse 21. Remember, remind the people, they are not to come up. Not even the priest, they cannot come up. And then Moses says, you already warned us. You already told us that we cannot come up. Moses might be thinking, you already told us this, Lord. Why are you saying this again? Why is this back and forth at the at the end of this section here? I think it's showing that God truly does know his people. You know what he's gotten himself into. And his people need to be told the same thing over and over and over again Don't they? Don't you? Don't we? Kids, you ever feel like your parents just give you the same five or six instructions over and over and over again? It's like yeah, yeah, I get it, I get it. I heard you mom. I heard you dad. We need instruction over and over and over again because we are fickle people and we are forgetful people. And God, as a good father, knows that. So he reminds them not to break through. Or he says that he will break out against them. Strong language, right? Some of us might struggle with that language. And even that picture, God descending on the mountain and fire, everything quaking. He says, Don't even let anybody touch the mountain. Or I will break out against them. What do we do with that? Well, this shows us that God is holy beyond our imagination. It also shows that he sincerely wants to meet with his people, his dearly loved and deeply flawed and sinful people. He says, yes, I know that they've cleansed themselves, they've washed their garments, but they are still not allowed to touch the mountain. He wants fellowship with them. He wants a relationship with them. And since this his is his relationship that he initiated, this is the covenant that he starts. He gets to find the terms. So again, our God is holy. So Moses went back down and told the people, and they will remain at the foot of the mountain to hear the terms of the covenant. What would they hear? This leads us to Exodus chapter 20. Question number two. Question number two. So question number one is who are God's people? They are dearly loved, they are deeply flawed. Okay, well if that's true, question number two, how can we love God? How can we love God? Let's look at Exodus 20. I'll read up to verse 17. And God spoke all these words, saying, I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery. You shall have no other gods before me. You should not make for yourself a carved image or any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water underneath the earth. You shall not bow down to them or serve them, for I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children to the third and fourth generation of those who hate me But showing steadfast love to thousands of those who love me and keep my commandments You should not take the name of the Lord your God in vain, for the Lord will not hold him guiltless who takes his name in vain. Remember the Sabbath to keep it holy. Six days you shall labor and do all of your work, but the seventh day is a sabbath to the Lord your God. On it you shall not do any work, you or your son, or your daughter, or your male servant, your female servant, or of your livestock. or the sojourner who is within your gates, for in six days the Lord made the heavens and the earth, the sea, and all that is in them, and rested on the seventh day. Therefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and made it holy. Honor your mother and father, that your days may be long in the land that the Lord your God has given you. You shall not murder, you shall not commit adultery, you shall not steal. You shall not bear false witness against your neighbor. You shall not covet your neighbor's house. You shall not covet your neighbor's wife, or his male servant, or his female servant, or his ox, or his donkey, or anything that is your neighbor's. And we'll stop there for now. But question, how can we love God? Answer, through loving obedience to him Through loving obedience to him. Many of us are familiar with the Ten Commandments. Perhaps we've learned it or we've memorized it. Or if you're like one of the writer boys, you've memorized all of Exodus chapter 20. Don't worry, I won't call you to read, or I won't call you to recite, but proud of you, buddy. But we don't often associate the Ten Commandments with love, do we? But remember, God is the one that initiates this covenant. And he here reintroduces that thought and reintroduces himself. The Lord reintroduces himself. He says that he's the Lord their God. He's Adonai. He's Yahweh. He is Elohim. He is not just a God. He is their God. He's brought them out of slavery. And then in verse 5, he says he is a jealous God. Now that word jealous is easy to misunderstand and also put in a negative connotation. So if someone is jealous, we'll think that they're maybe they're envious or they're petty. But the original sense of the word is more like the word zealous. I think that's a better sense of what the Lord is conveying here. He is zealous for his people and for their affection Anyone married in here, you know that you should feel the same way about your spouse. Right? That's not a bad thing. That's actually what is a good thing. That's what's expected Look at verse 5. He is so zealous and so jealous for his people that he visits the iniquity of the fathers on the children to the third and fourth generation of those who hate him. But show steadfast love to thousands of those who love him and keep his commandments. That's Exodus 25 and 6. I think these verses show us many things, but here's a couple of thoughts. First thought, there's no friend zone when it comes to the Lord We either love him or we hate him. We are either with him or we're against him. Secondly, God is holy and just in punishing sin and lavishes his love towards his covenant people All of those things are true at the same time. And this love that God has for his people is actually what binds the two tables of the law together. The first four commandments are known as the first table of the law. They are all rooted in our love for God. You shall love, you shall have no other gods before me. Oh, commandment number one. That's not just an ordering though. Not just, it's not saying like God saying, they can't be before me, but they can be behind me He's saying no other, the literal will be more like no other gods before my face. So out of my presence, shall I have no other gods before me Secondly, you shall not make any idols. Thirdly, you shall not take the name of the Lord in vain. And fourthly, remember the Sabbath and keep it holy. All of these are about a love for God that does not keep treat God as common, as regular, as normal. He's exalted and separated from all others And since he so loved his covenant people, he wants his covenant people to love him in a manner that's worthy of his love. God's people would exhibit that love through their placement of Him. So again, He's here, He's highly exalted, and there's no other gods that compete with Him. So they will do what he says. And they would also show their love for God in their posture towards their neighbors. The second table of the law, commandments five through ten, are about love of neighbor. Honor your mother and father, commandment five or commandment six. You shall not murder. Eight, you shall not steal. Nine, you shall not bear false witness against your neighbor. Ten. You shall not covet or be envious of anything that your neighbor possesses. Now think of how these commandments would have landed on these people in their hearing of them. They are now under God's rule. They were formerly under Pharaoh's rule. So he's changing things He's showing them that he is the God above all, and he deserves all of their love and all of their worship. So instead of the Pharaoh being worshipped or other idols He is the Almighty God. Worship him alone. And he cannot be manipulated for people's own personal gain. His name is holy That's why he says, do not take his name in vain. And instead of this unrestrained production on the back of slaves that you had in Egypt, the Lord tells his people, remember the Sabbath. Keep it holy. You shall work six days, but one day should be set aside as holy to the Lord. Instead of parents just being used and then tossed aside, he says, no, they should be honored. Instead of neighbors being overlooked and disregarded, says all life, all people are treated, should be treated as honored. That's why murder is considered as breaking one of God's covenant. Shall not take life. Instead of the weak being exploited through debt, through theft, or covetousness, says, no, we are called to love our neighbors. Don't steal from them. Don't covet. Instead of exploiting the the weak or the vulnerable or any of our neighbors through lies, says, no, you need to not bear false witness. God's justice would be upheld through integrity So in sum, God commands his people to love him and love their neighbors. In Murphy, North Carolina, where one of my best friends is from, they have a Bible amusement park that's called Fields of the Woods. Now, obviously, that's very far from the DMV. We don't have such amusement parks around here. But right in the center of this amusement park, you have what's called the Ten Commandments Mountain. And there's a bunch of stairs that you get to climb all the way up. And you climb up the stairs, and when you get there, there's a giant Bible that's open. And that Bible is open to this passage in Matthew chapter 22, verses 37 through 40, where Jesus says this. You shall love the Lord your God with all of your heart and all of your soul with all of your mind. This is the first commandment. And the second is like it, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. On these two commandments depend all of the law and the prophets. Well, Jesus is saying Climb through the commandments, climb through all of the scriptures, all of the law, all of the prophets, and you will find that it hangs on these two commandments. Love God and love your neighbor. And this is who God's covenant people are. Though they are deeply flawed, they are deeply loved by God. And out of that love, they are not just called, but commanded. to love God and love their neighbors in response. Now I realize that being commanded to love doesn't sound natural to us. Love is meant to overflow out of this ooey and gooey place. We're supposed to always have butterflies and always see rainbows and always flutter with emotions, right? That's how love is, right? You ever been to a wedding and you hear the the couple write their own vows to each other? Sometimes that's wonderful and beautiful. But sometimes they say things like, I promise to never get mad at you. And we chuckle, but if you've been married for a while, you roll your eyes and you're like, what are you saying? That's not true. And then that's not even what love is like. But you didn't have to go to a med a wedding to experience that. Just think of any of us who have siblings. You have brothers and sisters who you are called and commanded to love. They're not always easy to love, are they? Or what about yourself? Are you and I always easy to love? We aren't. But love is more than a feeling. Love is an action. And the Lord did not just send loving thoughts to the Israelites in their slavery, did he? He sent Moses. He sent the plagues. He delivered them under the blood of the lamb. He led them out. He delivered them through the waters of the Red Sea. And he swallowed up their enemies in judgment. And instead of allowing the waters of judgment to swallow them up because of their sin, he let them go free. And instead of the Lord allowing the waters of judgment to swallow us up, He sent his son to save us, who were his very enemies. He made us his friends. And as a kill said this morning, we're not we're we're not just his servants. Though being a servant of the Lord is the rightful place for us. Jesus calls us his friends. How is that possible? It's because Jesus came down to this world. The Bible teaches that God So loved the world that he sent his son, his one and only son, to come down to the world, to live a perfect life, completely obedient to God the Father, and all of his ways, all of his words, all of his thoughts, everything. And yet he was sent to be condemned in our place for our sins. Out of love, the Father crushed his son on the cross. For you, for me, for all of us that will call upon the name of the Lord Jesus, so that we would not perish, but through him have everlasting and eternal life. And with the help of the Spirit, we can love Him and we can obey Him If you're here this morning, you're not sure of your relationship status with the Lord. You're not sure if you are part of his family, but you realize your sin. You hear some of those commandments and you think I've done those things too. And if you only hear that you've broken one commandment, the Bible says if you've broken one, you've broken them all. But know that you, because of your sin against God, just like all of us, we deserve God's wrath And yet he sent Jesus out of his great love to save you. And he can save even you today if you turn from your sin and put your faith in Christ alone. And if you want to do that today, please don't leave here without talking to someone who can explain what that means so you can give your very life to the Lord who loves you, who made you in his image and for his glory. That you can be redeemed today. Brothers and sisters in Christ, remember that the Lord has delivered you, He has redeemed you because of His love for you. You cannot earn his love. You cannot earn his favor. But you have it. And since you have it, you are called to live a life in obedience to him. As one pastor puts it, obedience is God's love language. Now some of us hear this and we think, get them, Pastor. We must show God that we love him. And perhaps if I asked you, you would have a list of all the things that you've done over this past week to show your love for him. Others of us hear this and we think, alright, I'll dig a little deeper, I'll try a little harder, and perhaps you're working on a checklist right now in your head. Go to church, check. And still others might hear this and say, yes, I believe this, but this crushes me Because maybe you see only the ways that you failed God. Maybe you know that obedience is possible, but you must think it's gotta be possible for those other people, not for me. May I just say whether it's self-righteousness or self-loathing, all of that's rooted in self, and that's not rooted in God's love. Remember, the Lord introduces himself, reminds them of his salvation that he won for them without them trying to keep any of the commandments. So to the self-righteous among us, the Lord says, humble yourself. You did not save yourself and you cannot keep yourself. None of us can. I mean, think of the ways that the Lord Jesus responded to the self-righteous in his day. What did he say to the rich young ruler who boasted, I've kept all these commandments since I was a child? What do I lack? Jesus showed him what he lacked and let him walk away sad and did not chase him to renegotiate the terms And what did Jesus say to the teacher who wanted to justify himself, hearing, love God and love your neighbor? And so he said, and who is my neighbor? Jesus gave him the parable of the Good Samaritan, eventually reversed the question, because who proved to be a neighbor to the man on the side of the road? The one who showed mercy. And Jesus said, go and do likewise. But this morning, if you're feeling not self-righteous, but you feel that I can't obey God. Jesus says, look to me, I am your righteousness. Look to me, I've given you a helper. That's what we heard in our scripture reading in John 14, where Jesus says, if you love me, keep my commandments. And if he only said that, that would be crushing, wouldn't it? But what does he say in the very next verse? Verse 16 of John chapter 14. I will ask the Father, and he will give you another helper to be with you forever, even the spirit of truth, whom the world cannot receive, because it neither sees him nor knows him. You know him For he dwells with you and will be with you. I will not leave you as orphans. I will come to you. The Lord has not left any of us, beloved We have the help of the Holy Spirit, his very presence, but we can love him and obey him. That's what we're called to do. We don't always feel like doing that, do we? Kids, you ever are told to do something by your parents and you respond maybe audibly or in your thoughts? But I don't feel like it. Any of you? Your parents were nodding for you? How many of us grown-up kids in the room respond to the Lord in that way sometimes I don't feel like it. I don't feel like reading the Bible. I don't feel like praying. I don't feel like going to church. I don't feel like confessing my sin. I don't feel like Offering forgiveness to them, they don't deserve it from me I don't feel like denying myself. Remember, love is more than a feeling. Love is an action. Well, since the Lord commands love and obedience from us, remember his great love for you. Remember his great love for us, and allow that love to take the lead and overflow into your obedience. So, in other words, remember his covenant. Or obey the Lord and his word, even when you don't feel like it, and trust that eventually that love is going to follow. In other words, remember your covenant, your commitment to him. And remember that he helps his people to love and obey him. Final question for us. How should we respond? How would God's people respond? Question number three, how will we respond? This is really a question for all of us to answer individually, right? But I think this passage gives us two options. There are these two options. Option number one. Distance ourselves from God. Option number two, draw near to God. Look at Exodus 20, verses 18 to 21. Now, when all the people saw the thunder and the flashes of lightning and the sound of the trumpet and the mountain smoking, the people were afraid and trembled, and they stood afar off. And said to the Moses, You speak to us, and we will listen to you, but do not let God speak to us lest we die. Moses said to the people, Do not fear. For God has come to test you, that the fear of him may be before you, that you may not sin. The people stood far off, while Moses drew near To the thick darkness where God was. The Israelites seemed to take option number one. Out of fear, they kept themselves away from God. They were afraid, and rightfully so. But what wasn't right for them was their response to Moses. You speak to us. Don't let God speak to us, lest we die. God did not say that. Perhaps this could be an acknowledgement of their sinfulness in hearing God's law and God's word, and maybe that could be the case. But what God clearly said is, don't touch the mountain. And what God also says is that He wanted all of His people to hear, to draw near, to be at the foot of the mountain so that they can hear His voice. But out of their fear, out of their fear, they twisted God's word, misunderstood his holiness, and underestimated his love. And I think we're all guilty of that sometimes. Maybe we won't say it, but certain phrases that we know aren't in the Bible, we live like they're true. Like God only helps those who help themselves. Not in the Bible, but sometimes we can live like that's true. Or I know God forgives But I can't really forgive myself. There might be a lot there. There might be something you need to unpack with a brother or sister or with a pastor. You feel that way? That's not what the scriptures teach at all. So question, do you have a fear of God that keeps you at a respectable distance from God? If so, I think Moses would say that you don't fear God enough. Notice that Moses doesn't say that fear of God is wrong, but the Israelites seem to have the wrong kind of fear. Which is why Moses opts for option number two, which is to draw near to God. That's what happens in verses 20 and 21. Again, these thunder, the smoke, the lightning, trumpets blasting, all of this happening would have made anybody fearful. That's the right kind of response But Moses says, do not fear. Draw near so that out of fear of God, you will keep away from sin. It's the right kind of fear that God wants his people to have. That's what the Bible teaches in Psalm 119. Verse 9, how can a young man keep his way pure? By guarding it according to your word. My whole heart I seek you, let me not wander from your commandments. I have stored up your word in my heart. Why? That I may not sin against you And even so the Israelites remained at a distance while Moses drew near. So this meant going forward, Moses would serve as the mediator between God and And his people. He would hear from God and he would continue to relay the message. But the Israelites, out of their fear, they remained at a distance And if you know the rest of the story of Exodus, sin would be crouching at their door, and they would succumb to it So question for all of us. Does your fear of God lead you to draw near to God and away from sin or away from God? I think the implication is if you draw away from God, that actually means that we are drawing ourselves towards sin. But remember, our God, who inspires awe-struck fear and wonder and should, tells his people over and over and over again: fear not. We can draw near to God because he sent Jesus as the greater mediator to draw near to us. He tabernacled with us. He's already bridged the gap for us. Even today he stands ready to intercede for us. He sends his spirit for us to help us and to comfort us. And he is preparing a place for us so that where he is, we will be also. He says, I do, and I still do. That's what we have gotten ourselves into as God's people So we are in a covenant of love with our gracious and merciful and loving God. May he give us grace to draw near to him. And to love him back by obeying his word. Let me pray for us Lord God, we thank you for going before us. We thank you for your great love for us that you lavish on us as your people. But you do call us to obey you, Lord And Lord, that is challenging, that is difficult for us at times. But we pray that we will be motivated to obey you out of the same love in which you've saved us and delivered us. Lord, we pray that we would not be trying to prove ourselves to you to earn your affection, but know that we already have it. And if and when we forget that, Lord, remind us of the cross. Remind us of your mercy. Remind us of your grace, and help us to draw near to you all the more. In Jesus' name. Amen.