Good morning once again, brothers and sisters. Good to be with you. Good to share God's word with you. Good to have the Lazarus family with us. We welcome you once again, Lazarus Family. It is December 1st, in case you don't feel it now It is Advent season, which means it's a good day to pick up an advent devotional. And I have some. Here's one called Everyday Gospel by Paul Tripp. Here's another one called Fixate It, Advent Meditations from the Book of Hebrews by Tim Chester. Uh you might see these lying around on the back table or on the welcome table on your way out. Or if you're really interested in having one of these right now, raise your hand and somebody will get it to you real fast. All right. Miss Caroline? Which one you want, Miss Caroline? This one? Alright, you can have this one. Thank you, John. What about everyday gospel? We're giving out books now. Alright. There we go. Amen. Let's pray, and then we'll get into our time together in God's Word. O Lord, you are King of Kings forever The one who rules over all things, the one who made all things. Who hung the stars like chandeliers? Lord, we cannot even fathom how glorious you are. But we are grateful, Lord, that we get to behold you once again, not just through the songs that we were just singing, but also even in your word. But please use your word right now, O Lord, to convict us, to correct us, to change us, to help us to look more like you as a result. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen What's the most repeated command in the Bible? Kids, teens, what's the most repeated command in the Bible? Any thoughts Fear the Lord. Okay. That's good. We should fear the Lord. Any other thoughts? Related to fear? Langston? Fear not Now, some people might debate, is it actually fear not? How many times is it? I even saw an article recently that said, well, if you put these different commands like love the Lord and this and that, then that actually is more than fear not. But let's pretend it's fear not, okay? For the sake of this intro. The command to fear not appears in the Bible nearly 400 times. In fact, if you were listening, it was even in our scripture reading for this morning. But have you ever thought that that command, to fear God, is pretty detached from the world that we live in? We live in a sinful world. God's people have real enemies. People do terrible things to each other. There's not a whole lot in our lives that we have control over. So fear not. How is that even possible? And if you were to show and if someone were to show you the emotion wheel, and if you have a motion wheel in your home, maybe you use it with your kids. You have different categories for how you're actually feeling. I wonder how many of us would feel somewhere in there fear about something. Maybe you are afraid this morning of your sin being exposed to others Maybe you fear rejection. Maybe you fear a meeting that's coming up this week. Maybe you fear losing a loved one. Maybe you fear that you really don't have control over your kids Maybe you're single and you fear that you'll never be married. Or maybe you're married and you fear that your net your marriage will never recover. Maybe you fear that with just a few wrong decisions, you'll lose everything that you've worked for. Maybe you know exactly what the Lord wants you to do, but you haven't done it out of fear of what that sacrifice will cost you. Maybe you fear sharing the gospel because you don't want to be opposed for the faith. Maybe you fear the future. Maybe you fear death With all of those very real fears that many of us may have even right now, coupled with the scary world that we live in, How is the command to fear not even possible to obey? Well, we'll see in our passage this morning that fear not are not merely words of command. But they are also meant to be words of comfort for God's people. But please turn to Nehemiah chapter 6 if you have not turned there already. If you're using one of the Bibles provided for you, that's on page 401. And this week we'll conclude this Series within the series, this three-part series on resolve. This part three. In chapter four of Nehemiah, we saw that God's people needed to resolve In order to endure the opposition that they were facing. That was a few weeks ago. In chapter 5, we talked about the resolve that God's people need to have with one another in their relationships to remain in right fellowship with each other. To fear God and also to guard our witness. Today we'll see that these enemies that Nehemiah and God's people have, they didn't go away. They're still there. And their tactics, their plan, their strategy is to get Nehemiah and God's people to live in fear and to respond in fear and retreat from the work. How would they respond and what can we learn from it? You're taking notes. Here's the main idea for our time together in God's Word. The Lord will restore his remnant people as we resolve to respond to fear with faith. The Lord will restore his remnant people as we resolve to respond to fear with faith. Why should we respond to fear with faith? Two answers. Two answers from the passage. Answer number one: fear of man ensnares us. And answer number two, faith in the Lord secures us. Answer number one, the point one, fear of man ensnares us. Let's look at Nehemiah chapter 6, starting in verse 1. This is God's word. Nehemiah chapter 6, verse 1. Now when Sambalat and Tobiah and Geshep the Arab and the rest of our enemies heard that I had built the wall and there was no breach left in it, although up to that time I had not set up the doors and the gates. Sambalat and Geshem sent to me, saying, Come, and let us meet together at Hakaphrim, in the plain of Onoh. But they intended to do me harm Let's stop there. We'll read bits of the passage and then talk about as we go through these points. So these names, Sambalat and Tobiah, they should be very familiar to us by now. They've appeared several times already in the book. of Nehemiah. And they heard that the walls were almost done. And they didn't like that. They saw that the walls were almost done, and they knew that God could do very much with the walls being rebuilt. And as we've talked about several times already, God's plan was not just to rebuild some walls. He wanted to rebuild and restore his people, to write fellowship and right worship. Tambala and Tobiah did not like that, so they sent messengers to meet with him. Now messengers in that time period would have been sent back and forth to to negotiate matters or to discuss matters with other leaders, so they were diplomats, if you will. And these messengers wanted to meet Nehemiah in Ono, in the plain of Ono, which would have been seven miles south. of Jerusalem. They probably wanted to talk about the fact that the walls were almost done. And possibly they wanted to negotiate some kind of treaty. Like we'll leave you alone if you give us some territory. You give us some land. But this meeting that they were proposing did not make sense Nehemiah already told them in chapter 2, verse 20, you have no right or no claim in Jerusalem. So in other words, we don't have anything to discuss. And if Nehemiah would have left, if he would have come down to meet with them, then he would have left God's people in a vulnerable position. And it will have taken them away from the work. But Nehemiah was perceptive, because as it says at the end of verse 2, they intended to do me harm. So Nehemiah sends his own messengers in response. Look at verse 3. And I sent messengers to them saying, I am doing a great work and I cannot come down. Why should the work stop while I leave it and come down to you? And they, verse 4, sent to me four times in this way. And I answered them in the same manner. Nehemiah said that the work would not stop so we could have this meeting. The work was too great. His people depended on them. Their request did not warrant the work to stop. Just think about it. They've already come so far in so little time. And they were almost done. And these messengers sent this message to Nehemiah several times. They were relentless, they were persistent. But Nehemiah resolved to obey the Lord and continue in the work. We'll talk more about that point later. But then we have Sandbalat who comes back in. And this time he comes with a letter. So more opposition. Look at verse 5. Or it says, in the same way, sandbal it for the fifth time, send his servant to me with an open letter in hand And it was written, Is reported among the nations, and Geshem also says it, that you and the Jews intend to rebel. That is why you are building the wall. And according to these reports, you wish to become their king. And you have also set up prophets to proclaim concerning you in Jerusalem. There is a king in Judah. And now the king will hear these reports So now come and let us take counsel together. Stop there. Now these open letters, they were unsealed documents. Right? So the point of it being unsealed was that any and everybody could hear it. Any and everybody could read it if they wanted to. So when it was delivered to Nehemiah, it was probably read aloud so that everybody could hear. Hear what? That Nehemiah was a fraud. Basically, that he wanted to rebel, that he wanted to actually become king, that he wanted to go against King Artaxerxes. It was a clear attack on Nehemiah's reputation. They wanted to make him afraid. They said he wanted to become king all along, that he wanted to usurp the authority of Arto Xerxes. And that would have been a death sentence for Nehemiah if that were true. And this could have provoked Nehemiah and all who heard it. To think badly of Nehemiah and also to think this is getting too tense right now. We need to stop the work that we're doing. They probably didn't want to give any appearance to being rebellious against the king. But once again, Nehemiah saw past their plots and resolved to press on in faith. Look at this answer. Look at verse 8. Then I sent to them, saying, No such things as you are saying have been done. You are inventing them out of your own mind. Verse 9. For they all wanted to frighten us, thinking their hands will drop from the work, and it will not be done. But now, O God, strengthen my hands. Nehemiah's response, basically, that's cap. Not true. None of it. And he just kept on working. And I think this should instruct us. He didn't send a four-page letter detailing all of his intentions. He didn't say, Well, actually, let's go back to the beginning of the story. Let's go back to when I heard about my people in Jerusalem. And I wept and I cried and I lamented before the Lord. And then I went before Art of Xerxes, and he gave me permission to be here. And all these, he didn't do that. He didn't feel the need to clear his name, but he pressed on in the work and let his actions speak louder than his words. And maybe you're here and you're aware of ways that your motives have been questioned in some way. Or that people might have some perception of you that you've been trying to prove is not actually true. Now, if there's any truth to it, use it for good. But if not, or we can learn from that, is to trust the Lord and keep working. As Warren Wearsby says, if we take care of our character, we can trust that God will take care of our reputation. It'll keep going. It's clear that Nehemiah trusted in God for his reputation. He knew that they just wanted him and his people to be afraid so they would stop the work that was going on. And that's what fear can do if we allow it to. Fear can paralyze us. It can stop us. It can freeze us in our tracks if we allow it I mean just think of when someone jumps out and they they scare someone. People have a lot of different reactions, right? But what do people usually do? They freeze up They clam up. They don't move. They don't do anything. And that's what fear of man can do to us if we allow it. Fear of man, meaning caring more about the opinions of people more than the opinion and the favor of God. That can literally paralyze us and stop us from the work that He wants us to do. But God's people here, they resolved to continue in the work. Look at verse 9 again. For they weren't to frighten us, thinking their hands will drop from the work and it will not be done. But now, Nehemiah says, O God, strengthen my hands. As we saw in chapter four from a few weeks ago, these threats, these enemies, were formidable. These were not empty threats, these were not just words. These enemies were strong. They had the backing of one, if not many, militaries. And as we'll see later in Nehemiah chapter 6, even God's people were compromised in all of this. Nehemiah had lots of enemies. So there was a lot of good reason for him to actually be afraid, to be in fear of his life. But what's interesting about all of these threats All these attempts is that if Nehemiah and God's people would have given in to them, they actually would have walked right into traps over and over and over again. They would have not protected themselves. They would have not been safe. And what does the Bible say about the fear of man in Proverbs 29? It says that the fear of man lays a snare, but whoever trusts in the Lord is safe As God's people, we must be motivated not by fear, but by faith Because as it also says in God's words in 2 Timothy 1, verse 7, God did not give us the spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of a sound mind or of self-control. Or as a mentor of mine who's passed away now, Rudy Johnson, once used to say, pretty often, he used to say that the safest place in the world to be is in the center of God's will. Even if what's going on around you is scary. Now those threats and these schemes that God's enemies had here in Nehemiah against him They would not stop. They would continue, even though Nehemiah and God's people remained hard at work, knowing that if they trusted God, they would ultimately be safe. And that leads us to the second point. That leads us to the second point, or the second answer, which is that faith in the Lord secures us. Fear of man ensnares us. And these people were trying to ensnare Nehemiah. But faith in the Lord secures us. Let's look at verse 10, and I'll read through verse 14. Now I went now when I went into the house of Shemiah, the son of Dahiah, the son of Med of Mehetabel, Who was confined to his home, he said, Let us meet together in the house of God within the temple. Let us close the doors of the temple. For they are coming to kill you. They are coming to kill you by night But I said, Could such a man as I run away? And what man such as I could go into the temple and live? I will not go in And I understood and saw that God had not sent him, but he had pronounced the prophecy against me because Tobiah and Sambalat had hired him. For this purpose he was hired, that I should be afraid and act in this way and sin, so they could give me a bad name in order to taunt me. Remember to Biah and Sambalh, O my God, according to these things that they did. And also the prophetess, Nohadiah, and the rest of the prophets who wanted to make me afraid Stop there. Shemiah was likely a priest, which makes sense if he was asking Nehemiah or telling him, Hey, you have these enemies, come meet me in the temple. Seems like he wanted to protect Nehemiah, right? But according to verses 12 and 13, it was another snare. It was another setup As we'll see later in the chapter, there were people like Shemiah who were opposed to Nehemiah and who were actually working for Tobiah. The enemy. It even says there in that section in those two verses, he was hired. And even other false prophets were hired. Shemiah was trying to play on Nehemiah's fear in order to get Nehemiah to be unfaithful. And isn't fear often used to motivate people in lots of different ways? Fears are used to get people to vote in elections for one party or another. Fear is used in marketing to get people to buy something. Fear is used in business dealings. If you don't sign this contract, then that'll be the end for you And fear is often used even in our parenting or even our pastoring. But fear is not a good motivator And one question we should ask ourselves is this: In what areas of my life am I more motivated by fear as opposed to faith? And if the Lord reveals that to you, ask him to strengthen your faith. Fear does motivate, but normally in the wrong direction. And we'll see here that Nehemiah's fear, or this fear that they wanted to place on them, was overshadowed by Nehemiah's faith. Look back at verse 11. He says, to such a man as I run away? Now think there he's talking about his role as governor, his role as the leader of God's people He's basically saying, I should not leave my post. Why should I run and hide when they're in danger as well? Nehemiah was a governor, but he had the heart of a shepherd. And good shepherds guard their flock, that's what they do. But even in the same verse He goes on to ask another question. He says, what man such as I can go into the temple and live? Nehemiah was not a priest, and he could not enter into the temple. To do so would have broken God's law. To do so would have given Nehemiah a bad name. This man is rebuilding the walls for God, and he's not even obeying God's law. From verse 14, we see that there were several false prophets trying to get Nehemiah to disobey God's law. And think about it. It could have been easy for Nehemiah to say, sure, I'll go into the temple just this one time. His life was threatened. And of course the Lord didn't want him to die. The Lord wanted to use him to rebuild the walls. So he could have thought, to save my own skin, I'll go into the temple, even though I know I'm not supposed to. But Nehemiah believed that God's word was still true even in troubling times. And that's another good word for us. God's word is still true, even when times are troubling. But take a step back and think about what all of this means about Nehemiah, who we've been studying for the last several weeks. He was a good man. He was a righteous man. He was a noble leader. That's why the Lord was using him. He was faithful. And yet, he could not go into the temple and live. He could not enter into the presence of God, into the Holy of Holies, without a priest, without an advocate That's why in our study of Nehemiah, or if you hear anybody up here preach from the Old Testament, anywhere, or even anybody in the New Testament, there's good lessons that we can learn from the people in the scriptures. But the point of this is not be like Nehemiah. That is not the point at all. Yes, he was a man of faith, but he was not a superhero. He had fears. He had good and right fears. He had enemies. Enemies that were trying to harm God's people. Yes, there's a lot that we can learn from Nehemiah from his faith and from his obedience, but even he could not enter the temple without defiling it because of his sin. Nehemiah was used by God mightily to help to restore Jerusalem, to restore God's people, to write worship and right fellowship, but he could not do it on his own. But nearly 450 years later, after Nehemiah, God's people were still longing, crying out for, waiting for their redemption. And what did we hear from our scripture reading this morning? We heard that an angel of the Lord appeared to shepherds and said to them, Fear not. For unto you is born this day in the city of David, in Jerusalem, a Savior, who is Christ the Lord. This Savior who would come, the Lord Jesus Christ, he was brought into the temple as a baby And Simeon would look at him and say, My eyes have seen your salvation. I can go and depart in peace. He said that he would be a light to the Gentiles and the glory of Israel. And Jesus would live and he would later enter into the temple. And he would turn over tables because the temple was being defiled, and he was the only one that could cleanse it. And he would declare of that same temple, but then using that as a metaphor to talk about his body, destroy this in three days and I will rebuild it. And Jesus would do just that because Jesus would go to the cross. He would be sentenced outside of Jerusalem, and he would be mocked. And people from the from uh from below shouted to Jesus while he was on the cross. They said, Come down and save yourself. As if Jesus was the one that needed saving. And Jesus did not come down because on the cross that's where he was doing his greatest work. He could not come down because on the cross he bore the sins that we The penalty for the sins that we deserve for our sins against God. Jesus was crucified. Jesus was buried. And Jesus rose from the grave and he's still calling people to turn from their sin and to put their faith in him. He is the one that can cleanse. He is the one that can make us holy. He is the one that can restore, and he is the one that can and will redeem if you give your life to him. If you're here and you're not a Christian, forget about Nehemiah. Turn to Jesus. He is the Savior. He is the Lord. He is the one that you need. He is the one that can forgive you and cleanse you of all unrighteousness. You can place your faith in Him by faith today. Brothers and sisters, let's continue to marvel at the fact that God redeems his people. That's why we're studying Nehemiah. That's why we study the Bible at all. That's why we gather every Lord's Day. That's why we rehearse the story of God's glory, of his work, and redemption. over and over and over again because he is the Redeemer. And then part for us to marvel at God's work in redemption It means that as a result of it, we can walk in faith, not fear, because we can trust that he is still the Redeemer So, as many of you have learned in the biblical theology class that ended a couple of weeks ago, as you read God's word, read it with this view of redemption in mind. He is the Redeemer. And let that strengthen your faith for today as a result. And let me also say Since the Lord has gone to such great lengths to save you, to save us if we are in Christ, when He commands us to not fear, we should believe Him. We should trust Him. Nehemiah and God's people trusted in the Lord even in the face of fear, because by putting their faith in the Lord, that's where they found their security. That's where we find our security as well. And they pressed on, and they were able to complete the wall in record time. Look at verse 15 of Nehemiah chapter 6. So the wall was finished on the twenty-fifth day of the m of the month Elu in fifty-two days Like that's amazing. Let's think about that for a minute. From the time that Nehemiah spoke to King Araxerxes, and from the time that the wall was completed, that was around six months. In that whole time period. But the walls themselves, it was completed in fifty-two days 52 days ago from today was October 10th. That's not a long time. How could they accomplish so much in so little time? They had a lot of help. King Arta Xerxes helped them out, right? Lots of people got involved. Okay, a lot of people were working together. That's good. They had a good leader. Nehemiah was a very good leader But not even God's enemies ascribed it to any of those things. Look at verse 16. And when all of our enemies heard of it, as in heard of the walls being completed, all the nations around us were afraid. and fell greatly in their own esteem, for they perceived that this work had been accomplished with the help of our God. Wow. Kids, did you catch it? Mr. Sauklin was telling us this morning, listen for who actually ended up being afraid. God's enemies that ended up being afraid at God's work. Being completed. We see here that the faithfulness of God can make his enemies afraid. We have examples of that even in the scriptures, in other parts of the scripture. Just think of Acts chapter 5, for example. God's people were proclaiming the gospel, this good news of great joy They were arrested for it. They were beaten for it. They were brought before a council because of it. They were told not to teach in the name of Jesus. They said, sorry, we can't do that. We will not do that. We are witnesses and we must obey the Lord. And this council wanted the apostles killed. But then a Pharisee spoke up. And here's what that Pharisee said in Acts 5. 38. So in this present case, I tell you, keep away from these men and let them alone. For if this plan or this undertaking is of man, it will fail But if it is of God, you will not be able to overthrow them. You might even be found opposing God. So leave them alone. They'll fail if it's not of God. But if it is, you need to get out of the way. That's what happened in the early church. God's enemies saw the work of God. They tried to stop the work of God in the church and they couldn't stop it. It did not work Persecution, even today, even the persecution that we can read about, or the persecution that we just prayed about earlier, it will not stop the work of God. They might as well back off Because since it is of God, they will not be able to stop it. And this should encourage our resolve in the Lord. It should encourage our resolve to pray, to give to the workers spreading the gospel all throughout the nations, to share the gospels ourselves to sing of his grace and glory, to proclaim his word boldly, knowing that anything that we invest into God's word and his kingdom will not fail, and it will not return void. None of it. Now, Nehemiah's enemies recognized the work of God, but they still tried to instill fear into God's people. Verse 17. Moreover, in those days the nobles of Judah sent many letters to Debiah. And Tobiah's letters came to them. For many in Judah were bound by oath to him, because he was the son of law, son-in-law of Shekiah, the son of Ahara. And the son of Jehoam had taken the daughter of Meshulem, the son of Barekiah, as his wife, and they spoke of his good deeds in my presence, and reported my words to him. And Tobiah sent letters to make me afraid. Now remember that the book of Nehemiah is in part a memoir. That's why we get this commentary interspersed throughout where he's bringing up what happened, but then he's explaining, okay, I knew it was a trap. Or he's bringing in these shocking revelations that you see in verse 18, where he says, Many in Judah, who are supposed to be God's people, were bound by an oath to Zebiah, the enemy. Tobiah was the son-in-law in one noble family, and one Jewish noble family, and also the father-in-law in another Jewish noble family. And some of those nobles were working on the wall in chapter 3, like Meshulam. He's named, he's mentioned by name in chapter 3. And some of those nobles were even the ones that oppressed God's people in Nehemiah chapter 5. And some of those nobles, Nehemiah says, was in communication with Tobiah the entire time. That makes sense, doesn't it? That makes sense of a lot of things in the book of Nehemiah. Like, how does Sambali and Tobiah keep popping up? How do they know where to go? How do they know what's going on? Because there were nobles who should have been God's people who were keeping Tobiah and God's enemies updated. They might have even given them advice. Like why don't you advise them to go into the go into the temple? Maybe that'll get them. Or why don't you write this in your letter? Now that's scary, isn't it? To know that Nehemiah's enemies were not just those out there, but those on the inside. That was frightening. Nehemiah had the right to be afraid and to respond even in fear. But we know he didn't. And this should also instruct us about the passage itself. The walls were rebuilt. That should be the highlight of the passage. And that should be the end of the book. Right? They only got one verse. And after that, what does Nehemiah talk about? Those enemies, they just keep trying. They just keep coming. They just keep trying. And isn't that like the Christian life? We've been saved by God, we are secured in Him. The Bible says we are seated with Christ right now. And yet those enemies still try. Satan still tempts, persecutors still persecute, God's enemies still try to harm us. So we must remain on guard We are not done yet. There is still work to be done. There are still enemies that oppose us. So we must resolve to respond in faith and not fear. The fear of man ensnares us, but faith in the Lord secures us. Now, how do we do that? How can we do that? Two points of application in closing Point number one, trust in God's work. Trust in God's work. Look back in Nehemiah chapter 6, verse 3 How does Nehemiah respond? He says, I'm doing a great work, and I cannot come down. Again, Nehemiah was not just rebuilding walls. He was being used by God as an instrument in God's massive work of redemption. And if we are in Christ, we are part of that work as well. Jesus is building his church. The gates of hell will not overthrow them. He has commanded us. To love him. He's commanded us to love one another in the church. He's commanded us to love our neighbor and even to love our enemies. He's commissioned us to make disciples of all nations. And the Lord is redeeming people from every nation, tribe, and tongue. And he wants to use us as his instruments in that work of redemption. Which means you and I have a role to play. So if you're a school teacher, you're not just a school teacher. If you're a stay-at-home mom, you're not just a stay-at-home mom. If you're a college Tuding, you're not just a college student If you're a pastor, you're more than a pastor. If you're a deacon, you're not just a deacon. You're not just a small group leader. You're not just a government analysis or whatever else you might be. You're not just a lawyer. You are an instrument in the mighty hands of our Redeemer. And in this symphony of redemption, everyone has a role to play. And every instrument matters. As you might know, I'm a percussionist. And in high school especially, I played various percussion instruments. Part of these symphonic bands or these orchestras. And at times you get the really cool instruments, right? You get the tympanies, if you don't know what they are, they're the big drums, they surround you They're loud, they're strong, they're powerful, they're the focal point. Or you get the snare drum that's part of the march, and a march without a snare drum is not really a march. Or you get the marimba or the xylophone that complements the melody, or even brings in the counter melody that's beautiful and adds to everything going on in the song. But sometimes You're given a triangle. And you just read your music and you count and you wait and then ding And then you read and you count some more. Ding again. If you single out any of those instruments, any of those parts, they don't even make sense. They're invaluable, they're insignificant, but in the orchestra, in the symphony, everything fits together, everything blends together, everything works together. Brothers and sisters. God is redeeming people from every nation, tribe, and tongue, and he calls you to play a role, however great or small. Your role is valuable in the Redeemer's hands. So play your part well. Secondly. Pray for God's strength. Pray for God's strength. Look at verse 9 of Nehemiah chapter 6 again. For they all wanted to frighten us. And in fact, if you look over Nehemiah 6, you'll see there's a lot of examples of God's people being threatened by fear. They want it to frighten us. They want it to make us afraid. They want it the work to stop. But what does Nehemiah say? He actually says it to God. The end of verse 9. But now, O God, strengthen my hands. They wanted to frighten God's people into disobedience. So Nehemiah prayed and asked for strength. This should remind us. That our resolve, follow the Lord in his work and in his plan of redemption, to follow him in obedience, will constantly be tested. We will be met with fears of all kinds. So we need God's strength in order to persevere, in order to endure, in order to resolve, in order to obey His word. And maybe your fears are already tempting you towards disobedience. You might have financial fears that are tempting you to be dishonest. Nobody will know. Or you might be fearful of the future. And so therefore you're trying to bring everything under control. And you're wondering why it's not working yet. Or maybe your fear of man or your desire for approval attempts you towards hypocrisy or a double life. Where you're one person here, you're someone different at home Or different at the workplace, or different at school. Or maybe your fear leads you away from very clear opportunities to share the gospel with other people You argue with yourself in your head, and before you know it, that opportunity is gone, vanished. That's the case in any way, pray. Ask the Lord for his strength. Because your strength, just like my strength, is insufficient. It will not get the job done. Pray for strength. Thirdly, lastly, last point of application. Believe God's word Believe God's word. Trust in God's work. Pray for God's strength. Believe in God's word. Verse 11. Nehemiah says, should such a man as I run away? And what man such as I can go into the temple and live, I will not go in. Nehemiah did not enter into the temple even in the face of death because he knew God's word and he believed that it was true and it applied even when he was facing death. This should teach us in times of fear. God's word is still true, it still applies. So commit to knowing God's word, commit to believing God's word, commit to obeying God's word. even in the midst of trying times you might experience. So when God says, do not fear, we should believe him Now, as many of us know about fear, and when it comes to fear, it's not like an on-off switch where I'm afraid, oh, I'm not afraid anymore. Like that's not how it works. Many of us know that we should not walk around in fear and yet we're still afraid. Right? Kids, you know this too. If you're in your room and you're afraid at night and you call down for mom and dad, what do you want from them? You don't want them to just yell. Don't be afraid. No. You want them to come near. You want their presence. And that's what brings you comfort. That's what brings you assurance. So this is not about us being reasoned out of fear, but reassured into faith. Because that's what the Lord does for his people. Because with every fear not, he secures his people by reminding his people of his very presence. So God in His Word does not just say, do not fear. He says, remember, I'm right here with you. Deuteronomy chapter 3. You shall not fear them. For it is the Lord your God who fights for you. Deuteronomy 31, verse 6. Be strong and courageous. Do not fear or be in dread of them. For it is the Lord your God who goes with you. He will not leave or forsake you. Psalm 23, even though I walk in the valley of shadow of death, I will not fear evil, for you are with me. Psalm 118, verse 6: The Lord is on my side. I shall not fear. What can man do to me? Isaiah 35, verse 4: Say to those who have an anxious heart: be strong. Fear not. Behold, your God will come with vengeance, with the recompense of God. He will come and he will save you. Isaiah 41, verse 13, For I, the Lord your God, hold your right hand. It is I who say, Fear not, I am the one who helps you. Isaiah 43, verse 1. But now thus says the Lord, He who created you, O Jacob, He who formed you, O Israel, fear not, for I have redeemed you, I have called you by my name, you are mine. Or even think of Jesus with his disciples. And Jesus' disciples, one day, they were in a boat and a storm came and they cried out, Save us, we're perishing. But what did Jesus say? He said to them, Why are you afraid, O ye of little faith? Now that statement, even why are you afraid, that might seem callous until you remember where Jesus was when he said it. He was in the boat with them the entire time. And then he arose and rebuked the winds and sea. And there was a great calm. The Lord, this Lord, who commands the winds and the waves, comforts us with his very presence. And he says to us, in the midst of our storms, in the midst of our fears, fear not. I'm right there with you You feel especially afraid or anxious today? Spend time in God's Word reflecting on His promises. Ask Him to give you faith to believe. Remember that His presence is really what makes all the difference His presence secures us in the face of any fear. To maybe resolve to respond to fear with faith because he's with us. He's not going anywhere. Let's pray. Strengthen our faith, O Lord. Give us eyes to see you. Give us ears to hear you. Give us faith to take the next step. Even if we are afraid, even when we are worried or anxious, will the winds and the waves obey you? You hold all things together. You know exactly what you're doing. Help us to resolve to obey you. Help us to resolve to respond to fear with faith. Not because we're strong enough. But because you, our mighty God, is with us. In Jesus' name, amen