Good morning. Again. So good to be with you. Have your hearts begun to be retuned a little bit? We need that. Every Lord's Day. We really need it every day, but what a joy it is to be able to be together. and to retune our hearts to sing and to delight in God's praises. Go ahead and open in your Bibles to the book of Ephesians. Ephesians chapter 1, we're continuing a steer a series of messages through the book of Ephesians. Uh if you're new to the Bible, there should be a Bible around you. If you don't own a Bible, we'd be delighted for you to Take that Bible that's there around you. You can find the reading this morning of where we're going to be studying the scriptures on page 976 of those Bibles provided for you. Ephesians chapter one. Uh when I was a freshman in college, I worked for the Penn State basketball team, and as a freshman, I was able to go on a road trip to the University of Michigan. We we took off in our airplane on a uh very dreary, overcast January morning. It was like the weather today uh very cloudy and not very pleasant and I it is a is a plane ride I will never forget because I'm sure if you tested me at a scientific level, I think I probably did know that even above the cloud cover, the sun was still shining. But that was not like a living reality. It was just it was dreary. And and we we went up in the plane and you know we we broke through the cloud cover and I just remember like Aston being astonished, like oh my goodness, it is so bright and sunny up here. It was I I'm I'm not the sharpest tool in the shed, so maybe I actually just didn't even realize that that was in fact a thing, that the sun was still shining. But I was just, I was about an hour flight and I I've just spellbound. I was like a kid in a candy store for like the entire hour as this plane It's, you know, we're up so high, it almost seems like we're just hovering there. We are moving quite fast, you know, but it we're just hovering above the clouds in this brilliant sunshine when just a few minutes earlier we had been surrounded by dreary rain and and cloud cover. And I I I think that's a a little bit of a picture of what the Apostle Paul Is doing in these verses that we've been working our way through slowly at the beginning of Ephesians in this initial outburst of praise. that Paul has has been uh giving to the Ephesians. He starts the letter by praising God and he is He's granting his readers, both then in the first century and even now today, he's granting us a very wonderful gift. He's giving us the gift of perspective. These Ephesian Christians who first received this letter, they were facing persecution I trust some of you have experienced a little bit of that for your faith in Jesus, whether in the workplace or in your neighborhood or uh maybe estrangement from family members because of your devotion to the Lord Jesus. These Christians receiving This letter in the first century, they were marginalized in their own society. They were uh liable to all manner of assaults and insults And they may have felt, I trust some of them did feel as though their circumstances, their situation was overwhelming And Paul, at the beginning of this letter, beginning in Ephesians 1, verse 3, it's as though Paul is taking them aboard a jetliner. I don't know if jetliners, do they have do jetliners have names? I don't know. The name of this jetliner would be In Christ And he's taking them on this jetliner, and he's flying up above the clouds, taking them even into the heavenly places. so that they and so that we might taste something of the profound blessing that is ours in Christ. That is blessing that can bring joy to the mom and dad in this room who feel like they are the biggest, doofest parents on planet Earth. And that's probably some of you, frankly, that you're feeling that way. Kids, you might not realize that. That's that your parents might think they you might think that your parents think that they have it all together. And your parents probably feel a lot of times like they don't have a clue what they're doing. And this passage has something to say to us parents. It has something to say to us. faithful employees who've recently been told or are being threatened the fact that your job really isn't that important and we don't really need you. Or the one struggling with illness, seeking answers and just not getting any answers I'm not sure what cloud cover you may be enduring, which ways you might be feeling that life is just too much to handle, ways that you may be overwhelmed by unanswered and unanswerable questions. What circumstances of life may seem to be just plainly contradicting what you know about the character and the promises of God and it doesn't seem like there's anything that you can do about it. And in the midst of those struggles, in the midst of those hardships, Paul says, Blessed be God. Who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places? That's what's happening in Ephesians 1 Maybe you're like, Pastor, do you have any? I wonder do you have any other tricks up your sleeve? Because I feel like you're saying that every week. It's hard, there's trials, but it's different illustrations that they have cloud cover. But every week it's like it's hard. These people were dealing with real pre problems. Uh listen, as soon as I get through a week here where I'm not hearing anybody talking about the problems or the difficulties or the burdens or trials that they're facing, as soon as that happens, I maybe stop talking like that. If you are here today and you has had bright sunshine all week, I mean the sun was just shining down on your week, praise God. I mean, sincerely, praise God if you had a wonderful week. But a lot of us know some trials and some tribulations. And Paul has something very sweet to give us. He has perspective to give us. And we find a little bit of it there in Ephesians 1, verses 3 through 14. This passage will not be of help to us. Apart from the Holy Spirit's intervention in our lives and in this time. So let me ask for the Lord's blessing upon the time before I read his word. Heavenly Father, we do thank you for your word. We thank you for its instruction. It is your spirit who gives life. The flesh is no help at all. And so we need you, we desperately need you to meet us in this time and to work in us what's pleasing in your sight through Jesus, to whom be glory forever and ever. We ask you to meet us and strengthen us. And even rescue some from spiritual darkness this very day. We pray for it all in Jesus' name. Amen. Ephesians 1, verses 3 through 14, Paul writes, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ Jesus with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. Even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before him. In love, he predestined us for adoption to himself as sons through Jesus Christ. according to the purpose of his will, to the praise of his glorious grace, with which he has blessed us in the beloved In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace which he lavished upon us in all wisdom and insight, making known to us the mystery of his will, according to his purpose, which he set forth in Christ as a plan for the fullness of time, to unite all things in him Things in heaven and things on earth. In him we have obtained an inheritance, having been predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will So that we who were the first to hope in Christ might be to the praise of his glory. In him, you also, when you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, And believed in him, were sealed with the promised Holy Spirit, who is the guarantee of our inheritance until we acquire possession of it to the praise. Of his glory. This is God's word, brothers and sisters. Thanks be to God. You're getting a little stronger at that. Praise God. All right. Praise God. Thanks be to God indeed. I don't know, that passage has been on my mind a whole lot. I just feel like that has the capacity to just cheer the soul a little bit just by reading it aloud This is a wonderful passage of scripture to memorize, brothers and sisters. And we've been working our way through it slowly. And we arrive this morning at verse 7. That's really where we want to plant our feet this morning. Let me look at verse 7 again. In him, be good for you to have your Bibles open. We don't just read the Bible and then shut it and then talk about what I want to talk about. But it's good to have your Bible open In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace, which he lavished upon us. Uh my earnest prayer, as I've been thinking about those words all week, my earnest prayer for us is That God would enable us by his spirit to praise him, to praise the God who has lavished you in Christ with his redeeming grace. Praise the God who has lavished you in Christ with his redeeming grace. That's that's the main point, that's the outline, that's what I've got for you s today. Ephesians 1 7, we were uh Tony asked this question in Sunday school. If there was a verse especially that comes to mind when you think about Sharing the gospel with other people. And this one, Ephesians 1:7 is one of the clearest one-verse summary statements of the gospel that there is in the Bible, I think. But we need to do a little bit of digging down to make sure we understand what these words mean because the the the glorious the galaxies of grandeur that are found in this one little sentence might not necessarily be intuitive or obvious to us. We need to make sure we understand these words and what they mean and what Paul is saying. In fact If you do share this one verse with someone who is not a Christian, they might think you're a bit strange. They might think it's actually ludicrous what you are telling them. So let's make sure we understand what we're talking about. He says, in him, in Jesus, we have redemption. The word redemption means release from bondage or captivity through the payment of a ransom That's what redemption means. It would have been known. It was known to the people of God. That's what the Lord Yahweh had done with the people of Israel in the Exodus. We read about his giving of the Ten Commandments after he had redeemed his people from slavery. People in the first century in the Greco-Roman world would have understood that as well. A a slave, uh uh a servant being ransomed, being uh purchase their freedom being purchased through a payment. And and here's where it gets a little bit difficult for us to make sense of this concept in our culture is that it's very hard for most people if you were to go around and and ask you know a non-Christian neighbor or coworker this week are you enslaved They're gonna say no. We feel very free. And Ephesians 1 7 tells us What is this captivity? What is this slavery that we need to be released from? It is captivity to the guilt of our trespasses. Do you see that there in verse 7? In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses. That's what people need to be freed from. The guilt That is deserved for their trespasses. And trespasses is another word that we need to make sure we understand. Uh I was out for a walk yesterday morning and I went past the uh St. Ambrose Catholic Church and I as I walked by I saw in the distance there was a good looking outdoor basketball court. And I thought, oh that, you know, I'm I'm kind of new to the neighborhood. I'm like, that could be a great place. Noah, you know, we could go shoot some baskets at that court. But then I looked ahead and there was a sign there, and I suspected I knew what that sign said, but I got a little closer and it said Private property, no trespassing. And I knew what that meant. And you know what it means. To trespass means to cross over a boundary into a space that does not belong, that you are not authorized to go. It's a deliberate, that's a a trest to trespass is to deliberately break boundaries And that's what the Bible says that each of us have done in relation to God's law. God's law, again, we heard it summarized in that expression of the Ten Commandments given at Mount Sinai, God's law is his wise, loving, giving his people boundaries for human flourishing and human freedom. And again, it's important, I think, that I just press down here and belabor this a little bit because this idea is just so contrary to the spirit of our age. Our culture cannot make sense of love and freedom that has boundaries attached to it, where an authority says, puts a boundary and says, you cannot cross this way. That seems in our society to be the exact opposite of freedom. We think of freedom as the freedom to do whatever I want to do to please myself, and if I am able to do that, I am free. And the Bible just introduces us to a whole nother world. And it's good, it's a good world that God opens us to. Psalm 97:1 says, The Lord reigns, let the earth rejoice. It does not say, the Lord reigns, let the earth frown. Let the earth sigh. Because he's in charge now, and we can't do what we want to do. That is not what the Bible says. The Lord reigns, let the earth rejoice. The reign of God is good. It's joy-producing. And the law of God Is God's expression of his will for how to enjoy the greatest possible joy, the joy of knowing Him and reflecting Him and honoring Him. That's what God's law was given for. Where his commands do not feel joyful, the problem is actually not with God. The problem is with us. We're like we're like a foolish fish Kids, kids, anybody, kids, raise your hand. Anybody have fish, goldfish, or any other fish at home now or at some point? Some of you do. Imagine if a fish decided one day, you know, I'm tired of being in this space of water. I want to be free. I'm gonna get out of this water and I'm gonna go live on the dry land. We actually had a foolish fish that did this one time. in our house, jumped out of the I mean I'm not sure that that was really his psychological reasoning behind the but but actually jumped out of the water. We found him or her, I don't remember, the next morning Imagine that fish said, I'm tired of being all tied up in this water. I want to be free. I'm going to go out on the land. It would just be a few minutes before that fish died. Because a fish was made to find freedom in the environment of water. And human beings were made to find freedom Not in breaking away from the shackles of God's law to do whatever we want, but we were made to find freedom in the environment of God's gracious rule. And yet human beings in our sin, our freely willfully chosen sin Aided by the deception and the lies of Satan himself, we have concluded as human beings that actually we know how to how life should work better than the Creator does. It's absolute, it is utterly stupid and it is evil. As human beings, we actually think that we know better than the Creator how life works best. The Apostle Paul describes that condition as one of spiritual deadness. Your Bibles are open. Look at chapter 2 of Ephesians. These are familiar words, I know. But they set the context for this wonderful, wonderful, glorious blessing of redemption. Paul says you were dead in the trespasses and sins in which you once walked. Following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air, that's another name for Satan, the spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience. He says, among whom we we all once lived. This is a human problem. This isn't uh just a s a little slice of humanity. This is the whole human race. Among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the body and mind, and were by nature children of wrath like the rest of mankind. In another of his letters, in his letter to Titus, Paul says, we were slaves to various passions and pleasures. And when a human being looks at God, the fountain and the author of every good thing, and turns away from that God, shaking their fist at God, at their maker, so to speak. raging against his righteous and benevolent rule, thinking that they can do this, they can do life better on their own. They can decide what freedom is better than their maker can. That is an atrocious evil, and it is deserving of a horrible punishment. Death. Physically death, the wages of sin is death, God's word says, but not just physical death, actually spiritual, eternal death One old theologian put it, the nature, the character of hell is always to be dying, but never to be dead It's horrifying, but it's actually the right, just response to a holy, infinitely perfect God having a creation that rebels and thinks they can do life better than him. And so there's a price that needs to be paid. That price is an eternity of misery and suffering, always dying, but never to be dead. That is the price to be paid for our trespassing, our willful crossing of the boundaries, indeed our hatred of the boundaries that our good God would provide. And that all all that lays the groundwork for our understanding and for our adoring God for this awe inspiring blessing that Paul describes there in verse seven, only when we understand that the wages of sin is death, can our hearts really thrill at this good news that Paul says there in verse 7, in him we have redemption through his blood. Who is the him there, kids? This is an easy one, kids. In him, who is the in him? Jesus, yes, that is always a good answer. Jesus, in Jesus, in verse 6 says, in the beloved God's very own beloved son, in Jesus, we have redemption, release from the bondage and captivity that we were in. To the guilt and punishment of our willful trespassing of God's good and wise law. We have redemption, we have liberation, freedom through the payment of a ransom. And what was that payment? His blood which is which is intending to convey his death His giving of his life. Life is in the blood, and so Jesus gave his life. That's why we sing so much about blood. If you're new to the church, like we sing a lot of songs about blood. This is very weird to sing songs about blood. I remember when I was inquiring about the Christian faith, it was a little freaky, the songs that that Christians were singing But we your blood has washed away my sin. Jesus, thank you. But this is why we sing about the blood Because it was the price of our redemption. Here is love, is one song. There was about 45 songs I was wanted to sing this morning. Here is love, vast as the ocean, loving kindness as the flood, when the Prince of Life, our ransom, shed for us his precious blood. W when I was a when I was a child, there was a time that our um There was a tree right next to our house and it caught fire. We lived behind a big uh playground and I think somebody had shot off a firework or firecracker or something and it it hit this tree and our this tree was on fire And and m my mother was freaking out, which is par for the course with my mother. But I mean it was a it was a tree that was on fire. Is there a good reason to freak out actually? And and she's screaming, and my stepfather runs out with this little pot of water like from the kitchen. Comes running out of this little pot with his trees on fire. And he like does that with the it's like Our efforts to try to pay that debt that we owe would be like taking a little a little pot of water into a big fire and just, oh, it didn't work. But Jesus' blood has some mighty power. We're not talking about a little pot of water that you might throw. We're talking about like if I could take this image that's in our Bibles to convey something different and turn it to a different uh focus in genesis seven we see that when God decided he was going to send judgment, he was gonna send a flood to bring judgment. And we're told in Genesis 7, 11 All the fountains of the great deep burst forth, and the windows of the heavens were opened, and it poured forth. Rain, waters for 40 days and 40 nights. Well, but Paul's talking about here in him we have redemption through his blood. We've got a not a not a flood that brings judgment, but a a a flood that brings grace, that brings liberation from judgment. Exceedingly inexhaustible riches. Do you see it says there? We have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses according to the riches of his grace. He has lavished grace on hell-deserving sinners like us, sparing no expense, but even willingly delivering up his only begotten son, his eternally beloved son. To pay the eternal wages that we owed for our rebellion against him. Christian, I know you know this. You understand Paul is telling Christians this He's not presenting new information to these Christians. He's telling them what they have already come to believe. God loved you, Christian. So much that he was willing to suffer the loss of his son. And even more amazingly, he was willing to allow his son to suffer the loss of him at the cross. So rich, so abounding was his heart in grace toward sinners And by his death, Jesus has effected a marvelous redemption By Christ's blood, because Jesus stood in our place and bore the sins of many on the cross, we have been released from captivity to the curse of sin, and we can now experience The freedom of that punishment of always dying and never being dead. We are freed from it through Jesus and receiving Jesus' mercy alone. Paul would say to the Colossians that God has forgiven us all our trespasses by canceling the record of debt that stood against us with its legal demands. This he set aside, nailing it to the cross. Imagine if imagine a debt. Imagine a receipt. That mark out on it every one of your trespasses through the duration of your entire life Sins of of word, sins of thought, of omission, where God has told us to do something and we have failed to do it sins of commission, where where God tells us not to do something and we do it anyway. Think of all the trespasses. Think of the debt. Think of the size of the debt that it would be And God has every right to take that record of debt and He could justly put it in our faces and condemn us to eternal misery But God chooses to do something extraordinary with this record, this certificate of debt. He takes it and he he puts it as it were in the palm of his son's hand. And Jesus willingly takes it. And his hand, as his hand is pierced with those nails, the nail Goes through the record of your debt, and it is canceled forever for those who believe, for those who are in Christ Jesus. There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. That's the only way that your debt could be paid for God to show mercy and forgiveness. You can't pay that debt. You're in a little teeny bucket trying to extinguish a big raging fire But Jesus' blood can fill up every square inch of that immeasurable debt with that inexhaustible fountain that it is, that is His forgiving. Love is forgiving grace. Do you see yourself You're maybe here today visiting with us, and we're glad that you're here. And I would be glad to speak with you after the service, and as and I don't, I don't, I won't yell like this at you. I mean, I'll talk like this. I will not yell like I just was. Would love to be helping you to process what you're hearing, but do you see yourself? I'm asking those of you that maybe aren't sure that you're a Christian, do you see yourself As a poor, bankrupt, rebel, captive to sin, unable to free yourself, guilty before God, and ruined before his glorious throne because of your sin against him. Those of you who are Christians here, and I know that you that's the majority of you, you can remember what that condition was like. And I think I told you this last week. There's one commandment in all of Ephesians 1, 2, and 3, and that commandment is remember. But if you're here this morning and you and you're inquiring about the Christian faith, do you understand this to be your predicament Again, in our culture, it may just feel utterly crazy. I'm free. I'm not a slave. I'm free. A lot of people in our day, they regard freedom from religion and traditional values in God's law as the highest degree of freedom that they can enjoy To just live for themselves, to live by their pleasures. I want you to hear, I want you to understand that that to live that way is to live like a skydiver. Enjoying the thrill of their downwards. Anyone ever skydive? I'm not gonna I'm gonna say something here, it's gonna make you never want to skydive again, maybe, but sky, imagine jumping out of a plane, enjoying the thrill of that free fall. But being ignorant of the fact that the parachute that you have on your back is broken, and you're about 30 to 60 seconds from a horrible death. If you're loving your freedom from God's law and living the way you want and enjoying the good life, and you feel like things are going well for you You're actually no better off than someone free-falling to planet Earth without a parachute And there are many who are in that kind of slavery. Delighting in free fall greed and free fall possessions and free fall sexual pleasures and free fall power, all kinds of expression of free-fall self-rule, thinking that true freedom is found in me being true to myself And really they don't understand, and maybe you're here today and you don't understand that actually what you think is freedom is really bondage. It is rebellion against the good and wise reign of the creator who made you. And it might feel good for a little while, but in the end it destroys eternally. And maybe maybe you don't like to hear that because that's just fear-mongering, and I am tired of the sinners in the hands of an angry God stuff. I don't need you to fear it. And man, this man Jesus rose from the dead. We heard this passage read in Sunday school also in Acts chapter 17, that God is going to judge all people in righteousness, and of this he's given assurance. By raising a man from the dead. The Lord Jesus Christ rose in history to tell us there is a judgment coming. There's a day when you, in your free fall, sin are going to bump into your Maker to give an account. And God is here today. He's not just giving you information, but he's giving you an invitation. He's giving you, he's holding out to you. At the cost of his son's life, he's holding out for you a parachute. Oh, that you would trust him. He came and he died and he rose to give you True freedom to restore you to the very purpose for which you were made, to enjoy what is most enjoyable, that is God. In His presence, there is fullness of joy At his right hand there are pleasures forevermore, and Jesus gave his life so that you could be forgiven of your sin and be restored to this joy of enjoying what is most enjoyable with unbounded energy. and passion forever that you might be to the praise of his glory. You are not too guilty, you are not too lost to the cause to receive that gift. All you need to receive this gift is the awareness of your need. Oh, and I would urge you to come and receive it today. To repent of your godless pursuit of self-determined freedom and find in Christ. The dream world of his redeeming love almost seems like a dream, but he rose from the dead to secure it and say, it's real. It's true. And again, most of you here, you've received that good news. But the point for us is rejoice in this good news, beloved. When I was sinking down Sinking down, sinking down beneath God's righteous frown, Christ laid aside, He laid aside His crown for my soul. Christ laid aside His crown for my soul. Is it not an awesome wonder, beloved Christians? Is that not an awesome wonder, Beth? Is it not an awesome wonder, Jeremy? I hope I don't just start saying the same names because you're in the same spot and you're right there at my eye level Is it not an awesome wonder, Sabrina, that in this vast cosmos that we live in, with all the huge things we are dealing with in this world? And all the big crises or uncertainties that we may be grappling with, that in this vast cosmos, the God who created the universe And holds nations and armies and weapons and weather patterns together is at work in this world, and he is redeeming condemned captives according to the riches of his grace, and you're in that number. By faith in Jesus. In him we have redemption through his blood It is in something we have now. We have it now. We have forgiveness now. Everything has been paid. There's nothing more that needs to be done. And so Paul can say, we have it now, even though we know from Ephesians and from other parts of the scripture that it is of the fullest experience and enjoyment of that freedom is still something yet to come. The Bible says that even we who have the first fruits of the Spirit, we groan inwardly as we wait eagerly for adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies. We have it now and we're waiting for it. And the response is: praise to God. Praise the God who has lavished you in Christ with his redeeming grace. Praise God. We do that with our songs. We do that with prayers of praise. But we do that with also a life of praise. And our songs actually bear witness to that too. We're going to sing in a few minutes. I will glory in my Redeemer. My life he bought. My love he owns. We sing, Jesus paid it all. All to him I owe We sing, O Father, use my ransomed life in any way you choose. And these songs that we sing are leaning into the implication for our lives of our redemption. Jesus gave himself for us. To redeem us from all lawlessness and to purify for himself a people for his own possession, who are zealous for good works And I I wonder if you today I wonder as you enter into this new week, Christians. If you are living like someone who is who is owned by another. Consider. This is what I've been trying so imperfectly to do is help you to consider what he paid that you might be his own. And no longer wallowing in the squalor of your sin and sure damnation. Consider the price that he paid. But are you living today as one who is owned by the loving Lord Jesus? There's a story that I've heard told about Abraham Lincoln I don't know if this is an apocryphal story about Abraham Lincoln's life. It's one of those stories that almost seems like this is too sort of picture-perfect to be true. I don't know if it is true or not, but it's it illustrates the point That I'm trying to make here. I hope it is true, but it is illustrates the point anyway. Anyway. It the story goes that Abraham Lincoln went to a slave market. He was appalled at what he saw and he noted particularly a young African American woman who was being auctioned off to the highest bidder. And he he was so Angered by this, that he started bidding on her. And he outbid every other bidder, and he he purchased this young woman and and made her his own. And he could see, as he began to walk away with this young woman, he could see the anger in this woman's eyes. Another white man buying her and using her and then discarding her. And as they walked off together, Abraham Lincoln turned to the woman and said, you're free. And she's like, what does that mean? He said it means that you're free. She said, you mean free to do whatever I want to do? He said, yes, you're free to do whatever you want to do And and I'm free to say whatever I want to say. And he said, Yes, you're free to say whatever you want. And she said, incredulously, I can I can be whatever I want. He said, You can be whatever you want. She said hesitatingly, I can I can go wherever I want. He said, yes, you can go wherever you want. And that woman said, with tears welling up in her eyes, And I think I'll go with you. I don't know if that's true about Abraham Lincoln. But it's true of the Lord Jesus. Except in the Lord Jesus we have someone who didn't just it wasn't just some benevolent king who went after uh an innocent helpless victim, but after a traitor, after a rebel. Who was, I mean, the Bible uses a picture of adultery. You ever read the book of Hosea? And Hosea has to go and buy back. Hosea 3 has to buy back this harlotrous wife of his who's conceived children out of wedlock, who's in some way sold herself into slavery, and now he's going to buy her back Jesus has bought us back to be his own, to be free. Not free to gratify our own selfish desires, which is no real freedom. but freedom to live for and follow him wherever he leads. And sometimes, brothers and sisters, the way he leads is a way that is filled with cloud cover. And we have no idea what in the world he's doing. And even as we walk through those many dangers and toils and snares, We can gaze upon the price of our redemption and we can remember the charge that is ours to live in, especially because of his Grace to us. You are not your own, the word of God says, but you were bought with a price. So glorify God in your body. There's a quote from the late J. I. Packer where he said, he said, if you ask, and maybe some of you have been asking this, maybe even this week, J. I. Packer said, if you ask, why is this happening? He said, no light may come. But if you ask, how am I to glorify God now in this? He said, there will always be an answer. Brothers and sisters, I don't know. I don't know what thick cloud cover may be facing you as this new week dawns upon us. But I can assure you, and I'm not saying this to make light in the slightest bit of any of those hardships and that cloud cover that you may be walking through, I trust that it is serious and painful and we as pastors I know we we care and we want to know how we can serve you and pray for you and encourage you in the Lord. But I can assure you that whatever cloud cover you are walking through, it is put into perspective by your consideration. Of the anguish that Jesus knew in paying the price for your redemption. Oh, blood-bought, purchase of God Look to Christ. Look to Christ. Remember that in Christ you are no longer your own, but you have been bought by one who loves you enough to pour out his blood for your soul. Your times, David wrote in Psalm 31, My times are in your hand, and your times are in the hand of one who is willing to take that debt and pay it in full for you. So you can trust that He will lead you and He will guide you through whatever stormy seas you may be called to endure. He who has lavished you with the riches of His grace freeing you from captivity to sin and death and hell, he will be with you with that unfailing deluge of grace in your every time of need, Saint. Every time of need May you rest this morning in the sweet assurance of your redemption, which has been paid in full according to the riches of his grace, which he's lavished upon you in Christ Jesus. Let's pray. We confess as the man who appeared before Jesus, we believe, and yet we cry out, help my unbelief. We pray that you would help us to freshly see and be moved at the riches of grace which you have lavished upon us and help us to trust you in what we don't understand. Help us to trust you by not trying to earn our favor with you. Help us to trust you by not making provision for our sin Help us to trust that your way is good, your will is good. We pray that we would know your grace. To make us zealous for every good work. We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen.