Good morning again. How's everyone? Isn't it wonderful to be here? Isn't it wonderful? To be here? Matt? Matt, is it wonderful to be here? Yes, alright. I don't know why I'm picking on you, but it is good to be together. Um I I wonder if you've forgotten or neglected something basic. That led to painful or negative consequences at some point. So I mentioned to a few of you last Sunday that I had aggravated my back By sneezing early in the morning. Yes, I sneezed and I aggravated my back. I felt this spasm right away and uh it wasn't too debilitating. I didn't get up here and preach last Sunday, but I was in some discomfort. Uh I've had back issues for a number of years and those sorts of things I'm sure some of you have had this happen as well where you can just have a flare up and throw your back out and it just seems like There's no rhyme or reason. It's very unpredictable. But I have found a pattern over the past several years myself that uh when I am neglecting the basics of what I know I should be doing to care for my back, when I'm not doing my daily core stretching and regular exercise when I'm not making wise decisions with my diet, that's when I'm often likely to have a flare-up with my back. I grow neglectful of these basic health strategies amidst the pressures and the daily stresses of life, and then I see negative consequences because of that neglect. Have you had that kind of experience before? Maybe not something with regard to your physical health, but maybe maybe uh preparing a meal and forgetting a key ingredient. In a recipe, and then you're eating this and you're thinking something's not right, and like, oh, it was it was that thing. I don't know what that thing would be, because I'm out of my realm when I'm talking about cooking and recipes. But Maybe it's uh forgetting to set an alarm or or turning your clock forward or turning it back when it's time to do that. Maybe Locking yourself out of your car, putting you know locking your keys in the car. Forgetting basic things can create problems. We see that in our in our daily lives in small and mundane ways, but it can be true also in our spiritual lives, in our walk with the Lord. And so throughout God's word you will find regular reminders of the basics of the Christian faith. Because we never really move on from the need to be reminded of those basics. That's what the Apostle Paul has been doing throughout the letter to the Ephesians that we've been studying together. He's been rehearsing. This great work of salvation that God has wrought for them in Christ. And uh we have an especially sweet and familiar gospel reminder as we continue in that study this morning. So go ahead and open in your Bibles to Ephesians chapter 2. If you're using one of the Bibles provided for you, you'll find that on page 976 Of those Bibles provided, Ephesians chapter two, the the three verses that we are going to consider this morning I think they're about as basic and foundational to the Christian faith, maybe as any in the whole New Testament. I trust a number of you have these words memorized. Maybe you've not even tried to memorize them, as I know some of you are doing with the book of Ephesians this year, but maybe just you've heard them so much. You could just put it pour it out of your mouth right now without even trying because they're so familiar. They may be among the best known words In all of the Apostle Paul's writings. They were, they will be, these verses as we look at them this morning, they're going to be a reminder for as I'm sizing up this room. Almost all of you, it will be a reminder to you. But these words were a reminder to the Ephesians themselves. And it's good for us to remember that. The Ephesians had already heard the word of truth, the gospel of their salvation. You can see that in chapter 1, verse 13, if your Bible is open and you look there at Ephesians 1. 13. They had received the word of truth. They had received this gospel. They had been sealed with the promised Holy Spirit. And so what we now call Ephesians 2, 8 through 10, that's not how the Ephesians knew it. But what we call Ephesians 2, 8 through 10 was not new information to them. But it was important to Paul that he remind the Ephesians of these things. to further develop and build his uh exposition and his celebration of the immeasurable riches of God's grace in kindness that had been lavished upon the Ephesians and all who believe in Christ. And so that's what we want to think about this morning. We want to focus just on these three verses, Ephesians 2, 8. The Ephesians, they needed to be reminded of the gospel basics. And we do too, Chevrolet Baptist Church. So uh listen attentively as I read to you Ephesians 2, verses 8 versus through ten. For by grace you have been saved through faith And this is not your own doing. It is the gift of God, not a result of works, so that no one may boast. For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them This is God's word, brothers and sisters. Thanks be to God indeed. Let's pray and ask for his blessing as we prepare to look at those three verses together. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your grace in calling us together this morning to be instructed and reminded of your word. We thank you for all that's been done to just get us here. And we pray that you would take us as we study these verses, take us deeper into that experience of Enjoying the immeasurable riches of your grace and kindness to us in Jesus. We pray that you would help us to give heed to the message as it goes forth as if this were the very last sermon we were ever hearing before meeting you. Because for all we know it could be that But help us to be reverent and attentive in our posture before your word. Do a good work in us now by the power of your spirit. We ask this all in Christ's name. Amen. The words in this passage really I think right in the middle of this passage that I see as the heartbeat of this passage. And I want to draw your attention to it right here from the start are those words at the end of verse 9, so that no one may boast. That's a condition of health far more important than any back issues you may have or any other health inconveniences. Not boasting That's what the Apostle Paul is after in these verses. That we would not be a boastful people. You see there in in your Bible the words so that. And that is telling us, that little phrase so that is telling us that the removal of boasting is the conclusion or the result of what's just been said before it. By grace you've been saved through faith. This is not your own doing. It's the gift of God. It's not a result of works. So that all that he says there in verses 8 and the beginning of 9 is so that to the end that we would not boast. And then verse 10, if you look at your Bibles, verse 10 begins with the word, what's it begin with? Say it out loud. Y'all seem a little, I don't know, you just I don't know if it's it's f it is freezing in here. Maybe so you're maybe you're troubled by that. For it begins with the word for And that's showing us that what Paul's going to say in verse 10 is giving another argument or another grounds or basis. For his contention that boasting should be removed or excluded from the lives of God's people. So both before and after this reference to boasting We have supports. We have like two pillars supporting this this exhortation that we get rid of all boasting. Chevrolet Baptist Church, let's be devoted to killing, boasting in our lives. I think that's what the Holy Spirit is after in our hearts In this congregation, as he has brought this text to our attention this morning. And so to help us drill down on Paul's logic here, I want to consider this passage under two headings. I think both of these two points help to remove boasting from the lives of God's people. Point number one, I'll say them a few times through the sermon, so if you don't, if you're a note taker and you don't get it all now, I will be saying these again. All we need to begin the Christian life is the gift of God. Therefore, no boasting And then number two, all we need to continue the Christian life is the creation of God. And therefore, no boasting So let's think about these two truths. First, all we need to begin the Christian life is the gift of God. Now, before we actually get to that though, I do want us to think a little bit more about just this reality of boasting I think the precious sparkling jewels of this text will shine most brightly amidst the black backdrop of human boasting that it is set against. I think you know what boasting is. You don't really need a lecture on boasting. I think you know what boasting is. I think you can see it and know that's boasting. But I wonder if you've ever tried to define what is it? What is he talking about when he says that no one may boast? Well, here's a definition that I came across this week in my studies. Boasting is the self-congratulating self-exalting that comes from priding yourselves on something that God has given you as if it's something that you produced yourself. To boast is to have kind of a posture of I did this. Look at me. I'm that guy. That's how people talk today It's a species of pride. The heart of boasting is seeing something that we do, or something that we are. And feeling impressed with ourselves about that. Sometimes it's very overt and out there. So uh one of the greatest Olympians ever. would be Hussein Bolt, Sprinter. Well some years ago, after I think he repeated as a gold medalist in the 2012 Olympics, I think it was, he pretty much got on the air and he said, I'm now a legend. I'm also the greatest athlete to live. That would be boasting. Sometimes boasting is a little bit more subtle Uh we have what's called today the humble brag. Someone who says things and they it it kind of has a veneer of humility, but really it's someone who's exalting yourself. We see that actually, there's an instance of that in the Bible. Jesus told a parable about a Pharisee and a tax collector, and the Pharisee stood before God and he thanked God actually. God, I thank you. That I I'm not like other people. And he and he started to list off some of his virtues and some of his his good and But he was thanking God, but he was really drawing attention the whole while to himself. Thank God I'm not like that tax collector over there. Uh boasting is really an expression of spiritual insanity It's like imagine a child, a young child being taught to play the game phase 10. Kids, anybody ever play the game phase 10? Okay, some kids saying yes. Imagine imagine you're just learning to play the game. It's you're so your your t your hands are tiny and there's too many cards and it's almost like hard to even hold all the cards out together And maybe your mom or dad is teaching you how to play the game and and you're you're barely holding the cards, but they show you, oh you know, look at you can make that move here, you could put that there, and your mom is basically helping you And then you win the game. You go out, you have put the last card in, you and then you you like puff your chest out. Yeah, look at me. I've beat you. Like, you could hardly even hold the cards in your hand. But we we boast. Now it's a little bit humorous to think of it that way, but in relation to God, it's really not a laughing matter. We're a moment. Our lives are a vapor, the Word of God says. We're dust. And God is eternal God is almighty. God is self-sufficient. God has given to all mankind life and breath and everything. We are creatures. He is the creator. He holds our breath. in his hands, and would we then cast him aside and glory in our own strength and accomplishments? Pride boasting claims to be the author of what is really a gift And so Paul says to one church in the first century, the church at Corinth that was notorious for its boasting, he says to them in 1 Corinthians chapter 4, who sees anything different in you? What do you have that you did not receive? If you then received it, why do you boast as if you did not receive it? Boasting defies God, it denies God, it ignores God, it refuses to honor God as God, and it destroys people. It destroys them both now and through all eternity if they will not repent of their boasting. It it destroys us now, even in this life, in the sense that when a person glories in themselves, boasts in themselves and their strength and their accomplishments, when that's the the sort of operating system of their lives, though it may look different ways for different people. When you look like Hussein Bolt does to his athletic accomplishments and things, I'm somebody, I'm great Because of that. Or you might look to academic success or uh the success of your career or your financial attainments or political triumphs or uh even religious devotion, ministry devotion. We can make a We can boast about our spiritual disciplines. But when you when you put yourself at the center of your glorying. What you find is that you end up on a treadmill always running, moving, trying to attain something and never actually getting anywhere. So I read this quote many, many years ago, and it's always stuck with me about a very famous person who got basically everything they wanted and was shown to be empty. Have you ever heard of Madonna? She's not much, I don't know what if she's still doing. I would love newer versions of these kinds of quotes, but I'm not much of a cultural savant myself So as you hear quotes like this from more contemporary names than Madonna, uh feel free to pass them on, and maybe they'll end up in a sermon sometime. But it back in the nineties when Madonna was at like the peak of her popularity, kids, Madonna was like the Taylor Swift of the 90s. And the fact that you don't know who she is should tell you something about Taylor Swift, but that's another sermon for another time. When she was at the peak of her success, she said this. My drive in life comes from the fear of being mediocre. That's always pushing me. I push past one spell of it and discover myself as a special human being. But then I feel that I'm still mediocre and uninteresting unless I do something else. Because even though I've become somebody, I still have to prove that I'm somebody. My struggle has never ended, and I guess it never will You see, those those pains are just a kind of bitter foretaste. of the judgment of God eternally on those who persist in seeking to create for themselves a name and a glory to boast in themselves. God is is justly and rightly angry at human pride. I've heard it said it's like cosmic plagiarism, right? When when we take credit ourselves for what God has given us as gift He is rightly and justly angry at that, and he is therefore rightly and justly committed to humbling those who walk with proud and boastful hearts. We're given a glimpse of this coming judgment in Isaiah chapter 2. The prophet Isaiah says, The Lord of hosts has a day against all that is proud and lofty. Against all that is lifted up, and it shall be brought low, and the haughtiness of man shall be humbled And the lofty pride of men shall be brought low. And the idols There's no idol greater in the human heart than the idol that we see when we look in the mirror The idols shall utterly pass away, and people shall enter the caves of the rocks and the holes of the ground from before the terror of the Lord. and from the splendor of his majesty when he rises to terrify the earth. Boasting is a very ugly and evil thing, beloved. May we never walk around puffing out our chests as if we think Our jobs are the most important jobs in the world. Or we do our jobs better than anybody else in the world. Or look at how mature I am spiritually. Look at how disciplined I am in this way. Look at how great my kids are in this way. Let it never be that we would glory in anything that roots in ourselves. Because God has a day when he will bring all that low. Those who walk in pride. As was said to King Nebuchadnezzar, another famous man in the Word of God, who exalted himself and then was humbled. Those who walk in pride, he is able to humble. But praise God, beloved, we gather here today. The whole reason that we can be here singing and smiling and Praising God, encouraging each other. The whole reason why we could do that is because in his great love and kindness There's another way that God humbles the proud, not just in destroying them and laying them low under the furious weight of his judgment. But there's another way that he humbles the proud, that he humbles the boastful, and that's the good news of his son. That's the gospel that Paul's reminding the Ephesians of. And that he reminds us of it is a massive death blow to the impulse to boasting that all we need to begin the Christian life, all we need to be saved. Is the gift of God. That's what Paul says here in Ephesians 2. 8. For by grace you have been saved through faith And this is not your own doing. It is the gift of God, not a result of works. Do you see how like every phrase in that sentence is intended to just destroy boasting? We've been saved. Who can glory? Who can boast in themselves at being saved? The very word denotes That we were helpless, that we were in distress, that we were weak, that we were needy. But we've been saved, and we know that we've been saved. From by the verses earlier, we were saved from death. We were saved from our our deadness in trespasses and sins We were captives, we were slaves to the world and the flesh and the devil. We were following the current of this world, and and we were by nature children of wrath. But then God saved us. Right, remember last week I didn't dwell on it much, but in verse 5, Paul's talking about this wonderful death to life, this resurrection that has happened. And he says, he interjects there in verse 5, by grace you've been saved. And now he comes back and he's explaining that more. It's grace that has saved us. Dead in sin and then raised spiritually to be seated with Christ in the heavenly places. When we were richly deserving of God's eternal wrath, God instead decided to shower us with his kindness for all of eternity. And nobody can boast in that, at least not in themselves. It was all of grace. And grace excludes boasting. Grace is God's undeserved kindness in the face of our much-deserved wrath. Grace is not only God giving us what we don't deserve, but it's also his giving us the very opposite of what we do deserve. We did everything we could to demerit God's favor. But instead he shows us lavish kindness and goodness for all of eternity, despite everything that we've done to spurn him. That's grace. And what do we do to receive this grace? There's nothing that we do. It's received through faith. Right? By grace you have been saved through faith. Faith is simply coming to Jesus empty-handed, spiritually bankrupt, collapsing into his loving arms because we know there's nothing good in us that could commend ourselves to God. So we're saved by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. And you think Paul's made the point. But he he he keeps going, right? This this is not your own doing. The whole deal, being saved by grace through faith, not your own doing, so no boasting. Your salvation came entirely from outside of you. Your salvation, you understand this, right? This is a reminder, but we need reminders Your salvation was not a joint purchase in which God contributed grace and you contributed faith so that together you cooperated in saving yourself. No, no, no. None of this originated with you. You did not prompt God to save you. You didn't move God to be gracious to you. You didn't come up with the faith to trust in Christ. You were dead. Dead people can't receive Jesus, but you were made alive so that you could see glory in the face of Christ and then come to Him joyfully and eagerly and receive this salvation. It's all God's gift. My gift is all bound up in Christ. That's that sweet phrase that we keep seeing over and over and over again in our study of Ephesians. In Christ If ever there was one who had the right to show up on earth and say, I'm a legend, I'm the greatest everything of all time. If ever someone could come and rightly claim that, it's the Lord Jesus, the one through whom all life came into being, including Usain Boltz. But Jesus, the one by whom and for whom all things exist, the one who upholds the universe by the word of his power who who is before all things and in whom all things hold together, this Jesus left his glorious splendor of heaven And he emptied himself by taking the form of a servant, becoming obedient to death, even death on a cross It's if you if you happen to be here today and you are are not a follower of Jesus, you've not received Christ's grace yourself, this is what we summon you, this is what we call you now to receive, is that though Jesus could have chosen to remain in immortal glory, And enjoy the loving fellowship of the Trinity, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit from all eternity. This Jesus chose to come into the world. He chose a cross. The Lord Jesus Christ chose to be nailed to a piece of wood by beings that he had created. And the very murderers who put him to death, he was at that moment upholding their lives with the word of his power. On the cross, Jesus took the sins of everyone who would ever turn and trust in him. He he bore the just judgment of God, that picture that we saw in Isaiah chapter 2 of him laying low all pride. Bore all of that agony and disgrace and judgment on the cross so that it would not need to fall on you if only you would today receive him. Trust in him, rely upon him. And he proved that he was sufficient to do that for all who would come to him by rising from the dead on the third day Ascending to heaven, where he's now enthroned on our behalf as an eternal witness that he is able to save to the uttermost. all who would draw near to God through him. Oh, if you've not put your faith in Christ, draw near to him today. Now for those of you that have, and I know it's the overwhelming majority of you, you have come to Jesus, you've drawn near to him. You see how that just puts all boasting to death, right? All all glory be, as we say, glory be to the Father, glory be to the Son, glory be to the Spirit, but no glory to us. Just believing in Jesus, surveying the wondrous cross on which the Prince of Glory died, that pours contempt On all our pride. And when we look to Jesus, we say, as the old hymn writer said, Forbid it, Lord, that I should boast, save in the death of Christ my God. Or, as the hymn writer of our own day put it, I will not boast in anything. No gifts, no power, no wisdom. But I will boast in Jesus Christ, his death and resurrection To embrace, to really understand and grasp by faith that the only thing you brought to this saving relationship with Jesus is all that nastiness and ugliness that's there in Ephesians 2, 1 through 3. The passions and the slavery and the captivity to the devil and the deadness in trespasses and sins. That's all you brought. And all the good that you get in on was the lavish, undeserved gift of God in Christ. What's there to puff your chest out about? That's why when we get to chapter 4, your Bibles are open. Look at the beginning of chapter 4. When Paul makes the shift from all these gospel reminders to, okay, Christians, here's how we live in light of this. What's the very first thing that chapter 4 says to live a life worthy of the calling that you've received with what? With all humility. Say it louder. What's there? Okay, okay, you're talking. Good. There's no grounds for boasting when we look to Jesus We say with the Apostle Paul, may it never be that I should boast. God forbid that I should boast except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. And this boasting, this glorying in Christ, which excludes and eradicates all boasting in self is not only a boasting in what he's rescued us from, but it's also a boasting in what he has saved us for. Let me say that a different way, because that's important. And this is moving us now from point number one to point number two. Being in Christ. All this goodness that we've seen and been celebrating in Ephesians about being in Christ. It's not only about being saved from something. It is that something horrible. The wrath of God eternally experienced. That's what we were saved from. But it's not only that, it's also the creation of something beautiful and new and good. And in that too, we have nothing that we can boast in. That's observation number two. Okay, remember, observation number one, all we need to begin the Christian life is the gift of God. Number two? All we need to continue in the Christian life is the creation of God, or we might put it the workmanship of God. Right? Look again at our passage. By grace you have been saved through faith, and this is not your own doing. It is the gift of God, not a result of works. Here's this phrase, so that no one may boast. For, why should no one boast? For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand. That we should walk in them. I wonder if that all sounds like one big bait and switch. All this talk of grace, not your own doing, the gift of God, not a result of works, now go ahead and get to work. Get active. Get after it. Start doing. But to begin thinking about doing good works. is not to turn from grace to law. At least it shouldn't be. I mean some people can wrongly make that Mistake. But to begin thinking about doing good works for God is not to move from grace to law, because everything we need to continue the Christian life Every resolve for good, as Paul would put this in his prayer to the Thessalonians, every resolve for good and every work of faith would be executed by his power. All that we need to continue in the Christian life is the creation of God. And you see how emphatic Paul is to communicate that to us in verse 10. I mean this in f in this one little verse in four different ways, he is calling us now after the point of salvation, after receiving him and being forgiven, and being raised from death to life after that now as we go on living the Christian life. Four times just in this one verse does he draw us to the work of God in keeping us through the Christian life. It says there we're his workmanship. Not our not not we didn't create our we're not our workmanship. It's his. We're his workmanship. We are created That's a that's that's a passive verb. We don't do the creating, we were created. That's the second one, right? You're his workmanship, you're created, you're created in Christ Jesus. for those good works, and it says those good works he's prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them Just as Paul says at the beginning of the letter in chapter 1, verse 4, that Christians were chosen by God from before the foundation of the world to be holy and blameless. before him. We see here that even the good works that would prove evidence that we have in fact been chosen for that glorious destiny, even the good works that we would do that would demonstrate that we are his chosen people, are prepared beforehand for us to walk in. We are doing the walking. We walk. Right? It says there in verse 10. We walk in those, just as we were walking in sin, as it says, and in deadness at the beginning of the passage, but then God made us alive. We are walking. We are working out our own salvation. We are walking in a manner worthy of the calling to which we've been called. We do all kinds of good works. There's all kinds of good works that He has prepared for us. You say, well, what might those good works be? Well, a good exercise for you would be to maybe this afternoon or sometime this week read Ephesians chapter 4 and 5 and 6. And God will fill you up with many of these good works that you can be doing. Being reliable and being faithful in your workplace. A being a faithful, loving husband who sacrifices for your wife, being a a woman, a wife who honors and respects your husband's leadership, being kind and tenderhearted and forgiving each other, being generous and making sacrifices big and small, using your tongue to encourage and build up, not to tear down and slander. Singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs with a melody in your heart to God, fighting against the lies of the devil and putting on the whole armor of God. Oh, you will see good work after good work after good work But all of it is not our own work first, but it is the work of God. It is the fruit of those who have been captivated by the love of Christ. and are now eager to no longer live for themselves, but to live for him who died for them and who for their sake was raised. So the same hymn writer who said, Forbid it, Lord, that I should boast, save in the death of Christ my God, the same hymn writer said, Love, so amazing. So divine demands my soul, my life, my all. And we devote our all to him in a life of good works, but lots of good works. Timothy says, or Paul writes to Timothy in 1 Timothy 6, that our lives would be rich in good works. I'm reminded. When I think about that richness in good works, I'm reminded of a statement that I've heard attributed to John Wesley, but then I've heard other people say, no, no, it wasn't John Wesley. I don't know who said it, but I like the way it's said. Whoever it is said Do all the good you can by all the means you can, in all the ways you can, and in all the places you can, at all the times you can, as long as ever you can. Oh, let us be aggressive and eager in our working to do good. And when we do that Not trying to earn a relationship with God or wash away the guilt of our sins or sustain our relationship with God, but when we do that out of the the joyful gratitude to the God who has so richly loved us in Christ with a sincere desire to bring glory to him We're given the wonderful heart inflaming encouragement that in our doing of such good, God is pleased because he is beholding and delighted in the working of his own grace in our lives. Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling, Paul says. But the very next verse is, for it is God who works in you, both to will and to work for his good pleasure. We are God's workmanship. Has anyone ever told you, you're a real piece of work? Most people when they say that they're not complimenting you. But here it is God's saying when he looks at you, Christians, saints, beloved, trusting in Christ, he said, that's my work. That's my handiw. This is this is a word that is not used off the the Greek word is poema. You may hear the English word poem in that, poetry. It's only used, Paul uses it only one other time in the New Testament, and that's in Romans 1. 20 when he talks about how God's glory can be perceived in the things that have been made. When we look at the vastness and the wonders and the beauties of God's creation, there's a witness in the soul. Unbelievers suppress that truth and deny God, but in the wonders of what has been made. We can perceive there is a God. And Paul uses that word just one other time in the New Testament. And it's right here of Christians, you are the workmanship of God. The masterpiece of God's creative genius is a Christian trusting in Jesus, devoting their lives to the good works that he has prepared for them to walk in. That's not intended to shine a spotlight, a spotlight on your own innate awesomeness, but on the super-aboundingly awesome grace of God, which has created us new in Christ. John Bloom from Desiring God puts it this way with reference to this word poema. If you're familiar with the ministry of desiring God, Not a ministry, I think, that has developed a reputation for being all about man, all about us, and making much of us. But here's what John Bloom says about this idea of Christians being God's workmanship. Tiny, insignificant you are more glorious than the sun and more fascinating than Orion. For the sun cannot perceive its creator's power in its own blinding glory, nor can Orion trace his designer's genius in the precision of his heavenly course. But you can You are part of the infinitesimally small fraction of created things that have been granted the incredible gift of being able to perceive the power and the native genius of God. What kind of being are you, so small and weak, and yet endowed with such marvelous capacity for perception and wonder? God's workmanship. Do you believe that about yourself? I have a hard time believing that about myself. God has not created us in Christ so that we would twiddle away our lives in trivialities scrolling through social media feeds. There is nothing boring about your life. There's nothing boring about this week that we're entering into if you are trusting in Jesus as God's workmanship. He has created us in Christ so that our lives will be set apart for him, so that we will bear the fruit of the Spirit. And do good works that only God's people can do in the power of his Spirit, relying upon Him to the glory of His name So let's be active and aggressive and strategizing in the good that we can do in Christ's name. Because you have no idea the ways that it can bless other people. So, I think that's a good question. Some of you, many of you know uh Hallie was, we had her graduation party up in New Jersey, so the whole weekly whiplash is over. And we had the graduation party, lots of old friends from her school and from our old church were there. Really sweet time. And when I was driving, we were in two separate cars, but when I was driving Last night around seven o'clock over the Delaware Memorial Bridge. And when we crossed out of New Jersey, I'm just being honest with you. I mean I'm never dishonest, okay I'm not sure why that comes out of the mouth sometimes. I I I was I felt a wave of sadness. And the hardness of having been in one place for 21 years and and not not being home anymore I just felt a wave of that yesterday that was that I could it was it was much harder and sadder than it was on December 26th when we actually drove out to come down to here and move. Because all the nervous energy and adrenaline of what was gonna happen with the move was gone. And it just felt like something I'd please understand. I love you all. I'm thrilled that I'm here. I'm not upset that I'm your pastor. It's been an honor. You've been wonderful But I'm just telling you, yesterday at 7 o'clock, there was a wave of just sadness. And hearing these people who I love talking about as they were walking out the door, see in the morning. And I'm glad that I'm with you. I am glad that I'm with you this morning. But it was hard. And that's how I was feeling when I walked in the door last night And one of, I think it was Felicity, collected the mail. Is that right? And um there was a postcard in it From North Dakota. I've never gotten a postcard from North Dakota. It was from Neil and Betty Stockland Uh they as I trust a lot of you have met them or saw them again. They were in town uh for a while, but we were out of town. So the The day before they flew back home, uh, we were able to just spend a little bit of time with them, and this postcard came and was in the mail for me when I walked in the door, heavy-hearted as I was. It says, dear Pastor Larry and Michelle, greetings from North Dakota. It was certainly a blessing to meet you last Monday Thank you for taking time from your busy schedule to visit. It was so special to meet your children. What a joy they are. We are thankful that the Lord led you to CBC. Be assured of our prayers as you continue to adjust to a new place of ministry. You have our love and prayers. Neil and Betty Stockland. And I thought last night. Prepared before the foundation of the world. But a brother and sister had to walk in it. And it met me on May 31st, 2025, though it had been prepared beforehand in such a sweet way. So beloved, Ephesians 2, 8 through 10 may be familiar, but its truths are astonishing Our works contribute nothing to starting the Christian life. God's work means everything for living the Christian life So let us look to Jesus and let us be eager and active in doing all those good works that he's prepared for us to walk in. Let's pray Heavenly Father, we thank you for the grace that you've shown us in Christ, grace that has rescued us, grace that is greater from all of our sin. And grace that empowers us to newness of life, we pray that you would help us. As we continue to worship you this morning and as we prepare to move out into our week, may we be eager and zealous. For those good works that you've called us to. Help us to not be neglectful of them, but help us, help us, Father, to work out our own salvation with fear and trembling, knowing that you, in your almighty grace, are the one working in us. Be pleased to equip us with everything good that we might do your will and work in us what's pleasing in your sight through Jesus. May it be our eager longing to glorify you in all that we do. Amen.