I invite you to open up in your Bibles now. I mentioned we'd be in Ephesians 4, and that's where we're going to turn now. So if you have a Bible with you or if you want to grab one of those Bibles that should be on a chair near you. Uh turn to Ephesians chapter 4. That's going to be found on page 978 of those Bibles that we do have scattered around. uh the gym here. We are returning to a study that we've been going through for much of this year in the uh letter to Paul's letter to the Ephesians, I've tried to stress as we've been in this letter that while there is some wonderfully rich theology, wonderful doctrine. In this letter. The primary purpose of this letter was not to uh you know s encourage uh conversation in a classroom necessarily philosophizing about doctrine. Uh studying doctrine is a wonderfully important thing, but the purpose of this letter was very practical and pastoral. Paul was writing to Christians in the first century. Who were seeking to follow Jesus in an environment, in a culture that was hostile to their beliefs. And they were seeking to learn how to live for Christ in a culture that was uh that was crooked and twisted. So Paul wrote them encouraging them in the truths of the gospel and exhorting them to live in a manner that is worthy of the gospel. First half of that letter, chapters one through three, focuses on the blessings that God's people have received in Christ. And then chapters four through six turn to talking about in light of the grace that we've received in Christ, how do we actually experience more of Christ's grace in living for Christ. And that's where we find ourselves in chapter four, a portion specifically dealing with how we are to live for Christ. So I'm going to read for you Ephesians 4, beginning in verse 25, and then follow it, uh continuing into chapter 5. Verse 2, chapter 4, verse 25, through chapter 5, verse 2. It's been a little while since I did this. I forgot to set my timer, so the timer's starting now. Okay. Sorry. That's like two minutes extra that I'm giving myself. Let me read God's word to you, beginning in Ephesians 4, verse 25. Therefore Having put away falsehood, let each one of you speak the truth with his neighbor, for we are members one of another Be angry and do not sin. Do not let the sun go down on your anger, and give no opportunity to the devil. Let the thief no longer steal, but rather let him labor, doing honest work with his own hands, so that he may have something to share with anyone in need. Let no corrupting talk come out of your mouths, but only such as is good for building up, as fits the occasion, that it may give grace to those who hear. And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God, by whom you were sealed for the day of redemption. Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and slander be put away from you, along with all malice. Be kind to one another tender-hearted, forgiving one another as God in Christ forgave you. Therefore, be imitators of God, as beloved children And walk in love as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us, a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God. This is God's word. Brothers and sisters, let's pray and ask for his help as we think about those words together. Heavenly Father, we do thank you for this opportunity to sit under your word. Help me, even though I'm standing in front of these brothers and sisters to also be sitting under your word even in my proclamation of it. Help us to learn from you. Help us to find joy in Receiving your word, and we pray that you would use your word and by the power of your spirit that you would change us and make us more like Jesus through our time reflecting upon your word now. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. As you prepare for this week ahead, uh I wonder what is on your list of priorities. Expectations you have goals that you may have in mind for the coming week. I don't know if any of you are like Sunday evening, maybe you sit down with your your Mobile calendar, or maybe some people actually use a paper calendar still, I'm not sure. But maybe you sit down on Sunday and think out what you're expecting and planning and preparing for in the week ahead. I wouldn't be shocked, nobody needs to raise their hands right now, but I wouldn't be surprised if somebody even during this worship gathering has pulled out a phone or maybe jotted on the bulletin, ooh, I need to remember to do this. I need to make sure I follow up about that thing. I trust there are a lot of meaningful and significant endeavors and concerns that weigh upon you as a new week begins. I was struck the other night. I was watching uh a little bit of the World Series. Uh congratulations, Murray family. Uh I know it was a good I know it was a good week for you all. Uh I was watching a little bit of the World Series and actually more than the baseball intrigued me. I started to get intrigued the other night watching the commercials. And just recognizing how the messages that we receive so often in our culture, whether they come through commercials or other forms, social media, how much of the how much the messages that we receive and are inundated with have a way of shaping our vision. of what's important. So I saw this this commercial for hair supplements. Which, you know. But that wasn't the only one. There was you know auto and home insurance and and home security systems and uh nauseatingly uh commercials for betting apps, gambling restaurants and pain relievers and weight loss and help finding jobs and Xfinity Wi-Fi service and iPhones and energy drinks and cookware and pet pharmacies And of course a slew of political advertisements this time of year. We're bombarded with messages. Care about these things This is what's important. This is what you need. This is what will make you happy. And not all of these things, not all the things that I just mentioned are bad things. But I wondered as I sat watching all of these commercials and as I had this passage of scripture also percolating in my mind. I wondered about whether all of those messages could distract us, could distract you from The most important thing that could be on your radar for this week, and that is being an imitator of God. I wonder if you thought about your week ahead. Have you thought about that priority? Is that something on your to-do list? This week, become an imitator of God. It's on God's radar for you It's among his priorities and goals for you. I know that. Not because he in a dream or in some vision showed me uh, you know. He said it in his word. He said it in the Bible there. Did you catch that in Ephesians 5, verse 1? Be imitators of God. If you still have your Bibles open, I started reading in verse 25, which says begins with the word, therefore. Which reminds us, it points us back to what we saw the last time we opened up Ephesians together. In verse 24, there was this call to put on the new self Which is created after the likeness of God in true righteousness and holiness. And here we're called in this passage we want to think about together this morning to be imitators of God. How does that priority of God land upon you this morning? I wonder if it seems burdensome. I wonder if you're already beginning to think, uh-oh, this could be like a legalistic kind of sermon. Maybe it seems unreasonable. Maybe it seems irrelevant from the important stuff of life that you have to to deal with this week. Maybe it seems threatening. Maybe as you contemplate the call to imitate God, maybe you have some measure of shame or despair, as if you've been seeking growth for so long, you wonder if it really can happen for you. Maybe just apathy. Maybe some cynicism Well, for this call to be imitators of God, for it to land upon us as I think it should, it's really, really important. That we understand the distinction between and the harmony of the law and the gospel Kids, can you say that out loud? The law. Kids, come on now It's not often maybe that you're encouraged to yell in church, but I'm going to encourage you to let like I want you to hear I want to hear it. Can you say the law? Little better. How about the gospel? The gospel The law and the gospel are really important. They're not the same thing. The law is not the same thing as the gospel. But they're both inseparable. They're both really important if we would hear this call to be imitators of God as the good news that it really is. There's a distinction between and yet a harmony with the law and the gospel. Our own church's statement of faith talks about this harmony In Article 12 of our Church's Statement of Faith, it says this We believe the law of God is the eternal and unchangeable rule of his moral governance. Okay, I'm gonna pick that up. If you're here this morning and you're maybe newer to Christianity, maybe you're not sure if you are a Christian, but you're wondering what it's all about. You're this is a wonderful morning for you to be with us. I want to explain some things that are really critical and foundational to what it means to be a Christian and how we relate to God as Christians. And it has to do with this, the law and the gospel. We believe the law of God. And I'm hoping that by the time we're done with this sermon, you'll understand this paragraph a little better if it's unclear right now. We believe the law of God Is the eternal and unchangeable rule of his moral governance. It is holy, just and good Fallen human beings are unable to fulfill the precepts of the law, which the scriptures attribute entirely to their love of sin A chief purpose of the gospel is to deliver people from this love. That is this love of sin. To deliver people from this love and to restore them through a mediator to a sincere obedience to the holy law I love our church's statement of faith. That is so rich. If I can say it another way The grace of Jesus Christ is creating a people who are both forgiven and obedient. He's been creating people like that. The Lord Jesus that is. He's been creating people like that for 2,000 years now. He's really good at it. I'm not saying it's easy, but it is possible. Actually, the word of God tells us that it's inevitable Paul prayed for the Thessalonians. He said, May your whole spirit and soul and body be kept blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. And then he said, He who calls you faithful, he will surely do it. It's going to be painful. It's going to feel like war sometimes, because it actually is war, which we'll come to in uh some amount of time when we get to chapter 6 of Ephesians. It's gonna be hard. But this is what he's doing in the lives of each and every one of his saints. He is forgiving them and he's making them an obedient people. And Ephesians 4, 25, and following teaches us what what this imitation of God looks like in everyday life And it teaches us how he's going about doing it. So I want us to think from this passage together about, I mean my two points are law and gospel. So if you're the note-taking type, law and gospel. Law, that is what God commands of us. And then gospel. How the grace of God in Christ, this mediator that our church's statement of faith speaks of, how the grace of God in Christ grants to us the very thing that God commands of us. Law and then gospel. So the Bible does use the word law. Be helpful for me to say this up front. The Bible does use the word law in some different ways. But in this context, what I mean when I say law is I'm meaning God's commandments. What our church's statement of faith says is the eternal and unchangeable rule of his moral governance. It means, okay, when I speak of the law of God, kids, it means God is in charge. God has the right to tell us what to do. That's what it means for Him to be the Lord. And his commandments, his moral governance is holy. And it's just and it's good. Those words aren't don't just derive from our statement of faith, they're from the Bible, Romans chapter 7, verse 12. And one of the things that struck me as I began to study this passage this week is that there's a whole lot of God's commandments in this passage. Thirteen of them, to be exact. Thirteen commandments. Though there actually could be more, depending on how you count, especially where it says, be kind to one another. Tender-hearted towards one another, forgiving one another. Would you count that as one command or three? It's actually just one commandment grammatically, but you can do there's thirteen commandments or more in this passage. And I'm going to separate these 13 commandments into five specific categories, and these are everyday applications. For how that previous call to put off the old self and put on the new, what does that actually look like in everyday, in the nitty, gritty details of life? Well, it looks like What he says here in these verses. It looks like putting off falsehood And putting on speaking truth with your neighbor. Let me open my Bible, since I've told you to keep yours open. Let me make sure that you're not just trusting in the volume of my voice, but that you see what's in your own Bible there. Therefore, having put away falsehood, let each one of you speak the truth with his neighbor, for we are members of one another. In this passage, the putting off of falsehood seems to be something that has happened in their conversion. They've put away falsehood. We know in Colossians 3 there is actually a specific commandment to stop, to do not lie to one another. Do you lie? The word of God is calling us to put away lying. Whether that be in the form of open deception or exaggeration or excuses Or failing to admit, or misremembering, or misinterpreting, whether it's flattery, whether it's spin Whether it's on your taxes, whether it's being at a restaurant and handed a kids menu when you have a 13-year-old and it's 12 and under to eat as kids. Whether it's when asked how you're doing or how things are going in your marriage Put off falsehood. Put off pretense. All desires to present yourself or posture yourself as something other than what you really are. But instead Speak what is true and what is honest and what is right. Scrupulously aim to reflect reality in all that you say all of the time. And especially so in the church, that should be true everywhere, but Paul points out, especially in the church, for we're members of one another. You lie to a member of the church, it's like you're lying to yourself. So put off falsehood and again commandment number one there is speak truth with your neighbor. Secondly, he says here, put off sinful anger. This was a little tricky to try to word this one, but put off sinful anger and put on quickly resolving even legitimate anger. Look at verse 26. Be angry, that's a command. Be angry and do not sin. That's a s another command. Do not let the sun go down on your anger. That's a command. And another command, give no opportunity or give no place to the devil. When Paul says be angry, I don't think he means that if you woke up this morning and were feeling pretty happy that you should just sort of rouse up some anger. Uh this fallen world gives plenty of occasions to be rightly angry. At true evil. And we know that the Lord Jesus Himself experienced anger. So we know that anger is not always a sin. There is such a thing as righteous anger. But I believe Paul is telling us here that even when we are experiencing right anger, we must be very careful. We must exercise some caution and some healthy self-suspicion. Because anger is the devil's breeding ground We're not to be a people, even when we experience right anger, who nurse it, who coddle it. When you do that, you're like hanging a welcome sign outside of your soul for the devil to come in and enter Are you an angry man? Are you an angry woman? Are you easily bothered? Frequently annoyed? Do you give off the air of just almost constant exasperation? People needing to tiptoe around you, hesitating to contradict you because they're not sure how you're going to react. Do not trivialize your anger, beloved. Do not talk like, you know, you just need to vent a little Someone's pushing your buttons. You lost your temper. As if you were a passive, I don't know, I was going all in front. And all of a sudden I just lost my temper. Where did it go? This is a serious thing. It's an ugly thing. It's an unbelieving thing to be hated and confessed and repented of and quickly so Put off anger, put on quick resolution. Deal with it speedily when it's there, always when it's there, but be very careful about anger. A third category, verse 28, put off stealing and put on hard work so that you can be generous. Let the thief no longer steal, but rather let him labor doing honest work with his own hands, so that he may have something to share with anyone in need. Do you steal? Some some of you are like, really? We're talking about steel as if you're gonna go rob a bank this afternoon. Do you steal from your employer? By engaging in leisure activity when you're being paid to be on a job? Or maybe stealing supplies from your employer, or maybe stealing someone's ideas through plagiarism, or maybe using someone else's password to access some Digital content that you didn't pay for? Maybe stealing someone's reputation through slander or gossip. Put off stealing, Paul says, and give yourself, put on hard work. Not only to provide for your own needs, which is a good thing, but also to share with others who have need. We're not saved for a life of idleness, but for a life of usefulness I I got an email yesterday morning from Susan Ryder. She did say that I could mention this, so I'm not just you know out at her. But it was so timely. I don't know that it was because she was thinking about this particular passage or not, but she wrote to me And she said, our culture has been infiltrated with a view that work is oppressive. However, based on Genesis 1 and 2, we see work is inherent in our purpose as created in the image of God. She said a biblical teaching on the Protestant work ethic is essential to re-establishing a culture that values productivity to better enable human flourishing. It's a good thing to work hard. So if if if some of those priorities, if you were like, oh well, you're telling me I don't need to worry about work this week because I need to imitate God. No, the workplace is a place where you are called to imitate God. It's a good place. It's a good thing to do. Work is not inherently evil. It was cursed because of human sin. We're to honestly labor so that we can give generously as there is need. And you all do that so faithfully here at CBC. Whether it's to the general fund or to the building fund or to the benevolence fund or the counseling fund, you are generously providing for needs in our own local body and to the ends of the earth as we support the work of missions We're to put off stealing and to put on hard work so that we can be generous. A fourth category, verse 29, we're to put off all corrupting talk. And put on gracious strengthening speech Let no corrupting talk come out of your mouth, but only such as is good for building up, as fits the occasion, that it may give grace to those who hear. Are you aiming to be constructive and helpful in every word that you speak There are times to be we have a phrase, right, constructive criticism. Speaking gracious words and seeking to build up people doesn't it that doesn't mean that you never contradict somebody, that you never speak a hard word to somebody. Wise love discerns the occasion and speaks helpful, wholesome, gracious words that always aim at life and fruitfulness. Uh Ryan Payne did an outstanding job this morning in Sunday school talking about the use using our words, he called us to a holy competition. outdoing one another in showing honor. I've heard it said that is a holy competition where everybody wins. To outdo one another with words of affirmation and encouragement to strengthen those who are in need. When we don't do that, when we fail to do that, verse 30 gives us another command, you grieve the Holy Spirit. Don't grieve the Holy Spirit, he says The Spirit is the author of our unity, and when we speak words that tear down the community, that tear each other down, we grieve the Holy Spirit. A fifth category, we're to put off every kind of hatred and put on sacrificial love. Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and slander be put away from you all. Be put away from you, along with all malice, be kind to one another. tenderhearted forgiving one another as God in Christ forgave you. Therefore be imitators of God, as beloved children, and walk in love, as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us. A fragrant offering and sacrifice to God. If you're keeping score at home, the commandment there is let these virtues, let bitterness and wrath and anger be put away from you. That's a command. Let it put it away. Verse 32, be kind. Be imitators of God. Walk in love. These are all commandments. Now much more could be said about all those commandments. And even as I sit here, I'm sort of la if you want to hear more about those specific commandments, let me know and I'll just scrap my Sermon plan for next week, and maybe we should press into some of those specific. I'm planning to move on to chapter three, uh chapter five, verse three next week, but if you want to hear more about the call to speak upbuilding, honest, wholesome words next week Let me know. I'm open to your feedback. Not right now, after the service. Much more could be said about those specific 13 commandments, and I'm happy to commend resources to help you dig in. to those specific commands if you don't want to hear more sermons about them right now. But for now, I just hope you'll feel something of the thrill and the challenge of this call. The call to be imitators of God through obedience to his many commandments. Thrill and challenge. It's the thrill of obeying God's commandments. Yes. Thrill because of the magnificence and significance of this summons to imitate God Does that thrill you, Christian? That God, Almighty Maker of heaven and earth, God says to you, imitate me. Maybe you thought, maybe you've been taught that the way for your life to really matter is to get a degree. or a certain salary, or a certain job, or a certain network, in order to know that your life really matters and is important. Now I'm not saying that all of those kinds of ambitions are bad things to be shunned or avoided. But the living God says to each of you in this room, that you can live a life of eternal significance and resplendent glory, far surpassing anything that Taylor Swift or LeBron James or some other celebrity with 50 million ex-followers has going for them simply by being kind. This week and tender-hearted and forgiving and loving and hard-working and generous and honest and patient and encouraging and peaceable God means for your life as you seek to obey him in those specific ways. He means for other people to know what he is like by observing your you living out your daily lives. That's far greater than Taylor Swift in her unbelief can come up with. Man in his pomp, the word of God says Yet without understanding is like the beasts that perish. We can get excited about a whole lot of earthly glory. The psalmist says it's like watching one of those deer, it's like a we were driving we were driving to this farm uh earlier in the week and we just saw so many deer carcasses on the side of the road, like just not uh like really mangled and nasty. Man in his pomp, without understanding, without submission to the Lord, is like that that glory, that earthly human glory without God It's as meaningless as that carcass on the side of the road. But God is giving us the opportunity. To reflect him, to show the world what he's like by our living in conformity to his will in these ways. That's a thrill to me. What an amazing thing it is to be a human being. But it's a challenge also. It's a challenge because it means to be in relationship with God Is to be in a relationship that is marked by obedience and submission. These are God's commandments They're not his pointers. They're not his suggestions. They're commandments. Jesus said, if you love me, you will keep my commandments. I'm not suggesting, Jesus is not suggesting, that we're talking about sinless obedience, this side of glory. We know that we will only perfectly be like him when we see him as he is, when he comes again, 1 John 3. 2. But I do mean, just as our church's statement of faith says, a sincere obedience. This love and obedience is a heart commitment, an ongoing intention and posture of heart to obey everything that Jesus has commanded. This is the love of God, 1 John 5. 3, that we keep his commandments. So it's a little bit of a challenge here, beloved. I make no apology for it. Do you love God? True love for God is displayed not by paying lip service to Him. But by actually obeying what he commands, by doing what he says. You can say that you love him all you want. You can sing songs about his love and expressing love. You can come to church, you can contribute into the offering plate. But you must confess your sins and turn from your sins and obey God's commandments. That's what Christians do. So in in a little bit a little bit later in this service, when I'm done preaching, we're going to take the Lord's Supper, we're going to have a prayer of confession. And we do that every pretty much every Lord's day. And we don't need to say this every single Lord's Day, but I wanna hear you, I wanna say it occasionally, at least. Please don't hear the prayers of confession And participate in the prayers of confession as an acknowledgement of defeat in your life, as if the Christian life is one of making no progress at all. No attaining to holiness, not ever changing, but at least we can confess our sins and know that God will forgive us. It is a delay is a wonderful thing that when we confess our sins as Christians, God is faithful and just to forgive us. But Paul's vision for the Christian life is not just a regular rehearsing of how we've fallen short with no intention or aspiration or expectation of real change. No, confession is a part of that repentance. that leads to life, that leads us to walking in newness of life. So we will confess our sins a little bit later in the sermon, and we will trust God that as we've confessed and as we repent, His Spirit will enable us to walk in newness of life. And that's that's the gospel, beloved. Okay, so point number one, law. Point number two Gospel. What do we do when we read 13 commandments like this? And maybe you are, as I have been, even in studying the Word of God this week, been convicted. My words have not all been up-building. I have spoken in ways that I would have been embarrassed for a particular person that I maybe was speaking about if I if they had been hearing that. What do we do with that? Will the law just crush you in that moment and leave you despairing and leave you hopeless? Well, praise God, we've got a gospel for the times when the law brings conviction into our lives. We've got a gospel, beloved. And we see that throughout this passage. It's so sweet. Such a sweet harmony between the law and the gospel. Because even as he peppers us with commandments, thirteen of them, to be imitators of God in these concrete and specific ways. What we see is Paul is also, as he peppers us with those commandments, he's also sowing into the commandments this grace of God in Christ that is what fuels and animates What he commands of us. Did you notice that in the passage? Again, I know I'm loud, but look at your Bible Remember, we're members of one another. How are we members of one another? Because of the gospel, Ephesians 3, verse 6 says. That we're fellow, Jew and Gentile. We are all members of the same household. We're all partakers of the promise in Christ Jesus through the gospel. Be kind and tender-hearted and forgiving. So glad there's not just a period there. Praise God for commas. Not in the original language, you know, there was no punctuation in the Greek language, but praise God for a comma in English. Be kind and tender-hearted and forgiving as God in Christ forgave you. Gospel. Remember, be an imitator of God as beloved children. That's gospel. Not be an imitator of God so that maybe he'll accept you as his child. No. Be an imitator of God as a beloved child. Walk in love. Law As Christ loved you and gave himself up for you, gospel. Don't grieve the Holy Spirit of God by whom you were sealed For the day of redemption. And how were you sealed? Chapter 1, verse 13, you were sealed when you heard the word of truth. The gospel of your salvation and believed in him. Not cleaned yourself up and got great at obeying all the commandments, but when you heard the gospel word and you believed in him, you were sealed with that Holy Spirit. In other words, remember, this is what uh Tony was talking about earlier when he spoke of how we need glimpses of who our God is. Remember the character of the God who is commanding you. The character of God is not like the caricature that is sometimes presented of Puritanism. Have you heard this one The haunting fear that someone somewhere may be happy. That's not the character of God. That's not what God is like The God who exists, the God who is real, the true and living and only God, He's a God who in His steadfast love Grants the children of mankind to feast on the abundance of his house and to drink from the river of his delights. Does that sound like serving a God like that would be a chore? The Lord reigns, Psalm ninety-seven says. The Lord reigns, let the earth rejoice. Not frown. The Lord reigns, let the earth rejoice. That's how the whole world should respond. to God's wise and loving and generous and righteous rule. But instead Inspired by the evil lie of the devil, human beings have concluded that God's rule is harsh. That our own way is the best way. The Bible calls that sin. That's that love of sin that our church's statement of faith speaks of. And we have all been guilty of believing that lie. By nature, we come into the world loving ourselves supremely and putting our own interests above anyone else's, including God's. He commands us to love him with all of our hearts and soul and might and strength, but we have failed to do this, and thus we are deserving of his just punishment. But God is love. And He loved us even when we were so unlovely in our sin. When we were his sworn enemies, God loved us and he loved us supremely by sending his own son into the world to rescue us from the hell that we deserved and that we were heading towards. By absorbing in his own body on the cross the punishment for sins that all of us were due. Think of what the Lord Jesus gave, right? What this 5-2 says, He loved us and He gave Himself for us. The eternally divine Son of God came from heaven to earth. He left the adoration of all the heavenly hosts, and he came as a little fetus. And then he was born with flesh and blood, and he was placed in a manger. God incarnate placed in a feeding trough. He went about his life. He said, foxes have holes, the birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man, the King of glory, has nowhere to lay his head. All of it was part of his giving of himself. He gave himself to a life of obedience to the Father's law without sin at all. No sin. He committed no sin, neither was deceit found in his mouth. He stayed the course even when sweat came like drops of blood to him. He could have called down legions of angels But he had the wherewithal to not rebut the false charges, but to absorb them. He did not defend himself. He was reviled, but he did not revile in return. They spit in his face. Beings whom he had created, who whose breath he was at that moment upholding, spat in his face And struck him and slapped him and scourged him. In every trial, Jesus learned obedience through what he suffered And at the pinnacle of that self-giving love, he became obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross, and it was all from love. It was all love for hell-deserving sinners like you and like me. But then on the third day, God raised up his son from the dead. To demonstrate Jesus' victory over sin for all who would repent and turn to him in faith And Jesus ascended to heaven and he sent the Holy Spirit to pour God's love into the hearts of his people. He sealed us with that spirit. And that Spirit has created in the hearts of his people love for him that desires to turn from sin and walk in his way. The love of Christ controls us, the Apostle Paul would say. Christ's love controls us. What does that mean? He died for all, Paul says. This is 2 Corinthians 5:15. He died for all that those who live might no longer live for themselves, but for him who died and for their sake was raised. This is anything but a begrudging teeth grinding kind of obedience. Again, don't misunderstand me. It's hard. I'm not saying it's easy, but this is a love that is driven by just this deep love-induced conviction that Jesus is good. And therefore, his commandments cannot be burdensome. And so we offer up the entirety of our lives to him as like a blank check. We give him a blank check And the memo line reads, joyful obedience to you in whatever you command, Lord. And we gladly quit trying to run our own lives. And we actually begin to experience when we do that, when we turn from seeking to rule our own life, we actually begin to experience the freedom that we were made for as his image bearers. Christian. If you're here this morning and you don't know, I I I said this earlier, this is a wonderful Sunday for you to be here. If you're not sure what Christianity is all about or what it is that we believe, if you're here and you're unsure, I would love for you to be sure today. I'd love to speak with you after the service. I will speak in this tone of voice, not in the yelly kind. Or someone who you've come around who who's brought you to church maybe or sitting near you. We'd love to talk to you. about how living your way leads to death and destruction. Like just perishing like a beast in the field. But how there's life and joy and freedom found in you recognizing I have rebelled against the God who made me. And I don't want to live in rebellion anymore. I'd actually like to follow Jesus. We would love to talk with you about how to get along the path of following Jesus. It is the way that leads to life. Christians, I want you to know this morning as we go to the Lord's table that you are well supplied for the task of putting to death ungodly passions. Although our cravings go deep, and the flesh, our sinful natures, still do war against the Holy Spirit in us. Those evil desires are in the end no match for the spirit of the living God who dwells in us. So as we grow and struggle and stumble and lament and confess and repent and do it again from one degree of glory to another We do so in view of the day of redemption. Did you catch that in Ephesians 4. 30? We were sealed with the Holy Spirit of God for the day of redemption. That is that day that Paul calls elsewhere our blessed hope. When Jesus returns, when he completes the good work that he's begun in us, and there's no longer a war raging inside of us. When faith becomes sight and we see Jesus as he is, and when we become like him because we see him as he is. He calls us to labor, to put off and to put on, to put to death and to walk in the way of life as we wait for that glorious day, the day of redemption. Of that day, the Apostle John wrote this. This is Revelation 7:15. Therefore, they are before the throne of God, that is his redeemed, his bloodwashed people. They are before the throne of God. And serve him day and night in his temple. And he who sits on the throne will shelter them with his presence This is your eternal vocation, children of God, to serve him, to faithfully, obediently serve him day and night in his temple, which is the whole new creation. And even now, beloved, the Lord is preparing you for that glorious destiny. We give ourselves to preparing for a whole lot of things. You have some important things to prepare for this week. I have no doubt of that But I just want you to understand that becoming an imitator of God now is a preparation for eternal glory. Are you giving yourself to that good work? Through the Spirit, by faith, we know that day is coming when we will see him as he is and we will be like him. And until then, we give ourselves right now, like this week, November 2nd through November 8th, 2025. We're gonna, Lord willing, we'll gather here next Sunday. You will never have another November 2nd to November 8th, 2025 to live out again We got a week. May we give ourselves in this week to becoming an imitator of God. As a beloved child, putting off the old self with its practices, putting on the new self, created after the likeness of God in true righteousness and holiness. What a life it is. Heavenly Father, we ask for your grace and help in living that way. We know that in and of ourselves we cannot do it. And we praise you that we're not left to ourselves. We thank you for Jesus. We thank you for his body which has been given for us and his blood which has been shed for us, and the spirit who's been sent to live in us. Conforming us more into the image of Jesus as we behold him. We pray that even in this time we've beheld something of your own glory in Christ. And that you would use that sight to work in us fresh resolve to be putting sin to death in the power of your spirit. We pray for all of this in Jesus' name. Amen.