Morning again. You can go ahead and open in your Bibles to the Book of Ephesians, chapter one We're going to continue a study of the book of Ephesians this morning. If you're new to the Bible, if you don't have a Bible, you should have one around you. You could open up that's on page 976 of those Bibles provided as you're turning there. I I wonder if you've ever received in the mail uh a letter. Got one of these a few days ago, I think. You know, we as many of you know, we just moved here and We got a letter from I think it was the water and sewer company that we'd overpaid and they were sending us a check for like four dollars and ninety-seven cents or or something like that. Okay, yeah no Drink at Starbucks or something. Uh maybe you've gotten a letter like that. Maybe you've overpaid on your taxes, let's say, and you you get a letter in the mail, we're gonna be sending you back, you know, uh A hundred and twelve dollars. All right, Chipotle tonight, you know. Uh imagine getting a letter. That you opened up and told you that you stand to inherit the world We're opening up a letter that's telling us that today when we come to Paul's letter to the Ephesians Remember, Paul wrote this letter. Paul was a missionary. This letter that we've been studying comes to us. As it came to the Ephesians in the first century in the context of Paul's commitment and God's commitment to bring the good news of Jesus to the ends of the earth. And it is good for us as a church, CBC, to remember God's heart for missions. And each of us should be prayerfully considering with some regularity Uh how is it that I might steward my life for the advance of the gospel to the ends of the earth? Maybe for some of you that means going to a place that has no or very little access. to the gospel for all of us. It minimally means sacrificially giving to send those who will go. But I would encourage you to be Prayerfully considering how God might want to use you to bless the nations with this good news of Jesus that we've been celebrating even so far this morning. Well again, Paul wrote this letter as part of his missionary work, and and a short time after his being involved in the establishment of the church in Ephesus, he wrote to them this letter that we're studying to encourage the Ephesians. to stand firm against the schemes of the devil and to walk in a manner worthy of that great calling that they had received in Christ But before he gets to any of that, before he gets to any exhortations about how they're to live, he begins with an extended Enthusiastic outburst of praise to God for the many blessings that God has given to his people in Christ. That's an important lesson for us to remember. How we live for Christ flows from what we have received in Christ. Kids, kids, I'm gonna say that again. I'm gonna say that sentence again, and I want you to try to remember after church to ask your parents, or you could come up to me and ask me if you would like to explain what do I mean when I say that how we live for Christ flows from what we have received in Christ. That's really important for you to learn and understand, kids. Well, that's what we've been studying over these weeks together in the first part of Ephesians, all that God has done for us in Christ. And I want you to listen one more time as we read Ephesians 1:3 through 14. I'll be focusing this morning on verses 11 through 14. But I want us to read all of verses 3 through 14 as we move on from it in our sermons. Please do not ever move on from it in your own lives. I know some of you, many of you have been memorizing these words, and that will bear, I believe, good fruit in your soul for years to come. But for now, it's our last time for a little while in Ephesians 1. Before I read, we so desperately need God's help. So let's look to Him in prayer before I read God's Word. Heavenly Father, we do need your help as we come to the scriptures this morning. It is your Spirit who gives life The flesh is no help at all. And so, Father, we desperately need the activity of your promised spirit, even as we heard read of earlier in Ezekiel. We need your spirit to be active among us. We pray for you to bear good fruit in our lives for your glory as we consider your word together this morning. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Ephesians three beginning in verse I'm sorry, Ephesians one beginning in verse three Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. Even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before him. In love, he predestined us for adoption to himself as sons through Jesus Christ. according to the purpose of his will, to the praise of his glorious grace with which he has blessed us in the beloved In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses according to the riches of his grace. which He lavished upon us in all wisdom and insight, making known to us the mystery of His will, according to His purpose which He set forth in Christ as a plan for the fullness of time to unite all things in him, things in heaven and things on earth Now this this will be what we're going to be focusing on particularly this morning. Verse 11. In him we have obtained an inheritance. having been predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things, according to the counsel of his will, so that we who were the first to hope in Christ might be to the praise of his glory In him, you also, when you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, and believed in him, were sealed with the promised Holy Spirit. Who is the guarantee of our inheritance until we acquire possession of it to the praise of his glory. This is God's word, brothers and sisters. Thanks be to God to help us think about those verses 11 through 14 particularly I want to ask and then answer four questions that arise from thinking about these verses. Four questions Question number one, what is this inheritance? You see that in verse 11. In him we have obtained an inheritance. What's he talking about? Well there are a lot of ways that we could talk about this. Uh but one way to get started would be to note the only other place outside of chapter one Where Paul mentions this inheritance to the Ephesians. It's in chapter 5, if your Bibles are open, which I would encourage you to keep them open. Chapter five, verse five, Paul says, you may be sure of this, that everyone who is sexually immoral or impure or who is covetous, that is an idolater, has no inheritance has no inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God. So the inheritance which the Ephesian believers had obtained is the kingdom, the kingdom of God, the kingdom of Christ. This is what Jesus Himself had promised his disciples during his earthly ministry. Matthew 25, verse 31 says When the Son of Man comes in his glory and all the angels with him, then he will sit on his glorious throne, and the king will say to those on his right, his people his faithful servants, come you who are blessed by my father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. A kingdom prepared from the foundation of the world. Came and visited in December when we were doing the Christmas. uh service at the American Legion. Y'all did some s y'all did some big preparation for that. That was a lot of work to prepare for that. Imagine A kingdom prepared for God's people from before the foundation of the world. From the foundation of the world. That kind of preparation to inherit a kingdom like that. The Lord Jesus, who himself has been raised from the dead and seated at the Father's right hand in the heavenly places, as chapter 1, verse 21 says, far above all rule And authority and power and dominion and above every name that is named, not only in this age, but in the age to come, that Jesus has been pleased to share with his people all that belongs to him. We are heirs of God, Paul would write to the Romans, co-heirs, fellow heirs with Christ. He is pleased to share it all with us, and he owns and rules over everything. We heard that read earlier in our scriptural call to worship from Psalm 2. Ask of me, and I will make the nations your heritage and the ends of the earth. Your possession. That's what God the Father says to God the Son. And so Paul says of this inheritance in another of his letters in 1 Corinthians chapter 3. Do you remember that context? The Corinthians were quarreling about teachers. I'm of Paul. I'm of Apollos. And Paul's like, what are you arguing about? This is silly. And so he says, he says, let no one boast in men, for all things are yours. Whether Paul or Apollos or Cephas or the world. That's raising the stakes. He's just talking about teachers. Paul, Apollos, Cephas, or the world. The world is yours. Or life, or death, or the present, or the future, he says, all are yours, and you are Christ's. And Christ is God's. All things are yours. That's that's what his inheritance is. All things are yours. If I'm if I'm hypothetical scenario, but it happened back in the day. I'm a little bit more attentive to needs around the house, but you know, if I'm let's say I'm reading a book. And uh there's lots that needs to be done to let's say clean up the kitchen. And my wife, hey, you know, I could use your help. And I'm so oh you know, let me let me finish reading this chapter. That's not a wise thing probably to say But if I let's say say I was to say that and then but then I finish the chapter and I go over to my wife and say, Okay, I'm yours What do I mean when I say that? I mean I'm here to do, I'm here to serve you, I'm here to help and benefit you in whatever way. Paul says, all things are yours. Everything exists to serve and benefit you, whether the world or life or death or the present or the future, all are yours. Which means, Christian, that your future. Some of us are concerned about our future. Some of us are concerned about next month or three months or six months down the road. But your future, and I don't mean six months down the road or six decades down the road, but six ages of millennia down the road. Your future is one of unending glory and joy and peace and freedom and love. You you'll you'll you'll reign, you'll rule over two cities, or five, or ten. Abraham, maybe you'll found a new colony on Mars Or maybe some galaxy that's yet to be discovered. You'll never sin again. God will be your God and He will walk with you, His friend and His child. And it's important that we linger on that for a few minutes because the ultimate crowning glory of this inheritance is not the real estate. And it's not the amenities, but it is the company. What makes heaven heaven is that God Himself will be there as our exceeding and everlasting joy. We can get excited about no sickness, no sorrow, no pain. And that's that's we should that is part of our inheritance. But the greatest greatness of what's coming to us is recorded in Revelation 21, 3. I heard, John says, I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Behold The dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God. The Lamb is all the glory in Emmanuel's land. And it is good that it's so. Because you know, despite all of the talk in our society about self-esteem and self-worth and self-image. The human soul, I'm confident of this, no matter what your religious affiliation is as you come together this morning morning with us. I am confident that your soul knows Your soul bears witness to the fact that your deepest pleasures are not found in being admired, but in admiring greatness. That's why people enjoy going to the beach or the Grand Canyon. That's why people enjoy watching sp sunrises or or sporting events or rock concerts with thousands of people. You would not go to a ball game where all the players were only as talented as you. You would not go to that game The reason why we go to those kinds of things, the reason why we enjoy those things is that we were made to be satisfied with the greatness of splendor, not self. And I trust you've all had moments. I trust you've had times in your lives where you've planned something and you enjoy. Maybe you plan a trip to the Grand Canyon. Or a great vacation with some beautiful scenery. You planned it, you've had wonderful moments, or hours, or weekends, or weeks of delight. But then they've ended. And I trust if you've experienced that that you've you've had this longing for more. Maybe you planned and planned, and it was great. It was everything you hoped it would be, but then it was gone. And we're left longing for a joy and a satisfaction that will not leave us, that will not fail us, but that will keep on filling us forever. Well, that's a longing that only God can fill. Because God is infinite, and therefore he's never diminishing or weakening in his endless river of delights. Because the riches of his greatness are unsearchable, the pleasures of his presence are inexhaustible. And so you never need when it comes to adoring and praising God. Did you notice in the passage that I read three times it says there to the praise of his glory, to the praise of his glory, to the praise of his glory, all of God's work is ultimately to the praise of his glory. And so you never need fear the letdown of the end of a concert or the end of a ballgame or the end of a vacation. No matter how great it was, there will always be in the praise of God, there will always be more joy and more life and more delight and more glory because the source of our joy, the praise of his glory, is an infinite reservoir of joy. That's your inheritance. At least that's the best I could do on it this one morning. That's the most that's the best I can do to help you get a taste. For the glory of this inheritance that is the possession of the children of God. It makes the estate of Bill Gates look like a kid's Lego set. No offense, kids, I know you might like the Legos. Your inheritance is a never-ending display of new and wonderful things about God and in God and from God for us to enjoy with ever-increasing intensity forever. This is a hope that, as we sing sometimes, stands the test of time. That lifts my eyes beyond the beckoning grave to see the matchless beauty of a day divine when I behold his face. And that leads us to a second question. Question number two. How does this inheritance become ours? That sounds wonderful. How do we get this inheritance? And I know, Christians, I know you know the answer to this, but I never want this to be lost on us. Remember the only command in chapters 1 through 3 of the Ephesians is to remember. Chapter 2, verse 11. I don't ever want us to lose sight Of what it would be like to behold the face of God as an enemy of God. The God that we were made to enjoy, that we were made to adore eternally, and whose image we were created to reflect. We have separated ourselves from. We've alienated ourselves from him because of our mutiny against him. We have made ourselves God's enemies, and we have become children of his righteous wrath. Chapter 2, verse 3 of Ephesians 6. What we had inherited, I'm talking about a wonderful inheritance that is available to us, that is ours in Christ, but what we had inherited for ourselves Was the eternal misery of weeping and gnashing of teeth. The Apostle John would refer to it as the smoke of our torment. Going up forever and ever and having no rest day or night. That's what we had inherited for ourselves in our sin. But blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places, including an eternal inheritance in Him. When we were completely devoid of righteousness, without God, and without hope in the world, destined to endure the full fury of God's wrath, poured full strength into The cup of his anger at that very time when we were ungodly, when we were weak, when we were sinners, when we were enemies, at that time the Lord Jesus came and he died for us. From all eternity, Jesus had been infinitely rich in the fellowship of his Father, and yet he, the theme of heaven's praises, came down clothed in frail humanity. Our Lord Jesus left the splendor of heaven for the squalor of a feeding trough. Emptying himself, Paul says in Philippians 2, emptying himself by taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men, and being found in human form, he humbled himself. by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. He he left, our Lord Jesus left the incessant praise of angels to experience insults and persecution at the hands of lawless men He could have stayed in immortal glory, but he chose a cross. He chose to be nailed to a piece of wood by beings whom he had created and who he was at that very moment they were crucifying, he was still upholding their breath and their heart beating as they killed him. He left his father's side to endure the full fury of his father's righteous wrath against sin. For every one of us who would ever turn from our sin and put our trust in Jesus So that it so that that judgment would not need to fall on us, so that being justified by his grace, we might become heirs according to the hope of eternal life. And on the third day, Jesus demonstrated that that assurance that that salvation was real and true by rising from the dead, and he ascended to heaven and he reigns there even now as a witness that he is able to save to the uttermost all those who draw near to him now in faith. This is the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ. You know that grace, do you not, brothers and sisters of CBC? You know the grace of our Lord Jesus that though he was rich Yet for your sake he became poor, so that you, by his poverty, so that you might become rich Not health and wealth the way false prosperity preachers talk about, but true wealth in God forever. This is the word of truth. Do you see that there in verse 13? The word of truth, the gospel of your salvation. That's what the Ephesians themselves had heard and believed. They had put their hope in Jesus. They had transferred their hope away from themselves and from the things of this world. And they had set their hope upon Christ. So I must ask you, talking about this wonderful inheritance, is he your hope? Have you uh if you're here this morning, maybe you're visiting among us and perhaps you don't consider yourself to be a Christian, or maybe you consider yourself to be a Christian, but you don't ever really think about what that means. It doesn't actually animate your life in any way. with real hope or confidence or joy. Have you experienced what I was talking about a few minutes earlier that the even the best things of life can so easily just slip through our fingers and they're gone That experience, which can be painful and frustrating, that is God's gift because it is whispering to us of that final enemy, death, that is the end of everything. But the Lord Jesus came and He lived and He died and He rose to give us a hope, a sure and certain hope that if we turn away from self-reliance and self-rule And trust in Jesus' finished work on the cross that we could become a part of this glorious inheritance that He has been preparing even from the foundation of the world. Oh, I would appeal to you. Come to Jesus and receive, believe this word of truth even today. And if you would like us to help you explain that more and explain to you who God is. And what he made human beings for and what's gone wrong in the world and what Jesus has to do with any of that and what responses needed of us, we would be delighted to to sit with you over a number of weeks and talk about that with you and answer your questions. But you must You must reckon with Jesus in a world that is full of fleeting pleasures. There's an old hymn that says, Fading is the worldling's pleasures. All his boasted pomp and show, solid joys and lasting treasures, none but Zion's children know. And you might have no idea what that even means to be a child of Zion, but we would love to explain how you can know solid joys and lasting treasures in Jesus. For those of you that have, and I know that that's most of you here, our loving Father wants you to have strong confidence in the certainty of this coming glory, this coming inheritance. And that leads us to a third question. How sure is this inheritance? What is this inheritance? How do we get it? Number three, how sure is this inheritance? And there's a couple of ways here in this passage. That Paul is wanting specifically to strengthen our assurance in the certainty of our sharing in this coming inheritance. Because sometimes we struggle. Sometimes, whether it's be the circumstances in this world or the indwelling, the ongoing battle with sin that we have in our own lives, we just can feel sometimes like, am I even going to make it And God wants you to be assured if you're in Christ, you will make it. And there's two special, precious things that He's told us in this passage to encourage us. One is He reminds us of the plan of God. You see that in verse 11. In him we have obtained an inheritance having been predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will. Paul is confident, and he wants the Ephesians to be confident. That God has a plan and a purpose that cannot fail. It's even a predestined plan. And He can make that kind of assurance and guarantee because All things in the universe without limits, without exception, bow at his sovereign pleasure. Our God is in the heavens. He does all that he pleases. And so if it is his eternal pleasure to give you this inheritance, then you can be assured That no power of hell nor any scheme of man, as we're going to sing about later in the service, could ever separate you from your enjoyment of that inheritance. I said this a couple weeks ago when we hit up against those words we were chosen before the foundation of the world and predestined for adoption. I said these words are not words to be argued about. They're words to help us adore God, that we are safe and we're secure in His eternal and indestructible plan. These words tell us that God possesses more power and might and strength in His in the tip of His left pinky. God does not have a left pinky. That's just a figure of speech. You understand what I'm saying? He's got more power and might in the tip of his left pinky than all the kings and all the rulers and all the prime ministers and all the presidents and all the chancellors who have ever lived put together. And he is pleased to exercise all that might and power for your good, to bring you into this inheritance. Nothing can keep him from doing that. That's one ground of assurance. The plan of God. He gives us even more as if as if we needed more. To assure us and strengthen our confidence. He gives us more, not just the plan of God, but the seal of the Holy Spirit You see that there in verse 13. Right? When you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, and believed in him, you were Sealed with the promised Holy Spirit. We read one of those promises earlier in the service from Ezekiel 36 You were sealed with the promised Holy Spirit, who is the guarantee of our inheritance until we acquire possession of it, to the praise of his glory. We're sealed by the Spirit. What is that all about? Well, there's a few different ways that the seal is understood. I think this has to do with ownership. Uh in the in the agrarian culture in the first century, beyond that, farmers would would put a brand on their cattle. It would they would they would sear that brand on the cattle and it would show this livestock belongs to this farm. It's a seal of ownership. Or we see in the Bible, we see this in the book of Esther, we see this in the book of Daniel, where a king would take uh uh uh a lump of hot wax uh pressed onto a a document perhaps and while that wax was still warm the king would stamp his signet ring on it and it would create a seal that would authenticate, that would validate, this is the word of the king. This belongs to the king. Depending on how old the book is that you might be borrowing from us, some of our books have a a stamp on them. If you were to borrow the book, it says, please return when you're done. Or when you're done, please return to Larry and Michelle Lazarus. Just a subtle reminder. We're happy for you to borrow the book. But it does belong to us. The seal of the Holy Spirit is the mark that we are God's possession We are his prize, his treasured possession. And he has not just marked you with a stin, he's marked you with his own being. The third member of the Trinity, God the Holy Spirit, He's given to us, He's put inside of us to be a stamp certifying, authenticating, this one is mine. And the Spirit cannot be taken from you. You're really his, and he's really given you of himself to assure us of that. But more than just a mark of God's ownership, the Holy Spirit is, we see there, a guarantee. Or another word would be, maybe it might say it in your Bible, a down payment. of that inheritance that is coming on the final day. So I mentioned we we just we just moved here recently, we we bought a house here, and as we were looking at properties, our realtor suggested there was this one house, he said you We want to make a strong offer, and so I think we should make an earnest money deposit. We can make that high. Take that earnest money deposit and make it high. Now, what's the point of doing that? An earnest money deposit is a sum of money that that the buyer gives to the seller, which shows they're really serious are really committed to purchasing this property The intent is that when someone sees, when the seller sees, this oh you wow, you'll put that much money down, that shows I can count on you to deliver the full sum later. And God is so committed to the redemption of his possession, his people That he's given people not just a large sum of money, he's given his own spirit as a down payment, guaranteeing the full realization of that coming inheritance at the appointed time. The day of redemption, when Jesus comes, and our redemption is complete. The Holy Spirit, in other words is the beginning of our future inheritance enjoyed in our lives right now. He's the first fruits of the glory that we're going to enjoy when we come to share in Christ's rule from shore to shore. Even now, the Holy Spirit is God's guarantee to us the a foretaste of future glory through his active presence in our lives. Which brings the future glory into the present and gives us a taste of what that coming inheritance is going to be like The Spirit, the Holy Spirit makes the hope of our future glory tangible, palpable, tastable. Do you know the working of the Holy Spirit in your lives, beloved? I said I prayed this, I pray this every week, right? It is the Spirit who gives life We have no spiritual life without the Holy Spirit. Every Bible verse that we that we read and that we understand and that we enjoy. I I was reading in, I think I wrote it down. If I can weed through these wires. I was reading in Psalm 13 this morning How long, O Lord? How long must I take counsel in my soul and have sorrow in my heart all the day? And then if you know Psalm 13 and you know many of the Psalms, it it turns. But I have trusted in your steadfast love. My heart shall rejoice in your salvation. I will sing to the Lord because He's dealt bountifully with me And in my soul there was this, oh yes, praise God. That's the Holy Spirit. Every word of God understood and received and enjoyed. Every single desire to even open your Bible rather than just enjoy some extra sleep or default right to your phone. Every impulse to pray, particularly to pray in harmony with God's priorities and purposes. What is that when John Tobias says, thank you, brother, you blessed my soul yesterday with that text message? What is it when John Tobi says, I have Parkinson's disease. I want you to pray that I will boast in the Lord and I will bless his name continually. That's the Holy Spirit. That's the first fruits of our eternal possession Any humility to confess sin to a brother or sister and ask them for prayer and accountability. Every dollar invested to spread the gospel locally and globally. Every expression of gratitude and contentment, even in affliction, every word of encouragement or rebuke received from a Christian brother or sister. Every worship song or sermon that brings strength to your soul. I was out for a walk on Thursday. I just had a doubt of a d I was a little bit of a downer, I guess, earlier in the week, and I was out for a walk. Maybe that's why Psalm 13 resonated with me also, but I was out for a walk feeling down about some silly goofy stuff. And this song by Shane and Shane came on and they just kept singing, My heart, my flesh may fail, but you are my portion. And I'm just saying I was walking down Chevrolet Avenue and I'm like Like legitimately, I was a little bit, I was not afraid to express that I was feeling it. What is that? That is the beginning of heaven. That is the first taste of heaven on earth In the presence of the Holy Spirit. Every experience of unity and fellowship shared with a group of Christians at a church gathering or a small group meeting. Or in a coffee shop or at a conference or in a walk. I mean I uh I I was uh you you sent me a um this doesn't need to be put on the recording. But I was with somebody, I was walking with somebody earlier in the week, getting to know him, and he just said He texted me later. He said, I forget the exact wording, but it is so wonderful how you can not know anybody, but in such a short time have such a quick connection with another Christian. It's the Holy Spirit. That's eternity. So if you want a little bit of application this week, I'd just try to give you a few examples, but take note of all the rich and multifaceted ways in which the Holy Spirit's life-giving inheritance guaranteeing power is at work in you Sometimes we feel like God's doing nothing in our lives, but I just recounted you certain ways he's been working in my life this week, even as I'm thinking God's not doing anything in my life. He's so active if we would note what is it that the Holy Spirit is doing. It'd be a great thing to talk about this afternoon over lunch or this week. Talk to each other about ways that you see the Spirit working. Not to glorify yourself, to glorify the Spirit and to rejoice and to anticipate with hope the full inheritance when it's coming. What a foretaste we have in the person of the Holy Spirit. I must move us along, but there's one more question that I think is important that we consider for a few minutes, and that is finally, with whom shall we share this inheritance? With whom shall we share this inheritance? Here's why this question feels important to me from this passage. Look at the uh it seems to me unusual wording there at the end of uh is in verse 12 and then the beginning of verse 13. Right? All along if you've been tracking or even you just heard me say it at the beginning of the passage All along since verse 3, the pronouns have been we and us. Right? God has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places, even as He chose us. in him before the foundation of the world that we should be holy and blame. Us, us, we, we, over and over, like a dozen times in those first verses. And and then he throws a little bit of a curveball there in verse twelve so that we who were the first to hope in Christ might be to the praise of his glory. And then he says in verse 13, in him you also When you heard the word of truth. It's like he's all along, we, we, us, us, you also. Like, wait a minute. And then after he introduces the we who were the first to hope in Christ, and the you also, then he comes back in verse 14 and says how the Spirit is the guarantee of our inheritance. I said, what's going on with that? And all the uh I will say all I uh all the commentaries that I looked at pointed out the same thing, that in this reference to we who were the first to hope in Christ Paul is speaking of the Jewish believers in Christ, of whom Paul was one, the Jewish believers who were the first ones to hope in Christ. Remember that Paul said the gospel goes to the Jew first and then to the Greek. Salvation is of the Jews. Jesus said, I came for the lost sheep of Israel. And then it extended out to the Gentiles. So In verse 13, Paul turns to the Christians in Ephesus, largely Gentile background, and celebrates their inclusion into this cosmic plan of praising God's glory. For uniting all things in himself, in Christ. And he says, you've been included in this inheritance too. You also can be as secure in this inheritance as we Jewish believers are. Sometimes I I uh uh some of you, most of you know, but not all of you know that I come from an ethnically Jewish background. And sometimes when I meet other Christians and they hear that I'm ethnically Jewish, they'll be like, that's that's so cool, you're a Jew, what's that like? And I'm I'm kind of like we're all heirs. We're all heirs in Christ Neither Jew nor Greek. I mean the Bible says that. So I I don't really tend to make much of it because that's the point Paul's making here is we we have this. We are the first to hope in Christ. We've got this inheritance But you also, we've all got this inheritance together. This is a mystery that he's going to expound upon at length in chapters 2 and 3. This mystery is that the Gentiles, he says, are fellow heirs Members of the same body and partakers of the promise. Part of that promise is the inheritance. Partakers of the promise in Christ Jesus through the gospel. It's not just for Jews. It's all of us together experiencing this promise. And this church is a little foretaste of that. When I when I stand up here and I look around, I see I see Jamaican and I see German. I see Kenyan and and Ghana and I see Puerto Rico and I see Jew and I see Ethiopia and I see Eritrea. We're a little taste. of what God is doing, gathering the nations together under one head, that is the Lord Jesus. And so all the that I've been talking about with this inheritance He really wants you to know, Susan, that you have an inheritance, that you've obtained an inheritance in Christ. He wants you to know, Akile, you have an inheritance in Christ But he wants us to have our attention directed to not just that I individually have this inheritance, but that all of us I share in this inheritance with all of God's people. We who were first, the Jews, and you also, Jews and Gentiles, naturally enemies, we're now one new man with one marvelous inheritance. The dividing wall of hostility has been torn down. And I think that is not only a big deal in this text, it just seems to me that's a big deal for Chevrolet Baptist Church in March of 2025. I remember back when when COVID restrictions and racial tensions were quite high in our nation. I remember an author by the name of Randy Alcorn talk about things in the church and say that we were living in a pandemic of disunity. And This whole we who were first and you also brought to share in the same inheritance in Christ? It's meant to shut all that disunity down. Not most of it, all of it. We are many, we sang. We are many, we are one, joined together in the Sun. You have welcomed us into your family, brought by blood into this new community. Not brought by ethnicity into this new community, not brought by marital status or socioeconomic class or age Or even attitudes towards the Department of Government efficiency. That's not how we got up here. If nationality or politics Or whatever it is, if if we value anything other than Christ more than we value Christ in the inheritance, then we're not going to experience unity here But if the most important thing is the spiritual blessing that we've received in Christ, if the most important thing about us is the inheritance that I am a co-heir, a co-heir with every other Christian, if that's the animating reality of our lives, then we will know that blessedness. We will know how good and pleasant it is when brothers dwell together in unity. In Christ by the Spirit, that is possible. That people who are here among us who are working, I should I should lower the volume a little bit, who so who are working to downsize People who are here who are working to downsize the federal government should should be co-heirs with other people whose jobs are being threatened by the downsizing of the federal government. This is something that would make the all the heavens marvel at the wisdom and power of God to unite people like that in, say, Chevrolet Baptist Church. Where we can still have conversations and maybe even disagree on some things, but have conversations as those who have an inheritance and who share in an inheritance together. That's something that the world cannot comprehend. That's the opportunity that we have right now, Chevrolet Baptist Church. We we who are the first to hope in Christ, we've got an inheritance. And you also, Gentiles, you we share together in the inheritance. And in in whether it's politics or ethnicity or what in so many ways the devil would seek to scheme and undo the unity, defame our God by destroying our peace. We have an enemy, right? He's going to talk about this at length in chapter six, who is who is eager to devour us, who hates God who hates the gospel, who hates churches that are commissioned to bear witness to his saving, uniting love, and he delights to distract us and divide us over a bunch of stuff that is far less significant than the inheritance that is ours together in Christ. Let it not be so in here, beloved brothers and sisters. Here, let us heed the admonition of Paul in Colossians chapter 3. There's not Greek and Jew. Circumcised and uncircumcised, barbarian, Scythian, slave, free. But Christ is all, and in all And whatever differences we may have, and they are real, those differences pale to the inheritance that we share and how it's came to be ours, how it's come to be ours brought by blood into this new community to be heirs according to the hope of eternal life What a Jesus we have, beloved. What an inheritance we have in him So while we wait for its arrival, while we wait for his arrival, may he grant us to know the blessing that he has commanded to those who dwell together in unity. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we pray that you would work powerfully among us to help us remember who we are. Help us to remember what matters most. Doesn't mean that other things don't matter at all. But what matters most about us who are here in Christ is that we are in Christ And would you work powerfully to produce love among us, which the world cannot comprehend? As a way of testifying that you are the one true God. We pray that we'd be reminded of that. Even now, as we come to eat and drink in remembrance of Jesus together. We ask for all this in his name. Amen.