You can go ahead and open up to Ephesians. Ephesians chapter one. We began last week. Sorry, still trying to get this straight. Okay, here we go. We began a series last week through Paul's letter to the Ephesians. I wonder if you realize there's actually there's a second letter to the Ephesians in the New Testament. Were you aware of that? Second Ephesians? I've not heard of that, maybe. Where did we get this pastor from? There's 1 Corinthians and 2 Corinthians. There's 1 Thessalonians and 2 Thessalonians and 1 Timothy and 2 Timothy and so forth. Maybe you've not been aware A second letter to the Ephesians in our New Testament. It was a letter actually dictated personally by the risen Lord Jesus. It was addressed to the church, or more properly, the angel of the church, which is another sermon for another time. In Ephesus, and we find that letter in the New Testament book of Revelation. Revelation 2, verses 2 through 7. I'm not going to read the whole letter to you right now, but in that letter, the risen Christ speaks of the toil and the patient endurance of the Ephesians and how they could not Bear with they would not endure those who are evil, but they were enduring patiently and bearing up for Jesus' name's sake, and they were not growing weary. for those qualities. And I start with that because I I want you to know and I want this to be fixed in your minds. I don't know that I'm going to say this every Lord's Day, but I I hope you'll remember this. That when we come to this letter that we call the letter to the Ephesians, these people who received this letter in the first century, they're real people. I know that some of us we just read the Bible and we can forget that actually. These were real people with real pressures. And real trials and real tribulations that they had to endure. We don't know specifically what all those trials were But I think some of us here in this room, maybe all of us here in this room, we can relate. We know what it's like to endure trials and to be tempted to uh become weary, to need to bear up and persevere. And when we come to Ephesians, we're not being taken into a seminary classroom. This is not abstract theology or philosophy that we're reading when we open up Ephesians as if Some brilliant scholar, you know, is waxing intellectually uh with some young ambitious students who want to delve into the deep mysteries of God and want to engage in stimulating doctrinal debates and discussions. No, the the initial recipients of this letter were ordinary people. They were not particularly well educated. They were not as smart as you all But they were experiencing, they were people experiencing real problems. People who professed faith in Christ and immediately lost family relations. Or immediately came under threat of persecution from the government. People threatened with exile because of their devotion to Jesus Or the loss of material property, maybe their homes or their employment, maybe even their very lives on the line because of their devotion to Christ. Some of you come in here today, worn down, with burdens weighing upon you. Burdens that were maybe unforeseeable even two or three weeks ago. And so it's good for us to remember as we open this letter. That these saints in Ephesus, as we saw last week in verse 1 of this letter, who were faithful in Christ, they were a people that knew that life is hard. And so it's especially significant. It strikes me as especially significant how Paul begins this letter. I think seeing it, just understanding what Paul even does in verse 3 of this letter, has the potential to do a radical renovation of our whole worldview. Because where he begins with the Ephesians. Again, remember, not in a classroom in an academic setting, but writing to real people with real suffering that was weighing upon them, where he begins. Is with praise to God. That's what we're going to see this morning. That's what we're going to see for the next several Lord's days as we gather, Lord willing, to continue studying Ephesians. Paul starts with praise. And he just, it's as if he starts praising and then he can't stop praising. You may have heard this if you've ever studied the letter to the Ephesians before, that in the original language of verses 3 through 14, which I'm going to read out loud in just a minute. Verses 3 through 14 is one long 202-word sentence. He would not have gotten good grades in our English classes. Paul greets the saints in Ephesus. He wishes them grace and peace as they open up this letter and as they begin to read this letter. And then he bursts forth with It's like a a volcanic eruption of praise to God. Is not our lack of effort, but our lack of acquaintance with our privileges. I think Paul would give his amen To John Owen's statement. And that's what he's doing in this opening long sentence. He is expressing, and I believe he is seeking to draw the Ephesians into this affectionate acquaintance. with those immeasurable, inconceivable privileges, those spiritual out-of-this world riches that were theirs So I'm not really in any hurry to rush through this sentence. If it is so that our greatest hindrance in our Christian life is not our lack of effort, but our lack of acquaintance with our privileges, I'm not intending to speed through. this opening paragraph. Martin Lloyd Jones, a well-known preacher in the last century, Martin Lloyd Jones, he's preached through the book of Ephesians. He preached this paragraph, verses 3 through 14, it was 22 sermons. I'm not going to be that long, okay? But I intend to take the next six weeks, well, today and six and five more to study this paragraph. Because it does have the ability, with the help of God's Spirit, to deliver us, Martin Lloyd-Jones said, from our morbid preoccupation with ourselves. Which he called the particular error of this present century. He was talking about the last century. I don't think that's improved a whole lot. So we're gonna take some time on this paragraph. I will pick up the pace. I don't intend for us to be in Ephesians like eight years from now. But we want to spend some time in this paragraph getting acquainted or reacquainted or more affectionately acquainted with these rich privileges that we have in Christ. So I'm going to read this doxology in its entirety from verses 3 through 14. Kids, I wonder if you want to, it would be good maybe for you as I'm reading this passage to just count how many times you hear Paul mentioned in Christ. Or in him. But pay attention to that as you read. And before I read, though, let me let me ask for the Lord's help because we need him for any good to come from this time. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we do ask for your blessing. It is the Spirit who gives life. The flesh is no help at all. The flesh is no help at all. So we ask for your help now. That you would meet us in this time, that you would give us understanding, and that you would give us more than just an intellectual acquaintance, but a deeply felt, affectionate Experience of the deep wealth that is ours in Christ. We pray for this in Jesus' name and for his glory. Amen. Listen to Ephesians 1, verses 3 through 14. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places, even as He chose us in Him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before Him. In love, he predestined us for adoption to himself as sons through Jesus Christ, according to the purpose of his will, to the praise of his glorious grace with which he has blessed us in the beloved. In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace which he lavished upon us. In all wisdom and insight, making known to us the mystery of his will, according to his purpose, which he set forth in Christ as a plan for the fullness of time, to unite all things in him. things in heaven, and things on earth. In him we have obtained an inheritance, having been predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will So that we who were the first to hope in Christ might be to the praise of his glory. In him, you also, when you heard the word of truth The gospel of your salvation and believed in him were sealed with the promised Holy Spirit, who is the guarantee of our inheritance until we acquire possession of it. To the praise of his glory. This is God's word, brothers and sisters. Thanks be to God. You can say thanks be to God. You could say that after the Deuteronomy reading, you can say that anytime you hear the word of God. read publicly. This is the word of God. Thanks be to God. We're just going to look at verse 3 this morning. That was a change around lunchtime yesterday. I'm not adding to the series, though. We're going to fold verse 4 into next week's study. Lord willing. But there was just too much in verse three. I couldn't I couldn't get past verse three. And as I studied verse three, I think the the aim that the Holy Spirit has for us, as we would think about that word, particularly in verse three, Is that we, as his people, might bless the God who has eternally, inexhaustibly blessed us in Christ. I think that's where the Lord is wanting to take us this morning as we look into this passage. He wants his people to bless him, bless the God. who has eternally, inexhaustibly blessed us in Christ. And we'll we'll think about that sentence under two headings. First, we'll just think that in Christ, God has blessed us eternally and inexhaustibly. And then secondly, and this will be more brief, just so you're aware ahead of time, secondly, we should give all praise and blessing to his great name. Bless the God who has eternally, inexhaustibly blessed us in Christ. Look again at verse 3. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. I just think it's that right there at the beginning, I I think that has the potential by the spirits enabling to totally shift, explode our paradigm for thinking about the world Blessed be God. Uh the day the day before we moved uh from New Jersey down here, I went for one last walk around downtown Pittman, New Jersey. And and outside this one shop it was a it was a a bar, basically a non-alcoholic bar. Pittman, New Jersey. Um, the the s there was a sign on the window that read The only person you are destined to become is the person you decide to be And that that's just the air that we breathe in our day. Some smart people call that expressive individualism. It can be summed up in what Brian Rosner calls the prayer of the authentic self. Kind of an evil foil on the prayer that Jesus taught his disciples to pray. The prayer of the authentic self goes like this: My essence within, help me to find my true self. My kingdom come, my will be done, from birth to seventh heaven. Give me today my daily spread. Forgive not my enemies as I cancel those who sin against me. Lead me not into self-doubt, but deliver me from all external authorities For the kingdom, the power, and the glory are mine, now and forever That's a good summary of what Martin Lloyd-Jones was calling the morbid preoccupation with ourselves that was so common in the last century. See, the meaning of life in that framework is self-fulfillment as the core of human value and identity. And Paul just explodes all of that nonsense with one little stroke of his pen. Blessed be God. God is first. God is ultimate. God is supreme. God is reigning. God is the blessed one. The most important thing in life is God, his purposes, his fame, his promises, his commandments. Blessed be God. He is the one, not you. He is the one in whom all true blessedness resides All that is truly good and pure and delightful and satisfying and wonderful about the world is found in and comes from God, not us. And this blessed God is to be blessed because he himself has lavished Blessing upon his people. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ who has blessed us. He is as one great hymn. There were so many hymns I wanted to sing. We could have rewritten that order five times this week with all the different hymns coming to mind. But he is the fountain, the fount of every blessing. And I wonder if you're sensing that this morning. I wonder if you've sensed that this past week. That you have been blessed. It's pretty I mean it's something how Paul can just tell them that. You know, when I reach out to somebody and I've sent a lot of text messages praying for you, I and I I'll say oftentimes something like you know, I I hope you're having a blessed day. I hope you're having a blessed week. That's not what Paul does here, actually. He says, he greets the saints. He says, you have been blessed. You are having a blessed week. Blessed be God. He has blessed you. It's not a wish. It's a declaration of fact. Now we need to think carefully about all this blessing and who it all belongs to. Who is this us? He has blessed us. There's certainly a sense in which every human being, regardless of their current relationship with God, there is a sense in which every human being has been blessed by him. He is, I think I alluded to this in prayer a moment ago He is the God who gives to all mankind life and breath and everything. When the Apostle Paul was preaching the gospel, uh just a few years before the gospel landed in Ephesus, uh when he was in a city called Lystra, He talked to a group of pagan idolatrous people, and he said, The Lord did you good by giving you rains from heaven and fruitful seasons, satisfying your hearts with good with food, I'm sorry, with food and gladness. Sometimes we get w sometimes we get the impression that every non believer like they might put on an appearance That things are well, but really when they go to bed at night, they know that they're miserable and they're living a facade. Actually, it says that God gives people gladness of heart. People that don't even know Him. He supplies life and breath and everything. And that is blessing. I mean that can rightly be understood as God blessing people. That's not what Paul has in mind in Ephesians 1 3 when he begins this eruption of praise to God. The us in view, we know from the earlier part of the letter, are the saints who are faithful in Christ Jesus, those who have been marked off as God's holy people through their trusting in the Lord Jesus. God has blessed us, Paul says, in Christ. with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. These are not earthly material blessings that Paul is speaking of. For the record, you should bless God for all those two But all those earthly blessings are things that that perish. They fade away. They're vulnerable These are blessings Paul is praising God for that are not bound by circumstance. So sweet and so strong and so heavenly that he can bless God though where was you know where remember where Paul was when he wrote these words of blessing anyone The public the oh oh anyone he was in jail, he was in prison, but he's blessing God for the spiritual blessings, not circumstantial blessings, spiritual blessings in Christ. They are spiritual, which I uh many of the commentators think, and I think it's I there's a good chance I think this is correct. This is referring to, I mean you could maybe capitalize that S, spiritual, Holy Spirit blessings Blessings that flow from and pertain to the life of the Holy Spirit. Blessings that help us know and enjoy God now and to eternity. What are those spiritual blessings? Well, we'll come back to that in a minute or two. Or ten. Their blessings, Paul says, in the heavenly places. Blessings that are therefore imperishable and undefiled and unfading, as Peter says, kept in heaven for you. They're secure. There's no chance that any kind of fraudulent activity might steal away this wealth from us. The way I've been warned incessantly can happen when you buy a house. Kind of gotten me a little bit freaked out over the last, you know, we bought a house, as you know as a lot of you know, we bought a house in the last month and You know, all this stuff about wire a transfer and wire fraud and and then when you know that we're sitting there at the settlement and the lady is telling us now, listen, you're gonna get it letters in the mail. You've got to be very careful about these letters because people will know these are public records, this is a public transaction, and they're gonna send you letters. They're gonna look very real like from uh you know banks that are trying to get you to give them their information to say that you're you know we're your new uh loan officer now. You gotta be very careful and check with your your lender to make sure. I kind of, you know, like I'm like a little anxious about this. Because earthly resources can be stolen. Again, we've seen that even in our in our RO city in the past week. How many of you have made that descent into Reagan International Airport? Time and time and time again with no thought of your life ending in the blink of an eye. We've seen this past week. Some of you are walking in it, not because of that, but because of other circumstances. Some of you are walking through That sense of how weak, how transient are the blessings of this life But there is no threat, no danger to these blessings. They are as secure in the heavenly places as the resurrected Christ is. Seated at God's right hand in the heavenly places. If you've got your Bibles open, which I hope you do, look down at chapter 1, verse 20, where Paul says that Jesus has been seated at God's right hand in the heavenly places. And look at how he describes that place, that location, far above, verse 21, far above all rule. and authority and power and dominion and above every name that is named, not only in this age, but also in the one to come. That is how secure your blessedness is in the heavenly places because all of your blessedness is bound up with Christ, and Christ is seated in the heavenly places. Paul's even going to go on to say in chapter 2 that we now spiritually are seated with him in those heavenly places. These blessings cannot be taken away from you. And you don't have to wait, he says, until you get there to experience a taste of these blessings. They are not ours in full now. But they are ours really and truly now because we are united with the risen Jesus Even though we're not physically in those heavenly places, Christ is, and our lives are hidden with Christ in God Every spiritual blessing is yours, beloved, in Christ. Sure, secure, reliable, firm, because of Jesus. These are in Christ blessings. That was y that was very clear, wasn't it? Kids Did you get a count of how many times did Paul say in Christ or in him in that passage that I read? Somebody shout it out. Eight. Might have even been a little bit more than eight, I think. Anyone else get another number? Langston. Ten. I guess how many I think I counted. I might have counted wrong, but I I counted ten times. Paul really wants you to know. These aren't blessings that. Are found in you. They are ours, but they don't originate in or from us. They are in Christ's blessings. I think that's why Paul reminds us, reminds the Ephesians and us, that God, this God He is blessing, is the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Because all that blessing is not dependent upon, first and foremost, our performance or our work, but on Christ, on God's relationship to Christ. He's the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. And if we are united with Christ, he is now our God and Father. To say that these blessings are in Christ means they are the gift of God's grace to us. This blessing is blessing that has been lavished on us, his undeserved kindness in the face of our much deserved wrath See all people everywhere give themselves to praise. Every human being. You may be in this room, you may be a follower of Christ, you may be an atheist. You might think you are not a worshiper. Everyone give themselves to praise. But sin has corrupted our ability and desire. for praise, so that we naturally, and Jonathan alluded to this, I think it was right in the call to worship. We naturally bend inward on ourselves rather than seek the glory and esteem of God above all. The Bible calls that sin, that posture of I will take glory for myself. I will give myself to promoting myself. rather than declaring the excellencies of the God who made me and gave me life. That posture the Bible calls sin It is a gross injustice making us vile and corrupt and guilty in the eyes of our Maker. For for a human being created in the image of God to give God praise to look upon his maker, the fountain of every blessing, and to dismiss him from the throne of the universe and to seek to rule in his place, refusing to acknowledge or give him the glory that he is due for the gifts that he has given us That is an atrocity. That is an outrage. That is incomprehensible really to even think about. I wonder if you may. Uh go into having some conversations with those who don't know Christ as we might seek to grow in evangelism. If you would speak to someone and they you might hear them say, I think I'm basically a pretty good person I think that's very common. I mean I'm not perfect, you know. I'm no saint, they're gonna say. I'm pretty good. Like what? What would you call a child who never thanked his parents for anything? Kids, that would not be good. Kids, you should you should thank your parents When they when they treat you with many, many good things, which they do every day, it would be good for you regularly to thank them for how they have blessed you. What would it be like for a child to never thank mom or dad? Could a human being who receives all these rich blessings from God never thank him for the blessings that he's given and be considered a good person? No, that's not what the Bible says. The Bible says such people are actually dead in their sins. The fact that you would even think that you are good while giving no credit and honor and glory to God is a reflection of the fact that human beings apart from Christ are dead. Spiritually, depraved, alienated from God, hostile to God, and children of wrath. So, how could people, how could any of us hope to obtain blessing from this God? Well, in God's rich kindness and mercy, God planned from eternity past to rescue a rebellious people, and he did that in Christ. Jesus came from heaven to earth as a servant, humbling himself even to death on a cross. And by that death in his own body, Jesus bore the wrath and the fury of God for all of his people's self-seeking and self-promotion and self-praise. Jesus came to heal us so of what has so deeply been broken in us by our sin and he came to remake us, give us new birth by paying the debt that we owe for the ways that we have sinned against God, the way that we have stolen from Him and withheld from Him the praise He is due. And he now brings all those who would turn from that, all those who would be convicted and say, that's right. I have I have lived my life in disregard of my maker, and that's horrible. If any would see that and would reach out and receive Christ, he will forgive you today. He will cleanse you. Of your sins, and he will restore you to the very purpose of your existence, which is to give praise to Him. He died for all, the Apostle Paul would say to the Corinthians, He died for all. so that we should no longer live for ourselves, but for him who died and for their sake was raised. Oh, if you if you're here this morning and you're not sure what that would mean to turn from your self-rule and give yourself to Jesus and receive Jesus, oh, I would be delighted. I'm sure anyone sitting around you would be delighted to help you think more about that. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. In Christ, you were chosen by God the Father to be holy and blameless before Him I wanted to talk about that today. That's just too big to get to today. But if you want to think about at what it means today and what we might be talking about next week, you could just pull out that Bullets in later, not right now, okay, but pull it out later and just read the words to that wonderful, wonderful hymn. How sweet and awful is the place And think that love that determined to sweetly draw you in is a love that marked you off before time even began. If you're in Christ. We'll talk more about that next week, Lord willing. In Christ you were adopted into God's family. In Christ, you've been redeemed by the blood, receiving forgiveness of sins. In Christ, you've obtained an eternal inheritance. In Christ, you've been sealed with the Spirit. In Christ, the power of God that raised Jesus from the dead is at work toward you. In Christ, God has prepared good works that you should walk in them, chapter 2 would talk about. In Christ, we as a church, Chevrolet Baptist Church, are being built together into a Dwelling place for God. We are to be strong in the Lord, in Christ, and in the strength of his might by putting on the armor of God, which is his gift to us in Christ. The breastplate of righteousness and the belt of truth and the helmet of salvation and the shield of faith and the sword of the Spirit. All this is ours in Christ. Every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. And that's just some of the unsearchable riches that Paul mentions in this letter. We will, Lord willing, take time to think about all of these great blessings. In Christ, nothing can separate you from His love. And therefore, nothing can separate you from your share in all those spiritual blessings that are in Christ. No change in administration, no executive order can separate you from the spiritual blessing that is yours in the heavenly places in Christ, brothers and sisters. What shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us what's it say, Saints? All things. Complete in thee, we're gonna sing in a few minutes. Complete in thee, each want supplied And let's be make sure we sing that with understanding. Not everything you possibly could want. He will just be obliged to give you But each want going back to Psalm 23, the Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want, I shall not lack Everything you need, everything you lack, everything you want in that way, he has supplied, and no good thing to us denied. That's what we're gonna sing. What wondrous love is this? That the God of light, who formed the mountains by his might, who names the stars and sing his fame in skies afar, who guides the galaxies above, that that God should condescend to take hell-deserving sinners and wash them clean of their sin and join them to his son. and promise to use all of his power and all of his wisdom to do you good in all of the circumstances of all of the days Of your life with all of his heart and soul. That is what he is promising you when he says, every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus is yours. Oh, we can say with the psalmist, the lines have fallen for me in pleasant places. I have a beautiful inheritance. Well, that's why I just couldn't get past verse three. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ who has blessed us in Christ. with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. And when when the Lord, in his kindness, in his eternal love, again we talk about that a lot next week, When he marks you off and you enter into that world of blessing, one of the things that gets implanted in our hearts when we're joined to Jesus in faith. Is a heart that is full of praise. We want to bless him. God has in Christ blessed his people eternally and inexhaustibly And as a response, we give ourselves to blessing his great and glorious name. We who have tasted and seen The kindness of God in taking our sin upon himself on the cross, bearing the wrath that was reserved for us. We love him for it. We are thrilled. We rejoice in that and we love to say so. Psalm 107. Give thanks to the Lord. Actually, that's not the way it starts. You know how it starts? Oh, give thanks to the Lord. And I think that O is significant. Oh, give thanks to the Lord for his steadfast love endures forever. Let the redeemed of the Lord say so. The redeemed of the Lord give praise to God. They bless the God who has blessed us in Christ. This word blessed here, blessed be, it's it's the the word it's it's where we get our English word eulogy Now, of course, we think of a eulogy for someone as when we kind of share wonderful words and we commend a person, we praise them, at once they've died. Okay, that's where we need to abandon that. this idea here, okay? We serve the living God, the true and eternal God, who lives and reigns even right now. But to to bless him is to speak well of him, it is to praise him. It is to commend him for all his excellencies. And again, I remember Paul was not writing this, this ecstatic praise. Oh, praise the Lord, praise the Lord. He was not writing this from some ivory tower of circumstantial bliss. He was a prisoner for Christ. And he was writing to a people who needed endurance. Who were tempted to grow weary of bearing up for Jesus' sake. And before he tells them to do anything It's not a command, actually, when it says blessed be the God and Father. He's not telling them to do something. He's praising God. He's summoning them all into it. He doesn't actually tell them to do much of anything until we get to chapter 4. Chapters 1 through 3 has one command in it. Do you know what it is? Anyone? Remember. Remember all the riches that you have in Christ. Ephesians 2. 11. That's the only commandment. But what he starts here, before he tells him to do anything, he just pours out praise. To reorient their hearts, to reorient their lives away from the very real present troubles that they knew, and to direct them into those heavenly places where our spiritual home truly is. Jesus has redeemed a people for the praise of his glory, and the people who have been redeemed, whose hearts Have been so filled with praise, we delight in getting together to praise him together. This is training, as we were just told earlier. We are training ourselves for our eternal vocation of praise. And we really need to come together and and do it together because we get weary because life really is hard. And sometimes I walk in here, I mean I haven't been walking in here that many times, okay? It's only been about five times. I'm pretty energized every time I've been walking in here so far. But probably there's going to be times when I'm not feeling that heart of praise. Maybe that's how some of you came in today. And we need each other. I come in kind of numb to things spiritually. I know I ought to praise him. And then I sit in Sunday school class and I watch Ryan Payne, Ryan Payne weeping over joy in the God who has saved us in Christ like four times in that Sunday school class that he And it's not about his tears, not about Ryan, it's not about his tears, but I'm simply saying my heart was moved forth. Yes, that is my God. He's a redeemer. Praise God. And Ryan helped me to praise God And we need that with each other. That's why we gather, that's why we sing praise. That's why we have prayers of praise. Because we need the support and encouragement and help of each other to give praise to our God. It's hard. It's why the word of God tells us not to forsake assembling ourselves together as is the habit of some. But we encourage each other in the midst of the fact that life is hard. We got job stresses. We got financial stresses Maybe school pressure for some of you, home responsibilities. We got illnesses that we're dealing with and ungodly desires that we are waging war with and unfulfilled expectations for how we wanted our lives to go and unfortunate news that we get out of the blue. In the midst of all that, Paul is saying, Praise God. Bless God. That's even actually part of our mission in the world too. To bless God. So Peter wrote in the first century to a group of people, and if you read Peter's letter, his first letter, the one that's actually labeled 1 Peter, it's all about the people of God suffering. And he says in 1 Peter 2, you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for his own possession. That you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness and into his marvelous light That's our mission. That's our witness. That's evangelism. Praise God. So let me just encourage you with something that I particularly need to be stretched in myself. You can engage in a form of evangelism. Just even let's say you're going to work or you're talking to a neighbor uh this afternoon or tomorrow morning and some and you're just simply asked, how is your weekend? Or how are you? Wow. Let me tell you, we gathered yesterday with the church. Always on Sunday, because he rose from the dead on Sunday. And I was reminded of how incredibly blessed I've been in Christ. Though I've hated God and I've been a rebel against him. He has showered we with gracious blessing after blessing after blessing, and it can't be taken away. Had a great weekend. How about you? We could do that. I need I uh pray for me. That I would be more about that. They might not ask you how you're doing next Monday. But we are bearing witness. We are proclaiming the excellencies of him who called us out of darkness and into his marvelous light. Whether we're here together on the Lord's Day or whether we're in each other's homes, whether we're in our neighborhoods or workplaces, or whether we're planning trips to unreached people groups. May it be that the saints of Chevrolet Baptist Church would be found praising the name of our God. Praise is where this whole story is going. You know that, right? Unceasing, unfailing, untiring praise is our destiny for all eternity in all of creation The last book of the Bible paints this wonderful picture in Revelation 5. I heard every creature in heaven and on earth and under the earth and in the sea and all that is in them. saying, to him who sits on the throne and to the Lamb, that is the one in whom every spiritual blessing is found and enjoyed. In Christ. To the one who sits on the throne and to the Lamb be blessing and honor and glory and might forever and ever. And until until we get to that day, sometimes it's hard to remember. We think we're just gathering in this school. And we can get Weary. We can become numb to what we are doing. We're just having another gathering on Sunday because it's Sunday, and that's what we do when we're setting up all the equipment And we're doing it because it's just what we do. No, we are preparing ourselves for our eternal vocation, which is giving praise to the God who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. Let's be committed together and among the lost to blessing the God who has so eternally and inexhaustibly blessed us in Christ. Christ. Let's pray for his help, we surely need it. Heavenly Father, we do pray. We need your help. We can't respond rightly. We can't give you praise without you moving us by your Spirit. And we pray that you would help us. We pray that you would help those who are really, really weary this morning, those who are really fearful. Those who are really discouraged. Break in, Father, by the power of your spirit The Spirit who gives life to creation, who raises spiritually dead people, give us life today that we might Freshly be moved at the wonders of what you have done and are doing and will yet do in Christ. And may we be built up as we remind each other. And as we even would declare to those who Are still in their rebellious condition. May we be found proclaiming your excellencies. We thank you, Lord. We love you for calling us out of our darkness. And we pray that you would use us to see more and more come out of that darkness and into your marvelous light. We ask for all of this in Jesus' name. Amen.