How we all doing? You're always so energetic at this point in the service. It's good to be with you. It's good to worship the Lord with you. Go ahead and open in your Bibles to Ephesians chapter 6. If you're using one of the Bibles provided for you, that's on page 979 of those Bibles that are around you. We are picking up in a study that we've been doing of Ephesians. It's been a little while that we've been studying Ephesians, off and on. The plan, Lord willing, is to be on until we're done. I think that's four more weeks after today. I keep going back and forth between how many weeks it's going to be. I'm pretty sure it's going to be four more weeks after today. And uh, Lord willing, we will be completing our study of Ephesians Soon. If you're visiting with us, if you're newer among us, why are we reading this passage? What why are we doing this today? Will we just have a regular practice of uh studying books of the bible, just picking up a book of the Bible, starting and reading and s and and thinking about verse by verse, paragraph by paragraph, and this is where we left off the last time we were in Ephesians I'm going to read verses 1 through 4 in Ephesians chapter 6. And then I'm going to pray once more for God's help as we Pay attention to it. Ephesians chapter 6, beginning in verse 1. Children Obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. Honor your father and mother. This is the first commandment with a promise. that it may go well with you, and that you may live long in the land. Fathers, do not provoke your children to anger, but bring them up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord. This is God's word, brothers and sisters. Thanks be to God. Heavenly Father, we do ask for your help As we think about these verses today, we pray that you would give us understanding, that you would help all of us here to be able to make application to our lives We need your help to do that, Father. We're reminded that it's the Spirit who gives life. And the flesh is no help at all But the words that you have given to us, they are spirit and they are life, and we pray that you would do an enlivening work in our souls this day for the glory of your name. We ask for all of this in Jesus' name. Amen. Kids, it's good to have you here this morning. It's always good to have you here. I'm gonna have a lot to say to you this morning. Well really everything that I'm saying is for you this morning, but especially some things for you, which we'll come to in a few minutes, but first something for all of us to consider and kids you could certainly be listening along now. a special day in my life a number of years ago on March 27th, 2003, I presented a Bible. to a young woman who I was quite smitten with. Her name was Michelle Graver. She's here. Just so you know if there's any doubt about that. You don't know her by graver. I thought at that point that she would be my wife, but as you've heard me tell on another occasion, I've not always had the best discernment with that. And it was a little bit unclear. We were in that weird defining the relationship stage. I wrote her a note inside of that Bible in which I communicated to her what an encouragement her passion for the Lord and her compassion for people had been to me. That's only grown in the last 23 years. I quoted from Matthew 5, verse 6 Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be satisfied. Because I wanted her to know how infectious and how attractive her hunger for the Lord was. And I closed my note to her with this sentence. You are going to be a world changer, Braver. I don't call her that anymore, just to be clear. You're gonna be a world changer. And I am blessed to be a part of your walk with him. And there's a there's a there's a little connection here with that note and some things I was saying last week, for those of you that were here regarding what a great life actually is. a mattering life, a world-changing life. Michelle Graver had aspirations at that point when I presented her that Bible of working for NASA. And there's a lot of people, maybe some kids after the last week or two, watching all this news about Artemis, maybe you're thinking, I want to be an astronaut. But she actually had a degree, like she was really getting after it. She has a degree in astrophysics And if she hadn't met me, and if she hadn't met the Lord a few months before she met me, it may well have been her. splashing into the Pacific Ocean on Friday night as part of that Artemis mission. But that was not the Lord's plan for her. He had a plan for her to be a homemaker, to be a wife, and a mother, and a faithful church member And on July 23rd, 2007, another human soul was brought into the world through our union. She's sitting here today too. And I can remember two nights later, the first night that we were back in our house together. I can remember where we were sitting, I'm pretty sure at least, I can remember where we were sitting on the couch in the living room as Michelle held this baby. With this semi-terrified, humbled, awestruck sense of the weight of responsibility that had been entrusted to us. Her sentiments that night are captured well in a quote that I only encountered many years later. From a all we know about the author of this quote is that he was an unknown first-time father sometime in the 19th century. I don't know if I've ever shared you this quote. I'm gonna share it now Never did I pass a more truly solemn or interesting moment than that in which my firstborn child was put into my arms. Recognizing in the little helpless being which had been so lately introduced into our world that there was a creature born for eternity. And who, when the sun shall be extinguished, would be still soaring in heaven or sinking in hell Is being a parent a world changing vocation? I mean it might not be talked about or viewed on YouTube as much as all that was going on this week in outer space and plummeting down into the Pacific Ocean. I'm pretty confident that it is. In time, the Lord would entrust two more souls to our care And this is on my I don't mean to preach a sermon by myself. I really am going to get in this text and say a lot to you from this text, but this is all on my mind, especially this week, as I come to these verses in Ephesians 6, and as we anticipate uh two of those souls standing before you this afternoon publicly proclaiming their faith in Christ and their commitment to Chevrolet Baptist Church in baptism. This is part of God's cosmic plan for the world. Ephesians chapter 1, in the first chapter of Paul's letter, he calls it God's plan for the fullness of time. to unite all things in Christ, things in heaven and things on earth in him This is that that radical change that we were talking about last Sunday. That The entire cosmos so full of distress and disease, chaos and conflict and abuse and immorality and death that this world as we know it one day is going to be changed and Jesus is going to come again and he is going to unite heaven and earth in a just a beautiful symphony that Pours forth the praises of Jesus Christ. And God has seen fit to ordain the Christian home To be a kind of incubator in which world-changing stuff happens. That's why Paul talks about it in this letter. Beginning of the letter, God's got a plan for all times to unite the whole cosmos under the headship, under the reign of Jesus Christ. And as he keeps talking about that, he has words for children about how to relate to their parents And he has word for parents about how to relate to their children, and that's what we want to be thinking about this morning Children and parents who honor God's good design for the home enjoy great blessing. That's the main point. We might even say immeasurable blessing. Children and parents who honor God's good design for the home enjoy great blessing. And to help us think about that, I simply want to do what what what I just said basically. I want to I want to go through those instructions to children about how to relate to your parents' kids and then Want to consider those instructions to parents about how you're to relate to your kids Before we do that, kids, I'm getting ready to start talking to you for a long, long time. Just give me maybe two more minutes A brief word to everyone here, regardless of your marital status or your parenting status, about The way that we want to come to thinking about this passage. I'm aware that even in the reading of this passage and beginning to talk about it, maybe there's some of you who who who feel some measure of heartbreak or disinterest in this subject. And that could be for a lot of reasons. But I just want to make sure that everybody is hearing this at the beginning of this message. That all of you who are here, regardless of your marital status, regardless of your parental status, you all have a part to play in the flourishing of the children of Chevrolet Church. I could tell you, I could give you names, I'm not going to do it right now. I could give you names of people in this congregation. I could give you the names of people in our former congregation who uh were childless or who were unmarried, who have made a great impact on my children, that I believe are a significant part of the commitment that my daughters are going to be making to you later this afternoon. So we all are in this work together. In fact, it's something that we've covenanted to do as members of Chevrolet Baptist Church, that we will endeavor to lead those in our care in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. I the way I read that is not simply if you're a parent and you have kids that you're raising, you will commit to do that, but actually all of us who are members of the church regardless of whether we are parents, are committing to those in our care, under the care of Chevrolet Baptist Church, that we're going to labor. Especially parents give themselves to that But all of us have a part to play in that, and I am grateful, and I want some of you to know, and I'll tell you specifically after the service, some of you specifically who are not parents. but who we are grateful for for how you have blessed our children and our families since we've been here. And it's important for those of us here also who are in the season of life where we are actively engaged in parenting, we need to remember that if that is us here That because of how many of us there are here in that situation, it can be a little bit of a difficult place for those who aren't in that season to come. You're visiting this church and you're not in the parenting season of life. Or if you're a member of this church and you're not in that season of life, we just all need to recognize it can be a little challenging to be here And we need, we who are in the parenting season of life, we need to labor diligently to ensure that those who are not in that season of life uh know and hear and experience from us loud and clear by the love that we have for them and the care that we give to them and the eagerness that we have to fold them into our lives that in here at Chevrolet Baptist Church We are not mainly looking at people by their marital status or their parenting status, but in here, Christ is all and he is in all, and that's what matters most. Now, kids, are you ready to actually listen? Yes You came, you were told you I was gonna say some things to you, and I'm ready to do that now. Actually, it's not just me who's doing it, God is doing it. God wants to speak to you, kids. Isn't that wonderful to think about? That God moved in the heart of the Apostle Paul as he was writing this letter to the Christians at Ephesus That God moved Paul to write something specifically to you, children. In this letter, that's all about God's big plan to change the world. To fill up the whole universe with his glory. That God wants to say something to you specifically, kids, about that. That you kids right now, this week, you have a part to play in that big plan happening and being carried out And his word to you from this passage, the way you play a part, it's not the only way that you play a part, but one big way that you play a part in God's plan. Is by doing what verse 1 of Ephesians 6 says. Children, obey your parents. Kids, what does it mean to obey? You can actually answer the question. What does it mean to obey? When mom and dad, that's a great answer. When mom and dad, it's a great example. When mom and dad says clean your room, you say yes and you do it right away. We could start there. That's pretty good. To obey means to listen, to pay attention, and to do what you're actually told to do. I think there was some book at some point that said, all the way, right away, with a happy heart. Does that sound familiar to anybody? I feel like I read that somewhere at some point. That's helpful. And you're to do that, kids, with your parents. God has put you in your family with your parents Very purposefully. It's not an accident that your parents are your parents. He knew exactly what he was doing when he gave your parents to be your parents. And this verse says that he gave them to you, he gave you your parents' kids, not just for them to be your best buds I hope you really like your parents. I hope your parents really like you. I hope that you can be friends. But you need to understand that God didn't just give you parents so that they could be your buddies. But actually so that they would be in charge over you. Fancy word for that would be in authority. To be in authority means they're in charge, not you. And since it's right, it says there, it's right to obey them, that means it's wrong, it's sin, kids, to disobey them. Because to disobey your parents is actually to disobey God's rule over you, who gave you your parents and told you to obey them. Now you might not think it's a big deal to disobey your parents because maybe you have friends that don't really seem to obey their parents, or maybe you watch television shows or movies where parents are made to look stupid And where ignoring them or making fun of your parents is actually seems like a cool thing sometimes. But that's not how God sees it. And God knows better than what you see on TV. God is very important to your relationship with your parents, kids. Did you notice in the passage that we're looking at that it says that you're to obey your parents in the Lord? And there's there's a few different things that that could mean in the Lord. I think it means for his honor. Because of him. Obey your parents as if unto the Lord, as you are obeying the Lord, because you Have a relationship with him and you want to obey him and in the Lord you're obeying your parents because of your desire to honor the Lord. And he's a really good Lord. This is God's word to you, kids The primary place, the primary stage. Not the only one, but the primary way in which you will show your commitment to Jesus if you believe that you are in fact Following Jesus, the biggest way that you're going to show that in your lives right now, not the only way, but the biggest way, is in how you relate to your parents This is the way that you're going to learn what it means to deny yourself and take up a cross and follow Jesus. This is one of the ways that you're going to learn about your sin against God is in the hard, difficult times that you find it to obey your parents. You're going to be learning that you are a sinner and that you need Jesus To forgive you for your sins. And praise God. He's a good Lord who is pleased to do that. God loves children and adults. He loves big sinners and he loves little sinners. So much that God sent his beloved son Jesus into the world to live a perfect life of obedience, which none of us have lived And to finish that obedient life by dying on the cross, to suffer the punishment that we all deserve for our sins, for our sins against our parents and for every other sin that we have committed. And when we trust in Jesus to forgive us and to save us, He will save you. acceptance, but if you see that you are a sinner, that you've rebelled against God and you trust Jesus to forgive you, he will forgive you. If you have any questions about whether you are forgiven or how to worship Jesus, it would be wonderful for you to talk to your parents about that. I'm happy to talk with you also, but your parents have been given specially to train you up, as we'll talk about later in the sermon He's a good Lord. He loves you so much he died on the cross for you. And so if he loves you that much, if he's that good, then you can trust him when he says, obey your parents in the Lord. For this is right. How could God ever give you a command that would be wrong, seeing as he's so good that he loves you enough to lay down his life for you? It's right. That's what Paul says here. Obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right And to help us see how right it is, Paul quotes from the Bible. Did you notice that, kids? Did you see the quotation marks there in verse 2? That means Paul's quoting something. Anyone know what Paul is quoting from when he says that? Honor your father and mother. What's that a quote from? You're kind of a you're you're not actually even a you're not even legally no one thinks of you as a kid anymore. I love you. I'm I'm grateful that you know the answer, but Okay, what's he what's he quoting from? He's quoting from the Ten Commandments, that's right. Anybody know which commandment this is? That's a trickier question. I I see the number, I see I see this. That is true. This is the fifth commandment. Honor your father and mother. Now that kids, that's a commandment. Honoring your father and mother, that's a commandment that you're going to be called to obey your whole life, long. even though the command to obey them is something that as you grow older and are not dependent upon them, when you're not living in their house and eating their food and Wearing clothes that they bought for you, but when you're on your own, you won't be called to necessarily obey them the same way that you are now. So uh my daughters, as you know, they're stepping under the church's authority today. That's part of what they're doing in baptism. But as long and they understand this, I'm pretty sure, as long as they are still living in our home They still need to put the phone away when we tell them it's time to put the phone away. There's gonna be a time when they can have their phone longer if they want, when they're on their own. And so, kids, you're not always going to obey your parents in the same way as you grow older, but as you grow older, this command to honor your father and mother is a command that you will continue to be responsible for all your life long. And I bet some of your parents really would like for me to talk about what that looks like, because sometimes it can be hard to know. It can be hard for your parents to know how to honor their parents. And that's a really important subject, but I'm not going to really be talking about it today. Because I don't think it's what Paul is mainly concerned about in this passage. He's wanting to talk to you kids who are in your parents' home about your relationship with them. I think at least for you kids, to honor your father and mother means to not roll your eyes at them or stomp away. To do what they've told you to do, or use tones of voice that would make fun of them. He wants you to honor. Your father and mother. And then to make us see even more why this is a good thing to do, he tells us this is the first commandment with a promise. That it may go well with you. You see that kids? That it may go well with you. And that you may live long in the land. Now, this is a little tricky to explain, kids. I think this is a little tricky to explain actually for adults. Because when God gave the Ten Commandments to the people of Israel, the promise that they would live long in the land was the the land being talked about was the land that he had promised to Abraham, the land of Canaan. And I don't think that we should expect, I don't think you should expect, kids, that if you are obedient to this passage and you obey your parents, that he's going to move you to Israel That might not be a very that might not encourage. I don't know that a lot of us would be excited about moving to Israel right now. A lot of crazy stuff going on there And I don't think it's necessarily a command or a promise that if we are obedient to our parents, we're all going to live till we're 80 or 90 or 100 years old. Generally, if you give yourself to obeying your parents and honoring them, generally things will go better for you than if you just live your life Generally that will be so. But sometimes people do still die when they're young. They don't always live a long life and they don't necessarily get to the uh uh the land of Israel, but Like we sang today, there is a happy land far, far away, the promised land for the people of Israel. Was a little bit here's a way I could try to say it for you kids. Kids, have you ever had uh we when you're maybe your mom I say your mom dads maybe make birthday cakes too, but not in the Lazarus household But if you maybe one of your parents was making a birthday cake, and as they were getting ready to put the cake in the oven, they they let you take a little lick of the batter from the spoon. And that little taste of the batter is supposed to make you excited about and eager for the the yummy cake that's going to come out of the oven in a little bit. Well the promised land, the land of Israel for the people or the land of Israel for the people of Israel was like a little cake batter taste of a happy land far, far away, a new heavens and a new earth where there's no sadness at all, where there's no sickness, where there's no bad dreams, where there's no bullies. Where there's no death ever, where everything is just perfect always, all of the time. And What God's Word is saying is that when you obey your parents, when you make it your practice to obey your parents, you're showing in the way that you relate to your parents, you're showing that you're on that way of being obedient to God that is the place that the land that ends in that happy place far, far away. We can enjoy a little bit of that blessing. We get to have a little bit of that blessing now, but most of that blessing is coming. But it's still very real and it's still very wonderful. And it's meant to encourage you to be obedient to your parents. But I should tell you the opposite too, kids. If you're if your way If you're just all the time disobeying or ignoring the authority that God has given to your parents, You're showing that you're on the way to death and pain. There's one verse in the book of Proverbs that says this in a kind of gross, but I think important way for us to think about for a minute. Proverbs 30 verse 17. I didn't write this kids. This is just in the Bible Maybe your parents have like uh Bible verses on the refrigerator or on different cabinets or frames, and they probably don't have this verse hung up in the house. And parents, I'm not commending that you do that, but this is God's word though. The eye that mocks a father and scorns to obey a mother. So kids, I want you to think about when your parents tell you something that you don't like and you you walk away and maybe they see it, maybe they don't see it, but you roll your eyes. I've actually seen, I'm not gonna say who, I've actually seen some eye rolls even in this service The eye that mocks a father and scorns to obey a mother will be picked out by the ravens of the valley and eaten by the vultures. God's word says that to you, kids. Not to scare you, but to show you how seriously God takes your obedience in honor and respect for your parents. And to show your parents how seriously they should take their responsibility to teach you and train you to obey their authority. Kids, you've done a great job of listening. I'm going to start saying some things now to your parents about how they're supposed to relate to you, but I think that you might still enjoy hearing what God says to them. It might be something you want to talk about with them at lunch today. Here's God's word to parents, especially fathers. Fathers, do not provoke your children to anger But bring them up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord. Now we might immediately wonder, where what happened to the moms? Okay, we had some moms. There were clearly moms. There was obey your parents. There was honor your father and mother. All of a sudden we lost the moms. Where do the moms go? Well, I will say something about that in just a minute. Right now, let me just say parents, let me include the moms as well. Parents, in your calling as parents. You're not given charge by the Lord to do with your kids whatever you want to do with them. They are your children. It says that in the verse. Don't provoke your children. They are yours. But seeing as how he's actually telling you what to do with them, they're not ultimately yours. They are ultimately his From him and through him and to him are all things, and that includes your children. They are a gift from God. They are a stewardship to advance His purposes in them, not your purposes for them. And we get a glimpse of that purpose for them in Psalm 78. There were so many passages I was thinking about for the call to worship this morning. We landed on one generation shall commend your works to another. But in Psalm 78, it says that God established a testimony in Jacob and appointed a law in Israel, which he commanded our fathers to teach to their children. That the next generation might know them, the children yet unborn, and arise and tell them to their children. So you just see, I'm gonna get to the I didn't get to the point yet. God's got a multi-generational vision for your family. Key's not actually just thinking about your kids, but he's thinking about your kids' kids and their kids He commanded our fathers to teach their children that the next generation might know him and arise and tell them to their children. And what is it? What's the point of it all? So that they should set their hope in God. And not forget the works of God, but keep his commandments. The primary burden. The primary calling that parents have before the Lord is not first to labor for their academic achievements or their athletic achievements. Or their financial prospects in the future. Those are not bad things, but the ultimate thing is to teach them to hope in God. And to not forget the works that God has done and to not neglect keeping His commandments. Our first responsibility is to teach them: this is not their world, it is God's world. He is at the center of it, not them. And Psalm 78, as Paul does in Ephesians 6. 4, singles out fathers particularly for that charge. That doesn't exclude mothers. But I think what it does is it I think it's another way of leaning into that reality that we saw at the end of Ephesians 5. that we looked at a couple of weeks ago, that in Paul's vision of the home, in Paul's vision of family life, there's a mom and a dad. And that's not always the case, kids, that's not always the case for all of you. And God can still use your family to bring glory to Him. But in God's normal, regular way. There's a mom and a dad, and the dad is the primary leader, or the word we saw in Ephesians 5 is the head of that family. And so fathers are singled out here in verse 4 because they're the ones who are ultimately responsible. I think I used the phrase a couple of weeks ago when I was addressing the men as husbands, that we set the temperature in our homes in so many ways. We're the ones ultimately responsible for what happens in that home. So, dads, again, this is not a call only for dads, but dads especially, the Lord has a word for you here in this passage, that negatively we would not provoke them our children that we would not provoke them to anger. Now sometimes we sometimes we must actually. Kids, this is one of those helpful parts for you to hear. If you're if you're If your dad says, when you ask if you can stay up a little later to watch that ball game Or if he says no when you want to get a a a smartphone and he doesn't think it's time yet for that and you get really angry because of that, that's not your dad provoking you to anger. That's your dad being in charge. Sometimes we must actually in being a good parent, we must say no to our children. More about that in a minute or two And I'm sure the kids are excited about that coming minute or two. But what does it mean actually to provoke your children to anger? Well, I was helped by this commentary, helped and chastened a bit. Effectively, the apostle is ruling out excessively severe discipline, unreasonably harsh demands, abuse of authority Arbitrariness, unfairness, constant nagging and condemnation, subjecting a child to humiliation, and all forms of gross insensitivity to a child's needs and sensitivities I think this would include when we make unhelpful or ungodly comparisons to our children. I wish you would be more like that child, whether it's a child in your home or someone outside of your home. When we make ungodly comparisons like this, or when we mock, or when we yell, or when we punish in anger, or sometimes, and and this is where I am most chastened, when we're just sort of checked out When we're so focused on our screens that they could be talking to us and we're not really paying attention to them, that can be very discouraging. That can be provocative unnecessarily to a child. We tell them that we have requirements for how you handle screens, but then we don't really have any regard for those conditions ourselves. Such abuse of parental authority is the opposite of the posture that Paul is commending here, which is to be devoted to nurturing. That's a way to translate that word, bring up, in chapter 6, verse 4 It's the same word. That word translated bring up. It's the same word translated in Ephesians 5. 29 as nourish. So so parents and fathers particularly, you've not been called to parenthood to Lord over or domineer your children, but to nourish them in the discipline and instruction of the Lord to To nourish means to feed, to care for, to make sure that it's healthy and strong. And this is what I meant earlier when I called the Christian home an incubator. Of God's world-changing purposes. Christian parents, especially fathers are charged with this weighty privilege and responsibility for the spiritual formation of their children. He's not given that primary responsibility to a school or to a daycare facility or to a church He's actually given the primary responsibility for the spiritual formation of our children to us parents and especially fathers. And I will say that as this strange convergence happened in my life of conversations we've been having on maybe some points of disagreement as a church about. how and when we include our children in the church in certain ways. And as I thought about this passage of scripture. And as I thought about the pros up the prospect of baptizing two of my daughters this afternoon in front of you. It just occurred to me, and I think this is something that we should all be able to heartily give our amen to, and I'm not fishing for it, but I'm saying I think we can all agree on this, that God's design in God's design the most important means by which God would form a child from infancy to adulthood into being a follower of him is through a home where the lordship of Christ is made central and where the local church is made a priority. That is the great need that a child has from infancy to adulthood. After 18 years and eight months and twenty days, this is my testimony. I am very grateful, as I said earlier, for the ways that other church members in our former church and in this church have contributed. But the great need For them to arrive as an adult loving Jesus. It's all by the Spirit's power. The Spirit is the one who gives life. But the great need they have. is to be in a home where Jesus Christ is made central in all of life. And that includes a local church that is a vital part of your lives, mom and dad. And I'm saying that with such volume, but there's like so much evidence of God's good grace among us in that. Like I'm not yelling at you like I'm angry about you, about this So many of you are doing this so faithfully, and it is so encouraging to watch. It happens, parents, through our discipline and instruction. Now the primary biblical passage to help us interpret this discipline is Hebrews 12 verses 5 through 11. That word discipline there in Ephesians 6. Is used eight times in this passage, Hebrews 12, 5 to 11. I'm not going to read the whole passage to you, but the writer in this passage is appealing to his readers. experience of parental discipline to encourage them to hold fast to Christ amidst suffering by recognizing God's good and sanctifying purposes in their pain He says of our earthly fathers, they disciplined us for a short time, as it seems best to them. But he disciplines us for our good, that we may share his holiness. For the moment, all discipline seems painful rather than pleasant. But later, it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained by it Kids, this is a very important thing for you to hear also, actually. This is going to help you in your relationship with your parents. And I think it might actually help you even beyond when you move out of your parents' home. This still might help you. in your relationships, it's very important for you to learn, especially as it relates to your parents, that just because you feel hurt or upset about something that they did or said, that does not mean that they've actually wronged you. Do you hear God's word says, all discipline seems painful rather than pleasant? Sometimes we know it physically hurts, sometimes it just emotionally hurts. But God never does wrong, and yet sometimes He brings painful things into our lives because He's doing so to pursue something good in our lives through those hard things. Through those hurtful things. I think that's a helpful lesson for you to learn as you grow up. That sometimes your parents might make a decision, they might say things, they might do things. That upset you, that doesn't mean that they've done you wrong. It's actually a good part of parenting is that at times we need to say no to our children. Sometimes we need to say stop. Sometimes we we need to say be careful. Sometimes we need to say don't. Did I use that word already? That's a helpful thing for them. I was talking to my daughters this week about our home and The good, the bad, and the ugly of it. And uh one of them, I'll just let the one remain nameless, but said that one of the ways that our home was of most blessing were rules that we had established about modest dress, particularly skirt lengths. and screen time. That while those rules, and that is I think that's what we would call them, they were their rules. They were hard, but they helped. And actually this one told me it was part of forming her into the woman that she is today. Sometimes they need to hear no, even when it's upsetting. Whoever spares the rod hates his son, but he who loves him is diligent to discipline him. We're to bring them up in the discipline of the Lord and the instruction of the Lord. I think the best passage to interpret that would be the passage that Beth read to us earlier from Deuteronomy 6. It includes bringing them to church and talking to them about what they hear at church. That's a wonderful thing to do. But it includes family worship. It includes our own Bible reading and prayer, times with them. But it's not just that. Deuteronomy 6 has a big vision. It's not just Something that we do for ten minutes at the dinner table. But it's all of life. Bringing the character of God and the word of God into all the world so that our children see how the claims of God and the commandments of God and the promises of God apply to all of our lives. It has to do with having back pain or or dealing with a chronic autoimmune disease and teaching our kids about what it means to have a crook in their lot. It it means passing by a security guard in a gated community that we had the opportunity to stay in in a timeshare in South Carolina. And s and meeting this man who was just so nice that I had to pull back around and say, this man knee he needs to know. He needs to hear the gospel. This man Too nice for me to allow his soul to just perish without knowing. Does he know the gospel? And we still have contact, we still have relationship with that man, and we probably will see him again in a couple weeks when we go to Hilton Head. It's all of life It's music on around the uh around the house that lifts up Jesus. I could go on and on here, and I I don't have time to do that this morning, but I I do have these books That I could give. I mentioned it a few weeks ago at our members meeting, the disciple making parent. Uh I think this is a helpful book. We found this to be a helpful book, and I'm actually willing to give away three right now if there's anybody who wants it Shanita West and thank you, Adam. See uh can you take that one back for the Lutans and right there? And hey, I'll buy more if I need to. We're uh we we need to be talking and encouraging one another in our parenting. I can only say so much in one sermon. I hope that this is what will just stimulate lots of conversations about how we bring the Word of God, the rules, the commands, the promises of God, the character of God to bear on all of life, and how we labor together to do that. Uh that's something we all need to be talking about. There's a lot more that I could say, but I need to land this plane. Here's how I want to land this plane. If you're if you're in the in-house parenting stage of life, which I know it's not everybody, but if you're here in that stage. I trust that you are aware of ways that you have fallen short. You know the calling. I really haven't said anything groundbreaking today You hear this main point, children and parents who honor God's good design for the home enjoy great blessing. And maybe you conclude, maybe you're sitting here now feeling like I've blown it. Maybe you're tempted to say something that I have said actually on a couple of occasions wrongly to my wife. It would just be better if I wasn't even here. Like you all would just be better off without me. Maybe a lot of shame, maybe a lot of regret, maybe a lot of despair. Maybe a sense of if you, O Lord, should mark my parenting iniquities, O Lord, who could stand To meditate at length on these verses is to leave both children and parents exposed and guilty before the throne of God But to dwell there on just how guilty we have been would be to separate these instructions from their foundation. Which is found in chapter 5, verse 21, where this whole household code comes into play. So this is how I want to land today is what do we do? What do we do with our shame? What do we do with our regret? What do we do with the despair of uh Is it's not hanging our heads and wallowing in self-condemnation. Sadly, that is my bent. That's my soul's natural bent, unaided by the Holy Spirit, is just to sulk about it. But it's not that. That is not his will for us in Christ Jesus. And it's not even actually first to try harder. It is first to cultivate with the help of the Holy Spirit reverence for Christ. The Christ of whom it was said that though he was in the form of God, he did not count equality with God, a thing to be grasped, but he emptied himself. by taking the form of a servant and being found in human horn in in fuman human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. And who was he obedient to, kids? Who was Jesus obedient to? He was obedient to his Father, the one through whom all things were made. emptied himself by taking the form of a servant and he submitted himself. He submitted himself to his earthly parents, though he had made them. He submitted himself to be born in a manger and to be sold for thirty pieces of silver and to be betrayed by a close friend and to be flogged and to be mocked and to have a crown of thorns pressed upon him and to have his beard plucked out and spit hurled at him, he in whom all things held together Submitted himself to all of that out of obedience to his father's will, and he did that because he loves you He loves you parents. He loves you children. He loves you singles. He loves you so much. He came and was fully obedient in all of those ways. And so afflicted saints, if you are here this morning, afflicted, wounded at the awareness of your failures, to Christ draw near. That's what afflicted saints do, they draw nearer to Christ. Kids, that's the calling for you today. If you're aware of how guilty you've been in obeying your parents, it is hard to obey your parents. And parents, it is hard to not provoke our children, but to bring them up in the nurture and the admonition, the discipline, and the instruction of the Lord. It shouldn't be hard, but because of the weakness of our flesh, it is hard. And so what do we do is we take a deep breath. And we take a deep look at Jesus Christ and his obedience. There will be no power to obey apart from Jesus Christ. And so I can tell you, beloved, if you have, if you're wondering at all, you're probably not. I don't know why I'm feeling compelled to tell you this. But if you're there this afternoon and you see me in that baptistry dunking daughter one and dunking daughter two, what will be going on in my mind? What will be going on in my mind is what mercy God has shown to me. It surely was not me. It surely was not my skill. It surely was not my consistency Every book you read, every parenting book you read, you need to be consistent, you need to be consistent, you need to be consistent. I'm not telling you to be an inconsistent mess, okay? Please, I'm I but I don't think any of you are tempted with that It is not my consistency. That is not why we will be standing in that tub later. It is the mercy of God. He's big in mercy. And he, by his cleansing and empowering grace, he will equip you kids, and he will equip you parents with everything good that you may do his will. as you seek to devote yourself to honoring God's good design for the home and thus enjoy his great blood-bought blessing. Heavenly Father, we pray that you would in fact work in us what's pleasing in your sight. Perhaps there's need for some of us to confess our sins to you, and we'll have occasion in just a couple of minutes to do that Surely all of us who are here need to be pointed to Jesus. Father, if there's any here today who maybe they don't even They've not actually put their faith in Jesus. Whether those are kids or whether those are adults, we pray, Father, that you would help them to see what a faithful, good, and loving God you are. We pray that you would help those of us who are trusting in you to examine ourselves soberly And reverently in light of the good news of Jesus. Help us to not give ourselves to morbid and excessive Self-condemning thoughts. But help us to be broken and contrite where we're in need of that. And to be earnest and faithful and resolved to serve in the strength that you supply. As children, parents, faithful church members, we ask your blessing as we continue to worship you now in Jesus' name. Amen.