Good morning, brothers and sisters. Good to be with you this morning to get back to Nehemiah. And over the next couple of weeks, Lord willing, we'll be able to conclude this book But before we get to the text for this morning, I want to pray one more time, and then we'll get started. Lord, thank you once again. That Christ is ours forevermore. And that's true in glory And that's also true even right now in this moment, as we come to your word, as your people, desperate to hear from you. Please meet us, Lord. Use your word to convict us, correct us, and change us so we will look more like Jesus as a result. In his name we pray. Amen For my study or my office area at home, above my head and to the right of me, there's a hanging plant. Which my wife graciously put there a while ago. The problem is that most of the time I ignore it. Until my wife gently rebukes me and reminds me of the fact that that plant needs water and I can't just leave it there. Otherwise, it's just going to wilt And that happened again recently. So I grabbed it, I put some water in it And then I just left it there. And it's somewhere else right now. Maybe my wife decided it needs more than water. It also needs sunlight. So she possibly put it outside But that reminds me and should remind us that without attention, something that is lively and vibrant, like that plant, like that hanging plant Can eventually limp and wilt. And then it's not so lively anymore. And then it's not so vibrant. I think you can say the same thing about our spiritual lives. Most of us are here this morning because we are Firm believers in the Lord Jesus Christ. We believe the words of the songs that we've been singing. We affirm the prayers that have been prayed We believe the words of the scriptures that have been read or even referred to. But how does your spiritual life look like today? Does it look healthy and lively and vibrant and well tended to? Or does it look like my plant did a few days ago? Where it looked desperate, neglected, thirsty, and in need for water. Maybe you look at your spiritual life today, or you think about your spiritual life today, in similar ways, like I looked at my plant the other day and think, can there be life again? Can there be vitality again? What we're going to see today is that God loves to bring life to his people who are wilting. And he loves to use his word and his people in order to do that. So please meet me in Nehemiah chapter 10 if you haven't turned there already. If you're using one of the Bibles around you, that's on page 410. If you're not used to reading a Bible. You're welcome to take that Bible home as a gift from us to you. But when I say Nehemiah, that means the book of Nehemiah. When I say chapter 10, that means the big numbers, the verse numbers are the small numbers that you'll see interspersed throughout there. As I said, over the next couple of weeks, we're going to conclude this book of Nehemiah about this cupbearer to the king, turned governor and spiritual leader leader of Judah. Who helped to lead God's people in rebuilding the walls out of the ruins in Jerusalem? In Nehemiah chapter 1, we learned that Jerusalem, this city, and God's people were in ruins. They needed help. The walls were destroyed. The people were in distress. They needed new life. They needed a revival of sorts. And the Lord provided that for them. And under Nehemiah's late leadership, because he was sent to lead these rebuilding efforts, the walls were rebuilt. Therefore, many of the exiles could return home, and so many of them did. And they gathered and they did what was not done by God's people in that land for a very long time. They heard God's word together, and they obeyed God's word together. That was Nehemiah chapter 8. So they heard and obeyed God's word and they rejoiced and they even wept, and then they confessed their own sins And also the sins of their ancestors that they continued to walk in, in Nehemiah chapter 9. And at the end of Nehemiah chapter 9, it says the following. In verse 38, because of all of this, we make a firm covenant in writing. On a sealed document are the names of our princes, our Levites, and our priests. So that's how Nehemiah chapter 9 ended, and that's where we last left off in this book. Now, the princes that's referring to men and other and people there who were in authority over the people of Judah. The priests were those who served as mediators between God and the people. They helped to offer sacrifices and perform rituals and also taught the law. And then you have those Levites who served in the temple assisting the priest. They taught God's word as well, and they also served as the musicians and the worship leaders. So then in Nehemiah chapter 10, we get the names of those who are on that sealed document. And at the end of chapter 10, we get those covenant commitments. Nehemiah chapter 11, we get the names of the leaders who moved into Jerusalem. And that continues into Nehemiah chapter 12 by specifically naming priests. And then the second half of Nehemiah chapter 12, God's people gathered together to dedicate the wall, to worship, and to serve in the temple. That's an overview of Nehemiah chapters 10 through 12. So we'll see that God did bring a revival to his wilting people. And again, that he loves to use his people to help to do that. So here's the main point for our time together if you're taking notes this morning. Main point of our text this morning, Nehemiah chapter 10 through 12, is the following. The Lord uses his covenant people As they live sacrificially and worship joyfully. The Lord uses his covenant people as they live sacrificially and worship joyfully. We'll cover that in three parts. Nehemiah 10, then 11, then 12. So part one, Nehemiah chapter 10, we'll talk about the covenant community Nehemiah chapter 11, we'll talk about sacrificial living. And Nehemiah chapter 12, we'll talk about joyful worship. So part one, Nehemiah chapter ten, the covenant community. Look at Nehemiah chapter ten. Verses 1 through 27 are the names that are on this sealed document, this covenant that these people will be making together They made a new covenant as God's people because they realized after hearing God's word again that they not just their ancestors that they broke God's word. They broke God's covenant So then they make a new covenant. And no, I'm not going to read all these names. You are welcome to read them later on your own But I think it's important for us to realize in these verses 1 through 27, where you do have this list of names, is that these weren't just general people They were specified. They were called out, which meant and implies that these people were accountable to each other. So Nehemiah 10 verses 1 through 27 is kind of like the membership directory for the people of Judah And then starting in 28, verse 28, you have their covenant commitments of the people of Judah, which is kind of like our church covenant And their church covenant here, just like ours, is based on God's word. So scroll down to verse 28, and I'm going to start reading the passage here. Where says the rest of the people, the priests, the Levites, the gatekeepers, and the singers, and the temple servants, and all who have separated themselves from the people of the land to the law of God, their wives, their sons, and their daughters, and all who have knowledge and understanding, join with their brothers their nobles, and enter into a curse and oath to walk in God's law that was given by Moses, the servant of God, and to observe all the and do all the commandments of our Lord our God. And and his rules and his statues. We'll stop there for a moment So they are committing together as a people that they will read or they will hear and they will understand and that they will follow the law of Moses. The same law that they forsook for many, many years. And this whole revival, the whole reason why they're even wanting to and willing to do this is because after the walls were rebuilt, Nehemiah chapters 5 and 6, in Nehemiah chapter 7, the people return, and then Nehemiah chapter 8, they gather to do what? To hear God's word. They said, bring us the book. They heard God's word and they responded. By worshiping, by celebrating, by weeping, and even by keeping God's word, by celebrating the feast of the booths And as we talked about already, they then confess their sins, and now they're keeping their commitment, or they're saying that they're going to keep their commitment to keep God's word The center of all of that, of all of that revival that's already happening here, is God's word. That they heard it and that they were deciding to respond to it. So, brother or sister, if you're here this morning and you feel like your faith in some ways is limp or wilting, start by going to God's word. Go to a familiar passage. Go to passages that you've memorized years ago. Words of comfort, words of assurance. Read God's word, hear it preached, study it, and obey it. Allow God to use his word in the lives of the hearts of his people. So, what did these people here commit to? In general, I'll summarize these two commitments and then we'll read the passage. They committed, first of all, to live set-apart lives And secondly, they committed to worship and to sacrifice. They committed to live, set apart lives. I'm getting that from verses 30 and 31. Let's look there. We will not give our daughters to the peoples of the land, or take their daughters for our sons. And if the people of the land bring in goods and grain on the Sabbath day to sell, we will not buy from them on the Sabbath or on a holy day. And we will forgo the crops of the seventh year and the exaction of every debt. We'll stop there. So again, yes, God's people are back in Jerusalem. But remember that they are still in occupied territory. The Persians are still overseeing that territory. And if you remember from previous chapters in Nehemiah chapter 5, God's people there were basically surrounded by God's enemies. All around them. So when they say the peoples of the lands, that's what they're referring to. They're referring to all the people there who are close by who are not followers of the one true God. So by committing to not intermarry and by committing to not sell on the Sabbath, they are saying that we are going to be in the world, but we're not going to be of the world Instead of retreating from the world, the Lord caused his people to live set-apart lives within the world. Which applies to us as followers of the Lord Jesus Christ. You might feel today that in some ways the world is closing in on you The various forms of our culture seem increasingly hostile to Christianity or anything related to Jesus. But take heart because this is not new for God's people. In fact, it's pretty normal for God's people. This is where we live. And the Lord does not call us to cower from the faith Nor does he call us to be culture warriors for the sake of the faith. He calls us instead to be faithful followers of him in the world and not of it. Faithful to his word and faithful to his people, to be witnesses to those that are around us. So firstly, again, the people commit to live set apart lives. And secondly, God's people are committing to worship and to sacrifice. I'm gonna read verses 32 through 38 here. Or 39. We will take on ourselves the obligation to give yearly a third part of a shekel for the service of the house of our God. When I read this section, think about how many times you hear the phrase house of God or house of our God. And then I want I'm gonna ask somebody to to name that for me, okay? Verse 33. For the showbread, for the regular grain offering, the regular burnt offering, the Sabbath, the new moons, and the appointed feasts, the holy things. And the sin offerings to make atonement for Israel and for all the works of the house of our God. We, the priests and Levites and the peoples, have likewise cast lots for the wood offering to bring into the house of our God according to the to according to our fathers' houses at times appointed year by year to burn on the altar of the Lord our God as is written in the law. We obligate ourselves to bring the firstfruits of our ground and the firstfruits of all fruit of every tree year by year to the house of the Lord Also to bring to the house of our God to the priests who minister in the house of our God the firstborn of our sons and of our cattle, as is written in the law, and the firstborn of our herds and of our flocks. and to bring the first of our dough and our contributions, the fruit of every tree, the wine and the oil, to the priests, and to the chambers of the house of our God. And to bring to the Levites the tithes from our ground, for it is the Levites who collect the tithes in all of our towns where we labor. Verse 38. And the priest, the sons of Aaron, shall be with the Levites when the Levites receive the tithes. And the Levite shall bring up the tithe of the tithes to the house of our God to the chambers of the storehouse For the people of Israel and the sons of Levi shall bring the contributions of grain, wine, oil to the chambers where the br the vessels of the sanctuary are, as well as the priests who minister and the gatekeepers and singers, we will not neglect the house of our God. Yes, how many times was that? How many did you catch? Nine, eight, Jackson, nine, okay, eight or nine, something like that. So these people, they're committing to worship and they're committing to sacrifice And they would need to sacrifice in order for God's people to be able to rightly worship together. That's why they mention the giving of the showbread. And there was lots of references to giving of fruits and oils and the first. And they even talk about giving of our sons and the first of our sons. They're saying to the Lord, we want to give our very best. They're talking about giving the regular offering to the regular work. They bring their firstfruits to the house of God. And they also bring their tithes there So, if God's people were gonna now start to regularly gather at the temple to worship and sacrifice together, God's people would need to make sacrifices in order for that to happen. And the same is true of us today. I was just here in this room, Ladensburg Elementary School, a few days ago for an event And these mantras weren't here. There was no pulpit here. You didn't have all these chairs out. Like these things don't just happen. People, like many of you, make them happen. Right? Or even think about the classrooms. There were other kids here when I was here just a few days ago on Thursday. Today, our kids are here, many of them being taught in Sunday school. A role that many of you sitting here do play or you have played before. Again, those things don't just happen. God's people work together in order to enable them to happen. So we need teams of people to serve and to volunteer to make any of this happen. So once again, thank you for serving our church. Not just with your time and your efforts, because that's not all that was needed here. What we see from the text is that money is also needed. So our church pays rent to be here. It is what it is. Our church also gives money. You all give your tithes and your offering. To support missionaries and missions work all over the world. So your giving supports the work of the gospel here locally, but also out there globally. So we as members of CBC, when we covet covenant together, we covenant in part to give regularly to the work of the ministry and to the spread of the gospel. That's what it says in our church covenant. Now you may commit to a certain percentage, like 10%, maybe more than that, maybe less. But let's remember that in the New Testament, Jesus calls us to give cheerfully, faithfully, and sacrificially. Cheerfully, faithfully, sacrificially. So as you, however often you evaluate your giving or your regular giving to the church A percentage to think through is fine, but I think you should ask, are am I giving, are we giving cheerfully, faithfully, and sacrificially? So these covenant commitments here in Nehemiah chapter 10 are summarized by that statement at the end of verse 39, where it says, We will not neglect the house of our God. Now, there's a lot of history behind that statement because really the truth of God's people up to that point is that they had neglect neglected God's house. In fact, that's why you have books in our Bibles, like the book of Haggai, where he basically says, you guys are working on your paneled houses, and yet my house is in ruins. Right? So the fact that they are making a commitment to not neglect God's house, it shows that God is working in and through the house through the lives of his people. So they had a temple which they could go to and which they could now gather and worship regularly. We as Christians, we no longer need a temple. God's people are his temple. We are the church, which is why we can gather here in this elementary school. But question, are you neglecting God's house? I'm not asking necessarily about Bladensburg Elementary School, but I think if we think about the passage here specifically, we can ask ourselves that question by thinking of these two categories. In our living and in our giving. So to ask another way, are you living a set-apart life for the Lord Jesus Christ? Are you giving sacrificially towards the right worship of God? Again, all good questions that we can think through and even pray through later on today or this evening or even talk about it over lunch. God's people are called to remain faithful to God's covenant community. That's what we see happening here in Nehemiah chapter 10. And that's what should also remind us of the following: that if you're here this morning and you are a follower of Jesus and you are not a member of a gospel preaching church. It doesn't have to be this church, but I encourage you to find one and sit closely to them. The Lord wants to use his people to bless you and you to bless them. Secondly, for those who are members of CBC, again, let's not neglect the gathering and the assembling of ourselves, as Hebrews 10 teaches us. And thirdly, let's continue to provide for one another in the ministry. Right? Like you might not be serving in a specified way in this church But everybody, every member is a minister. And every member should be ministering to one another in two main ways through our prayers and our presence So pray for one another. Pray for one another, maybe even after church. You get into a conversation with someone and it seems like they need prayer. Instead of saying, hey, I'll pray for you, step aside and pray for them then. Chances are you won't forget to do it that way. And secondly, with your presence, continue to show up here as we gather, but also show up in the lives of your brothers and sisters in Christ. So we see revival in this covenant community. And what we'll see more of in Nehemiah chapter 11 and 12 is this sacrificial living that they are giving examples of, which brings us to point two or part two. Sacrificial living. Sacrificial living. Nehemiah chapter eleven Verse 1 says, Now the leaders of the people lived in Jerusalem, and the rest of the people cast lots to bring out one of ten to live in Jerusalem, the holy city, while nine out of the ten remained in their towns. And the people blessed all the men who willingly offered to live in Jerusalem. We'll stop there. They were continuing to populate the city, but not everybody could live in the city. It also seems like not everybody wanted to live there. That makes sense when we remember that in the book of Nehemiah, God's people have a lot of enemies. Enemies that we will even hear about next week, Lord willing, in Nehemiah chapter 13. So to live in Jerusalem was encouraging for a lot of reasons, but it was also dangerous. It was also costly. They would have had to move from their towns. And several of us, many of us, have moved often. Moving is not very fun, the logistics of it. Right? And those who stayed, who went to Jerusalem, needed to guard the city, and it would have been their responsibility to help to facilitate worship. The right worship of God by God's people. So all who agreed to live in Jerusalem were doing so sacrificially. They made a sacrifice to do so. And the rest of Nehemiah chapter 11, you see another list of names which includes the chief of the province who lived in Jerusalem, the priests and the Levites, temple servants, and even descendants of Solomon's servants. So, sons of Judah, sons of Benjamin, sons of Perez. The text says that these were all valiant men. I think that refers to the fact that in order to live in Jerusalem, To help God's people to worship, they had to look after God's people. They had to be willing to protect them from their enemies. And then you have a list of priests starting in uh Nehemiah chapter 11, verse 10. And starting in verse 15, you have the Levites mentioned, including the son of Asaph. Who was a leader of praise. And then gatekeepers, who had to protect the city in verse 19. So these men who lived in Jerusalem in the city were committed to the work of the ministry They lived there sacrificially. But those who lived outside of Jerusalem were not off the hook. Sacrifices needed to be made by them as well. Look at verse 20 of Nehemiah chapter 11. Narus of Israel and the priests and of the Levites were in all their towns of Judah, every one in his inheritance But the temple servants lived in Ofel, and then Zyrah and Gizpah were all over were were over the temple servants. The overseers of the Levites in Jerusalem was Uzzah the son of Banai, son of Hashbadinah, son of Messiah, son of Meka, son of Asap, the singers, over the work of the house of God For there was a command from the king concerning them, and a fixed precision for the for the singers, every day as required. And Palaniah, the son of Meshkele, of the sons of Jariah, the son of Judah, was at the king's side in all matters concerning the people. So it seemed like Passiah there was an ambassador of the people of Judah to the king to ensure that these people, God's people, could continue to worship freely there. Singers required a fixed provision, meaning that they had to be looked after. It was their job to sing in the temple. They didn't have outside jobs. So all God's people here needed to be involved in this covenant community so that right worship could happen. Sacrifices varied, but all of God's people were called to sacrifice. And the same is true for us today as God's people. Here's how Charles Spurgeon put it in thinking about the church and the community of God's people and how we all are called to sacrifice. We each have an allotted work to do if we are the Lord's elect. Let us take care that we do it. If you are a track distributor, go on with your work. Do us earnestly If you are a Sunday school teacher, go on and do not stay in that blessed work. Do it as unto the Lord, not as unto man You are a preacher. Preach as God gives you the ability, remembering that he requires of no man more than he hath gived to give him Therefore, do might not be discouraged if you have little success. Still go on. And he concludes that by saying, but let all of us do something for Christ. I will never believe there is a Christian in the world who cannot do something. So again, we are all called to sacrifice in some way. We are all called to sacrifice for the sake of the covenant community. Again, so many of you already do that. That's how we are able to have these gatherings. So many of you help with setup or with children's ministry. Or as I mentioned the other night in a membership interview, that VBS, which we will have in July, that does not happen if like more than half of our church doesn't volunteer. Like it just won't be possible. There's too many kids. But then there's also quiet sacrifices that not many in the church will know about. Like living in an expensive area longer than you want to live there for the sake of the church. Or turning down really good job and career opportunities for the sake of this church Or having a pretty decent commute where you drive by several churches on the way to church, even this morning, but you do so for the sake of this covenant community. There's a lot more that can be said, but brothers and sisters, if you are weary with the cost, know that the Lord sees it. He honors it. Keep going as long as the Lord calls you to do so. God calls all of us as his people to live not just our Sundays but our entire lives as a living sacrifice to him. That's what we heard from the scripture reading in Romans 12:1 I appeal to you, therefore, brothers, by the mercies of God, present your bodies, your lives, as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship. Some translations say, which is your reasonable service? It's the least that we could do in live the mercy of God to live our entire lives in service and worship to Him. That's an individual call, but it's also a corporate call for all of God's people. And remember, brothers and sisters, when you live sacrificially, when you give sacrificially, you do so because of the mercies of God that are available to you through the Lord Jesus Christ. The Lord of glory, the Lord of all honor and praise, the Lord who created all things, and through him all things are made and they are sustained. Even right now. But the Lord who came to this world, and as he said, not to be served, but to serve and to give his life as a ransom. For many. And he did so by living a sinless life, by giving his life on the cross as an atoning sacrifice, the final sacrifice for the forgiveness of our sins. And that sacrifice would only need to be given one time because Jesus paid it all on the cross, and then he was buried, and then he rose from the grave. If you're here this morning and you're not a Christian, you've heard a lot about this covenant community and sacrifices in Nehemiah, but know this: there is no amount of sacrifice you could make to pay for your sins. You can't write a check big enough. You can't do a deed great enough. But you can give your life by faith to the Lord Jesus Christ today. And be forgiven of your sin and brought into the covenant community, into the family of God. If you have questions about what that means, I'd love to talk to you after our service about how you can give your life to Jesus. Brothers and sisters, this is why we spend so much time reflecting on the gospel. Because Jesus got up from the grave. And since he got up to from the grave, that proves to us that he's able to give life where there is death. He's able to make things that are wilting and limp. He's able to give them vibrancy and life again. And that includes us as his people. So live, my brothers and sisters, as if you have new life in Christ, because he says you do. And as we reflect on Nehemiah chapter eleven, I think we should also remember that there are some people here. Like these leaders who are willing to live in Jerusalem, who went into harm's way for the sake of the gospel. It's not for everybody. Nehemiah 11 says it was a tenth of the people, one out of every 10. But remember that we are all called to live sacrificially. That implies, in other words, that some will go down into the pit, but the rest of us need to hold up the rope. It's what William Carey said before leaving to India in 1793. He went there to spread the gospel. He was willing to go. He knew it would be hostile. He knew it would be hard. He knew it would be trying. But he said to Andrew Fuller and other friends that were with him, I am willing to go down into the pit if you will hold the rope. And as we know from church history, Andrew Fuller and others held the rope by praying, by supporting, by traveling to fundraise for them So maybe the Lord will call some of us to live as missionaries overseas, into areas in parts of the world where it feels like you are going down into a pit. Or to be part of a church plant in an area of town where it feels like a bit of a pit in some ways, where it's dangerous, or there's challenges there. Or going to a college campus and serving there where it feels like these people do not want to hear about the things of the Lord May we be people who are willing to go if the Lord sends us there. And if we do not go, may we be the people who are holding the rope on the other end. This sacrificial living by God's covenant community was needed in God's in in Nehemiah's day It's needed in our day because ultimately the Lord wants to use the covenant community to help to facilitate joyful worship in Him. And that brings us to point three or part three Joyful worship. Joyful worship. You look at Nehemiah chapter 12, you'll see another list, but here you have the priests and the Levites. of those who returned to the land with Zerubbabel and Jeshua. So Nehemiah, what he's doing here is recounting the list of the priests and the Levites who returned, not just at this point, but who had been returning throughout years. Remember Ezra, so Ezra, who we heard about in Nehemiah chapter 8, he actually got to Jerusalem about 13 years before Nehemiah even got there. So these people returning were not the first to go back to the city. There were several waves of people And I think Nehemiah is trying to show here that there are lots of faithful people who are willing to go. There's a lineage of faithful people who are willing to go back to the city. In Ezra chapter 2, there's the first wave of returnees who went there and they were involved in rebuilding the temple. Again, that rebuilding stopped, so then it had to be restarted. That's where you get the prophecies of Haggai and Zechariah in our Bibles. So in Nehemiah chapter 12, verses 1 through 7, this is about the priests who came back with the first wave. And then in verses 8 through 9, you have the Levites who came back at that time, also followed by a list of high priests. That's in verse 12, verse 10, chapter 12. So this means that there are two groups of people here: those who returned to Jerusalem and those who helped rebuild Jerusalem. They gathered to dedicate the walls of Jerusalem that were rebuilt. So this is similar to Nehemiah chapter 8, but in case you're confused by that, this is a little bit different. This is not the same. thing that's happening as was happening in Nehemiah chapter 8. They didn't dedicate the wall of the temple in Nehemiah 8. They gathered, they heard the word and they responded Here is a specific dedication of the walls that were restored in Jerusalem. It's a culmination of all that God had been doing to bring revival to his people. to restore his remnant people and to restore them to right fellowship and to right worship. So really Nehemiah chapter 12, particularly the end, is the highlight of the book. Stay tuned for next week because it starts to dip after that. We'll talk more about that next week. But they worship joyfully. Look at verse 27. Of Nehemiah chapter 12. At the dedication of the wall of Jerusalem, they sought the Levites in all their places to bring to Jerusalem to celebrate the dedication with gladness, with thanksgiving, and with singing, with cymbals, and harps and lyres, and the sons and the singers gathered together from the district surrounding Jerusalem, and from the villages Of that village, I'm gonna skip that, and also that other village. And from the region of Giba and Ashmetheth, for the singers had built themselves villages around Jerusalem. And the priests and the Levites purified themselves, and they purified the people and the gates and the walls. Then I, verse 31, that's Nehemiah speaking. Brought the leaders of Judah up unto the wall and appointed two great choirs that gave thanks, one to the south and one on the Dungate. Stop there So this worship, this gathering, this dedication included thanksgiving and singing by God's people and instruments. Singers from all over, purification of the people by the Levites and by the priests, two choirs, not one, but two Trumpets and musical instruments of David, as in King David. God's people gathered here to sing praises to him Look down at verse 40. It says so both choirs of those who gave thanks stood in the house of God, and I and half of the officials with me. So they worshiped as God's people together in the temple because of the sacrifices that were already made by one another. And many of them made sacrifices in order to make that happen. And I think these sacrifices are alluded to starting in verse 44. Look there. Says on that day men were appointed over the storerooms, the contributions, the first fruits, and the tithes, to gather into them the portions required by the law for the priests and for the Levites, according to the fields of their towns. For Judah had rejoiced over the priests and of the Levites who ministered, and they performed the service of their God and the service of purification, as did the singers and the gatekeepers, according to the command of David and his son Solomon. For long ago, in the days of David and Asaph, they were directors of singers, and there were songs of praise and thanksgiving to God. And all Israel in the days of Zerubbabel and in the days of Nehemiah gave their daily portions for the singers and the gatekeepers, and set apart that which was for the Levites. And the Levites set that apart, which was for the sons of Aaron. So these people, after years and years of exile, after seeing a city in ruins being rebuilt After being able to hear and obey God's law again. After being purified, therefore forgiven of their sins, they commit to keep God's law. They made sacrifices in order to make the regular gathering of God's people possible. And they sang as they gathered together, likely songs of Asaph and David. Kids and teens. What did Moses and God's people do after they crossed the Red Sea? Exodus chapter fifteen. Anybody Give you a hint. We've done it today. Maybe three or four times already. They sang. They did. Exodus 15. What did Jesus and his disciples do after the Lord's Supper before Jesus would go out into the Garden of Gethsemane? It says in Matthew 26, 30 that they sang a hymn. And when the multitudes are gathered around the throne, and John's already seen a preview of What will God's people be doing? Singing. God's people are a singing people Now, what should worship of the covenant-making and covenant-keeping God sound like coming from the lips of his covenant people? In a word, it should sound joyful. Look at verse 43. And I think this is the key to this whole passage there. And this is the highlight, in my opinion, of the entire book of Nehemiah. And they offered great sacrifices that day and rejoiced, for God had made them rejoice with great joy. The women and the children also rejoiced, and the joy of Jerusalem was heard from far away. Just think of Nehemiah chapter 1. There's a stark contrast there because Nehemiah is asking about how are my people doing. And the the Jerusalem the city of Jerusalem is in ruins. The people are in fear. The people are in distress. The walls are destroyed by a fire. And now their rejoicing was heard from far away. What provided this means of their joys? How were they able to rejoice? What provides the means of our rejoicing? It's the fact that God makes and keeps his word. And he also keeps his people. So the difference between them and us is not just time period and geography. There's actually a big difference. The big difference here is that we don't need sacrifices to be offered on our behalf by priests because the final sacrifice has been offered already by our great high priest, the Lord Jesus Christ. So we can gather together and worship him in spirit and in truth joyfully because he promises to restore his remnant people and he will make good on that promise. And yes, all of our lives are meant to be an act of worship, holy and acceptable before Him. But Nehemiah chapter 12 talks a lot about music. Now I know we have some skilled musicians among us, some who could or even do get paid for what they do. Some who can read music to find the right notes and the right melodies and harmonies. Some who know if a musician makes a mistake or if they're out of tune or out of key. And then there's the rest of us who don't know what sharp or flat means, who don't know what keys are, but they probably lost them a long time ago. Well, brothers and sisters, in case you don't know whether or not you will ever be paid by anyone to be a musician, whether or not you will ever be on that stage to sing or play an instrument You are part of a great choir already. And there's no audition required. What's required for that is faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. You are not just a part, you are a critical part of this choir of God's covenant people globally, but also here at Chevrolet Baptist Church And this choir, this symphony of God's people singing and making music to him to sound joyful. Now the passage doesn't say what style of music was being played. It says the songs of David, songs of Asaph. It doesn't say whether all the people there really liked the songs or if they didn't prefer them. But it says the joy of Jerusalem was heard from far away. What a statement. I think that implies a few different things. That implies that their singing was a witness to the nations, to the peoples of the land around them. They could hear them singing. It's like, there goes God's people again. And I don't think this necessarily is about volume. I think this is more about the posture of their hearts as they were singing. And about their participation, meaning everybody, all of God's people participated in this worship towards him The question, what's the posture of your heart as you gather to worship with your brothers and sisters Now I know that rejoicing is not easy for all of us in every season of life. You might be in a season that's a hardship for you or a trial or some suffering. Remember that God has not called you to rejoice on your own. You are called to rejoice with God's people. So if we're singing like we're going to sing in a few minutes, And you need some help or some hope as you sing, as you want to sing joyfully, but you don't know how? Look around the room. Look around at your brothers and sisters singing for joy and borrow some of their joy. Borrow some of their hope. Borrow some of their encouragement. Here's another question. Are you willing to be an active participant in our corporate worship We're all called to be participants in this worship. We're called not to think much of ourselves And we're called as much as we can to try to remain undistracted. So we can give worship and praise as due for the Lord. And so we can encourage one another as we do so. Let's worship the Lord joyfully, brothers and sisters. And let's give room for our brothers and sisters in Christ to do the same. So back to my initial question. I looked at my plant. Can there be life again? My plant still needs some time, some love, some attention, some sun, because if I continue to neglect it Then guess what? It's going to remain as it is. But the answer is, with some attention, with some care, yes, there can be life again. The Lord showed us in Nehemiah that he loves to bring up life from the ashes. Beloved, the Lord can do the same in your life today. And he wants to use his people in doing so. Let's pray. Lord God, we thank you that you are the one that gives life. We thank you that you are the one that brings hope and joy out of ruins. Lord, you're the one that brings death to life. You're the one that can make things that are weak and limp, strong and vibrant. Well, I pray for our brothers and sisters this morning, those of us especially who may feel weak and limp today. Or those of us who think we are strong in our own strength. We ask that you would do a good work in all of our hearts. We ask, as the psalmist says in Psalm 82, that you would revive us, O Lord. Even today, we ask in Jesus' name. Amen