Invite you to turn in your Bibles to Ephesians chapter four. If you're using one of the Bibles at the provided around you you'll find that on page 978 of those Bibles Ephesians chapter 4 uh we've been working our way through this book if you're new to Chevroly Baptist Church or if you're just new to church in general Uh we make it our practice normally as a church to just work our way through specific books of the Bible uh verse by verse and paragraph by paragraph. We think that's a good, wise way of ensuring that it's The Lord Himself who sort of sets the agenda for what we're being instructed in, and not just the whims and desires of what I feel like talking to you about or what Tony feels like talking to you about. So we've been studying together much of this year, the book of Ephesians, and we're continuing in that study this morning. I'm going to read verses 17 through 24 this morning of Ephesians chapter 4. So give attention now as we hear God's word read. Ephesians 4 beginning in verse 17. Now this I say and testify in the Lord, that you must no longer walk as the Gentiles do, in the futility of their minds. They are darkened in their understanding, alienated from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them, due to their hardness of heart They have become callous and have given themselves up to sensuality, greedy to practice every kind of impurity. But that is not the way you learned Christ, assuming that you have heard about him and were taught in him, as the truth is in Jesus to put off your old self, which belongs to your former manner of life, and is corrupt through deceitful desires And to be renewed in the spirit of your minds, and to put on the new self, created after the likeness of God in true righteousness and holiness. This is God's word, brothers and sisters. Thanks be to God indeed. Let's ask for his help as we think about these words together. Heavenly Father, thank you for this time to open up your word. We do pray that you would use its instruction to form us more into the likeness of Christ. Make it so what we've already sung that you would make every effort of our lives display the matchless worth of Christ. Make us a living sacrifice and be glorified in us today as we consider your holy word. We pray for this in Jesus' name. Amen. In the summer of 2002, I was working at a Christian bookstore. I might have told you that before. I used to work at a Christian bookstore in State College, Pennsylvania And I was working there when a new book on leadership was published by a very well-known pastor and leader in what we might call today the church growth movement. And uh the heading that was on the big, big, bold caption on the back cover of the book said that the local church is the hope of the world. I'm not sure how that statement lands on you. The local church is the hope of the world. I'm not sure exactly what the author meant by saying that. I didn't read the book. I think initially my first thought was that's ridiculous. Jesus is the hope of the world. And Jesus is, in fact, the hope of the world. That's what brings us together here as Chevrolet Baptist Church. But to the degree that Jesus, that his physical body is in heaven now, and to the degree that the The closest that lost unbelieving people around us will come to actually seeing the hope of Jesus lived out in the world. To see the difference that the hope of Jesus makes on a people to the degree that they will not encounter him physically, but they will see his life living in and through the people who. He inhabits by his spirit. Well, I think maybe that author was right in at least in a sense that the local church, Jesus' people, his churches, are the hope of the world. But perhaps it's something like that that Jesus had in mind when he said to his kingdom citizens, that's a good name. We should make a retreat or something by that name. His kingdom citizens. In what we now call the Sermon on the Mount, when he told his disciples, you are the salt of the earth. You are the light of the world. And that's pretty wild if Jesus himself hadn't said it, because in other places Jesus says he's the light of the world. But then he turns to his disciples and he says, you're the light of the world. It may be something along these lines that the Apostle Paul himself had in mind when he instructed his young Disciple Timothy, he had stationed Timothy in Ephesus, actually, to continue the work begun in Ephesus. And he wrote Timothy a couple of letters on instructing him in that work. He said in 1 Timothy 3 that what he was writing was to help the church know how to behave, how to live in the household of God, which Paul said was a pillar and buttress of the truth. Jesus has decreed that the church would be the place on earth, his body. His people, it would be the place where people could see the truth of Christ declared and displayed. That it would be lifted high, the truth of Christ would be lifted up high and and held high for all the world to see. That's what a pillar does. It upholds and supports something. And so how we behave in the house of God, how we live as followers of Christ, matters. It matters significantly because our lives, to the degree that we're claiming Jesus as our hope Our lives hold up either the truth about God or lies about God for the world to see. That pastor who wrote that book in 2002 ended up years later resigning from his pastorate. After many allegations of sexual misconduct and abuse of power spanning decades were made known And I wonder what the world thinks when they hear and see that. See the the the quality of our lives, our holiness matters. for our witness to the Lord Jesus. And I'm starting with that emphasis this morning as we come to this text in Ephesians 4. Because I I want you as we begin to think about this whole matter of putting off the old self and putting on the new self, I don't want you only to be thinking of this as a matter of personal growth. And renewal. It's not less than that, and that's important. But I want you to see, and I want you to understand as we begin to look at this passage, that living new Distinct lives as we look to and rely upon the truth as it is in Jesus, is how the church is to act as salt and light in the world. This has to do with the church's mission, our very calling in the world. That's what the call on the Ephesian Christians who first received this letter was. They were to live as light in a dark and perverse world. We see that especially if your Bibles are still open. We'll come to this in a few weeks, in chapter 5, verse 8. That's the call on us today in Chevrolet and and Bladensburg and Bowie and Crofton and Everywhere that we go, we are called to be a salty people. We're called to be light. You putting off the old self and being renewed in the spirit of your minds and putting on the new self It has to do with what happens. It's Chevley Day. It happens, it has to do with what happens in your workplace or your neighborhood or your school or your fitness centers It's how Jesus means to change the world. It's how he actually has been changing the world over the past 2,000 years. So, do you want to be a part of changing the world? I mean, come on, we're right around DC. This is why this is why people move to DC to be world changers. And having ambition in a whole lot of different spheres, that can be a good thing. But if you want to change the world for Jesus, then God's call on us is to not live like lost people. But to live as those who have learned Christ. I think that's the main point of this paragraph. This is God's word for us today, Chevrolet Baptist Church. from Ephesians 4, verses 17 through 24, live like those who have learned Christ. How does that work? How do we, how does learning Christ lead to living a new life? Well, that's what the rest of the paragraph teaches us. And I'm going to try to summarize its instruction for you in two exhortations. Learning Christ teaches you, one, to change your clothes. I'll explain that. Not asking you to go, you know, to the restroom right now and change. Change your clothes and renew your minds. I think that's what the Lord wants us to consider from this passage this morning. May He give us grace to listen attentively and to be doers of His word, not mere hearers of it. So live, live like those who have learned Christ. This is a strong and serious admonition from the Apostle Paul. Look at verse 17. He says Now this I say, and testify in the Lord. There's a certain weight And solemnity to this charge. I think especially in those words, he could just say, I'm testifying, I'm saying, don't live like Gentiles. But for him to stop and say, I'm saying to you and I'm testifying in the Lord He's seeing himself as a witness in a courtroom, as it were, under authority, the authority of the Lord Jesus, addressing those who are under the authority of the risen Christ. Now this I say and testify in the Lord that you must no longer walk as the Gentiles do. Now what's interesting is that we know that many of the Christians who received this letter in the first century in the city of Ephesus, they were themselves Gentiles. Paul says that in chapter 2, verse 11. He says it again in chapter 3, verse 1. They were Gentiles. They were ethnically, they were Gentiles. They were not Jewish people. But now, what he says to these Gentile Christians, as those who have now learned Christ, they're no longer to walk. That's language for a way of life, how you're living your life. They're no longer to walk as they formerly had. See verse 22 there refers to their former manner of life That's their old self, the way they had been living before they had come to know God in Christ. But they were to put off that old way of life, that old self. That old identity, put that away because that's not how you've learned Christ. He's given you new clothes now. So put them on, saints. Kids, have you ever have you ever come downstairs for church? Maybe this even happened today. You don't have to raise your hands if it did But has it ever happened where you come downstairs maybe dressed for church or some other fancy event and your mom or dad said, no, no, no, no, no, you need to go upstairs. And you need to change. You can't go to church or where you can't go dress like that. Well, that's sort of what Paul was saying to the Ephesians here and to Christ's followers today. There's a certain wardrobe, if you will. That is appropriate for, that is befitting of the great event that has happened to our lives of knowing Christ, learning Christ. There's a way of living, there's a manner of life that's in harmony with the glory of your calling. That's what Paul had said back in chapter 4, verse 1. Walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you have been called. And now he's returning that same idea. Walking, no longer walking as the Gentiles, as you walked when you were Gentiles. But putting on new wardrobe that is befitting of our calling in Christ. So just baked into this very weighty and solemn charge. is the the reality that you actually have a new self to put on. That you no longer need to live in those old Gentile ways. that belong to your former manner of life because you're new now, Christians. He does not say, create for yourselves a new self. He says, put it on, because it's been provided for you. Verse 24 says, it's created after. That's not something that you do. Remember Ephesians 2 verse 10, you are God's workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God has prepared for you to walk in. You don't create a new self, you put on a new self that God has provided for you. That's how you learned Christ. That's the reality that we considered in our scriptural cult. It's how we began our worship gathering this morning. If anyone is in Christ, He's a new creation. The old has passed away. Behold, the new has come. Verses 17 through 19 in context here are a reminder. It's an ugly reminder. It's pretty vivid and grim and honest. It's a reminder, though, in this context, about that old self that's passed away These verses are here in Ephesians 4, not to expound on what we might call today the doctrine of total depravity, though these verses could be used to explain that biblical teaching. These verses in context are not here to convince an unbeliever, someone who's maybe considering the Christian faith, about the condition that they're currently in. Though it could be used for that purpose. We want to be very honest with you. If you're visiting and you're a guest with us at Chevrolet Baptist Church, you're not sure what you believe. This is in fact what the Bible says, not just about you as a lost person, as an unbelieving person, but about all of us. What we all once have been. These verses are here to remind Christians of what they once were, but no longer are And as I said, it's a pretty grim picture. The self, this is very different than what our culture teaches us. The self is not a blank slate in relation to God. The self is not basically good, so that we should just be true to it in order to be happy. No, what he says here is that this old self, the Gentile way of walking, is futile in mind, empty, worthless You have a mind to know and love and worship God. And so if you're not using your mind for that, then you have a feudal mind. A mind that is darkened in its understanding, blind to the light of the glory of God. You have a mind that's alienated from the life of God. You're a strange. If you're if you're living life for you, In disregard of God, it's because of ignorance that is in you. Not that you have a low SAT score. That's not the point here. But there's there's a willful suppression of the truth that you were made by God and for God to live for him, and yet we as human beings, we've perverted that And we've turned the wonderful declaration, the wonderful doxology of Romans 11 from him and through him and to him are all things. As human beings, we've actually decided to turn that to ourselves. From me, through me, to me are all things. To me be glory forever. That's ignorant, and it's due to hardness of heart, Paul says. There's a callousness. I'm not making up these words, you understand, right? This is verses 17 through 19. There's a callousness, a hardness. That consequently leads to enslavement, bondage, to sensuality, with a continual thirst for more and more impurity. This old self has is corrupt. Through deceitful desires. What an earth-shattering concept in the year 2025 in the United States of America that the apostle could put together the words deceitful and desires. Your desires are not the measure of truth. They're deceitful desires that corrupt Because they alienate and harden and estrange us from the God who made us and who loves us and who created us to live for Him. This is part of what the Ephesian Christians had learned and heard and been taught in Christ. You remember chapter 2, where Paul had reminded them that they were They had at one time been dead in their trespasses and walking according to the pattern of this world and enslaved in bondage to the devil, and were by nature children of wrath. And that's the true, that's the spiritual condition that we all once were living in as rebels against the righteous rule of the Almighty and good and wise creator of heaven and earth. And so, if we're here and we've tasted something of the love of Christ Then we really do, if we're thinking rightly, we would be standing amazed in the presence of Jesus the Nazarene and wondering how he could love us, sinners, condemned, and unclean. And this is the truth that brings us together. This is the truth. This is the promise that the prophet Ezekiel was making to the people of Israel that we heard Aaron read to us earlier, that God would create, he would make for himself, for his people, new hearts. That he'd remove from them hearts of stone, hard, obstinate, rebellious hearts, that he'd take that stone, uh that heart of stone out from them, and that'd give them a soft, malleable, a heart of flesh that would that would be restored to the purpose that he made them for, to live according to his statutes. And in Christ, that's what God has done This is how the Ephesian Christians, this is how you, whether you're saying yes in your heart right now or saying yes out loud, and I never have a problem with you saying yes out loud. how you have come to learn Christ. You have learned that in Christ the old has passed away. And behold, new things have come. This is what we were taught in Christ, that when we were dead in our trespasses and sin, God, chapter 2, verse 4, being rich in mercy, Because of the great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses, he made us alive together with Christ. This is the truth as it is in Jesus. This is what it means to learn Christ. You've been made alive with Christ. By grace you've been saved, he says, and you've been raised with Christ and seated with Christ in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus. And it's all because we have in faith, if we've come here trusting in Jesus, we by faith we've trusted and we've tasted and we've seen something of his love. That's something else that the Ephesians had been instructed in, right? Paul prayed for them, that they would have strength to comprehend the breadth and length and height and depth, and to know the love of Christ that surpasses knowledge. That for people like us, the Son of God came. He, the one through whom all things were made, the one who had Enjoyed his Father's glory and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit from all eternity, that this Jesus would suffer himself to be despised and rejected. That he would come and live as a man of sorrows, acquainted with grief, that the source of all life would submit himself to death, even death on a cross. That for me it was in the garden. He prayed, not my will, but thine be done, that he sweat drops of blood. That he cried out, if there's any way, Father, that this cup could pass from me, the cup of the Father's wrath, that we should be drinking, if there's any way that it could pass, let it pass, but not my will, Jesus prayed. But thine be done. And then he drank that cup. And he suffered that punishment, so that we, sinners though we are, hell deservers that we are, so that we could come to him and find rest For our souls in Him. Come to me, all you who are weary and heavy laden, Jesus said, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you, he said. He didn't just say come and I'll give you rest. He said, take my yoke upon you and learn from me. Thinking about that path. Learning Christ. Hmm, where's where would that language be? It's a very strange phrase. The commentators would say. There's no other to this day, I believe still. There has been nothing ever found in the Greek language, in the Bible, or anywhere else that speaks of learning a person in the way that Paul says there in Ephesians 4. 20, you learned Christ. I thought, oh, learning Christ, that makes me think of Matthew 11. Come to me, Jesus said, that you could find rest for your souls. And not just rest like come and find rest and then go to sleep for a while. But no, come and find rest, and I'm gonna restore you to the very reason for your existence, which is to yoke yourself up, to submit yourself to me and to my good and wise and loving rule, to a new way of life. where you would not find it burdensome anymore to live for me, but where you would find my yoke to be easy and my burden to be light, because it is a light thing It is a joyful thing, a life-giving thing to live your life and submit yourself to one who was willing to lay down his life for you. I mean, how could it be misery? How could it be bondage to live for someone who was willing to bear eternal misery on your behalf? J. C. Ryle, the Bible commentator J. C. Ryle said this on Matthew 11. He said, his yoke is no more a burden than the feathers are to a bird. His commandments are not grievous. His ways are ways of pleasantness, and all is path or peace. This is how we learned Christ, brothers and sisters. What a kindness it is to be yoked under the good and light and generous rule of King Jesus. And if you have come in here and you maybe have not submitted yourself to Jesus, this is what we would call and invite you into this morning. That you would recognize that living for yourself is actually a cruel and oppressive burden And if you've begun if you've experienced any kind of disillusionment with living for yourself and where that leads you, we would invite you to repent, to turn away from living for yourself and find rest. in the loving arms of the Lord Jesus Christ, because in living for Him, it is not always easy to live for Him, but His yoke is easy in that living for Him is always the way to peace and lasting eternal joy. We would invite you into that even this morning. Most of you here, you have come to Jesus in that way. And you're learning from him, and you've heard of him, and you've been taught in him to put off the old self and to put on the new self, which is created after the likeness of God in righteousness and holiness, the righteousness and holiness of the truth. That's born from our embrace of the truth in Christ. Beloved, living for Christ Pursuing obedience and holiness and obeying, seeking to grow in walking according to his commands, putting off the old self, putting on the new self. It's not like a trip to the motor vehicle administration. You understand that? It's like building a Mount Rushmore of majestic grandeur. It's like being cultivated into the first fruits of a whole new creation. I mean this this is where the world is going. If we really want to be progressive in the best sense of the word, in the most biblical sense of the world, if we really want to be on the right side of history This is what we want to give ourselves to, because the end of history is a new heavens and a new earth in which righteousness dwells. In which the glory of God fills the earth as the waters cover the sea, where Christ is all and in all. So if you want to be progressive, You start living for Jesus. Because that's where the world is going. And yet, there has to be an at-yet. In your souls, you might feel an anyet. As wonderful as all this sounds, life on the ground, changing clothes like this, it's it doesn't always feel majestic. There's all this glory of newness. I hope you've tasted that, Christians. That'd be a good thing to talk about after the. I know we have a members meeting after the service, but maybe after the members meeting. What are some ways that you've experienced the newness of Jesus' light and easy yoke over you There's all this newness, and yet we still need to be told here to put off the old self and to put on the new. That's a little weird. If the old self has passed away, your old self, Paul says in Romans 6, your old self has died. Why do we have to put it away? It's dead. And yet Paul says even here, look at verse 22, he speaks of that old self. As belonging to your former manner of life. That's the dead part of you. But he says it's it is corrupt. Do you see that? That's a present tense. It is corrupt. Some of the translations say, and I think a little bit more literally, it's being corrupted. The old self that is dead, that's not you anymore, is being corrupted through deceitful desires So we have this new self. If we've come to Jesus, we have this new self, this new life, the mind of Christ, Paul says in 1 Corinthians 2 And yet we still need to be taught and exhorted to be renewed in an ongoing way, be renewed in the spirit of our minds, so that we live in light of what is really actually true of us. That's a little bit hard to get our minds around. But that's part of living for Christ. It's part of learning Christ. I'm helped by thinking about it this way. Maybe this will help you. Picture a young girl, maybe seven or eight years old, and she is adopted into a new family. And think about her first day with her adopted family. She has, because she's been adopted, she has a new self. She has a new status. She's a child of this new family, a new identity. But on that first day in her family, she she struggles to live out that new identity. She struggles to be in her actual life and practice who she really has become. So maybe she moves around nervously in her new home. fearing one of the beatings that she used to get when she broke something in the house. Her toys maybe go untouched because she can't really believe that they're actually for her At dinner time, she's stuffing food into her pockets because she doesn't know when another meal might happen. Well, what's going on with this young girl? Well, she hasn't yet grasped. She's not yet living in light of the implications of her new self, her new identity. Her fundamental understanding of herself has not yet changed, though her status has changed. And so she's still living like an orphan She needs to be renewed in the spirit of her mind. The way to help that little girl would not be to scold her with a bunch of do's and don'ts. Come on, play with those toys. Stop putting food in your pockets. Don't do that. She needs to be helped to grasp who she really is now. Because what she does and how she lives is going to be driven by how she understands herself and who she understands herself to be. And so Ephesians 1. 4, God says, well, it's the first of the spiritual blessings that Paul recounts. I've chosen you before the foundation of the world to be holy and blameless before me. I've predestined you in love for adoption. As sons through Jesus Christ. In Christ, by grace, through faith, we have a new self. We have a new identity. We are, if we've trusted in Christ, we are children of God. And we have a new destiny to be holy and blameless before him. We have a new self. Christian, your adoption papers have been signed in the precious blood of Christ. But like the little girl in that illustration, we can struggle to put on the new clothes that come with or befit that new status. Our desires and our feelings still trick us. They're still deceitful desires that we have to war against. And so we need to be renewed in the spirit of our minds so that we are increasingly educated in the schoolroom of the Lord Jesus, so that we realize from one degree of glory to another, what's really true of us so that we begin increasingly to live like we truly are. And you could you would see the Apostle Paul, if you want to study God's word, you can see Paul doing this everywhere in the New Testament. He's gonna do it later in Ephesians. He's gonna talk about not being bitter and angry and wrathful, but being kind and tender-hearted, forgiving. As God in Christ forgave you. He's gonna commend generosity and sacrificial giving from the Corinthians, and he's gonna tell, he's gonna exhort them to give. He's gonna say, You know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ. That though he was rich, yet for your sake he became poor, so that you by his poverty might become rich. He's going to exhort the Philippians to count others more significant than themselves and not look to their own interest. And he's going to say, have that mind among yourselves which is also yours in Christ. Who didn't count equality with God, a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself by taking the form of servant and being born in the likeness of man, he humbled himself and became obedient even to the point of death. Paul's doing this all the time. The apostles are doing this all the time Don't live in sexual immorality. Why? Because you're not your own anymore. You've been bought with a price And this renewal. So we're to be renewed with the truth as it is in Christ. And it's it's mind renewal. Be renewed in the spirit of your minds. And we understand people like people ask questions like this, like, are you out of your mind? Right? What were you thinking? You know better than that. We talk like that. Because we understand this reality. That not walking rightly is a result of not thinking rightly So, one of Satan's strategies to keep us wallowing in the mire and filth of our old self would be to foster an anti-intellectual culture where people learn to just live off of vibes and feelings. And sound bites. It would be one of the enemy's tactics to convince people that if they're thinking carefully and rigorously, they're probably being unspiritual. That's not authentic. It's it's real if you feel it to be so. It would be part of his strategy to distract us and dull our minds so that we can't think very long and very hard about much of anything. Kids, if your parents have want have need to talk to you sometimes about screen time and how much screen time you're having, it's a concern like this. It doesn't mean it's a sin or it's wrong to have any screen time at all, but your parents are concerned that you learn to think so that you can love and live for Jesus. Because these screens, when we stare at them all the time, parents, I'm not just talking to the kids here, can dull our minds. And that can stunt the growth of our souls in conformity to the likeness of Jesus. Say, well, this sounds like work. I just kind of want to. I don't want to think so hard. I don't want to work so hard. You know, I've been a Christian for eight years, eleven years, seventeen years. I just think it ought to be easy by now. I just want to be new. Well it's not that that's not how it works. I'm sorry, that's not how it works. Paul says we destroy arguments and we take every lofty opinion raised against the knowledge of God and we take Thought we take captive every thought and make it obedient to Christ. We wrestle, we're in a boxing match with thoughts to bring them in subjection to the Lordship of Christ. You're not going to get to maturity without that. You'll have to learn how to think like a Christian in order to walk like a Christian. So let me offer you three quick suggestions about that before we close, how to do that. And these are not original. I think I've told you them all before. They're not creative, but I think they're faithful. You can test them by God's word yourself. First, okay, we're talking about how to be renewed now in the spirit of your mind. Practically, what does that look like? Number one, sit under, devote yourself, and I'm preaching, I'm literally preaching to the choir on this one. Sit yourself regularly under the preaching of God's word. Sit under the preaching of God's word I am not just saying that to keep myself employed as we prepare to present you the 2026 budget in a few minutes That flows right out of the context of Ephesians 4 in verse 11 where he talks about pastors, shepherds, teachers given to the church to equip the saints for ministry. And it flows out of Paul's exhortation to Timothy, who he'd left in Ephesus to do the work of building up the church there. He says to Timothy in 2 Timothy 4, I charge you, Timothy, in the presence of God. And of Christ Jesus, who is to judge the living and the dead, and by his appearing and by his kingdom, preach the word. I'm not aware of a single commandment in the Bible that is packed with that kind of weight on the front end of the commandment. Not just, hey, I'm telling you, Timothy, preach. But I'm charging you in the presence of God and of Christ Jesus, who is to judge the living and the dead, and by his appearing, and by his kingdom. Timothy, preach the word. People are going to have some itching ears. They're going to want you to suit their own passions, but preach the word to them. If the daily process of putting off and putting on is like the lifelong building of a heavenly sort of Mount Rushmore Then week after week after week, what I'm endeavoring to do, what Tony's endeavoring to do, whoever is standing up here, David Mathis next week endeavoring to do, we're here week by week to just drive a hammer like one shink at a time into that stone, fashioning you in to the glory, not of some president whose head would be on a mountain, but in the in the image of the King of Kings and Lord of Lords So we who stand here give ourselves to preparing in light of that. And I exhort and encourage you, and you do this faithfully. You do this faithfully, brothers and sisters. to give yourselves to preparing to receive the word of God like that. In praying for the preaching of God's word, in reading the sermon passage ahead of time and discussing it. These are ways that you are preparing to put off the old self and to be renewed in the spirit of your minds and put on the new self. Devote yourself to the preaching of God's word. Along those lines is the preaching of God's word is not the only way that you're to take in the word of God. Give yourself, secondly, to reading and memorizing the scriptures daily I have hidden your word in my heart, that I might not sin against you. All scripture Is God breathed, breathed out by God and profitable for teaching and correction and reproof and for training in righteousness, that we might be fully equipped for every good work. So my takeaway, honestly, practically my takeaway from studying God's word this week has been I got to get back on the memorized Ephesians bandwagon Because I fell off, brother. I'm sorry, but I'm getting back on talking to George. He exhorted us at the beginning of the year. And if you've fallen off that bandwagon, get on that bandwagon. The memorized Ephesians bandwagon. If that feels daunting, and it may feel daunting, but it it may be a year-long, a two-year-long endeavor, and that's okay. That's a godly investment of time. Maybe it's not an entire book of the Bible, but if it's the verses that are most helpful for you or a paragraph, maybe it's this paragraph, Ephesians 4, 17 through 24 Or all those spiritual blessings in Ephesians 1, 3 through 14 that Paul speaks of, devote yourself to immersing yourself in God's word. That's how we identify and expose and take captive those thoughts that might be deceptive, that would set themselves up against the knowledge of God, is by being renewed in the truth of God's word. Jesus said If you'll walk as my disciples, if you'll abide in my word, you'll be my disciples, and you'll know the truth, and the truth will set you free So devote yourself to the preaching of God's word, devote yourself to reading and memorizing the scriptures daily. Third Spend time in fellowship with other Christians who will labor to well no let me say it this way Spend time in fellowship with other Christians and do what you can to ensure that the deepest and dearest friendships that you have are with those who will help you put off the old self. And be renewed in the spirit of your minds and put on the new self. All the verses here in Ephesi. I mean, this is right out verses 15 and 16, it's like speaking the truth in love. We are to grow together into him who is the head. And all these verses, y'all shouldn't be walking like the Gentiles. It all just looks like you individually. All the you's are y'all's in Ephesians 4:17 through 24. This is not how y'all learned Christ. You've been taught to be renewed in the spirit of y'all's minds. That's not very good English, I know, which is why they just it doesn't say it in your English Bible. But it's all plural. Sometimes we really emaciate our Christian lives by our diminished understanding of the second person plural throughout the New Testament. We need God's people speaking truth. Sin is deceitful. I prayed that earlier, Hebrews 3:13. Exhort one another. We need the loving exhortations of others. We need the probing questions of faithful brothers and sisters to help us see what we might not be inclined to see ourselves. And that's a that's a s that's a stewardship and a responsibility that we each need to take very carefully and we need to handle gently The book of Proverbs says, to make an apt answer is a joy to a man, and a word in season, how good it is. But that does imply, doesn't it, that there could be unseasonable words. You don't need to walk up to anybody that's just you know lost a loved one and say, you know, God works all things for good. You understand there some words are good they are good words, but it's not the season. But we know the other proverb says that he who walks with the wise grows wise. But a companion of fools suffers harm. Teenagers, I would especially exhort you as you think about your whole life of relationships. You should try to be friends with all kinds of different people But you should think very carefully. Those of you that are maybe old enough to start be thinking about dating, you should also be thinking about this. Don't just look for a person who's fun to be around or who's cute. Think about who are the people that will help me to be more like Christ. Those are the people to really lean your weight into, young people, in relationships. The people who will help you to become more like Christ. Who are your biggest influencers today? Are they helping you to put on the new self or are they helping you to revert back to the old and dead self? That's something for us to consider this morning. I should wrap this up. Uh one of the great motto of church ministry that I've uh embraced for a few years now and I've been thinking about it a lot this year. I've heard it attributed to Bill Gates. He's not one that you would generally think to learn church strategy from. I've also heard it addressed or mentioned by James Montgomery Boyce. Who was a pastor in Philadelphia, 10th Presbyterian Church? I'm going to just go with him. The same council, actually. But it's the idea that we maybe have a tendency to overestimate what we can do in one year. But underestimate what we can do in 20 years. So, beloved, I just want you to think about that as it pertains to your growth in putting off the old self and putting on the new self. Don't judge what God is doing in your life or how much you're growing by what's happened over the past three months or what's going to happen in the next three months or even the next three years. God is making his people from one degree of glory to another into the first fruits of a new creation. But if you've ever sat and watched fruit grow You've probably not sat and watched fruit grow because it happens very slowly and you really can't see it. As we give ourselves to the regular intake of God's word in the public preaching of it and in our personal intake as we as we give ourselves to one another In the loving commitment to care for each other and to watch over each other and to encourage and admonish one another as occasion requires. What we will find happening is the likeness of God growing in us in true righteousness and holiness. God will make us to be oaks of righteousness. the planting of the Lord, that he may be glorified. So put yourself in places where those nourishing waters of his grace flow And I think you will find that you are growing. Not always perceptively, but really and truly, you will find the spirit of your minds being renewed. Until one day you shine like the sun in the kingdom of your father. And if we've got, let's say, 20 years till that blessed day comes. I hope I'm still here to taste and see the good fruit of what God might do with new resolves for righteousness and holiness that would emerge even this year as we've studied the book of Ephesians. It's gonna be beautiful. And maybe with God's blessing Maybe as we all resolve and aspire to live like those who have learned Christ, maybe we might even get to be a part of changing the world. Re uh I'm almost done. Okay. But just hear this please. Resist resist the lie That you need to be somewhere that looks strategic or catalytic in order to make a difference in this world It may be in a cubicle, it may be in your kitchen, it may be in a hospital consulting room or in a hospital sickbed, might be on a sales floor or a classroom. Or at a table at Chevrolet Day. Devote yourself to being a Christian there. Be salt there. Be committed to putting off the old self and to being renewed in the spirit of your minds and to put on the new self there And we have no idea what God might do through us in 20 years or 200 years. Let's pray Heavenly Father, we want you to make us more like Jesus. We've tasted and seen that you are good. We've tasted and seen that we are not yet what we will one day be. Would you help us to not grow weary of this slow and often imperceptible work of being renewed? That we would with increasing brightness and clarity reflect Jesus, our great Savior and our great King. We ask this all in Jesus' name. Amen.