Well good morning, brothers and sisters. Good to be with you. In case you don't know me, my name is Tony and I'm one of the pastors here. Uh have the privilege to serve here at Chevrolet Baptist Church and we'll lead our time together in God's Word, which will be uh in Exodus chapters 20 through 24. Before we get there, let me offer up another word of prayer. Well God, your love for us is marvelous Help us to behold your great love today. Give us grace, give us wisdom, give us humility, give us love, give us joy. As we turn to your word, we pray you would use your word this morning once again. With the power of your Holy Spirit to convict us, to correct us, to comfort us, and to change us, but we will look more like your son Jesus as a result. In his name. Amen. In the year 2008, then Nebraska Senator Ernie Chambers filed a lawsuit. And this lawsuit was actually filed against God. Chambers was seeking a permanent injunction against God For what he calls God's harmful activities in the world. Now, the court case was emitially dismissed Because God could not properly be notified of the suit since there's no address for God. The senator responded in saying, God is omniscient and omnipotent. He knows everything, so he should know that he will be having his day in court. The case, as you can guess, was eventually thrown out. Although Chambers did have his day in court, but according to the records, God did not show up for it. Now while that seems silly, have you and I ever put God on trial before? Maybe we put his character on trial Maybe his word. Last week, in our time together, we learned about God's covenant, which included the which includes the Ten Commandments. And in general, I think more or less we're okay with the Ten Commandments. Right? There's even a push in some places around our nation to post the commandments up in classrooms again. But what about other passages? In the rest of Exodus 20 through 23, we see many more laws. Laws that relate to altars, that relate to slavery, that relate to justice. Some passages that are interesting to say the least, like Exodus 23, 19, you shall not boil a young goat in its mother's milk. Like, okay, interesting. Then there's other passages that are shocking to our ears. Exodus 22, 18. You shall not permit a sorceress to live. What do we do with those passages? Have any of those passages or passages like them in God's Word ever lead you to put God on trial and ask questions like, why is this in the Bible? What does this even mean? How is it even relevant? And again, what should we do about such passages? Should we unhitch ourselves, therefore, from the Old Testament or release some of these surprising or challenging passages? Should we conclude that in dealing with God's word, we're actually dealing with two different gods, a God of the Old Testament, and then a new God in the New Testament? Or, or does the Lord intend to teach his people throughout all time about himself and about his covenant, even through these commandments? And if he does intend to teach us, what should we learn? To answer those questions, please meet me in the book of Exodus If you haven't turned there this morning, we will start in Exodus chapter 24, which in the Bible is provided, that's on page 64. And if you don't have a Bible of your own, we encourage you to take that Bible, that copy of God's Word, as a gift from us to you Today we'll be in part two of this mini-series within the book of Exodus, exploring God's covenant to his dearly loved people. And really, Exodus chapters 19 provides the introduction to that covenant, and that conclusion actually concludes in Exodus chapter 24, when the covenant is ratified. So in Exodus chapters 20, verse 22, roughly through Exodus 23, verse 19, you have an exposition, an explanation of the Ten Commandments. Where God is giving directly to his people at that time how it should apply to them. In Exodus 23, starting in verse 22 Through chapter 24, you have the Lord explaining just what he will provide for his covenant people in the midst of this covenant ceremony. So as we walk through this passage together, we'll learn about the place of these laws and what these laws teach us about this God who makes and keeps covenant with his people. What he requires and what he provides. So if you're taking notes together, this is the main idea, which is the same as last week about God's covenant. God loves his people and he wants them to love him back. God loves his people and he wants them to love him back. And based on our passages for this morning, we'll ask and answer two questions related to God's covenant. Question one: what does God require? And question two, what does God provide? Question one, what does God require? I'm going to read Exodus chapter 24, the whole chapter for us. This is the word of the Lord. Then he said to Moses, Come up to the Lord, you, and Nad and Aaron, and Nadab, and Abihu, and as and seventy of the elders of Israel, and worship from afar. Moses alone shall come near to the Lord, but the others shall not come near, and the people shall not come up with him. And Moses came and told the people all the words of the Lord and all the rules. And all the people answered with one voice and said, All the words that the Lord has spoken, we will do. And Moses wrote down all the words of the Lord. He rose early in the morning and built an altar at the foot of the mountain and twelve pillars according to the twelve tribes of Israel. And he sent young men of the people of Israel, who offered burnt offerings and sacrificed peace offerings of oxen to the Lord. And Moses took half of the blood and put it in basins, and half of the blood he threw against the altar. Then he took the book of the covenant and read it in the hearing of the people. And they said, All that the Lord has spoken, we will do, and we will be obedient. And Moses took the blood and threw it on the people and said, Behold the blood of the covenant that the Lord has made with you in accordance with all these rules. Then Moses and Aaron and Nadab and Abihu and 70 of the elders of Israel went up, and they saw the God of Israel. There was under his feet as it were a pavement of sapphire stone, like the very heaven for in clearness, and he did not lay his hand on the chief men of the people of Israel. They beheld God and ate and drank. Then the Lord said to Moses, Come up to me on the mountain and wait there, that I may give you the tablets of stone with the law and the commandment, which I have written for their instruction. So Moses rose with his assent assistant Joshua, and Moses went up into the mountain of God And he said to the elders, Wait here for us until we return to you. And behold, Aaron and her are with you. Whoever has a dispute, let him go to them. Then Moses went up onto the mountain, and the cloud covered the mountain. The glory of the Lord dwelt on Mount Sinai, and the cloud covered it six days. And on the seventh day he called To Moses out of the midst of the cloud. Now the appearance of the glory of the Lord was like a devouring fire on top of the mountain in the sight of the people of Israel. Moses entered the cloud and went up on the mountain. And Moses was on the mountain for 40 days and 40 nights. Moses hears all these words from the Lord. What words? The words that follow the Ten Commandments, known as the Book of the Covenant. And again, in the book of the covenant, you basically have an explanation and application of the Ten Commandments by God Himself, applying His word to His people in their context. God's people hear these words and they respond by saying, we do. Verse 3, all the words the Lord has spoken, we will do. Verse 7, all the the that the Lord has spoken we will do and we will be obedient. So what did they hear What does God require? Again, back to our question. Here's one answer to what God requires. Worship. It's worship. Hold your place in Exodus 24. We'll get that back there later on in our time in God's Word, but flip back to Exodus chapter 20. In answering, what does God require? We'll take a survey of this book of the covenant, which we find in Exodus chapters twenty through twenty-three. And if your eyes glance over Exodus chapter 20, verses 22 through 26, here the Lord gives instructions to his people about rightly worshiping him. He tells them that they are to make an altar for sacrifices. We just read in Exodus chapter 24 that they will use that altar and make sacrifices to the Lord. In Exodus 20, the Lord says he wants that altar to be made simply. He wants it to be pure. He wants it to be undefiled. He don't even want their hands to really touch it. This signifies the the kind of worship that the Lord wants from his people. The Lord even says that they would not be allowed to go up the steps of the altars as people would have done in Egypt for other altars given to other gods at that time. In other words, God demands to be worshipped on his terms only And as we'll see later, the people could not come up to God, they're told here, but God would come down to them. So these laws about altars relate back to the first table of the Ten Commandments. You were here last week, we talked about the two tables of the law, the first Four commandments about loving God, the the last six commandments about loving our neighbor. And the Lord sincerely wants us to love him with all of our heart, soul, mind, and strength. He wants us to worship him In that way. And that's also why in our passage we have laws around the Sabbath year and also laws around festivals. To look over to Exodus chapter 23, verses 10 through 19 In verses 10 through 12, you have the Lord talking about what would become the year of the Jubilee, allowing the poor and allowing the foreigners to glean from the land. It will be a Sabbath rest for the land. And gleaning so that all people could enjoy the fruits and the produce. Again, referring back to commandment number four, shall keep the Sabbath. Verse 13, the Lord says that you should not make any mention of other gods. Again, referring back to the first three commandments. And then you have verses 14 through 19 and talk about all these festivals, the feast of the unleavened bread, which the Lord introduced for them that night of the Passover. And also the feast of the harvest, the feast of the end-gathering. Why these feasts? So that God's people would remember his word and also remember his mercy towards them. What do these passages teach us about God? They teach us that the Lord requires worship from his people. He's worthy of it. He demands it. And his worship and worship of him should be on his terms. That's part of what we see in the book of the covenant And the Lord also requires that his people live justly. So answer number two: of what does the Lord require? He requires worship, and he also requires justice. Look at Exodus chapter 21. Exodus chapter 21 In this chapter, we have several examples of what are called case laws, meaning laws that are referred to a specific scenario on a specific time people, time period. And many of these case laws are some of the laws that makes people like us want to put God and his word on trial. There might even be some YouTuber making a video as we speak. But as we unpack some of these, we'll see what the Lord is really calling his people to do. He's calling his people to apply the second table of the law: you shall love your neighbor as yourself. Let's look through some of these laws together. Exodus 21. I'll read verses 2 to verse 6 When you buy a Hebrew slave, he shall serve six years, and the seventh year he shall go out for free, for nothing. And if he comes in single, he shall go out single. If he comes in married, then his wife shall go out with him. If his master gives him a wife, and she bears him sons or daughters, the wife and her children shall Be it be uh excuse me, the wife and her children shall be her masters, and he shall go out alone But if the slave says plainly, I love my master, my wife, and my children, and I will not go out free, then his master shall bring him to God, and he shall bring him to the door of the doorpost. And his master shall bore his ear through with an owl, and he shall be his slave forever. All right, so we need to talk about these laws. Israel's service here, these service laws or slave laws, was not like the slavery in Egypt. And was also not like the slavery in this country Most people would have had small businesses, and the slaves would have been more like these contract workers or employees. So this would have been a voluntary workforce. Typically it would have lasted for six years, and then they would be released of their duties by the seventh year. So buying here would have been more like hiring as an independent contractor, or kind of like today, even with sports analysis, they talk about soccer. Talk about this player being bought or sold. It's kind of working in the same way here. So God's laws here are now about oppressing people based on their race or their background or their ethnicity. Again, like slavery was in this nation and also in Egypt, the slavery that God rescued them from. So these slave or service laws also preserved, as we see there, the unity of the family. Again, unlike slavery in this country and slavery into Egypt. You see that in verses 3 and 4, where it talks about keeping the family united and together. These laws protected all sorts of workers, guaranteeing them the right to regain their freedom at the end of their service. Again, going against the Egyptian practice of enslaving people for their lives. So biblical law also allowed service out of love rather than necessity, as we heard in verses 5 through 6. The ear would be pierced, symbolizing that the master had the servant's ear. And then there's verses 7 through 11. If you look there, glance over that, where it talks specifically about women. And there's this language there about the selling of women. What's that all about? This would have been about the father, the father of a family, of a daughter, trying to improve her family and that daughter's prospect of marriage. Again, this would have been a society that still had arranged marriages, and that would have been the norm. But if you read over those verses, you'll see that God's law actually protects women. If that relationship or if that woman going into this family to work, if that didn't work out, she could be ransomed by her own family. If she was engaged, she would be treated as a daughter of that family through the engagement was had. If that engagement ended, the man who initially engaged her Would need to provide for the woman so that she would not be poor. So again, these laws, they're hard for many of us to hear, but there's actually mercy within these laws God is calling his people to be just to all people. And even think about verse 16 of this passage, chapter 21, where Slave trading and man stealing was strictly forbidden. Exodus twenty one sixteen Whoever steals a man and sells him, and anyone who is found in possession of him shall be put to death. Biblical law here also gave you look down at verses 26 and 27 immediate freedom to those who are working in someone's home and if they suffered physical abuse God's word says if that were to happen, they would be set free because you are not supposed to lay your hands on them This means collectively, brothers and sisters, that people, past and present, who use the Bible and even passages like this to justify slavery have missed the point and they've missed the heart of the justice. of God. The Lord wanted his people to live justly, by being just towards all of their neighbors, including the lowly neighbors in their society, regardless of their status. And that's why the Lord has more to say in this passage in the book of the covenant about justice. That's why he gave laws about intentional and unintentional homicide. So Exodus 21. 12 through 14. There's also laws about the value of life in 21 verses 12 through 17. It's an outworking of honoring your mother and father, for example. An outworking of do not commit adultery, for example, or do not steal, or do not murder. God explains what will happen to his people if that happens. And therefore he's showing them mercy by warning them. And in those sections and the like, you have what's called as talion laws, meaning that the punishment for a law or crime, it must fit the crime. The punishment must fit the crime. That's where you get the phrase an eye for an eye, or tooth or tooth. And so, life, if life was taken, if that commandment was broken, what would you give for a life? God's word says there: a life That's not the Lord diminishing the value of life. That's the Lord showing to his people that people, all people, are valuable There are also laws in his book of the covenant about holiness. Look at Exodus chapter 22, for example. Verse 16. If a man seduces a virgin who is not betrothed and lies with her, he shall give the bride price for her and make her his wife. That's related to the seventh commandment. You shall not commit adultery. Verse 17. If her father utterly refuses to give her to him, he shall pay the money equal to the bride price for virgins. Again, commit related to the seventh commandment. This shows the value of these women in that society, and that the whole family unit was meant to be involved in this marriage. This also shows what value the Lord places on the marital union to begin with. And then verse 18 You shall not permit a sorceress to live. Whoever lies with an animal shall be put to death. Whoever sacrifices to any God other than the Lord alone shall be devoted to destruction. Now, I don't want to minimize any of these commandments. These are hard for us to hear, aren't they? But this shows what the Lord says About himself and about his people. That he's a jealous God. That he is zealous for his people and their affection. And that he is so holy that he must punish sin. Here's how Jackie O'Perry puts it. The reason that we eventually find the confidence to accuse God of injustice. Whenever his gavel falls too hard for our liking, it's because we have a ridiculously low view of sin and an equally mediocre grasp of his holiness. So these laws show us God's holiness and that He alone is just in punishing sin. More laws in the book of the covenant. There are also laws about retribution, which are the outworking of some other commandments, like you shall not steal, you shall not covet. Well, what would happen if that were to happen? Let's look at Exodus 22, verse 9. Where it says, for every breach of trust, whether it is for an ox or a donkey or a sheep or a cloak Or of any kind of lost things, of which one says, this is it, the case of both parties shall come before the Lord. The one whom God condemns shall pay double to his neighbor. There's more laws here about the outworking of loving your neighbor as yourself, the outworking of God's justice and God's people living just lives. And in a lot of these examples, God is using the lowly in society. That's why you have those slave laws. And that's also why you have lots of references to the foreigners or the sojourners among them. Exodus 22 verse 21. You shall not wrong a sojourner or oppress him, for you were sojourners in the land of Egypt. You shall now mit not mistreat any widow or fatherless child. If you do mistreat them, and they cry out to me, I will surely hear their cry, and my wrath will burn, and I will kill you with the sword. And your wives shall become widows, and your children fatherless. Or Exodus chapter 23 Verse 6, you shall not pervert the justice due to the poor in his lawsuit. Keep far from a false charge, and do not kill the innocent and righteous For I will not acquit the wicked, and you shall take no bribe, for a bribe blinds the clear-sighted and subverts the cause of those who are in the right. You shall not oppress A sojourner. You know the heart of a sojourner, for you were sojourners in the land of Egypt. Now there's a lot there. There's a lot in that survey of these passages. So again, to go back to what we were talking about at the start, how do we approach passages like this in Scripture? Couple points. We should approach God's word more like a window than a mirror. Is what former Pastor John Okwachequa says. The Bible is more like a window than a mirror. We look to it to see through it to see God, not primarily to see ourselves. Because you and I can often go to God's Word, go to the scriptures, and we can think of ourselves first. Like, where is the word for me? Where's the encouragement for me? How does this apply to me right now? And yes, God's word does apply to us. God's word clearly says that and teaches that. God's word is for us. Yes and amen. But God's word is fundamentally not about us, it's about God. So secondly, when we get to passages like these, we should filter God's word through God's proven character. When we read passages about the Lord punishing sin, we should remember what the Lord says about himself and his character, that he is Gracious and merciful and slow to anger. So when we see God's anger, that should point out to us that the Lord had already been merciful. He had already been patient, and his patience had run out. For example, laws were related to capital punishment. God was punishing sin, but also wanting to maintain the purity of his people. He wants his people to be pure as he was pure. And even think about Moses listening to the words of the Lord, where the Lord says, for example, again, an eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth, life for life. Do you remember that Moses killed a man? That was part of his story. And who is the Lord using to relay this message to his people? Moses. How many of us here can say that the Lord is indeed merciful by using us lawbreakers to reveal his law and his character to others? The Lord is compassionate. He says so in Exodus 22, verse 27. If he cries out to me, I will hear, for I am compassionate. So the window of God's law in these passages reveal a couple things to us. What do they reveal? Firstly, I think they reveal that the Lord cares about our love for him and our love for our neighbors. He cares about both. Secondly, which is similar to the first point, the Lord cares about our worship of him, and he cares about our justice. Now I realize when some of us hear the J-word, justice, we get nervous. Like isn't that just talk for Marxists? Isn't that woke stuff? But let's not allow the world to water down what the Lord says is good. Justice is a good Bible word. This is about God's justice and what he calls good and right. And the Lord does not blush, he does not flinch when he causes people to live justly among all of their neighbors. And he also does not blush or flinch when he calls his people to the carpet when they were not doing so. Isaiah chapter 1, verse 15. It's the Lord speaking. When you spread out your hands, I will hide my eyes from you Even though you make many prayers, I will not listen. Your hands are full of blood. Wash yourselves. Make yourselves clean. Remove the evil of your deeds from before my eyes. Cease to do evil. Learn to do good, seek justice, correct oppression, bring justice to the fatherless, plead the widow's cause. Or Micah chapter 6 verse 8. He has told you, O man, what is good, and what does the Lord require of you, but to do justice? To love kindness and to walk humbly with your God. So that just the Old Testament? Matthew chapter 23 verse 23, these are the words of the Lord Jesus Christ. He says, Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees. You hypocrites, for you tithe mint and dill and cumin, and have neglected the wayer matters of the law, justice and mercy, and faithfulness These you ought to have done without neglecting the others. Or the book of James. He is his brother. James chapter 1, verse 26. If anyone thinks he is religious and does not bridle his tongue but deceives his heart, this person's religion is worthless. Religion that is pure and undefiled before God the Father is this. Now think for a minute. How would you feel in that spot? How would you finish the verse? Here's what God's Word says. Pure and undefouled religion before God the Father is this, to visit orphans and widows in their affliction and to keep oneself unstained from the world. Now, there's a lot more that can be said about God's justice and God's people being merciful to their neighbors If you want to hear more about that, you can read the book of James. There was a sermon series several years ago through the book of James. A sermon on James chapter 2, verses 1 through 13 might be helpful for you. But in summary, our demonstration of love for God looks like worship. It's what he wants, it's what he requires. And our demonstration of love for our neighbors looks like justice. And living justly among our neighbors. So, how's our worship of God? Are we worshiping Him purely on our own terms or His? Do we have a posture towards God's word that says, like his people responded in Exodus 24, all that you have said, we will do Or does our posture to God's word sound more like the serpent in the garden? Did God really say And how's our justice? How are we doing about loving our neighbors? Are we sincerely trying to love them or are we neglecting them? Who are those neighbors that we feel like are unjust and unworthy of our love? And is our view of justice informed by the word or the world? Quick survey over all of our hearts would show that in some way, shape, or form We are and have been guilty of worshiping God on our own terms or living unjustly towards our neighbors. So what hope is there for lawbreakers? At least to question number two. What does God provide for his people? Two answers again. Answer number one, he provides his messenger. Turn to Exodus chapter 23. Starting in verse 20. I'll read a few verses for us. Behold, the Lord says, I send an angel before you to guard you on the way and to bring you to the place that I have prepared. Pay careful attention to him and obey his voice. Do not rebel against him, for he will not pardon your transgression. For my name is in him But if you carefully obey his voice and do all that I say, then I will be an enemy to your enemies and an adversary to your adversaries. When my angel goes before you and brings you to the Amorites and the Hittites and the Pegasites and the Canaanites, the Hivites and the Jebusites, I and I blot them out. You shall not bow down to their gods or serve them nor do as they do, but you shall utterly overthrow them and break their pillars in pieces. You shall serve the Lord your God, and he will bless He will bless your bread and your water And I will take sicknesses away from among you. None shall miscarry you or be barren in your field, your land. And I will fulfill the number of your days. We'll stop there. Who is this messenger? Now I'm using the word messenger because that's what the word angel translates to. Whenever we hear the word angel, we think of these fluffy, cute beings, right? But this messenger, this angel, was sent to guide and direct this people This messenger went before God's people already and even went behind God's people as they were being led out That's why it says in Exodus 14, verse 19, this angel or this messenger moved behind the Israelites to protect them from the Egyptians. And what else does the Lord say about this messenger or this angel? That his voice shall be obeyed, that he would protect his people, that he would drive his enemies away, that he can pardon transgression. That God's very name is in him. That he will bless their bread and water. That he will protect his people. Did you notice even in the hearing of that passage that it seems like there's a shift in tents? He's talking about the messenger, and then the Lord interjects himself and says, This is what the messenger will do, and this is what I will do. It sounds like it's one in the same. So this angel, this messenger, is identified as distinct from Yahweh, and yet also one with Yahweh. I think this messenger is the pre-incarnate Christ, the one who came to the world and proclaimed in John chapter 10, verse 30, I and the Father are one. The one who proclaimed in John chapter 6, before Abraham was, I am. The one who said in John chapter 6, I am the bread of life. The one who said in John chapter 7: If anyone is thirsty, let him come to me and find drink. The one who calls his sheep to worship him by obeying his voice. The one who came to pardon transgression by being pierced on the cross. And the Lord Jesus through laying down his life on the cross. For his people will drive away the enemies of God's people, the enemy of sin and Satan and death and hell and the grave This messenger was giving God's people a promise that the Lord would deliver his people ultimately to the promised land. And that he was preparing their way and preparing a place for them. And doesn't Jesus say that as well? John chapter 14, verse 1. Let not your hearts be troubled. Believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house, there are many rooms. If it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you? And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and take you to myself, that where I am you may be also. You know the way that I'm going. And what a grace that God in the Book of the Covenant doesn't just give them laws, He also gives them this promise of this messenger and the promise of this promised land He gives them his mercy. And some some people, many people, look at the Bible like it's just a bunch of rules. And yes, the Lord does have rules. He does have laws. He does say you must obey my word. He desires worship. He's worthy of it. He's worthy of our obedience and our allegiance to him. But the Lord also promises to give his people rewards as they diligently seek him and worship him. That's why these promises are part of the book of the covenant. The Lord will send a messenger to lead them, to guide them, to feed them, to protect them and provide for them. And those are the same promises that we have today if we are in Christ. That God provides his messenger, and he also provides his mercy. That's the second thing that he provides for his people. His mercy. Now back to Exodus chapter 24. Where God finishes the book of the covenant. Moses relayed the message to God's people. And what was God's message to his people? He wanted his people ultimately to worship him. Kids. The Lord went to Moses and told him to go to Pharaoh over and over again with a message. It was, let my people go. Why? Shout it out. So they may worship me. That's what the Lord wanted. In Exodus chapter 24, the people do worship him by offering sacrifices to the Lord. In verse 6, they took blood and they put it on an altar. And Moses took the book of the covenant and read it before the people, and they agreed, and they said, We do And so the Lord shows his mercy by not just giving them a book, he gives them the blood of the covenant. Look at verse 8 in Exodus chapter 24. And Moses took the blood and threw it on the people and said, Behold the blood of the covenant that the Lord has made with you in accordance with all of these words. So Moses took the blood, covered the people with it. Why? Because as we heard in our scripture reading from Hebrews chapter 9, without the shedding of blood, there is no forgiveness of sin. So God in his mercy gives his people a book, he gives them his law, but he also gives them the blood. He gave the people the law and also the blood to atone for their sin when they would inevitably break his law. Why? So that God's people could rightly worship him and rightly behold him together. Look at verse 9 of Exodus chapter 24. Then Moses and Aaron and Nahab and Abihu and seventy of the elders went up. And they saw the God of Israel There was under his feet as it were a pavement of sapphire stone, like the very heaven for clearness, and he did not lay his hand on the chief of men, the people of Israel They beheld God and ate and drank. Moses and these elders beheld God The text says that they saw God. What does that mean? What does that what is what did they see? We know from later in the book of Exodus, Moses would ask to see the Lord's glory. The Lord would pass through before him. He would only show Moses his back. And I think what we see in the book of Exodus, and even in the teaching of God's word, that you have this progressive revelation of the Lord revealing himself to his people. So, whatever these people saw, it would have been more of the Lord than they had ever seen up to that point. They saw and beheld God. And he showed up not to judge them, but to dine with them. Verse 11 says that he did not lay his hand on them. Why do you say that? Remember Exodus chapter 19? The Lord told his people, do not touch the mountain Don't come up. And then Moses protested like you are we already told you already told us this Lord. And then the Lord emphasized again, don't let them touch it. Don't let them come up In Exodus 20, he tells them, don't go up the stairs of the altar. The Lord is basically saying, you can't come up to me, but I will come down to you. And he came down and he did not treat them as their sins deserved because they were covered with the blood and they were under his covenant. And they ate and they drank in the presence of the Lord. Psalm 23, he prepared a table before them. And don't we have these promises as well, beloved? That the Lord will return for his people and prepare a meal for his people. What did Jesus do the night before his arrest and trial and crucifixion? He had a meal with his disciples. He gave them bread. He gave them wine. What did Jesus do after he rose from the grave? He went looking for his disciples, including Peter. And then, as we heard several weeks ago, he made them breakfast And what will we do with the Lord when he returns for his people? We will worship him together and we will feast with him. At the marriage supper of the Lamb. That's what it says in Revelation chapter 19. It'll be the great reception of this covenant wedding between God and his people. You're here this morning and you're hearing all this and you're not sure how you feel and you're not a Christian. Maybe what has kept you away from Christ is some of these passages that I read this morning. You're not sure about God's law, you're not sure about God's justice. But don't you see his mercy towards you? In these law passages, there were a lot about retribution and retaliation. Again, an eye for an eye or tooth for a tooth, repayment of what was lost. Or retaliation, the punishment must fit the crime. And yet in Exodus chapter 24, we don't see that played out. We see a restoration. We see a ceremony. We see a feast. And that's the heart of the gospel message. It's mercy. That though our sins deserve justice and wrath, the Lord has laid his hand not on us, but on his precious son. Jesus paid it all. Why? So that you and I can be saved and brought into God's family mercifully So then what should you do? They're hearing the words of this book, of this covenant, about this wedding. You should know that there's still room. The Lord invites you today to turn from your sin and trust in Christ for your salvation. And if you'd like to do that today, we want to talk to you about what that means before you leave. And back to Exodus 24, the the Lord gets closer to his people in verses 12 through 18. As a mediator between God and his people, Moses would be the one that beholds the Lord and his glory. That's allowed to go even closer. The text says he's with the Lord for 40 days and 40 nights, receiving the instructions for the tabernacle. That's what takes up the next portion of the book of Exodus. Why so many instructions about the tabernacle? Because the Lord wants to dwell with his people. He's merciful. So what should we do with this mercy? Your closing points. Summarized in one phrase, we should behold him. Behold him. Behold him through faith in his Son Jesus Christ. Now that passage in Exodus 24, 11 is amazing that the people beheld God and they ate and they drank. But can you believe that we've been given greater promises through the Lord Jesus Christ? John chapter 1 verse 18 says, no one has ever seen God. The only God who is at the Father's side, he has made him known. We can behold God through Jesus Christ right now. We can behold him through his word And God wants us to know him. He wants us to see what he is like. That's why he's given us his book. He wants us to worship him. He wants us to live justly among our neighbors. He wants us to hear his word and rejoice in his mercy. So as you approach God's word on your own this week, or as you approach some challenging passages, won't you pray and say, Lord, show me more of who you are? And he will answer that prayer for his people. And behold him with his covenant people. Isn't it beautiful that it wasn't Moses that went up by himself to eat and drink? The elders of Israel also went up We get to behold God together as we gather with God's people. And we can marvel with that on a week-to-week basis. Remember, beloved, this is the glorious Lord of all, the righteous judge of all the earth. And although he could have declared us all guilty and cast every one of us out, he sent his son to pay the sentence. On our behalf. The judge left the bench and went to prison instead, as our brother Shylin says. He's given us his covenant and he's given us his mercy. He loves us. And he wants us to love him back. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for your book, and we thank you for the blood. We thank you for your justice, and we thank you for your mercy. We thank you for your grace, and we thank you for your goodness. Well, with all of that and all that we have heard today, help us to love you all the more. In Jesus' name. Amen.