Good morning again. It's a joy to be with you on this resurrection Sunday. It's the first time I've ever celebrated the resurrection in an elementary school cafeteria. So this is especially cool to me. It's really an remarkable thing to be here on April 20th, 2025, A. D. Uh kids, teenagers, anyone know what the letters A D stands for See some hands. Simon. Anno Domini or Domini. Which means in it which means The year of the Lord. I should set my timer because otherwise you're going to be in trouble today. Okay. Two minutes behind. The year of the Lord, A. D. I said this to the students. I'm not going to recycle the whole message, students, don't be alarmed, at UMD the other night, but it really is an amazing thing. That the calendar, our calendar is a witness to the good news that we are celebrating this morning. Time, uh, history is divided in half. BC before Christ, A. D. Anodomini, the year of the Lord, by this good news that we are confessing, that we are celebrating this morning. It's it's been proclaimed for The better part of 2,000 years in a in a simple liturgical refrain, Christ has died, Christ has risen, Christ will come again. And we really believe that here at Chevroly Baptist Church, and our calendars attest to these events as an ongoing witness to their truthfulness. Every time you sign and date a document, remember Christ is risen. And you can say he's risen indeed as often as you want in this message. That's not going to disrupt me. I don't think. Now I know that on this Easter Sunday morning there are always some people who come and visit a church gathering that might not otherwise come and visit a church. And uh you might not think too much about The resurrection of Jesus, whether that was really actually a thing, and whether it really matters or has much of an impact on your daily lives. And if that's you, if you've Come here. If somebody invited you to be here this morning and it's it's Easter, so you're like, I'll check it out, but you don't really think that much about Jesus in your everyday lives. I want you to know that we are thrilled that you are here with us. And we would really urge you, I would really urge you to seriously and thoughtfully examine this claim that has brought us here today that Jesus is risen from the grave. It's an awesome claim. And it is uh eternal in its ramifications, if it's true. I would encourage you not to dismiss it as religious jargon or some emotional crutch. It's a historical claim. And it demands a response. We are gathered here today because Jesus physically historically really rose from the dead. And that has implications for the lives of every human being and for the entire cosmos today and for all eternity. We'd be very glad to help you think more about that. I'll have a little bit more to say to you if you're a guest visiting with us later in our uh our service. Most of you here though, I understand you're you're gathered with us today. And you have come to believe that claim that Christ is risen. That was so that was pretty weak. Come on now. You have come to believe this claim that Christ is risen. Okay. It has become your great joy. And If that's you this morning, then it puts you in a similar position to the Ephesian Christians who first received the letter from Paul that uh we've been studying together uh off and on since the new year began. Uh you can open in your Bibles at this point to the book of Ephesians, chapter one. We're going to resume our study. Uh if you've gonna use one of those Bibles provided it's on page 976 of those Bibles that are provided Uh the city of Ephesus was a prominent city in the first century. It uh was prominent, especially on account of the great temple Of Artemis, also known as Diana, which was at that time uh one of the seven wonders of the ancient world. And it was it was the center of all kinds of spiritual activity. There were many competing claims for spiritual power in and around the city of Ephesus. And as the Apostle Paul went into Ephesus in the first century, as he went around all of the known world proclaiming the Lordship of Jesus Christ, uh he was, as as Luke records for us in the 19th chapter of Acts He was confronted by opposition because light and and darkness have nothing in common. But truth and error do not coexist. Though those bumper stickers, I don't see those bumper stickers around too much, but you remember those bumper stickers that said coexist Truth and error actually don't exist together. And so the people who heard Paul proclaiming that it was Jesus, not Caesar, who was Lord, they became enraged at Paul. Again, you can read about this later in Acts chapter 19. They were bloodthirsty. They started a big riot in protest of Paul and his message because their idolatry was being confronted by his proclamation of the risen Christ. And eventually that fury Just led Paul out of town. He moved on. But he left behind a a small group of believers who had received this message about Christ and had been changed by it. So the the church community in Ephesus in the first century, they were not a moral majority. And we in the United States of America in the year 2025 AD, we also maybe don't feel ourselves to be the moral majority anymore. And so the great need that these Christians in Ephesus had is the same need that we have as they faced opposition, as we face opposition, as we may increasingly face opposition. The great need that we have is not is not for political activism or social activism. It's not just for the it's not for the alleviation of circumstantial difficulties, but the great need. I'm not dismissing those other needs But the great need that the Apostle Paul perceived these Ephesians needed was to see God better and know God more intimately. And that's what he prayed for them. In the beginning of Ephesians, we've been looking at this prayer beginning in verse 15. It goes through the end of chapter 1, and we've spent two weeks already thinking about this prayer. Paul prays for them. Your Bibles are open there. He prays that God would give to the Ephesians the spirit of wisdom and of revelation in the knowledge of him, having the eyes of their heart enlightened, so that they would know the hope of his calling and the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints, and the immeasurable Greatness of his power toward us who believe. And it's right there That we left off in our study. And so we're going to pick up our study in the middle of verse 19 of Ephesians 1. He's prayed that they would know the immeasurable greatness of his power toward us who believe according to are you with me there in the middle of verse 19? I get loud You should not listen to me, or at least you should not regard anything I say as authoritative because of how loud I say it, but only if it's coming to you from God's Word, which is why it's good for you to see the Bible and have it open in front of you According to the working of his great might that he worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places. Far above all rule and authority and power and dominion, and above every name that is named, not only in this age, but also in the one to come And he put all things under his feet and gave him as head over all things to the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills all in all. This is God's word, brothers and sisters. Thanks be to God. Join me in prayer. We need his help to understand and apply that word. Heavenly Father, thank you for this occasion to celebrate Jesus together and to hear from you in the scriptures. It is your spirit who gives life. It is your spirit who gives life. The flesh is no help at all. And so we pray, Father, that you would move among us through your word and through your spirit to strengthen us, give life to our souls today. For Jesus' sake. Amen Main idea to draw out from those verses that I read to you there at the end of Ephesians 1 says really not a hard passage to understand. This was not a hard passage for me to think of what's the main point The main point I think can simply be said this way. Jesus Christ is the risen, reigning King over all. That's the main idea. Jesus Christ is the risen, reigning king over all And I want to just take a few minutes this morning to think about that main idea with you and then apply that main idea to two kinds of people who are gathered here this morning. So how how did we get here this morning? How did we get here? Acclaiming the the praises of this man, Jesus. in whose name time itself is divided in half. Well, it's because of what happened to Jesus after he died. And we do need to start there with the fact that he did die. That's not the emphasis or burden of this particular passage, but it's there when it refers to the working of God's great might. See again there in verse 19, the working of his great might that he worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead. Which implies, doesn't it? It assumes, it presupposes that Jesus did die. And that's really good news for us this morning because without it Everything else that this prayer goes on to speak of in terms of Jesus being king of all and subduing all his enemies, having all things under his feet. That would be terrifying news indeed if it wasn't for the fact that Jesus died. Jesus. The Son of God, eternally existent in the fellowship of the Father and the Holy Spirit, he came as the Messiah. He came as the Son of God To overthrow all of God's enemies and to establish his righteous rule of justice and peace. There's a reference there in verse 20 when it talks about him being seated at God's right hand to Psalm 110, where the Lord Yahweh says to David's Lord, who would that be? David's Lord. David was the king. Yahweh said to my Lord, David says, sit at my right hand until I make all your enemies a footstool for your feet. That promise to King David in Psalm 110 is fulfilled in the exaltation of the Lord Jesus. He came, and it was God's will that all of his enemies would be subjected under his feet. We need Jesus' death so that we don't get crushed under his feet with him because we have uh by our sin we have made ourselves his enemies And therefore we deserve to be crushed under the fury of his righteous judgment on sinners. All we like sheep have gone astray. We have chosen to not live for the glory of the God who made us, but we have chosen to live for ourselves. We have thus estranged ourselves from the God who made us. We've become his enemies But Paul's going to go on in the beginning of chapter 2 to refer to the whole human race as children of wrath because of our rebellion against God. But in his great love and mercy, Jesus came to die. He came as a suffering servant to give his life up on the cross So that a guilty, vile band of sworn enemies could be cleansed from their guilt and their filth and be transformed by the Holy Spirit into a radiant and spotless bride for the eternal Son of God That's what Paul would go on to speak of in chapter 5 of this letter, in exhorting the husbands. Husbands, here's a good Easter application for you. Husbands, love your wives as Christ loved the church. And what did Christ, how did Christ love the church? He gave himself up for her. He died for her that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word, so that he might present the church to himself in splendor, without spot or wrinkle, or any such thing, that she might be holy and without blemish. Oh, what a good Friday it was. For Jesus to come and bear the wrath of God for the sins of all of God's people, so that enemies of God might experience this Promise messianic reign as one of peace and joy, not of terror and damnation, because he died for us. He tasted death for his people. It was a good Friday. But it would not be good if Jesus was still dead We are here today not because of a dead Savior, but a living risen one. A dead Jesus could not be the yes to all God's promises. He'd be dead. But the glorious universe-changing news of that first Easter Sunday is Jesus is alive. Those women, as we heard it read in Matthew 28, those women came to the tomb and they said, He's not here, the angel said, He's not here. He's risen from the dead, as he said. So how can we be sure of anything that I just told you about God and his creating us and our sin against him and the judgment that we deserve and yet the payment that Jesus made? On the cross as a sacrifice for us. How could we know any of that's real and true? How could we be confident that he actually broke the curse against us because of sin and overturned death itself? Well we know because he walked out of the tomb on the third day. Kids Kids, you're your parents bringing you to church, and maybe you're wondering, how can I really believe that all this is true? How can I know that Christianity is true? I have a book for a couple of you. I'm not going to give it out right now, but if you're interested in this book, it's called How Do We Know That Christianity is Really True? And I want to give, I have two of these, I want to give them to two kids between the ages of 10 and 13. I don't want you to raise your hand right now though. I want you to come up to me after the service. And if you would like one of these books, how do we know that Christianity is really true? Come to me and I'd love to give it to you. I want to warn you kids, there's going to be a little homework assignment with me giving you the book But I'd love to get how can we know Christianity is true? Kids, maybe you're wondering that. How can we really know? We come here and we sing and you hear things, but how can we know? Well the answer that the author of that book gives is the answer that the whole New Testament gives us, and that is that Jesus rose from the dead. We know that Christ, Romans 6. 9 says, we know that Christ being raised from the dead will never die again. Death no longer has dominion over him. And it's in this way that God showed his power, the immeasurable greatness of his power by raising Jesus from the dead If we were to go over to Arlington National uh Cemetery later today and and get around Any of those tombs and just we could muster every bit of strength that we have screaming at at those gravestones for Minutes and hours and weeks and months and years, we could scream and scream and plead and plead and nothing would happen But on that third day after Jesus' death, God raised Jesus from the dead. It was Jesus who had died on that cross for our sins, and God then literally and historically and physically and unmistakably brought his dead body back to life. He was seen by his disbelieving and unsuspecting disciples. Did you catch that also in Matthew 28, how it says, some doubted. As much as they had seen Jesus do, as many times as he told them that he would die and then rise. They were unsuspecting. They couldn't believe it. But there was Jesus, the risen Jesus, right in front of their eyes And he can still be seen with eyes of faith today on the basis of their eyewitness testimony. Jesus died and then he was raised, but that's not all. After being raised, Paul says God raised him from the dead. Verse 20, God raised him from the dead. And seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places One author says the resurrection proclaims he lives and that forever. The exaltation proclaims he reigns and that forever. And that's what Paul is saying here. God raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places. That was the fulfillment of Psalm 110 that I mentioned earlier. This is referring to Jesus' ascension into heaven and what we call his heavenly session. You've heard that word session used when a judge goes and and they are seated and they say court is now in session. The picture here is that Jesus Christ is sitting at the Father's right hand in the place of authority and honor and power to rule in the heavenly places. Jesus reigns. And I would think that it would be just fine to have placed a period right there in the paragraph. God raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places. Full stop. That's it. That's good But apparently my wisdom is not is not God's wisdom. Because there's a comma there. Because Paul just couldn't stop himself there. He wants to convince you just how highly Jesus has been exalted. He has been exalted. He's been seated at God's right hand. And where is that? Far above, it says. Far above. All rule and authority and power and dominion and above every name that is named, not only in this age, but also in the one to come. I don't know if Paul was thinking about this particularly, but it reminds me of those words that Jesus said there at the end of Matthew 28. All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. He's far above all rule and authority and power and dominion. What's the point of those of all those words? Well, there are there's I think distinct nuance to each of those terms, but I think the sense is just Paul piling them up to convey the totality, the comprehensive nature of Jesus' supremacy over all earthly and spiritual forces in the universe. Whether seen or unseen, in this age and to all eternity, Jesus has been given the name above all names. He is above all human names. He is above all demonic powers. That phrase, rulers and authorities and powers and dominions. When we go farther in the letter to Ephesians and we see especially Ephesians 6, we know those those terms refer to evil spiritual beings in the heavenly places, and Jesus is far above them. He's far above all. He's above all disease and all disability and all nature. He's above all weather, all hurricanes, all lightning bolts, and tornadoes and volcanoes and earthquakes and floods and global warming. He's above all businesses and industry. He's above all health care. He's above all sports and and his name is above every sports name. He's above LeBron James. Do you know who won the World Series a hundred years ago? People care a lot about baseball. People care a lot about the world series. Who won the World Series in 1925? Anyone? I'm there could be some baseball expert here, some baseball savant. No, nobody even remembers that the Pittsburgh Pirates beat our beloved Washington Senators. Do you know who the best player was on that Pittsburgh series? You don't, because you don't even know it was Pittsburgh. These were important names one time. In a hundred years, no one will think about LeBron James. No one will think about Taylor Swift. If you do remember the name Taylor Swift, you'll think of her as powerfully as you think today of Mary Pickford. Yeah. You just gotta Google her. He's above all sports figures. He's above all media and entertainment and and and and in the internet. He's above all military might. He's above all governments and politicians. He's above Donald Trump and he's above Xi Jinping. He's above Putin and Zelensky. He's above Mike Johnson and he's above Chuck Schumer He's above Clarence Thomas and he's above Sonia Sadamayor. He is above all above all religions and universities and kings and chiefs and solar systems and stars and galaxies and molecules and atoms and subatomic particles and and parts of creation that mankind has yet to discover. He is far above all rule and authority and power and dominion. Amen to your amens. God has highly exalted him, Paul says to the Philippians, and bestowed on him the name that is above every name. Mary Pickford wasn't raised from the dead. It's why you don't remember her name. It's why people a century from now won't remember Taylor Swift's name, but Jesus was risen. And he reigns now as the name above all names. At the name of Jesus, every knee should bow, and every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. He's even now reigning as head over them all. It doesn't always feel like that, does it? It says there he put all things under his feet It's done. And yet we don't yet see it all in fulfillment. First Corinthians 15 talks about that. He must reign until all his enemies are put under his feet, and the final enemy is death. But here with the Ephesians, it says though this coming triumph is so certain, he speaks of it as a finished fact. He put all things under his feet. There is no rival spiritually, physically, socially, politically, naturally, internationally, psychologically. Anything, there is no rival on earth or under the earth or above earth that could ever present a serious threat to the supremacy of Christ in this age and in the one to come. And wonder of wonders, this supremely exalted Christ is given to us the church. Do you see that there in verse 22? He put all things under his feet and gave him as head over all things to the church. Which is his body, the fullness of him who fills all in all. That's a very interesting phrase. A lot of gallons of ink been spilled about that phrase, the fullness of him who fills all in all. What does that mean? Well first it let's just be clear that with with all that all that power and all that authority and all that wisdom that Jesus has as the head over all things With all that power and authority and wisdom, he serves his people as our head, as our leader and our savior and our king. He's given as head over all things to the church. He is for us. He is with us. He is king over us. And he is the great shepherd of our souls. He supplies the church with everything that she needs so that as she goes, as we go out in his name. As agents of filling the earth with his glorious presence, we know that he is for us. I think that's what verse 23 is talking about. I have to confess, I'm not exactly sure what verse 23 Is getting at, I think the idea is that in Christ, Christ is the one in whom the whole fullness of deity dwells bodily And the church in Christ, in Christ, God is filling the whole earth with the knowledge of his glory in Christ. And we, the church, are that glory. Jesus means to fill all of Washington DC. He means to fill all of P. G. County. He means to fill the earth With the knowledge of his glory as the waters cover the sea, and the way he does that, the way he is doing that even now in history is by filling it with his ransomed people, bearing witness to his exceeding and everlasting glory. Through the church's ongoing mission of making disciples, Jesus is filling the earth with worshipers from every tribe and language and people and nation. With redeemed image-bearers of himself. And so we the church going in his name to bear witness to the risen Lord among all nations We are the fullness of him who fills all in all. And that's been going on now for 1992 years or so. That's how we got here this morning. Because Jesus' disciples went out and they made disciples In Italy and in Austria and in Ireland and in England and in China and in Iceland and in Kenya and in Thailand and in Papua New Guinea and in Afghanistan and Azerbaijan and in Kazakhstan and in Kuwait and even here in the United States of America The image, the fullness of Jesus is being filled up with his image bearers. You know, we didn't start this party here in the USA with Jesus. We're we're we're we're late in the game here For 2,000 years Jesus has been filling the earth with his redeemed bride and we're a part of it. What a calling that is, what a glory that is. It's really no makes no sense for a Christian to be bored. And Paul, you see, but Paul knows we might get bored. That's why he's praying. Oh God, may they see it Give them eyes to see this so that when this message isn't over, you think the highlight is a donut and then watching sports the rest of the day. I preach to myself. You understand this. I mean that those donuts I mean that I got some gluten-free goodies over there. See, we know and I But that don't don't be don't think that's the highlight of the day. We get to be Christ's fullness filling up the world as we bear witness to Jesus. And that has implications. That has implications for everyone in this room. I said earlier that there are two kinds of people in this room. There's a whole lot of differences that we may bring into this gathering. We may be different socially, we may be different economically, we may have different hobbies or interests, different ethnicities, different political calculations about various matters But we can legitimately be divided in this room right now into two groups of people. There are those of us here who are Jesus' enemies, and there are those of us here who are Jesus' allies. That's the most important difference. Those other differences are relativized by this difference. And I want to say something to each of those groups of people. I trust there are some here in this gathering, and it's true, I believe, every Sunday. It's not just true on Easter Sunday. There are some of you here who have not submitted yourself to Jesus. Jesus is your king because he has been highly exalted over all, but you have not submitted to him as king. But you don't love the thought that your life and that all of creation exists to reflect the glory of God. You would like it to be filled with the glory of you. You are maybe seeking great things for yourself. Attention for yourself. You like to have the focus be on yourself, you, your rights, your way. But you you live in Jesus' world. You breathe his air, and you will give an account to him when he returns. Every knee will bow, Paul said. And every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. We can confess his name joyfully in salvation now, or we will confess his name begrudgingly in our own damnation on that final day. And I I must warn you of that. It would be unloving of me to stand here and talk about this wonderful Christ and not make that plain to you. I cannot scare you into becoming a follower of Jesus. That would not be the way of Jesus. He's the king of love. But love does warn people of danger. Kids, did you ever have a parent warn you? When the stove was on and it was hot, did you ever have a parent say, don't touch that. It will hurt you. Love warns. And I need to warn you in love that it is a very perilous position to be in, to be an enemy of this Christ. before whom all things are and will be subjected. And yet if you're here this morning and that is your condition, oh, I want you to hear this very clearly. You're not without hope today. You are not without hope. Because the man who wrote this letter to the Ephesians was just such an enemy. Searching out Christians to have them arrested and killed. And the man who is standing before you preaching used to be such an enemy. Mocking and scorning those who would do the sort of thing that I'm doing right now. But God won Paul over. And God won me over And he's won a whole lot of us over, and he can win you over too. So I appeal to you on behalf of the risen Christ. Hear him speak to you this morning. I am your king, and all my enemies will be made a footstool under my feet. But look Look with the eyes of your heart at what I have done for you as a suffering servant. I have shed my blood so that your sins could be forgiven, and so that your treason could be forgotten So confess your rebellion and come to me, and I will give you rest. I will rescue you and I will declare you righteous and I will make you a citizen of my kingdom and you'll live forever with ever-increasing joy. And this morning, freely you could offer yourself to Jesus and say, yes, Jesus, I I believe that you are. I believe I have been your enemy in my sin. But I believe that you are the king of all, and you are the risen one, and you are a savior, and I don't want to live my life anymore for me. Help me, save me, rescue me, and grant me grace to live for you. He could do that for you right now. Oh, we pray that he is doing it for some of you right now Maybe you're not quite ready to say that yet. Maybe you're not ready to confess that prayer yet. But We would be really glad. Maybe one step that you could take. If you're not sure, your conscience is pricked a little bit, but you don't know. Maybe you could speak with me, and I won't yell at you like this. I say that a lot, but I won't yell at you like this Maybe you could speak with me or somebody who came with you. I know that any member of this church would be delighted to maybe sit down with you over some time over the next weeks or months. and read through one of the biographies of Jesus' life that we have in the Bible. And maybe you, maybe that's a next step for you. But do something this at this morning. Do something. A man got up from the dead, and we divide time in half by his appearing. You must reckon with that. Now again, dear saints, I know most of you have reckoned with that, and it's your great joy And I want, I hope, I'm praying that we would have a trembling joy at what Jesus, the risen and reigning King, has Done for us and what he has given to us, what he has promised us, that he is head over all things for our good. And that should lead us If we are among that people that his immeasurably great power is toward, that should lead us, I believe, here's a word I want to give you, by way of application, that should lead us to a life of courage. Courage. Now I w why courage? Why do I say there's a whole lot of ways that this good news about the exalted Jesus is good is good news and could be applied to your life. I'd welcome you over lunch this afternoon, maybe to talk about some of those ways that right now in your life this week, this picture of the exalted Christ is of help to you in your need. I want to focus for just a couple of minutes on courage. And when I say couple, you know I don't mean two, but it's that means I'm getting close. Why courage? Well I I started thinking back to that scene in Acts chapter 19 that I described for you at the beginning of the message, this riot that broke out. Which led to Paul's banishment from Ephesus because, you know, Paul moved on from Ephesus and he continued to carry on in his ministry. But the disciples that he made in Ephesus, they did not move on. They had seen this vicious hatred and this blood-boiling rage of the advocates of Dion, not Dionysius, but Artemis. They they they had these enemies around them. How do you go to sleep that night? Knowing that you're staying in Ephesus and you're a follower of the way. How do you stay behind there? Paul says in 1 Corinthians 15, he talks about his time in Ephesus. He says, I fought with wild beasts at Ephesus. How do you live among the wild beasts? It takes courage. And that courage comes through the power of the resurrected Christ. Paul tells us that later in the book of Acts, he says, when he's on trial, this I confess to you, that according to the way which they call a sect, I worship the God of our fathers, believing everything laid down by the law. and written in the prophets, having a hope in God, which these men themselves accept, that there will be a resurrection, both of the just and the unjust. Where did Paul get the tenacity to continue on proclaiming Jesus when he experienced so much violence? So much threat, so much opposition, he believed that there would be a resurrection, both of the just and the unjust And that's where his courage came from. And that power is still available to us today, who go as the fullness of him who fills all in all. And it will take courage, beloved. It will take courage in the United States of America in the year 2025 A. D. It will take courage to continue on as the fullness of Him who fills all in all. Because that mission that Jesus gave to his disciples, go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, and teaching them to obey everything that I have commanded you, that mission carries on. It's still the call on our lives as the church. And so the way to celebrate the resurrection The way to celebrate Easter is not mainly, hear me out, hear me out on this, is not mainly getting a sweet family photo over there. Wonderful that we have that. That's a good thing. I know our family's gonna get a picture over there. It's the way the way to celebrate Easter is not to have that pretty bulletin cover, which looks tremendous It's not to get all dressed up in your Easter best or eat some delicious foods with some dear friends and family this afternoon. Those are wonderful things. I would not deprive you of those things. Enjoy those things thankfully to God. But the way to celebrate the resurrection is to tell people that he's been risen from the dead. That's the point of the resurrection power that is yours to go as the fullness of him who fills all in all to tell this good news about him. In the power of his spirit, oh let us let us be a people who resolve this morning that we will celebrate this reality. that we've been singing about, that you have kindly, thank you, said amen to, that we would go out and celebrate it by telling people of this risen Christ Oh, have a wonderful afternoon! And then start celebrating the resurrection by putting together a hospitality list. That includes some people in your neighborhood that don't know Jesus that you could tell them, I believe that Jesus rose from the dead I we're gonna have a prayer of confession in a few minutes. And we do that every Lord's day, but I'm particularly mindful as we come to that time of confession that there was an occasion this past week where we had neighbors. Was that this past week or two weeks ago? That was this past week We had unbelieving neighbors come over to us, and I I felt some compulsion to speak of and ask them specifically what they believed about Jesus and the resurrection, but I didn't say that. Now I'm not condemned because of that They're still my neighbors, but I I fell short in that way. Because it it seemed like it'll be awkward To say, you know, like you know I'm a pa they know I'm a pastor and they knew I was getting ready for this. We invited them to come to church. I don't see them here. It'd be awkward if they are here right now and I just haven't seen them. So a hand back there, okay, but that wasn't that wasn't my neighbor. To say I I You know I'm a pastor. I I moved here because I I really believe that Jesus rose from the dead, and that's changed my life. And that changes everything. And I wonder if you've if you've really considered that Have you considered Jesus' resurrection, the claim of it, and its implications for your life and the world? Have you considered that even we divide time in half by his coming? And I'd really love to help you. If you want to think more about that, I'd be glad to talk with you more about it or read something with you to think about it. I didn't do that because I thought it would be awkward. But to celebrate the resurrection, to celebrate Easter, is to go out with the resolve of the Holy Spirit to go and do that. To go and have that awkward conversation. It's it's it's when you think of who you can invite to church next Lord's Day. Or mom's when you go to the park as as his ambassadors thinking about how you can stir up gospel conversations with those whom you interact with with or when employees start plotting Bible studies with co-workers early in the morning or over lunch. Maybe it's when some of you here realize That we're not meant to live out our days in the comforts of America, but maybe some of us in this room are called to go to proclaim the good news of the resurrected king among those nations, among those people groups. That have never heard, literally never heard this name that is above every name. And maybe some of you are to celebrate Easter by getting on a path to go to one of those people groups and bring Jesus to a people group for the very first time. You know there are people right now who are not celebrating Easter with their family because they are training to go do that. Oh dear saints, Christ is risen. May the eyes of our hearts be enlightened To see this supremely sovereign Christ with all authority in heaven and on earth. To see him eternally Indomitably, irrevocably for you in Jesus, smiling upon you at the cost of his own life. Rest in this Christ Rejoice in this Christ, and then empowered by the Spirit of this Christ, move out with courage for this Christ In the deep assurance that he has been given as head over all things to us, his body, the fullness of him who fills all in all. Join me in prayer. Heavenly Father, thank you for your grace and your kindness to us in Jesus. We pray that you would help us to remember the great hope that we have in Jesus We pray that you would help us to go in the boldness that is befitting of such a glorious and gracious and mighty Redeemer. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.