Good morning again. I'm not sure if you all heard this when I was leading the prayer time, but the voice is a little shaky this time morning. So uh if you would pray for me throughout, if you hear that voice shaking at all in the next 40-ish minutes, you just say a silent prayer. But let's look to the Lord in prayer again before we open up his word together. Heavenly Father, we do thank you for your word. We thank you for this opportunity to open it, to study together, to consider what you have to say to us and to apply it to our lives. We need your help as we just confessed in song. All of our help comes from you. And so we ask for your help, especially in this time now, opening the word. It is your Spirit who gives life. The flesh is no help at all. But it would be nice if my throat was able to uphold this message now. So we pray for strength. For a voice that would be helpful to instruct your people, lead us all to a deeper and affectionate love for you. We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen. Go ahead and open in your Bibles to the book of Acts, Acts chapter two. You're using one of the Bibles provided I believe you'll find that on page 911. If you're new uh to the Bible and you would like to uh if you don't have a copy of the Bible for yourself, we'd love for you to take that Bible And take it home with you. Love to talk with you about how you can grow in learning to read the Bible yourself. Help, help, happy to help guide you. We're going to be in Acts chapter 2, sort of, this morning. In around 45 minutes, we're going to do something that uh we do every Sunday that we gather together as Chevrolet Baptist Church. We're going to observe the Lord's Supper. Uh at the beginning of his what I find to be a very helpful little book called Why is the Lord's Supper So Important? Uh an author, Pastor Aubrey Saquera, notes what might be lost on us who are accustomed to observing the Lord's Supper as regularly as we do But if you could put yourself in the shoes of someone who is a let's say a newcomer to church who doesn't have a regular practice of gathering with churches, maybe who comes and visits uh just for the first time This thing that we call the Lord's Supper, it it can seem a little strange. First off, we call it the supper. And uh you know what we're gonna do is we're gonna give you in a little bit, we're gonna give you this little dime-sized tasteless wafer and a little sip of juice, and we call that a meal. Everybody eats and drinks and uh we sing a hymn and we're dismissed. And maybe the newcomers among us might be looking around and like they understand that that's not a meal, right? Even for faithful Christians, I do think it can be hard for us to grasp or articulate what it is that we're doing. why it's important, how it's connected to our faith. And this has this has struck me in the few months that I've been here. I was asked a couple of times, once by my own uh a family member of my own just this morning Why are we in Acts this morning? Why aren't we in Ephesians? Well here's here's why briefly. I'm still relatively new here. I think the shelf life on my saying that is waning Uh we're about to go away for a little family vacation that we've had planned out for a year, and I think when I get back I'm just gonna be done talking that way. But I'm s I'm still relatively new. And this is the first church that I've been in, that we've been in, that observes the Lord's Supper weekly. And I think that's wonderful. I'm thrilled that we do that. But as it has been uh the first time that we've been in that situation, it's also struck me, while I think it's wonderful, that it could be actually a little bit dangerous In the sense that because we do it every week, because we do this same thing every week, it could be That we approach that time in a way that becomes monotonous or mechanical or cold, as if we've grown forgotful. Forgotful, that's not a word, forgetful. Of what it is that we're doing. And so I thought it might be useful for us to spend a Sunday thinking about what it is that we're doing and why. And that's why we're in Acts 2 42 this morning. The book of the second chapter of Acts chronicles the outpouring of the promised Holy Spirit on the day of Pentecost. When three thousand people were told were cut to the heart as they heard the apostle Peter preaching and they repented, they they separated themselves from the crooked generation of which they were a part and were told there at the end of Acts 2 that they were baptized, they were brought into the fellowship of the church. And it says that in Acts 2. 42, look at Acts 2. 42. This is sort of This is our springboard for the morning. It says that this group of now believers who had been transferred from darkness to light, that they devoted themselves, Acts 2. 42, they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and the fellowship, to the breaking of bread, and the prayers. And it's that phrase, the breaking of bread, that we want to think together about this morning. It is widely accepted, though not universally accepted, and I should say this up front. It is widely accepted, but not universally accepted, that this reference there to the breaking of bread in Acts 2. 42 is a reference to the Lord's Supper Not every Christian does think that, but I think that it is a reference to the Lord's Supper, primarily because of the placement of the breaking of bread. Specifically with the three other objects of devotion listed there in verse 42, the teaching and fellowship and the prayers, I think that leads us to thinking that this breaking of bread also has to do with the worship life of the church. To say that the early Christians were devoted to teaching and fellowship and prayer and eating as if like what we did last week when we had all those wonderful donuts out out after the service that that would be what their devotion was towards. I don't think that's what it's saying. I think it's a reference to the Lord's Supper, what we call the Lord's Supper. Now I might be wrong in that I do hope that what I have to say about the Lord's Supper will be helpful and true to Scripture, even if I am mistaken about this specific phrase, the breaking of bread. But we want to think this morning about this practice, this devotion to the breaking of bread, to the Lord's Supper this morning to help us uh in our study I would like for us to think about basically two aspects, two parts to our consideration of the Lord's Supper this morning. First, I want us to consider the foundation of the church's devotion to the Lord's Supper, the foundation of it. And then secondly, to consider a few fruits of the church's devotion to the Lord's Supper. Noah, that's alliteration. I don't know that I've done a whole lot of alliteration. Noah's a big fan of alliteration. And so we're back. The foundation of the church is devotion and then the fruits of it to the Lord's Supper What is the foundation of the Lord's Supper? In in saying that, in asking that, what I'm what I'm asking is where did this devotion to the Lord's Supper come from? Why was it such an important mark? for the first followers of Jesus to be devoted to this even to our present day. And the simple answer to that is, you know the simple answer is going to take some time to develop. Okay? But it's a simple answer Because Jesus, their Lord, had commanded them to do it. As Jesus gathered with his disciples to celebrate the Passover feast on the night before his crucifixion, We're told in Luke 22, verse 19, that Jesus took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it and gave it to them, saying, This is my body which is given for you. Do this in remembrance of me. And likewise the cup, after they had eaten, saying, This cup that is poured out for you is the new covenant in my blood. Now the the the Passover itself, Jesus was having this meal with his disciples on the Passover, and the Passover itself was a covenantal meal. It was a meal of remembrance, remembering God's faithfulness and his loyalty to uh the great promises that he had made to Abraham, that Abraham's offspring would be a great nation and an instrument of blessing to all the ends of the earth. A few centuries later, though, after God made that promise to Abraham, that same family of Abraham was mired in slavery to the Egyptians. And if I could just offer a word of practical application here that has nothing to do with the Lord's Supper, some of you perhaps are in a season of life where it seems to you like God is MIA on his promises. They seem very slow to be fulfilled, perhaps. God made a promise to Abraham about a people who would be a great, who would have their own land, who would be blessing to the ends of the earth, and 400 years later, they were an enslaved people in Egypt. But God was faithful to his promises. So keep on waiting. Keep on persevering, brother and sister, if you are in a season where it seems as though God is acting very slowly. Because though it did seem, because God was acting slowly, four hundred years is a long time, the covenant-keeping God of Abraham heard the groanings and cries of his afflicted people, and he sent a series of plagues culminating in the death of the firstborn Egyptian male. But the Lord promised his people that he would protect the firstborn of the Israelites, provided that each household would uh take a lamb and sacrifice that lamb and smear the blood of that lamb on the doorpost of their homes so that on that first Passover night Called Passover because the angel of death who was bringing judgment upon the Egyptians when he would see the blood of the Lamb, he would pass over those homes and not bring the judgment upon the people of Israel. On that first Passover night, families gathered for a meal in which they ate the sacrificed lamb with bitter herbs and unleavened bread and that meal would continue to be remembered and is still remembered by the Jewish people today as the Passover. It was an annual reminder of his mercy in sparing the people of Israel. Not because they were without sin. But because God had kindly provided the blood of the Lamb, and by faith they had applied the blood of the Lamb to their doorposts, and so they remembered that meal year after year after year. Remember here, we're talking about the foundation of the Lord's Supper. Where did this practice of the Lord's Supper come from? And what I'm trying to just help you by going all the way back in history to the Exodus is to see, it's a deep foundation. This is not just some flimsy whimsical thing that we decided to doing. This is thousands of years of a foundation being built. And what we know about the Israelites after that mighty act of deliverance and the institution of that annual remembrance of it. Is that they were unfaithful to their covenant Lord. They were repeatedly, habitually, defiantly unfaithful to their Lord Pastor Tony reminded of that even in the incident of the golden calf, while God has dramatically delivered them, and Moses is receiving the Ten Commandments. They are creating a false God and worshiping it. That idolatry and that unfaithfulness is actually illustrated in the context of our scriptural call to worship this morning. Right, Pastor Tony read earlier from Psalm 81, verse 10, I am the Lord your God, who brought you up out of the land of Egypt. Open your mouth wide, and I will fill it. Kids. Kids. Do you know what living for God is like? Do you know what following in His way and obeying His commandments is like? It's not ooh somebody was just answering. Does somebody have an answer? Somebody can answer? I can't hear. Is that Langston back there? What did he say? I still can't hear you, but I'm gonna I'm trusting it's a good answer. Okay. Here's what it's not. It's not gloomy and sad and frustrating to follow God and keep his commandments. It's like opening your mouth wide and letting him fill it. And I'm not talking about filling it with like broccoli or Brussels sprouts But he says with the finest of wheat and honey. And that might not sound all that great either, but it's like filling it with chocolate lava cake. He says, Open your mouth wide and I will fill it. That's how good it is to follow in God's way. But tragically, the next verse of Psalm 81 reads this. Pastor Tony didn't read this part in verse 11, but the next verse says, but my people did not listen to my voice. Israel would not submit to me. Throughout the Old Testament, we see God entering into covenants with his people And throughout the Old Testament, we see his chosen people proving themselves to be unfaithful covenant breakers. And that's not just an Israel problem for the record, that's a human problem. The essence of sin, one way to think about the essence of sin is to hear God's wonderful invitation to open your mouth wide and let him fill it. With the goodness of his ways, and for us to want to shut our mouths and say, no, I'll satisfy myself my own way. And we've all been guilty of that. So how would the covenant-keeping God enter into a lasting covenant with a covenant-breaking people? Well, in instituting the Lord's Supper, right at the time when the Israelites were remembering their deliverance from slavery in Egypt, Jesus declared I'm that way. I am the way that a covenant faithful God can dwell with and live with a people who have been unfaithful. It's through Jesus. Because Jesus declared at that Last Supper that he was inaugurating that new covenant which the Lord had promised. We heard it read earlier in our service from Jeremiah 31. Christian read to us of of this promise that God would pardon the sins of his people. He would forgive them. No more repetition of animal sacrifices, but once for all he would forgive them and he would write his law upon their hearts, not just tablets of stone. And that new covenant that was promised centuries before Jesus came, that new covenant was established because of Jesus' sacrifice. Through Jesus, all who turn from sin and turn to Him in faith become beneficiaries of all God's covenant promises, which are yes in Jesus. So if you have come in here today, not at peace with Jesus, not trusting in Jesus, we urge you to come to Jesus even today. Recognize yourself as a covenant breaker. Recognize yourself as one who has resisted God's loving invitation to fill you with the goodness of his ways. Recognize yourself as one who has rejected that way and turn from that rejection and receive Jesus today. If I could help you understand that more, or really anyone else, please ask us questions about how to do that if that's unclear to you this morning. But just like God did with his redeemed people in the Old Testament, he established an ongoing meal with his disciples so that they might remember his death. His body given for them, his blood shed for them, as the only way into a covenant relationship with the most holy and most high God, whom they had offended, whom we have offended by our sin, but whose sins were now being washed away by the blood of the Lamb who was slain for the sins of the world. And so the church devotes itself, and this church devotes itself every single Lord's day, every time we come together as a church. We remember the bread and the cup. We remember his body given for us and his blood shed for us because it's the foundation of our whole existence as a people. A people set apart for the Lord. And this remembrance is intended to bring about certain fruits in the lives of those who are devoted to it. Now, there's more than I'm going to mention, but I'm going to mention three. Three fruits of our devotion to the Lord's Supper. The first fruit of our remembrance Is the personal joyful gratitude of remembering Jesus' sacrificial love for me For you. Very personally, very passionately, sacrificially, Jesus says that He loves you, and when we eat and drink in remembrance of Him. We are remembering that. We're remembering what the Apostle Paul says in Galatians 2. 20, that the Son of God loved me and gave himself for me. Amazing love. How can it be that thou, my God, should die for me? And we don't just think about that, but we see it and we we taste it and we touch it at the Lord's table. How kind of God that He would give us this picture. There is something about a picture that heightens or intensifies our memory of a thing. Uh I remember Sunday, December 29th, 2024. It was the first Sunday that our family was here at Chevrolet. And I remember on that unusually warm Sunday afternoon, a number of members of Chevrolet Baptist Church were spontaneously, and I'm sure just randomly, walking down the street passing by the new pastor's house. And that afternoon there was a collection of people, the Joneses and the Malone's and the Stocklands and the Russos. Just hanging out and I I snapped a picture of it because my whole family actually wasn't home. And that that memory, I mean I could think of the memory now. But when I see the picture that I snapped, which I see actually every morning, it's in the basement. We have this big picture wall in the basement and that picture is hanging up there. When I see that picture It it in a specially sweet way evokes the memory of that wonderful day when we realized in the midst of everything that was different, we had a loving family that was there to catch us in the midst of our free fall from New Jersey. And so you can remember the death of Jesus on your behalf, but those memories are enlivened, they are sweetened when we touch and see and taste the bread and the juice. We are reminded in a vivid and tangible way, once you were God's enemy, now you are seated at God's table. Once you were dead in sin, now you've been made alive to God. Once you were a slave to sin, but now you've been set free to serve and glorify your Heavenly Father. Once you were headed to hell, but now you are a happy and holy citizen of God's heavenly kingdom And you remember this worshipfully and thankfully and vividly, not just for you personally, but for us, the family of God. That's a second fruit of the church's devotion to the Lord's Supper. In this Lord's Supper, in this act of regularly devoting ourselves to the Supper, we are expressing and embodying and enjoying the corporate unity that we have in Christ. Remember the verse in Acts 2 says, they were devoting themselves. Wasn't just an individual that we're talking about. It was a whole group of individuals. They were devoting themselves. Jesus' death on the cross Did not only cleanse you from the guilt and power of your sins, but it also brought you in to a brand new family, the family of God. And we remember that at the table, which is why we do it together as a family in the context of the church's worship gathering. This is not a small incidental element of our devotion to the breaking of bread. The supper is designed by God. To be an act which reveals the family of God, which binds the family of God together as one. And so the place in the New Testament that teaches us the most about the church's practice of the Lord's Supper is in Paul's first letter to the Corinthians. And they were, if you know anything about that church, they were a mess. divided, quarreling, disregarding one another's needs. And Paul writes to them, this is 1 Corinthians 10 verse 17. Because there is one bread, we who are many are one body, for we all partake of the one bread He actually tells them in the next chapter, in chapter 11, that the way they were going about it was so outrageous in what they were doing that it wasn't even actually really the Lord's Supper that they were taking because of the failure that they were walking in to love each other and care for each other and take responsibility for each other's needs. He he says to them, it was such a gross misrepresentation of the meaning of Jesus' death which was to testify to and mark his people off as one united family So we remember together the unity that we have in Christ as one body. We who are many are one body, for we all partake of the one bread. We remember that, and we express that. When we take the Lord's Supper together. My friend Brian talks about this game. He calls it a game. I'm not sure that it's a game. I don't think there's winners and losers, really. I don't know how it works entirely. But he talks about this game that he plays with his family. There's five of them. It's Brian and his wife, and they have three children. And when they're when they're all present, when the whole family, all the members of the family have to be there, when all five of them are present at any time, someone can say, I love this family. And all the others have to reply together, I love this family. And what I've heard Brian say is that in the supper This is what's happening with God and his family. At the table, Jesus holds out to us Symbolically, not literally, he holds out to us his pierced flesh and his blood shed, and he says to his family, I love this family And we all hold the bread and the cup, and together, looking not just at him, but looking around at each other, we declare, I love this family. It's our confession together as one family that we had to be died for to be brought into this family. And praise God, we were died for to be brought into this family. Oh, it's a sweet. It is sweet to remember what he's done for me personally, what he's done for us, to feed our faith and to renew our love and our commitment to the body of Christ as our family. But we know, and I I trust you all feel this in different ways, even as you come to a gathering like this today, that we're we're far from home. We feel the pressures and the trials and the discouragements of living in this world, and we long for home. And the Lord's Supper preaches that too. It preaches that home is coming because Jesus is coming again to make all things new. And in that way, devotion to the Lord's Supper yields a third fruit in our lives, that is the fruit of hope. There's the personal joy and gratitude we have in knowing Jesus died for me that we see embodied in the bread and the cup. There's the corporate unity that we share in together, and there's this joy of hope When we think not just about Jesus' death, but that he's coming back. In Matthew's account of the Last Supper, Jesus says these words, which we often read to you when we take the Lord's Supper together. Jesus said, with reference to the cup, he said, I tell you. I will not drink again of this fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new with you in my Father's kingdom. And in saying that, Jesus was anticipating his resurrection, even while initiating a meal by which we would remember his death. Right, because how else would he be thinking about drinking anew with them in the Father's kingdom if he was going to die in a few hours? Well, it's because he knew that he was going to rise triumphant from the grave. And so this meal does commemorate Jesus' death, but more than just that. It commemorates his defeat of death and his promised glorious return when he comes back to subdue every enemy. To wipe every tear from our eyes, to turn every affliction into an incomparably heavy weight of glory, and to make all things new. As you long for that day, do you not, beloved? We need to be reminded of that, because it's easy for us to lose our focus on that But it's coming. And every time we eat and drink in remembrance of Jesus, we're proclaiming to each other, it's coming because he's coming. This little wafer and this sip of juice, it doesn't seem like much, but it's like the aroma of turkey and stuffing and cornbread on Thanksgiving morning. It's a signpost and a foretaste of a great feast soon to come when all the ransomed of the Lord shall come to Zion with singing, and everlasting joy will be on their heads, and all sorrow and sighing will flee away as we all sit down to feast with Jesus in the kingdom of our Father. And he's waiting. Our Lord Jesus is waiting even now for that feast to enjoy that feast. He's waiting for us to be there with him. He he can't conceive of that celebration being a celebration without you there. And so he's called for a fast for a while. I'm not drinking this cup again until I drink it new with you in the kingdom of his father. And we remember that. When we eat and drink in remembrance of him. There is a whole lot of good happening in this meal. And that's why the church has been devoted to the breaking of bread for 2,000 years now. Now, in closing. Ooh, everyone's ears just perked up. I have five concluding points of application for you. Say that was not fair, man. You said you had a two-point sermon and you just added five. We'll be brief. This is some just some practical suggestions for how to be devoted to the Lord's Supper as a local congregation. First Observe the Lord's Supper regularly. Regularly. Now, again, it's been very clear already. We practice the Lord's Supper every Sunday morning. So in offering this suggestion, what I'm basically saying is, are you rightly, what I'm asking, are you rightly committed to gathering regularly with the church each Lord's day? Right. Let us not neglect the assembling of ourselves together as is the habit of some, but encourage one another, and all the more as you see the day drawing near, one of the ways that we encourage each other every Lord's day is in this practice of eating and drinking in remembrance of Jesus. Jesus commanded that we do this in remembrance of him, and he commanded it under very weighty circumstances, the eve of his crucifixion At Chevrolet Baptist Church, we provide you with 52 opportunities a year, unless there's some forecasted snowstorm that shuts the school down, as happened on the first Sunday that I was going to preach to you. We provide you with 52 opportunities to practice that devotion. And so I think it would just be good and worthwhile for you to consider over, say, the next six months. How many Sundays have I partaken of the Lord's Supper? And what are the reasons why I've not partaken of the Lord's Supper? And C, just consider whether that registers realistically as devotion. Observe the Lord's Supper regularly. Second, observe the Lord's Supper hungrily. That is a word. I looked it up this morning. Hungrily. And I'm saying this particular point because we've I'm talking a lot this morning about remembering But when we say remember, I just want to make sure that it's emphasized and clear that we're not merely talking about cognitive intellectual activity. We're talking about coming with need. We're needy. Pastor Tony told reminded us of that as we got ready to sing, All My Help comes from the Lord. We come into this gathering needy, hungry. Maybe you especially are here feeling the need for the hunger for forgiveness. Maybe you're feeling the need and hunger for strength or for that peace which surpasses understanding or for holiness or for hope or for justice or for rest or for sweeter intimacy and fellowship with God. We come in here hungry. We come in here and needy people. And it's good and right as you hold that wafer and as you hold that cup as we do have those 45 seconds or a minute, whatever it is, that time of silence where we're holding it, it's good for you to think about and bring to the Lord your need. Lord, I'm hungry And to remember as you take the bread and as you take the cup that our God has promised to supply your every need according to his riches in glory in Christ Jesus. He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not with him graciously give us all things? So come hungry when you come today. Don't just come intellectually remembering, but bring your need and remember his provision for your needs. Number three. Observe the Lord's Supper introspectively. Introspectively. I'm thinking specifically here about the call in regards to the Lord's Supper that we examine ourselves. Paul says that in 1 Corinthians 11, that we would examine ourselves, that we would be introspective. Now there is a problem, and there is a real danger in being too introspective. being inordinately focused on ourselves to the point that we stop actually looking at our Savior, at the Lord Jesus. I don't want to encourage that kind of wrong introspection, but it is good for us, it is right for us, it is an appropriate part of the Lord's Supper to examine ourselves. In the context of 1 Corinthians 11, where it says to examine ourselves, it means to examine whether you have by your life in any way severed the nerve between love for Christ and love for his people. But I do believe there's a wider application than just that Someone who knows themselves to be living in sin and is determined to not give up that sin is eating and drinking in an unworthy manner That is why we say when we come to the Lord's table, and I'm saying it to you now instead of in a few minutes later, if you're here today and you are not a Christian. You should not eat and drink with us when those elements are past in a few minutes. How can we worthily remember Jesus' death? while at the same time clinging to the accursed thing which necessitated the very death that we're remembering. That would make no sense at all And we understand that no one is sinlessly perfect in this room. No one's going to live a sinlessly perfect life this coming week or this coming month. John says, we are God's children now. But what we will be has not yet appeared. But when Jesus appears, we will be like him because we will see him as he is. But to come introspectively means to come. Each time you hold these elements to say sincerely and bring it before the Lord, am I walking in faith and repentance? And am I living with love towards my brothers and sisters in Christ? And that we come confessing and forsaking any and all ways in which we have fallen short. Which is why we have that regular practice, as Ryan is going to come up in a few minutes, and lead us in a prayer of confession. We should take the Lord's Supper introspectively. Fourth. We should observe the Lord's Supper corporately. Meaning, we should take the Lord's Supper as recognized, accountable members of the body of Christ. So every week we also say something like this, and I'm about to say it now instead of a little bit later, so listen now. If you've not been baptized, And you're not accountably united to a local congregation of believers, we would encourage you not to eat and drink with us today. Being baptized and uniting yourself with a local congregation is the way that you say to a particular group of Christians, I am here, I am with you, I am trusting Jesus, I am committed to following Jesus, and I want you to hold me accountable to that. Only when someone has done that is it appropriate to participate in the meal that identifies you as a member of the one body. Remember 1 Corinthians 10, 17. We who are many are one body because we all partake of the one bread. And so you can't really meaningfully identify yourself as a member of the body without identifying yourself with some local congregation and saying, I am here, hold me. accountable and that's when we begin to take the sign, the meal, that identifies us as a member of the body. Now Let me say something here to a group of people that I think it would be irresponsible if I did not address. The cowardly part of Larry Lazarus wanted to move on to point five. But kids, and especially I'm thinking teens and tweens, this may be hard for you to be hearing Uh I'm making a really big deal for like 37 minutes about the Lord's Supper. How special it is and how important it is. And yet I'm aware that some of you are saying, Yeah, and I want to, but for some reason I feel like somebody's telling me I shouldn't, and I don't know what to do with that And I wish I just had the magical answer that would make everybody's uh concerns go away right now, but I just want to acknowledge first that I know that that's something that maybe some of you are experiencing that that's hard Here's why it's hard. Because these 3,000 people in the book of Acts, we're not told exactly how old they all were when they were baptized and united with the church. And we're not really told anywhere in the New Testament what these 3,000 people did with their family members and how they were identified and recognized as part of the body of Christ. We don't know how that happened in the first century. And parents and pastors and churches don't all have the same idea about when is the best time and when is the most appropriate time for you as a child or a young teenager or a teenager, they don't all have the same opinion about when is the right time to recognize you as a member of the body of Christ so that you can start enjoying the Lord's Supper. It's a little bit like, though not exactly like, when your parents sometimes have a disagreement about whether it's appropriate for you to have a smartphone yet. Or whether it's appropriate for you to start dating. Or whether it's appropriate for you to start watching that movie or TV show. And sometimes parents don't agree on that. And so sometimes parents and churches and pastors, it's not just a Chevrolet Baptist Church by the way, it's is all over the the the world where people have children. And they have a high view of the weighty responsibility that is involved in church membership, they have a hard time figuring this out. And so I want you to hear kids. I want you to pray for us. Pray for yourselves that you would have patience. Pray for your parents and your pastors that we would Have wisdom about discerning when is the right time for you to be recognized. We all believe for the record, we all believe that you can come to Jesus, trust in Jesus, be forgiven of your sins, have a relationship with Jesus right now, no matter what your age is We all believe that. We're talking about when is it right for the church to come in and recognize you as one and hold you accountable for that commitment such that Your discipleship starts to be involved more now in the local church than it does in your home. That's the thing that's a little bit tricky and hard And that's what we need prayer for wisdom to figure out, to discern together. Because we don't want you when we come to the table, we don't want you feeling like nobody thinks I'm a Christian because they've told me that I'm I I shouldn't eat and drink yet. So I guess I don't know if I really do love Jesus or if Jesus loves me. Nobody wants you to be feeling that way when we come to the table. So Pray for patience and pray for wisdom as we seek to encourage you and care for you and uphold this significant responsibility that church membership is. A second thing you could do other than praying is to uh come and uh talk with any of your pastors. If you're thinking about these things and you have questions. I know I can be loud, but you will not burden us, you will not frustrate us if you have questions and you would like to speak with us about your souls. about faith in Jesus, about following Jesus in any way, we're always glad to talk with you kids. We love it that you're here and we want you to feel free to talk to us And one more thing that I would say for you kids, and don't worry, application point number five is super brief, brothers and sisters. One last thing is I want you to know kids, teens, tweens. But until that time when everyone does believe it's right and appropriate for you to be brought into membership in the church and begin taking the Lord's Supper, until that time, whether that time is when you're 13 or whether it's when you're sixteen or whether it's when you're twenty-two, until that time, I want you to know that in God providing you With a loving and faithful Christian home where you are taught the Word of God and you are taught to trust and love Jesus, you have an amazing, amazing blessing. And God gives you everything that you need to honor and trust Him. Happy to talk more about that after the service. Fifthly and finally, observe the supper hopefully We're gonna sing a song in between the sermon and the Lord's Supper, and and just to be absolutely clear Everyone who wants to sing, whether you're going to take the Lord's Supper or not, everybody should be encouraged to sing this song. It's a song of preparation for our observance of the Lord's Supper. And in that song, the final words of that song say, as we share in his suffering, we proclaim, Christ will come again. And we'll join in the feast of heaven around the table of the king. I can't wait for that day I mean Maranatha. Preparing the last five minutes of my sermon made me say, Maranatha. Come, Lord Jesus, when there will be no end to the joys. No more struggles with sin, no more suffering, no more disagreements, perfect clarity with which to love and worship and serve the Lord. On that day, we will be done with this tasteless wafer and this tiny sip of juice, because we'll have come into the real feast that will be our permanent and perpetual experience, being numbered among the great multitude that John heard in Revelation 19, like the roar of many waters and like the sound of mighty peals of thunder, crying out, Hallelujah! For the Lord our God, the Almighty reigns, let us rejoice and exult and give Him the glory for the marriage of the Lamb has come and his bride has made herself ready. Blessed are those who are invited to the marriage supper of the Lamb. Oh, praise God for those amens. Until that blessed day comes, may we be found faithfully devoted to the breaking of bread. And that's why we turn now as we prepare to take the bread and the cup. We want to think, we want to be introspective, we want to examine ourselves, and so our brother Ryan is going to come and he's going to lead us now in our prayer of confession.