I trust uh many of you are familiar with uh C. S. Lewis's Chronicles of Narnia. Yes? All right, I got I like that kind of participation. Thank you, Malone Boys. Uh I trust a lot of you have read those books, maybe seen some of the movies that were released a few years back. Uh I uh Having not grown up in a Christian home, I was not really not. I knew C. S. Lewis. I had read his book Mere Christianity. I really didn't know much about the Chronicles of Narney until I watched the movie The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe, which was released At least the movie, the version I'm talking about, was released 20 years ago. That's humbling. It made me feel very old. That's not really related to the sermon, just sort of personal confession time as we get going. Uh but I I I remember watching the movie and I'd heard great things about this series and the ways that it alluded and pointed to Christ in various ways. And I remember when I was watching the movie, there's this one scene in the movie Where Father Christmas shows up and he gives presents to the kids. And I thought when I saw that movie, I thought that was like I thought that was so lame. Like Hollywood had secularized this this Christian fantasy book by inserting Santa Claus, you know, to to just generate some more dollars from a secular audience. But then then actually a little while later I read the books And I realized, oh, they actually, this scene with Father Christmas, he's not called Santa Claus in the books, but this scene with Father Christmas actually is in the book, too. The uh the pevancy kids, if you're familiar with this story, they're on the run from the wicked witch, Jadis They're traveling along with Mr. and Mrs. Beaver, and they're afraid, but then they realize that uh it's it's actually Father Christmas who has come to bring gifts. So we read in the book, Father Christmas says, he speaks to Peter, he says, and he's speaking to all the kids actually. He says, these are your presents. And they are tools, not toys. He said the time to use them is perhaps near at hand. Bear them well. And Father Christmas handed Peter a shield and a sword with which to do battle when the time came. gave Susan a bow and an arrow and a horn to call if she was ever in distress, and a little Lucy got a small dagger to defend herself if needed, and a A healing potion, case anybody was injured in battle. And then in the book, Father Christmas cries out, A Merry Christmas, and long live the true King. And we're told he cracked his whips and and the reindeer and sledge vanished away before any of the kids even realized that he'd started to move on. I had sort of a fresh appreciation and joy in that fictional depiction of what is actually a biblical truth. A truth that we are arriving at and going to be thinking about together this morning as we return to Paul's letter to the Ephesians. If you've got a Bible with you, I invite you to turn in those Bibles to Ephesians chapter 4. We're just continuing to study this letter verse by verse. If you're using one of the Bibles provided around you, you'll find that on page 977 of those Bibles. If you don't own a Bible, we'd be delighted for you to take that Bible with you today as a gift from us. Well we've been studying most recently as we've begun chapter four, we've been thinking about this way of life. that Paul calls the Ephesian Christians to a way of life that is befitting of or worthy of The great salvation that God has provided in Christ. And what we've seen so far in the opening verses of Ephesians 4 is that that walk, that walk that is worthy of our calling Is a relational walk. It's a corporate walk. It's a walk that we make together as a church, laboring diligently to maintain the unity that has been created by the Holy Spirit. And so if you were here last Sunday, we we spoke of that one body and one spirit and one hope and one Lord and one faith and one baptism and one God and Father over all. And now as we arrive at verse 7 of Ephesians 4, we see that this unity, so important to the Apostle Paul, so important to our Lord Jesus, this unity Is not uniformity. We're not all the same. Even though we're one, we have this oneness, this unity in Christ. We're not all the same. It's a unity that is expressed in and cultivated through the church's experience of diversity. That word diversity is kind of a buzzword in our culture these days. It's not always used clearly, it's not always used biblically. But it is a word that is important because this is what Paul is getting at here in this passage that I'm about to read. That the oneness, the unity of the church is strengthened by the diversity of Gifts, not that Father Christmas would bestow on anybody, but the gifts that the risen and exalted Christ have given, has given to his church to equip his church for the mission that he's called his people to. So we're going to read this morning Ephesians 4, verses 7 through 16. It's a little too, I thought it was a little too much to cover in one week. But we'll spend two weeks thinking about this one passage. I do think it's a unit that we want to consider together. We'll spend a couple of weeks thinking about these verses, Ephesians 4, verses 7 through 16 I'm going to read them, but first let me pray and ask for the Lord's help as we come to give attention to his word. Heavenly Father, we do thank you for your grace to us. It is grace that we can open up a Bible, that we can read it, that we can hear its message proclaimed. And so we pray, Father, that you would make us good stewards of this time, even now. Pray that you would make us attentive to the teaching of your word. Help me in my communication to be faithful to the intent of Paul in writing these words. And we pray that you would instruct us Encourage us and help us to walk worthy of these words that you have brought before us today. We ask for this in Jesus' name. Amen. Listen as I read Ephesians 4, verses 7 through 16. But grace was given to each one of us according to the measure of Christ's gift. Therefore it says, when he ascended on high, he led a host of captives, and he gave gifts to men. In saying he ascended, what does it mean, but that he had also descended into the lower regions, the earth? He who descended is the one who also ascended far above all the heavens, that he might fill all things. And he gave the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists, the shepherds and teachers to equip the saints for the work of ministry. For building up the body of Christ, until we all attain to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God, to mature manhood. to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ, so that we may no longer be children, tossed to and fro by the waves and carried about by every wind of children. By human cunning, by craftiness in deceitful schemes, rather speaking the truth in love, we are to grow up in every way into him who is the head, into Christ. from whom the whole body, joined and held together by every joint with which it is equipped, when each part is working properly, makes the body grow so that it builds itself up in love. This is God's word, brothers and sisters. Thanks be to God. Indeed. We are, according to that passage, there's a lot there. That's why I just didn't think we could do it all in one Sunday, but According to the passage, we've been gifted for growth. That's the title of this sermon and the and the one that we'll come to next time we study Ephesians together. You see it on the front of your bulletin, gifted for growth. And here in these verses, Paul gives us, he gives us a heavenly perspective of that gifting. I think that's what we see there in verses 7 through 10, a heavenly perspective, a heavenly vantage point on the outpouring of these gifts and how that all came about. And then we see the earthly embodiment, the practical outworking of that heavenly perspective in verses 11 through 16. But really, I would say both of them, that heavenly perspective and the sort of earthly practical embodiment of it, really, it it all, this whole passage communicates The same basic and I believe vital truth, and I'll I'll try to summarize it for you in this sentence and we'll think about it a little bit together this morning. Here's what I think the main idea of that paragraph is that I just read to you The exalted Christ has gifted his church everything she needs to fulfill his cosmic purpose for her Why do you use female pronouns there for the church? Because the church, church, is the bride of Christ, right? So the exalted Christ has gifted his church everything she needs to fulfill his cosmic purpose for her. And what I want to do this morning is just try to explain that main idea by just walking through verses 7 through 10. To try to understand the teaching that's there. It is not the easiest part of Ephesians to understand. So I want to just try to walk you through that passage and help you to understand what Paul is saying here And then I want us to consider two responses to that teaching. That's not much of an outline, I know, but it's a tough passage. Main idea? The exalted Christ has gifted his church everything she needs to fulfill his cosmic purpose. Let's try to see if we can see that, that that's not just my idea, but that that is the teaching of this passage. Verse 7, Paul says, but grace was given He's talked about one, one body, one spirit, one Lord, one faith, all this unity. But in all that unity, grace was given to each one of us. There's this diversity of gifting. Grace was given to each one of us. according to the measure of Christ's gift. And I think it's important right here up front to be clear about who the us is to each one of us is given because I don't want anybody here to be confused by this. as if simply by showing up this morning at this gathering of Christians in this gymnasium that you're necessarily a part of this each one of us that Paul is describing here. We we know who the each one of us is. Because it's the way Paul opens the letter at the very beginning of the letter in chapter 1, verse 1, he writes this letter to the saints who are in Ephesus and are faithful in Christ Jesus. So these words about each one of us being gifted are not just every human being everywhere, but they are for the saints. They are for those who are faithful in Christ. And what Paul tells us about those people in chapter 1, verse 13, is that they had heard the word of truth, the gospel of salvation, and they had believed in Christ. And they had, because they had believed in Christ, they had received the Holy Spirit, who was the down payment of their inheritance in him. And all of that was because of grace. It was according to the riches of God's grace which he lavished upon his people in Christ Jesus. So Paul was writing this letter to those who were once dead in sin. And if you're here this morning and you're not sure what you believe about the Lord, if you're thinking about Christianity We want to be very candid with you. We want to be very upfront with you about what the Bible says about you. The Bible says if you're here today and you're not a Christian, you're actually dead in sin. I'm not just making that up. You could look in the Bible there that you have. It says in chapter 2, verse 1, you were dead in your trespasses and sins in which you once walked. All human beings have rebelled against God, have turned away from God, and are therefore alienated from God. We are, the Bible says, children of wrath, without God and without hope in the world. But for those who were once dead, God has done an incredible miracle, and he has made a people who were once dead in sin and rebellious rebels, objects of God's wrath. He has turned hated enemies into beloved children and saints, holy ones. He has done that not because of any work that we could do or contribute, but because of his own grace. The Christian faith is a message of grace. So Paul says in Ephesians 2, by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing, but it's the gift of God. When we were dead in sin, God made a people alive in Christ. And He sends this message of good news of salvation in Christ. And for those who hear and who receive He grants salvation. It's not a result of works, so that no one may boast. And in this gathering, I know most of you are those who have received that grace. And for all those who have received that wonderful saving grace, we should not be surprised that in addition to the saving grace that God has given, He gives still more grace. He gives the grace of Serving grace. Paul actually says that in chapter 2, verse 10. I just quoted from verses 8 and 9: By grace you've been saved through faith. It's not your own doing. Paul goes on to say in Ephesians 2. 10, for we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them. And those good works which we see in chapter 4 are carried out in the power of grace. He has given to each one of us, each one of us who has repented of sin and turned in faith and received Christ and been saved by God's gracious work in Christ. He's given to each one of us Still more grace. Grace that accords, he says there, with the measure of Christ's gift. Tailor-made grace specially measured out just for you, Christians This this really should be the the death of all uh envy that we might have or comparisons that we make with other Christians. Any any hint that we might have of boasting in what we have, all of that is excluded when we think that any good thing that is in us is the expression and outworking of God's grace to us. varied grace. Each one was given to us grace according to the measure of Christ's gift. Praise God as He gives us to working out our own salvation, as He as He calls us to living a life worthy of the calling to which we've been called, He's not left it to His people to figure things out on our own But he's actually uniquely gifted each and every member of his body to help the church be built up in love. This this worthy walk that his people are called to requires work from every member And it is upheld and sustained and empowered by the exalted Christ who gives serving grace to every member of his church. It's part of his triumphant victory over all the powers of hell, which is what Paul goes on to say in verse 8. And this is why I refer to a heavenly perspective or a heavenly vision of the outpouring and the distribution of these gifts. Look at. Verse 8. So he says there, each one of us has received gift uh grace, gifts according to the measure of Christ's gift. Therefore it says, This is where this passage gets a little bit tricky. So this grace that was given to each one of us is confirmed and is described even in the Old Testament. That's what Paul's going to quote now in verse 8. He's giving a quotation. From Psalm 68 that our sister Annalise read to us earlier in the service. Therefore it says When he ascended on high, he led a host of captives, and he gave gifts to men. Now, I said it's tricky because if you were listening very closely to Annalise when she read Psalm 68, if your mind didn't start to drift away, as sometimes sadly it does happen when someone reads a lengthy passage of scripture. When Annalise read Psalm 68, 18, she read not of God giving gifts to men, but of God receiving gifts among men. Like what's up with that? Did Paul mess up? Did he just forget what he was quoting? Well, they don't think he did. Paul. Paul writing under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, having a mastery of the Old Testament, having been taught by the Lord Jesus Himself, how all of Scripture ultimately bore witness to the Lord Jesus. He saw, when he thought of Psalm 68, he understood it ultimately to be fulfilled in the Lord Jesus. Psalm sixty-eight began with these words. God shall arise, and his enemies shall be scattered Now that gives you an idea of the theme of the whole psalm. And again, we heard Annalise read most of that psalm to us. It's a psalm about how God is a victorious king. Having led his people out from their slavery and captivity in Egypt, and finally settling his people in the Promised Land. And and all their all their enemies were defeated. And finally, under the reign of King David, the scholars are the smart people, they tell me they're not exactly sure what was the historical occasion that Psalm 68 was written in. But uh a lot of them believe that it was the time when the Ark of the Covenant was brought into Jerusalem, into the city of Zion, up Mount Zion, so ascending up Mount Zion. And this was a time, it's recorded in 2 Samuel 6 of great celebration and festive joy. If you think about the joy that a city knows, We don't know about this whole lot in DC, but when you're well, I guess the Capitals did win a championship not too long ago. When a city celebrates a victory of a championship and they have this big parade and celebration There would be that kind of celebration when the Ark of the Covenant was brought up to Jerusalem after the Lord had defeated all his enemies. And and here's something else you need to know about this day. Now listen, I know I'm going on about some history here, but I want you to- I I I've said this to you before, I think. This quote that I'm sometimes reminded of when I get studied into a passage of scripture and it's hard for me to grasp. Raking is easy, but all you get at the end of the raking is leaves. Digging is harder, but you might find a diamond. And there I hope I'm gonna do an okay job of explaining this all, but there's a diamond to be had here. If you'll try to track with what Paul is doing here in quoting Psalm 68 in Ephesians 4 like this. Okay, so you've got Psalm 68, God is victorious. He's he his ark has ascended up Mount Zion. And then something else that we know about the history and culture of these days is that when a king defeated all his enemies, He would lead those enemies that he had conquered, and he'd parade them through the city so that all of the citizens Of the city would see the triumph of their king and rejoice in the defeat and shame of their enemies. You see that there in verse 8, he led a host of captives. And along with the defeated enemies, there would be the spoils of victory, which had been captured during the triumph. And we actually see a picture of this sort of thing happening in King David's life. David wrote Psalm 68. And if you read about in David's life in 1 Samuel 30, There's this time where David defeats the Amalekites and he captures all their flocks and their herds from the land. And David, it says he shares the spoils of victory with all of his people. Who were even those who were too exhausted to go into the battle. There's this scene in 1 Samuel 30 where David's got people saying to him, Don't don't don't share the spoils of victory with the people that didn't even go out to war. And David's like, God forbid that we should withhold. God has worked a great victory, and everybody gets to share in the spoils. So when you when you plundered a people, are you with me? There's a diamond down here. When you plundered a people. It was appropriate for a good king to share that plunder with the people. Part of receiving the gifts in battle from the defeat of your enemies was distributing those gifts to your people, the loyal subjects of your kingdom. And that's a picture Paul says. I think that's why Paul feels free with the fulfillment of this psalm in Christ. He feels free to say that God, who had received gifts among men, was then freely distributing those gifts. to his people. Paul sees all that transpiring ultimately. What is this ascending if not speaking of the ascension of the Lord Jesus? How could God, maybe this is the way Paul is pondering as he comes to this verse in scripture, how could God descend? I mean, to us to ascend, to go up, would involve first descending, coming down. And so Paul saw in this a pointer, even in this in the Psalms, even a thousand years before Jesus came, he saw Psalm 68 ultimately to be fulfilled in Christ. And so he says there in verse 9 of Ephesians 4, in saying he ascended, What does it mean, but that he also descended into the lower regions, the earth? He who descended is the one who had also ascended far above all the heavens. And so what we're seeing here, we're starting to get to this diamond. The way that Jesus entered into this great ascension and enthronement was through first. experiencing the valley of humiliation. Jesus Christ, the one before whom angels prostrate fall, as we've Sung, the one who lived in the glorious joy of the fellowship of the Father and the Holy Spirit from all eternity, that high and exalted, eternally existing Lord Jesus Upholding the universe by the word of his power, that Jesus descended. He came to the lowest depths of the earth. He emptied himself, the apostle Paul would say in Philippians 2. He emptied himself and he bore the shame and the disgraceful death of the cross and he did that for our sake. For the sake of sinners, that's how we could be washed from our sin and enter into the glorious joy of fellowship with God again. He who was the author of life was buried in the grave. And through that descent, through that humiliation. He won this great victory. We're told in Colossians 2, he disarmed the rulers and authorities, the evil powers who were looking to keep us Subdued in slavery to sin and judgment, he disarmed those rulers and authorities and put them to open shame by triumphing over them in Christ. And then to demonstrate his victory, God raised Jesus up from the dead, and Jesus ascended on high, and he's now been exalted to the highest place. Far above the heavens, Paul would write in Ephesians 4. Imagine this scene. That's why we started, okay, I'm yelling a lot. Let me just take a sip of water. We started the passage there, the sermon, the service in Daniel 7, which shows this great picture of the arrival of the ascended Christ. into the glory of his father, having defeated the enemies, having defeated sin and death and Satan and hell. Jesus ascends up to heaven for his coronation, and as he is being acclaimed and praised, Lord of Lords, King of Kings, Paul's seeing in Ephesians 4 that one of the ways that the church benefits from Christ's victory over the devil and Satan and hell and and all the evil powers. One of the ways the church benefits from that is through Jesus ascending and then sharing the spoils of victory with his people. And he gives gifts to his people. He he shares he he having received the spoils of victory through his triumph over death and over the devil, he shares those uh spoils, he shares those gifts with his people because this conquering king He's a generous king. And therefore it says, when he ascended on high, he led a host of captives, and he gave gifts to men. And all this, all this ascending and distributing the spoils of victory, all this is to the purpose that he would fill all things. Do you see that there in verse 10? He ascended far above all the heavens that he might fill all things. In Christ God is filling the whole earth with the knowledge of his glory as the waters cover the sea. And he's going to do that. Paul has begun in this letter, he speaks of a day. It's the final hope that unites us together as brothers and sisters in Christ. The day is coming when Jesus is going to break through the heavens and he's going to unite all things, it says in Ephesians 1, verse 10. Things in heaven and things on earth. All things will be united in Christ. But until that day, God is carrying out this promise. Jesus is filling all things throughout the world by filling the creation with his redeemed image-bearers. Through the church's mission of making disciples, of preaching the gospel and making disciples, there are image-bearers of Jesus, and Jesus' glory is filling the earth through the church multiplying disciples and multiplying churches all over the earth. Oh it doesn't look like a whole lot right now. It looks like a teeny mustard seed or a little pinch of leaven. Leavening a lump of dough. Unspectacular, unremarkable, small, seemingly insignificant, but it's going to one day be revealed in all its immensity and splendor. And at this point in history, Jesus is gifting his church with everything that she needs to carry out those cosmic purposes for his people. That's what I understand of verses 8 through 10. I hope you got something out of that. It's not easy to understand. I'm not sure I totally understand what I just yelled at you about for the last 15 minutes. But it does have it does have a very practical earthly embodiment, and we'll see how that works out as we look at the next verses. But this is the big cosmic heavenly perspective on gifts in the church. The exalted Christ, can you see, even through that imperfect explanation that I gave there? Do you see that main idea? The exalted Christ, him who has ascended far above all the heavens, he's gifted his church He took the spoils of his victory and he's distributed gifts to his people. He's gifted his church with everything that she needs to fulfill his cosmic purposes. He's filling all things. Jesus Christ, the head of the church, he makes this promise, I will build my church, and the gates of hell will not prevail against her. And then Jesus, that Jesus who makes that grand promise, takes personal responsibility for the success of that mission by distributing gifts for the building up of his church. Why is he doing that? Because he is intent on filling the earth with the knowledge of his glory. And he's doing it right now through his churches. He descended and he suffered and he died and then he rose victorious and he ascended and he led a host of captives with all the spoils of victory. And upon his ascension, he's freely bestowing gifts upon Missy Kithitou and Beth Ferris and Shannon Lehman and Sam Wilkins and Devon Anderson That's pretty amazing. Okay, that's a gospel diamond. I'm not sure how well I explained it, but that is a jewel And even if you've not understood every detail of my exposition there, if we can grasp that big idea, we can see something of the sweetness and preciousness. of that jewel, I think it has a couple of implications for our lives. And that's what I want to conclude with. Two implications of this. Number implication number one, you're gonna love this. By which I mean I don't know that you will. Implication number one is work. Work, that's right. If grace has been gifted to each one of us, then surely each one of us has work to do. Seeing as each one of us has been equipped with Christ's serving grace to build up the body so that we're able to be a part of Christ's cosmic purpose to fill all things with his glory. That's what Paul says at the end of this passage in verse 16. Okay, well again, we'll get to it in a couple weeks. I'm not going to be here next week. We'll come back to this passage in a few Sundays, but When each part is working properly, he says in verse 16, when each part is working properly. See, I didn't get that I didn't make that work word work up out of thin air. When each part is working properly, it makes the body grow so that it builds itself up in love. So I've been told this is a church plant. Allow me to get a teeny bit nostalgic, okay, because it was a I told a few of you this, it was one year ago this weekend, I was here for a long weekend visiting with a bunch of you in your homes and I sat up there on the stage and Pastor Tony interviewed me questions. That was one year ago. And I've been thinking a little bit this week about all that God has done in the past year. And just so it's just reminded me that I've heard a lot. During that weekend and since I've been here, it's a church plant, and what that means is all hands are on deck. And y'all know what I mean. And somebody gave me an amen, and it's good to give an amen And that's true. And for and it is a joy to see that playing out in the life of this church together. All hands are on deck. And I just I I I just I think this teaching reminds me, and it it's reminding me to remind you. That's always true of life in the body of Christ, if we're thinking rightly about life in the body of Christ This whole idea, all hands on deck, it's not going to go away when we have a building of our own. Lord willing, we will have a building of our own. We're praying to that end. But this is not gonna stop. God forbid that we should ever reach a place of such comfort as a congregation that we'd conclude, you know what, we've arrived now, so all hands aren't needed on deck. Now some of us can just kick back and coast. Where is where's that in the Bible Well, I'll show you all it where it is is in Revelation. Okay. When we come into the fullness of the glory of heaven We will just, it'll be a joy and there'll be no hard work to give our. We still actually, I think, in ways, we'll work for the Lord, but it will be a joy and there'll be no burden at all in it. But until that day, what we get is grace was given to each one of us according to the measure of Christ's gift. And that grit, that gift, that grace is there so that we might give ourselves to working. That means none of us can really choose to opt out. He has decided to apportion his grace to each one. So that nobody is left out. Nobody can say, well, you know what? I don't really have to be a part of this. I don't really have anything to contribute to this. If you are here and you are in Christ, yes, you do And I would love to kids if you have questions, what does it look like for me? How do I actually serve? I'm not a member of the church here. I don't know exactly what's it what I would love to talk with you after the service, kids. You could come up and ask me, what does it look like for me? How do I help other people and how do I be a blessing to other people here? I saw a wonderful picture. I'm not going to say whose name it was I just saw a wonderful picture last Sunday that was drawn of me preaching the word with very specific quotes of what I had said in the sermon, and my soul was enriched to keep on preaching. We all have something to contribute. Every part matters. That's what the passage is teaching. The skill in accounting and the faithful stewardship of an Eric Schrock. It matters. Y'all have no idea. I don't Eric's not I don't think that I see them here. It's a holiday weekend, but you y'all y'all have no idea the hard work that Ryan Payne gives himself to As a lay elder of this church. And the late nights that he's up thinking and laboring about how we can bless you while working a full-time job throughout the week. That matters. Oh, the the enthusiastic, since I'm getting nostalgic this week, the enthusiastic hospitality of a sunshine whiting, that matters. The the musical gifting of of an Angela Payne and a Jonathan Stockland who are getting refreshed in that even this weekend actually or this coming week by being down in Nashville at the Singh conference. That matters to the life of this church. The hospitality of the clouds is just going to open up their home tomorrow for whoever it all shows up. That matters. The joyful praise that Sabrina Smith gives when she stands here or when she's just in the congregation praising the Lord, that matters. The text messages saying that you're praying for me. Where is Matt? I saw him here earlier. Okay, he's right there. The text messages that say I'm praying for you as you bring the word, they matter. the evangelistic zeal to go out on the campus and initiate a college with with college students that all they want to do is get drunk, but you're going to go tell them about Jesus. All that matters The rides given and the meals prepared and the hugs given and the testimony shared and the prayer sprayed and the encouraging words that are spoken and even the admonitions that are given and received when they're needed. All those cables hooked up and tires that get inflated. when we're trying to get all this set up this morning. And and all the speakers turned on and the Bible lessons prepared and the budget lines that are scrutinized, the bulletins that are prepared. It's all it's all important. It's all matters. None of that is small. These are gifts of the ascended and exalted Christ. They can't be small. And that leads me to a second observation. A second implication. Okay, work. But if on this Labor Day weekend you were not exactly hoping to come to church and just hear a call, come on, work, church. Lest there be any danger in you hearing this call to work as a burden, I just would commend one more response to this teaching, and that would be wonder. Work with wonder a few years ago Noah and I went to a golf tournament down in Hilton Head, South Carolina. I know that might seem kind of lame to a lot of you, but just roll with it And I could see I could see in my you know I could close my eyes and imagine the scene where all these kids, all these little kids, like Noah's age or John, your age there, and that's right, I just called you out in the sermon, but it's okay. Um All those kids kind of huddled around in this big cra crowd trying to get autographs from the best players. And I could just imagine this didn't happen. Noah was in that crowd. We got some other stories to tell about time, so we've gotten autographs. That's not what this story is for right now. But I could just imagine if Scotty Scheffler might not know that name, he's like the best golfer in the world and it's not close. Again, not impressive to all of you, I get it. But I could just imagine Scotty Scheffler walking up to Noah while everyone is trying reaching out, oh give me your autograph, give me your autograph. I could imagine him saying, hey Come with me. I want you to carry my bag today. Now one thing I know about that tournament we were at, it was super hot. It was like 90 plus degrees, hot, humid, Hilton Head, South Carolina. It was hot. And one thing that I'm pretty sure about those bags is they're heavy It would not be joyful in a sense to be slogging around this big heavy bag in the heat. But I'd imagine. If Scotty Scheffler said to you, Come on now, I want you to carry my bag, oh, we would pass out fainting before we would give up the opportunity to carry that bag. Beloved, who is Scotty Scheffler? See, some you don't even know Scotty Scheffler. We've been commissioned, we've been charged to work for the Lord. For the risen, exalted Lord who came, who first descended and gave his life as an atoning sacrifice was. And he says, come on, I've got work for you to do. I'm gonna give you grace to do the work. I would rather be a doorkeeper, the psalmist said, in the house of my God than dwell in the tents of wickedness. So I don't understand every detail of Ephesians 4, 8 through 10, beloved. And I frankly think that my explanation of it to you was actually worse than what I have written on paper. I don't think I communicated it to you very well. I don't need that feedback necessarily later on today. I don't under i it's a hard passage, but we can still wonder at this. These gifts that have been poured out to this congregation, they did not come easy. The spoils that have become gifts of grace to us, to us all, to each one of us. were won through the massive battle that Christ fought against Satan and his willingness to even lay down his life and give himself to divine wrath. He ascended and he gave the gifts because he was first willing to descend and suffer and die and rise. In order that we as his people might be the first fruits of his coming rule over the whole cosmos, when all things are united, things in heaven and things on earth under that one head. So when you think about the work that you're called to and the gifts that you have, we should just be amazed Me? What in the world does my I don't know if you can say this in a congregation, but it's what I just thought of, what does my rear end have any business doing up here preaching God's word to you? That's amazing. And we all have work to do. Malone's like, that's not something you should have said probably Okay, you were gonna have looked. It was like that was an interesting way of putting it. What business do any of us have being employed in the service of the King of Kings? The one who has been exalted to the highest political position in all the universe paid an astonishing price to give us gifts So that we could build the church into Christ-likeness for the glory of the one who paid the price. And what that means is there is something happening among us. In the work of the church, these ordinary folding chairs and these Bibles that are placed here and these speakers that are hooked up, there's something far more epic than anything you read about in the Chronicles of Narnia or the Lord of Rings. Is that what it Lord of the Rings? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Or the Star Wars movies. Something far more epic going on. And Christians, we're a part of it. I I don't understand everything about this text. But it does invite us to rejoice. That Jesus has given us abounding grace to play our part in that epic work. Well, they're not toys. But tools. Bear them well, Chevrolet Baptist Church. And long live the true King. Oh Father, we pray that you would take this. I just think of the boy he brought some scraps of loaves to you, and you multiplied and fed thousands with them. I've brought some scraps here, and I pray that you would use it to build up your people in love, in faith, in holiness, that together with one voice we might glorify you, our God and Father. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.