How's everyone this morning? I saw mixed reactions and heard, but anyway, it's good to be with you. Let's look to the Lord once more in prayer before we open up his word together Heavenly Father, we are poor and needy. And we pray that you would hasten to us. And that you would meet us in our need and in our weakness. That you would be glorified in our time together as we consider your word We are reminded again that it's the Spirit who gives life. And the flesh is no help at all. So we need your spirit to be working among us now in this time. Do that for your glory, we pray. Build us up in the truth. We ask this in Christ's name Amen. Please turn in your Bibles to the Gospel of Matthew Chapter 28, Matthew chapter 28. Let me find what page that is for you. If you're using one of the Bibles provided, I think it's page 835 of those Bibles provided for you. In selecting this portion of scripture as our sermon passage for this particular morning, I had anticipated its usefulness to us In helping us specifically to celebrate three great and exciting events. The first, and it is the most important, Is the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. That's why we're here today. That's why we're here on a Sunday, the first day of the week. Because it was on a Sunday, many, many years ago. Some historians believe the date, I think they might be right, but we don't know for sure. April 5th, 33 A. D. Jesus of Nazareth, the Son of God and the Son of Man, having been justly, or having been brutally and unjustly executed on a Roman cross for crimes he did not commit, but having willingly chosen to endure that death as an atoning sacrifice for sin Jesus Christ emerged triumphant from the grave as the demonstration that he had fully paid the price. for every sin of every hell deserving sinner who would ever turn from their sin and trust in him, so that we would not need to bear his wrath, but we would never die. And live with him in fullness of joy for all of eternity in a new heavens and a new earth in which righteousness dwells. That's why we're here this morning. That's a really exciting and great event. The second and third great events that I was anticipating Were the baptisms of Mercy Green and Adeline Heindel, who I was expecting to be publicly declaring today Their faith in and their allegiance to that risen Lord Jesus before this congregation who would themselves be pledging their commitment To encourage and nurture and care for and keep accountable Mercy and Adeline for that public declaration that they would make. I didn't want to be too presumptuous and assume. I knew it wasn't a 100% guarantee when I was planning this all out. We still had to have a members' meeting last week. And I would have preached the sermon regardless. But knowing that the elders were going to be making those recommendations to you, I had these in mind as I was doing my planning towards the end of last year. Because of the unforeseen circumstances we've had with our weather delays and some family travel plans, it's only Mercy who's going to be baptized later today, Adeline, Lord willing, will be baptized on March 8th. What I did not anticipate as I planned this particular sermon for this particular Sunday Was the potential for it to be delivered or heard as a sort of commentary on the extended conversation that we had At last Sunday's members meeting. So if you're if you're visiting with us today, uh, or if you're a kid, maybe a young teen, maybe you were sitting back there At those cafeteria tables during our members' meeting, it's good for you to hear that we at Chevrolet Baptist Church don't always agree about everything. Uh the reason we come together as a church is because though we don't agree about everything, we do agree and we find a very sweet unity and joy. In the most important things. And we strive to center our lives individually and our life together as a church and our worship of Him on those things. And so seeing as we have uh set apart some time in a few weeks to talk more about those other matters. Uh I think it's important for us today to focus on these most important things, these first things. And there are four such things. Yes, I said that. Four first things That I see present in our text. They're really, really important for everybody who's hearing my voice right now They all include the word all. So let me read these parting words of the resurrected Lord Jesus And then we'll think about these four first things together. See if you can spot These four first things that all have the word all in them. Matthew chapter 28, beginning in verse 18. And Jesus came and said to them, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you And behold, I am with you always to the end of the age. This is God's word, brothers and sisters. Do you receive it today as a I know you just said the words, thanks be to God, and I hope you were sincere in saying it, but I hope you receive that as a really good and sweet word for us today. Did you see him? Kids, did you see them? Those four first things with the word all. Someone I just heard somebody whisper, only three. Okay, let's see. All authority. This is our outline, just so you know. All authority, all nations All I have commanded you, and all the days. That's the literal translation of that word always. Here are four alls that we happily build our lives and our church on. And it is my sincere prayer that the risen Lord would be pleased to use them freshly in our lives today to strengthen and deepen our unity in Him. I will be honest with you, Saints. I had a twinge of regret. I've had twinges of regret over the past 48 hours since telling you we would not take the Lord's Supper today in order to create a little bit of extra time in between services In preparation for the prayer service, because the Lord's Supper is a unifying church unity act. So, and that was entirely on me, that decision. Just letting you know I had a little regret, but I'm still praying that God's word would do a sweet, unifying work in our lives today. Point number one, all authority. You see it there in verse 18. Jesus, that is, of course, the resurrected Jesus That's what the rest of Matthew 28 makes so clearly that Jesus who was dead, who was crucified savagely, and then buried in a cold dark tomb, but on that resurrection morning burst forth. So that the witnesses who first came to the tomb said, no, no, no, he's not here anymore. He's risen, as he said, that Jesus Came and said to them, in context, that's the eleven, or the eleven apostles, minus Judas, who had defected and betrayed Jesus and then taken his own life. Jesus said to them, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Kids When you're told to do something, I might have said this before, but it's useful if again if I haven't if you haven't heard me say it recently. When someone tells you to do something. You probably wanna know like you maybe you've said these words. Says who Like who's really telling me? Like if your if your little brother says to you uh go clean your room you probably want to know like is that just little brother telling me or like did dad say that Well, Jesus wants us to know who it is that's speaking, who it is that's charging when he gives these final words. Who's who's talking? Says who here? Oh, just the one who's been given all authority Not just all authority in Israel or all authority in Africa or in the United States of America, but all authority everywhere in the earth and not just everywhere in the earth but in heaven and on earth. He has authority everywhere. That's who's talking. And that authority, in a sense, he's had that authority from all of eternity. He is the eternal Son of God. He's the one through whom the world was made. But when Jesus says here, all authority has been given to me, I do believe he is speaking in an even sweeter and even more special sense. All authority has been given to him as the now resurrected one, the Son of Man, the Messiah who in his resurrection and his soon-to-be ascension is enthroned in heaven as the one with all authority in heaven and on earth It's this authority that the Apostle Paul mentions in his prayer in chapter 1 of Ephesians. Do you remember a time long ago in a galaxy far, far away, we were studying the book of Ephesians? And Paul says God raised Jesus from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places Far above all rule and authority and power and dominion, and above every name that is named, not only in this age, but also in the one to come. That's the Jesus who is speaking. The Jesus who has been, according to Hebrews 2, crowned with glory and honor because of the suffering of death. That crowning is what is what Daniel was envisioning when he saw in the night A vision, right? We heard it at the beginning of our service in the call to worship. Coming, one coming with the clouds of heaven, one like a son of man. Twenty-eight times in Matthew's gospel does Jesus speak of himself as the Son of Man. It doesn't just mean that he's a human. It means he's that guy from Daniel 7. There came one on the clouds like a son of man, and he came to the ancient of days, the Father who existed eternally, and he was presented before the ancient of days, and to him. To this son of man was given dominion and glory and a kingdom that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him His dominion is an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away, and his kingdom one that shall not be destroyed. Was not anticipating my voice going out at this point in the sermon. Do we have any more water, Dave? Or Devon? Thank you. The resurrection and exaltation of Jesus restored him, having humbled himself unto death, he was now exalted and restored. to that place of triumphant authority over all things. And from there, from his throw enthronement in heaven, he's working out his saving purposes in the world as the invincible unconquerable King of Kings and Lord of Lords. He is the Lord over politics and government and industry and business and science and education and entertainment and sports and media and weather and stars and light and energy and Life and death, and he uses all of that power and authority to unfailingly accomplish all his mighty purposes in all of the cosmos. Uh kids, sometimes I hear, maybe I just hear this in my own house, but sometimes you hear I hear kids talking about when they see like maybe a great sporting thank you brother. When I a great sporting events like, oh he's him You ever say that? I know some of you middle school, early high school boys, oh, oh, he's him. Jesus is saying, when he says all authority in heaven and earth has been given to me, he says, I'm him. I'm that guy. You better listen. And it is very important that each and every one of you here really listens and really considers. Have I, have you, submitted yourself to Jesus and his universal dominion Sometimes when we're speaking to people about the gospel, we encourage them to make Jesus their Lord. I would commend that we stop talking that way. Because nobody's making Jesus Lord. He's the Lord. He's the one with all authority in heaven and on earth A question that would be a good question is, have you submitted to Jesus as Lord? Have you surrendered to him as Lord? Because he is Lord. And every one of us should consider: have we bowed? Have we surrendered to his supreme lordship? Human beings naturally, in and of themselves, don't like his lordship. In fact, they hate it. We hate it apart from his supernatural working in our lives. We like living for ourselves We like being our own king. But the thing is, you you can shake your fist at him all you want, you can act like he doesn't exist, but he is the Lord. He's got all authority in heaven and on earth He owns you. You live in his world. You breathe his air. And one day, because he is the risen one. He will come back and he will judge, and each and every one of us will give an account to him for how we have used our lives. And it will be terrifying on that day for those who have resisted and ignored and scorned his authority on that day when Jesus comes back, as it's described in Revelation 19. riding on his white horse with a sword in his mouth, striking down all of his enemies. And if there is any one of you here in this room today who has not bowed the knee before Jesus, I would appeal to you and I would urge you To lay down your rebellion against him even today. Because that can be changed. You can be changed from an enemy into a beloved citizen through repentance. That means turning away from your sin and your posture of self-rule and self-love and turning and receiving him. You can this morning hear Jesus say, I am your king. I am the one with all authority in heaven. All my enemies. Will most certainly be made a footstool under my feet, but look today with the eyes of your heart and see what I have done for you so that you would not need to be crushed under my feet. The Son of Man came. not to be served, but to serve and to give his life as a ransom for many. For any, in fact, who would today say, I'm turning away from living for me. I will trust in Jesus' unfailing love and I will give my life to him. You can give yourself to him freely like that, confident that he will save you because his death on the cross paid the penalty for our sins and that resurrection from the grave on April 5th, 33 A. D. or sometime around then Guaranteed he is really able to save all who would come to him in repentant faith Some of you listen to Forrest Frank, I'm told. Some of you are getting ready to go to a concert of his, maybe soon, I think And there's this song, you know, there's one song, it's uh I think it might have been one of his better-known songs, it's called Your Way is Better, where he says, I searched the world till my head hurt, just to find out your way's better. But the way he says it, it's like, I searched the world till my heyed hurt. Just to find out your way's bayed or. And I don't know why he talks like that exactly, but he's making a profound point And I appeal to you young people especially. And it's going to be a sweet thing to hear this testimony this afternoon because here's a young woman who's going to testify. She's going to say, I didn't have to go search the whole world to find out that his way is better. God worked into my life so that I'm not trying to ruin your Uh steal the thunder of your testimony. But he she didn't have to go search the whole world. She just heard the gospel and she's like, I'm living, I believe, I trust the Lord. You don't have to search the whole world To find out that his way is better. You can hear the word right now and receive him as the better one. In baptism, that's what Mercy and what Adeline in a few weeks Lord willing, will publicly and accountably be pledging before us. It's already happened in their hearts. It's received by faith. But they're going to be publicly declaring that before us For mercy later today, Adeline in a few weeks, they're saying to us, and it's a weighty thing, I'm not my own. Now, Lord, as we'll sing at the end of this service, now Lord, I would be yours alone and live so all might see the strength to follow your commands could never come from me Oh Father, use. This is what they're declaring when they submit themselves to baptism. Oh Father, use my ransom life in any way you choose. And let my song forever be, my boast is in you. And for all of us who have gone under that water at some point in our lives. Seeing someone go under the water is intended to be a reminder to us of that commitment that we have made. That we belong to Him. Take my life and let it be, Lord, consecrated to thee. Does he have that right in your life to change your plans, to change the trajectory of your life, because you are submitted to him, not yourself? That brings me to a second all in this passage. Jesus is the one that has all authority And because he's him, we go out for him on his behalf. To all the nations. All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Go therefore. That's why on the front of the bulletin it says the royal work of baptizing because we're going as those who are sent as emissaries of the risen and reigning king of kings. So this is when we go out. It is a royal work. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations. I want you to imagine for a moment an intriguing and thrilling scenario. It's not going to play out this way. I understand. Don't question my eschatology. I'm just painting a scenario for you Imagine the Lord Jesus was to communicate to us this afternoon, right around the time that we're doing our prayer service, if he was to come among us and make it known that he was going to return from heaven to earth on Friday, this coming Friday. And he tells you, he tells us, that every single person that we share the gospel with this coming week. Will most assuredly hear the word with faith and be saved and be brought into that glorious kingdom when he returns on Friday And let's just say, since you're kind of at that point panicking, like I don't know, am I gonna be able to get to everybody? There's a lot of people I want to let's say he could guarantee you you'll get you'll have time. You will get it to everybody And let's just say also that Jesus made that promise not just to us, but He said that to every single person who is a follower of his on the planet every single Christian on the planet sharing the gospel with every single person that they know and every single one of them before Friday coming to faith in Jesus. Intriguing and thrilling, right? But consider this. On Friday, when the Lord Jesus comes back, there would still be around 3 billion people who would not be Christians. Three billion people who on Friday would enter into everlasting condemnation Because not only do they not know of Jesus, not only have they not given their life to Jesus and submitted to his lordship over all, but they don't know anybody who knows of Jesus. So they could not hear this glorious news of salvation in him and be saved. And the Son of Man The risen King of Kings, he died to have a people from all those nations All those ethnic people groups in all of the world. That's what Daniel 7 communicated, that all nations should submit to him, should bow before him. That's what Psalm 67 was talking about when sunshine read, let the nations be glad and sing for joy. That's what God promised to Abraham way back in Genesis 12. It's what God the Father called his son Jesus to actually pray for in Psalm 2 In Psalm 2, the Messiah is saying, The Lord Yahweh said to me, You are my son. Today I have begotten you. Ask of me. Here's what the Father says to his son. Hundreds of years before Jesus came to earth as a ransom for sinners, ask of me, and I will make the nations your heritage and the ends of the earth your possession. And for 2000, we're sitting here today because the Father is answering and has been answering it and will continue to answer the prayer of his son. We are here because God's been doing it for 2,000 years, and nations are streaming in to hear the word of God, to repent, to trust Jesus, and be forgiven and brought into his kingdom. From Jerusalem to Judea to Samaria, even to Prince George's county. This is what Jesus bought. This is what's celebrated in heaven's throne room. Even now, they sang a new song, Revelation 5:9. Worthy are you! To take the scroll and to open its seals, for you were slain, and by your blood you ransomed people for God from every tribe and language and people and nation And you have made them a kingdom and priests to our God, and they shall reign on the earth. And that that can happen. That wonderful heavenly vision can happen. Because 2,000 years ago, Jesus said to eleven people who were scared, some of them even were doubting, we're told there in the verse or two, right before I started reading Jesus said, go to all the nations, and the fruit of it is what we see there in Revelation 5. And there's still going that needs to be done. We might pick up and and move out of the DMV for a whole lot of reasons. Job change. Lower cost of living, warmer climate, maybe a romantic relationship that emerges with somebody that lives in a different state, different part of the country. I'm just wondering if anybody here might consider picking up and leaving for the sake of people who've never ever had the chance to hear the message of Jesus and be saved. Over the past couple years I've had the great joy of getting to know a man who is a hero of mine and now he's become a friend of mine. His name is Brooks Buzer. He went to one of those unreached peoples with a few others, and now there's a church in Yembi Yembi when 25 years ago there was not. And Brooks, I've heard Brooks say that very few missionaries say that they get into it because you know they enjoy warmer climates or they enjoy exotic foods and they enjoy sacrificing all the comforts of life. They they go, he says, because and Bryce used this phrase earlier, because they have a king who has marching orders. And I'm just wondering if maybe some of us would prayerfully be considering going to those places, to the Nixek people. And the Out Balman people, and the Gatamambu people, and the Chuwadi people, and the Namu people, and the Sabi people. These are people groups These are people who have their own distinct language, and they would not be with us on Friday because they don't know anyone who knows anyone who's ever heard of Jesus. But maybe he wants to use you to go get them and win them in this royal work of baptizing disciples from all nations. Maybe it's not for you to go. I would imagine for most of us it's not for us to go. But will you send? Will you labor sacrificially to send? Will we deliberately teach and train and pray for and envision all these wonderful children that are here? And that are being instructed right now somewhere else, some of the younger ones. Will we train them and teach them and appeal to them? This is a wonderful thing. To give yourself to that. We can exalt a lot of people in our society. Celebrities, actors, entertainers, musicians. But will we not hold up people like Brooks and Nina Buzer or Amy Carmichael or Adna Iram and Ann Judson or William Carey? who who sacrificed to go. Would we be willing to train, to envision our children for that? Would we be willing to sell some homes maybe? some vacation homes or liquidate some assets or drive some older vehicles or live off less to sacrificially fund those who are willing to go because they're out there they are willing to go they are preparing to go Been a tremendous honor in my life to meet some of those people, to meet Jesse and Chloe, and to meet uh Raven and Joanna and Sean and Liz and Paige. They're out there ready to go with young babies going to parts of the world where they're gonna have to learn a language and then another language just to be able to maybe build contact so that they can bring this good news of Jesus to other people. So this is a second unifying all. I realize maybe it's not a little the sermon that you were expecting to hear this morning. But it's good for us in the midst of our ongoing weariness and challenges and conversations that need to happen. Praise God, we've got the gospel. I don't mean to minimize, make light of the other things, but praise God we've got the gospel. And he's calling some of us. He is calling you. I believe he is calling you by either going or by sending. He is calling you to labor to see that three billion number shrink. So that's all number two. All authority, all nations. But of course, we understand that the needs are not all just global. We have a royal work to do right here in PG County and around. And that leads to this third all statement. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them. to observe or to obey all that I have commanded you So the main charge, maybe you've heard this before in sermons on this passage of scripture, the main commission, the main charge, the main verb, the the cut the command here is to make disciples. And specifically, as we go, whether it be to the ends of the earth or whether it be to the end of our block As we go, we're charged to make disciples and to do that specifically by baptizing those disciples. Which implies, doesn't it, that the good news of Jesus needs to be preached to those people. That we need to call those people. And I'm not now talking about the people at the ends of the earth. I'm talking about the people at the ends of your block. Talking to the pe about the people in your workplace. Or wherever it else that is that you recreate or hang out, the server who might be helping you with lunch this afternoon. We have a calling to go out. Acts 17 says that God has determined the allotted times and boundaries in which people should live. Why has He done that? Why has He put you where you are now today and this week so that people might seek him and find him, though he's actually not far from any one of us. He has put us where we are, so that we might call people to repent, to submit to, to believe in, the worship and worship the risen Lord Jesus. That's how faith happens. That's how disciples are made. They need to hear the gospel because faith comes from hearing and hearing the word of Christ. And so we go out. Uh put a note in your calendar, we'll have more to say about this. April 25th. I just heard of this a week or two ago. Uh some dear brother pastors and guys that you know, Omar Johnson and Jeremy McLean and Zach Schlegel. working together to put on an evangelism training day. That's April 25th. It's a Saturday. I want us to, I think it's going to be a Temple Hills Baptist. I will I will communicate more information. But that would be a wonderful way for us to think about being engaged in this royal work and growing in our evangelism with other local churches in our area. We're called to go out To baptize, which again presupposes the preaching of the gospel and the receiving of the gospel in faith, and then teaching those disciples to obey all that Jesus has commanded. And the baptizing and the teaching are intended to go together. Baptism is an initiation rite. It's an ordinance of initiating In which the one being baptized, and this is what we're going to see this this afternoon. Lord willing, I should say. I mean it's you know we got a few hours still then. Lord, if the Lord wills, we'll be able to show up at Green Belt Baptist at 4 p. m. Baptism is an initiation act in which the one being baptized pledges before the church his or her allegiance to live under the lordship of the one who has all authority in heaven and on earth. and who gave his life to cleanse us from the punishment of sin. It's a very appropriate and sweet emblem because it so vividly depicts so many things actually. How the the one being baptized has passed through God's judgment safely through water. Peter in 1 Peter 3 has a very wonderful and tricky explanation of that. How Baptism corresponds to the days of Noah and the flood and being preserved in an ark safely through the waters of judgment. One practical application is if you're coming this afternoon and you see that water there When you see mercy going down under that water, you could just be thinking, days of Noah, I should just still be left at the bottom of that water Praise God, you won't be. You won't be left at the bottom of that water. Tony, Pastor Tony will pick you up out of the water very quickly. But we all deserve to be washed away. But praise God, she's gonna rise up. Not because anything new is actually happening, but symbolically it is depicting passing through the judgment, being washed away from the guilt of sin, being buried with Christ in union with him and then sh rising up as a new creation. Again, symbolically it's all being depicted in that, so that she too might walk in newness of life. And that baptism, as I said, is an initiating, it's the beginning of a disciple's public and accountable commitment to being taught to obey everything that Jesus has commanded, which ordinarily happens in the context of local churches. That's what we considered last Sunday from Matthew chapter 18. Jesus' teaching there, I'm not going to rehearse all that teaching. It was last Sunday, but Jesus envisions that being taught to obey everything Jesus commands. Is flowing from that recognition and accountability that we considered last week from Matthew 18. The group that gathers in Jesus' name and Exercises his authority to bind and loose and the gathering that he promised to be with them as they engage in those acts, they're the very group that are sent out with his authority to baptize into his name and their promise that as they go and do that, he's gonna be with them. And that's why we as a church voted last Sunday to receive Mercy and Adeline into membership of our church. Before they were baptized. That's why formally today when Mercy rises from that water, she will be a member of Chevrolet Baptist Church. And the practical value of this in your knowing this is this. Mercy and Adeline need our care. And our support, and our encouragement, and at times maybe even our admonitions to oversee them, insomuch as it depends upon us, so that they will not fall short of the grace of God. Just as we talked about those commitments that we make to one another last Sunday. We recognize Mercy, as we will this afternoon, Adeline in a few weeks, I'm they're probably frustrated that I keep mentioning their name so much. I'm sorry We recognize them in baptism and then we commit ourselves to caring for them in an ongoing way as we teach them and as we all commit to teaching one another how to obey everything that Jesus has commanded. They need that encouragement and care, and we all need it, even from them, because the way of a disciple is hard and it is costly. Jesus does say his yoke is easy and his burden is light. But following, obeying all that Jesus has commanded is a weighty And solemn responsibility. Jesus was not afraid to put the fine print out there for everybody to see plainly what was involved in following him so that they could count the cost of that And kids, you kids who were there uh this morning during Sunday school, you heard uh Miss Katie talking about this Jesus said, if anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. To follow Jesus is to the cross. Sometimes you wear it and it's fine to wear the cross to remind you of Jesus' love, to wear it on your neck, or maybe it with earrings, but the cross was a a way that people were killed and it was painful and it was hard. But Jesus says, if you're gonna follow me, if you're gonna be a disciple, it involves denying yourself, taking up a cross and following me. Whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. He says it could be hard even in families. Brother, this is also in Matthew's Gospel in chapter 10. Brother will deliver brother over to death, and the father his child, and children will rise against parents and have them put to death. and you will be hated by all for my name's sake, but the one who endures to the end will be saved. Paul speaks Paul, the Apostle Paul uses regularly the language of we're soldiers We're soldiers engaged in combat as we seek to obey everything Jesus has commanded. There is a world that hates us. There's a spiritual adversary prowling like a lion seeking to devour us. There's a still traitorous self in that call, did you notice for Jesus? You must deny yourself So there's two of you in a sense. There's the new you for those of us who've been baptized. There's the new you who rose out of those waters, who's repented and believed, but that new you still has some killing and denying of an old you that's there. So we've got the world attacking us, we've got the enemy, the devil attacking us, we've got our own still traitorous self that is continually in need of our saying no to him or her Because we make it our aim. The new nature is longing to please him in everything. And so disciples of Christ today are engaged in warfare. Around the world today. God's people are having rocks thrown into their homes and they're they're sitting in prisons. They're being tortured. They're having their worship services disrupted by rioters. They're being threatened and reviled and slandered and misrepresented and fired from jobs and ostracized by family and being taken to court. It's exhausting. His yoke, it's a trick, it's a it's a tension there. His yoke is easy and his burden is light because when it's all said and done, it'll be shown. There is no sweeter way to live than living in submission to Jesus. And all his ways are good. But right now it's hard. It can be exhausting. The gate is narrow and the way is hard that leads to life. And few find it, Jesus said. And that's why Jesus' final all statement is so sweet and comforting. All authority. Go to all nations. Teach them to obey all I've commanded. And then Jesus says, behold, I'm with you all the days. Always to the end of the age. This Jesus With all authority over every enemy and every disease and every calamity and every futility, this Jesus promises to be with you. That is what he bought you with his blood. Jesus' sacrifice is the inauguration of what Jeremiah called an everlasting covenant that God made with his people where God says, I will not turn away from doing good to them. He says, I will rejoice in doing them good, and I will plant them in this land in faithfulness with all my heart and all my soul. That's the way God views you. That's his all-the-day care for you. He never needs to take a break. He's with you always He was with us at 1 p. m. last Sunday afternoon. He will be with you at 1 p. m. tomorrow. He is always with you, and he's always with you to do you good with all of his heart and all of his soul. If you could put a scale, I've heard it put this way, and I love this image. If you could put a scale, and on the two sides of the scale, take all the human desires for everything. for money and for power and for physical pleasures, all the physical desires you could put from all the human beings on all the planet. And if you could weigh that in a scale and then take over here on the other side of the scale Almighty God with all authority in heaven and earth saying, All my heart and all my soul, what do you have? He said, you have like a Dixie cup over here compared to the Atlantic Ocean. That is God's heart to do you good. And he pledges, I am with you all the days. That's a sweet word. Like really, that's a sweet word. The one who has put all his enemies under his feet Who died for us and rose for us and triumphed over all the powers of hell, and has been given as head over all things to the church This one says, I will never leave you nor forsake you. I'm gonna hunt you down with my goodness and my mercy all the days of your life until finally you dwell in the house of the Lord. Forever. Amen to your amens. Thanks for helping me out as I'm trying to help you out What threatens you today, disciple of Christ? What is endangering your soul's peace and comfort Whatever those troubles may be, Jesus has promised you his comforting presence to be with you even there And I'll just close with this. One man who knew this very well was a missionary named John Payton He went in the 19th century to a what was known to be a cannibalistic people to bring the gospel to them in the New Hebrides Off the Pacific. And he served there for many years, faithfully and sacrificially on the island of Tana, only to have the natives hate him and try to kill him. There's hundreds of them hunting him down with muskets and knives and they're trying to find him and kill him. And he needs to get on a boat to escape quickly. He's got one man on the island he's he's he can barely trust. He's not sure, but he seems to be somewhat friendly. And the friend says, climb up in that tree and stay there while they go underneath. And I'll lead them down in this path, and then you can go down that path and get away when they're all gone. And he's not really sure that he can trust the man entirely, but he's got no he's got nothing else to do. So he he goes up and he climbs this tree. And years later in his autobiography, it would be a wonderful I don't have them to give out today, but maybe I'll buy you a few. If you ever get the a hold of the the autobiography of John Payton. Oh, it's good. Here's what he describes about that night. The hours spent there live all before me as if it were but of yesterday. I heard the frequent dischargings of muskets and the yells of the savages Yet I sat there among the branches, as safe in the arms of Jesus. Never in all my sorrows Did my Lord draw nearer to me and speak more soothingly in my soul than when the moonlight flickered among those chestnut leaves, and the night air played on my throbbing brow as I told all my heart to Jesus Alone, yet not alone. If it be to glorify my God, I will not grudge to spend many nights alone in such a tree to feel again my Savior's spiritual presence, to enjoy his consoling fellowship I'm with you all the days. The risen Christ says. All of them So I don't know what's weighing on you this week. It may be that heavy. It might not feel that heavy. But that spiritual presence and that consoling fellowship that was John Payton's, it was his by the Spirit, and that same spirit lives in you, follower of Christ. Madeline. Mercy. Last time I'm calling you out in the sermon now. It's a joyous declaration that you are making before the church when that time comes, this afternoon or in a few weeks. But sometimes things will be hard as you follow Jesus. You've already tasted that. You've already known that a little bit. But as you seek to faithfully follow Jesus, And not just for the two of them, but for all of us. Whatever those dangers, whatever those tribulations and troubles, and sorrows and anxieties are. Oh, I appeal to you today to look by faith to the risen and reigning Son of Man, who promises to be with you all the days, who is an ever-present help in trouble. Trust in his power and in his wisdom and in his goodness and beg for grace to sing what mercy wants us to sing this afternoon after she comes up out of the this w water. To this I hold. My hope is only Jesus. All the glory evermore to him. When the race is complete, still my lips shall repeat, yet not I. But through Christ in me all the days, even at the end of the age You know what, before I pray, it's the time to break that out. I love you. I love you, brothers and sisters. Let's pray Lord, help us to be faithful to this royal work that you've called us to. Help us each to examine ourselves, our own lives, soberly and earnestly. And hopefully, because we know that your commands are all good, help us to examine if there be any way that we are resisting your authority over us. Move our hearts to do what we can do in the power of your spirit to bring this good news to all the nations of the earth. Help us to be freshly devoted to bringing the good news to people right around us, calling them to repent. to be baptized, to commit themselves to your people, where they can be taught, where we can all be taught to obey all that you've commanded. Help us to know, help us to be deeply assured, as John Payton was, on that tree, having his life hunted down, that you hunt us down with your Your goodness and mercy all the days. May we be freshly encouraged to live wholeheartedly for you. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen.