Good morning. Good to see you. Good to be with you once again, brothers and sisters. We are looking forward to getting into God's word, but we do need the Lord, and we need the Lord's help. So Gonna go ask for the Lord's help once more before we dive in. Please pray with me. Father, help us to look to you now as our hope, as our rest, as our help. For all things, we pray that you would strengthen us, that you would strengthen our faith, that you would use your word this morning. To convict us, to correct us, to change us, to help us to look like your Son, Jesus Christ. We ask in his name. Amen. This summer we spent some time with my family this uh this summer, just a few months ago in Miami And while we were in Miami, we were driving on the highway in Miami on I-95, and I saw a familiar sight in the distance. It was this building that when I was a kid used to shine and glimmer. Like it was bright. It had diamonds all around it. Like it was amazing. So much so that my sister and I thought that that was Disney World. And we thought that for several years until we went to the real Disney World and realized, oh. That's not what we thought it was. In fact, sometime when my sister and I were teenagers, we drove by that building that we saw at a distance that we thought was Disney World. And it was some random abandoned government building That's still there, still random, and still abandoned to this day. But is that how faith works? Like just seeing what we hope for off in the distance that seems to shine and glimmer. And yet as we get closer or as we grow up, we realize that's not what we thought it was. That's not how faith works. Is faith wishful thinking? Is it a holy hoping for the best? We throw around the word faith often. We talk about faith like we just need to have enough of it. And if we have enough of it, then things will go well Christians and athletes alike have faith. Right? So then what makes the Christian faith different If faith is not just hoping for the right things and seeing what we think and just believing strongly enough, then how does the faith work? Maybe you're here and you're not a Christian and you still have questions like what what does this all mean? How does faith work? Maybe you're a kid or a teen and you're still trying to answer some of these questions yourself. Or maybe you're discouraged in your faith in Christ because what you had hoped for. It's turned out to look more like some random abandoned building. Didn't turn out the way that you would want it to be. How does faith work, particularly when life is hard? How does faith work when sometimes what we hope for does not pan out in this life How does our faith persevere in the midst of trials? By God's grace, he has left us. With his word, with his truth, so we can have answers to those questions. Primarily, this morning we're going to focus on the book of James. So please turn there. You have not done so already. This is in the back of your Bible. So this is on page 1011 if you're using one of the Bibles that's been provided for you We are starting a series today through the book of James. This is one of the last epistles, one of the last letters in the Bible. So If you really don't know where to go, you can find the page number or look at the index in the front or just flip all the way to the back of the Bible and start turning the other direction until you find it You will find it shortly after that. James is one of these last letters that I've said that's in our Bibles, but it was actually one of the first epistles that was penned. Written around the year 40, between 40 and 45, and this author, James, the Lord's brother, as in the Lord Jesus Christ. James does not describe himself in this letter as the Lord's brother. But look at verse 1, if you've already made it there, and see how James describes himself. He says, James A servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ. So how does someone go from How does someone like James go from merely a brother of Jesus to a servant? Maybe you don't know this, but James was not a Christian During the life and ministry of Jesus. He in fact did not become a Christian until the Lord was raised. And in fact, it says in the New Testament that the Lord appeared to him after he was raised. He appeared to many, including James. 1 Corinthians 15, 1 through 7, it recounts this. So that means that James was not a believer during Jesus' life and ministry And yet, Jesus appeared to him, and then he believed, which is good news. So James became a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ and also became a leader in the early church. A leader in the church in Jerusalem. This same James, this brother, this servant of Jesus Christ, this believer in Jesus Christ, also spent time with the Apostle Paul to help to train him. and teach him in the faith. James was also responsible for helping the Apostle Paul be welcomed by the other believers. Remember, the Apostle Paul was formerly a persecutor of the faith. You can read Galatians 1 and 2 to hear Paul recounting that. So this same James, this brother of Jesus, turned servant of the Lord Jesus Christ, led the church in Jerusalem and led them during great times. Of persecution, of poverty, of famine, and division. You could read about that in the book of Acts Acts chapter 12 or Acts chapter 15 and even Acts chapter 21. And according to church history This same James, that brother of Jesus, turned believer in Jesus and servant of the Lord Jesus Christ, was martyred for the faith around 62 A. D. But this book that was written some 20 years before then was initially intended for, as it says there in verse 1, the 12 tribes in the dispersion. James is writing this letter to Jewish Christians who were persecuted and who were scattered abroad as the early church was scattered once persecution started. But this reference to the 12 tribes would have reminded these believers of their spiritual heritage as God's chosen people. Who, though they were dispersed abroad, though they were being persecuted, they had already been gathered by the Lord Jesus Christ into the family of God. And James is writing this letter to these believers, wanting them to mature and endure in the faith, wanting to show them and tell them how the faith works. In the midst of their trials, in the midst of their problems, in the midst of their persecutions, even in the midst of their poverty He wants them to endure, trusting in the fact that the Lord will come back for them and gather them again into his kingdom. And brothers and sisters, we too have been gathered by faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. We are scattered right now all across the world. We go through trials, we go through hardships. And even persecution, but the Lord wants to mature us, he wants us to endure into into faith until the day when he gathers us together again in his heavenly kingdom. And the book of James starts like a letter, but if you read the book of James, you know that it actually teaches and reads much more like a proverb. There's lots of wisdom in the book of James. And a lot of this wisdom comes from James' brother, Jesus. There's lots of references to what Jesus would have taught his disciples, primarily the Sermon on the Mount. As we heard this morning. And in the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus is talking about this kingdom that He's establishing. That's not like anything of this world, that is different than anything that we could even think or imagine. And James is using that wisdom to encourage his brothers and sisters to endure, to mature in the faith as they are facing trials and unimaginable hardships. And I think the main point of the book of James, so he's talking about how faith works, is that faith in Christ, it matures and it endures Faith in Christ matures and endures. And in various ways throughout the book of James, James reiterates that over and over and over again. But here's the main point of our time together in God's Word for this morning. Faith in Christ matures and endures as we rely on God's wisdom through trials. Faith in Christ matures and endures as we rely on God's wisdom through trials. For our text this morning and for our time together in God's Word, we're going to focus on five wise encouragements that we'll see in James chapter 1, starting in verse 2. Five wise encouragements to help us to mature and endure in the faith. Here's encouragement number one: rejoice. Because God is at work. Rejoice because God is at work. Let's look at verse 2 of our text, where James writes, Count it all joy, my brothers When you meet various trials, where you meet trials of various kinds, where you know that the testing of your faith produces steadfastness. And let steadfastness have its full effect that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing. And we'll stop right there for the moment. James does not mention these various trials by names, but he alludes to it throughout the letter. And from church history, we know that these people were dispersed abroad because of the persecution that they faced. And through the rest of the book of James, we see there's talk about this persecution that they experienced, but there's also talk about relational conflict. There's also talk about their poverty and various problems and trials that they experienced. But the wisdom that James is giving here for these believers in these trials, in these hardships, is to rejoice He calls them to count it all joy. Now that might sound callous and even foolish Even as you comfort one another, as you have brothers and sisters as they go through trials, or you as you go through your own your own trials and hardships. If someone comes up to you and says, Count it all joy, dear brother or sister. You might roll your eyes at them. We don't really want to hear that, right? But James sounds a lot like his brother, Jesus, as we heard in our scripture reading. Where he says in Matthew 5, Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are you when others revile you and persecute you and utter all evil against you falsely on my account. Rejoice and be glad, for your reward is great in heaven. For so they persecuted the prophets who were before you James is reminding these Christians what we should be reminded of during our trials: that God is at work and we are in good company. with our other brothers and sisters has gone before us. So God is doing something in the midst of our trials, in the midst of various trials, in the midst of all trials. What is he doing? He is testing our faith. God's doing a thousand different things. But one chief thing that He is doing during our trials, he's testing our faith. Now that testing here, and even that word for testing is supposed to mean or convey a positive testing. So not like a pop quiz, kids, where your teachers might want to say, aha, I got you. You were not ready. It's more like an inspection or an evaluation that you know is coming that you need to be ready and prepared for So back in high school, I was in the marching band, and we often had district evaluations And during those district evaluations, we weren't just supposed to perform on the field. Before that performance, we had an inspection And we knew exactly what they were going to inspect. They were going to make sure that our uniforms were on correctly. They were making sure that our Shaco was on properly, so that the funny hats that we would wear on our heads They were making sure in my case that my drum was on properly, that my sticks were wrapped in tape, that I was holding them correctly, that I was following everything They didn't ask us to play a single note. They didn't ask us to take a single step. They wanted to make sure, though, that we were prepared to perform even before the performance happened And again, we knew what was going to be in the inspection, so no one caught us off guard. Their point was not to discourage us, but it was to prove us And that's the point of the trials that God gives us. God does not give us trials in order to discourage us. He doesn't want us to be surprised when trials come, but he wants to show our preparedness. And he wants to prove and sustain our faith, which is why James says that the testing of our faith produces something. It produces steadfastness. Or it produces, in other words, endurance. And this steadfastness over time, James says, will have its full effect so that it will produce perfection So that we will be complete, lacking in nothing. That word perfection is not about sinlessness, but James is talking about wholeness And James is saying that God is using our trials to make us whole, to make us perfect, to make us complete. He wants to make us more and more like Jesus. So again, God is at work in our trials. He's maturing us, He's helping us to endure, He's making us whole. So, as Elizabeth Elliott once rightly says, suffering is never for nothing. Because God is at work. Now, some of us might know that in theory, but sometimes I think we think of our trials like a level on a video game or something. Where if you're playing any video game and you pass a certain level, you've already passed it. You're not going back to it again Right, you've passed that level, so you've escaped, you've saved the queen, or whatever the game is that you're playing. But do you often get surprised by showing some maturity in your faith through trials? And then getting faced with those same trials again and then again and then again, it's like, Lord, I thought we've been through this already. I thought I've proven that I trust you when there's not enough money in the bank. I thought I've proven that I trust you when work situations are hard. So why are things still hard? Oh, beloved, the faith does not work like that. Our trials are not like a level of a video game. And Jesus is not trying to get us to pass some level, He's trying to perfect us He's trying to complete us. He wants us to be more and more and more like him. So if you face some of the same trials over and over again, do not let that discourage you Be reminded that God is still at work in you and you are not quite completely like Jesus yet. So let him do his work. The Bible teaches that we will get there, though, that we will one day see him, and that we will at once be like him. So, brothers and sisters, once again, do not lose heart As you see trial after trial in your life, as you see times of hardships and times of suffering, remember that God is still at work. And in that we can rejoice. He is inspecting you to prove you, not to discourage you. We can rejoice in our trials because we know that God is at work and He will complete His good work that He started in us. But it's unnatural for us to rejoice in the midst of trials. Like that sounds really good, but what about when we're in the middle of it? In the middle of our trials, we often lack the clarity that we need to actually rejoice and trust in the Lord. So, what should we do when we lack that clarity? Point number two, or encouragement number two, we should ask because God is able. We should ask because God is able. Look at verse 5. If any of you lacks wisdom, let me just stop right there. Look back at the end of verse 4 where it says, you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing. And then it says, if any of you lacks wisdom, I think that further proves that the Lord is still at work. We are not quite there yet. So keep going. He says, if any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask God, who gives generously to all without reproach, and it will be given him But let him ask in faith with no doubting. For the one who doubts is like a wave of a sea that is driven and tossed by the wind. But that person must not suppose that he will receive anything from the Lord. He is a double-minded man, unstable in all of his ways. God is calling us to rely on his wisdom in the midst of trials, not our own. That's why he wants us to ask him for wisdom. And the text says we can ask and we should ask because God gives generously to all who ask him. We are called to ask in faith. That's what James is teaching here. James talks a lot about prayer in the book of James. For example, in James chapter 3, starting in verse 13. Or in James chapter 5, starting in verse 13 as well. Because prayer, as Michael Reeves rightly says, prayer is the chief exercise of our faith. We believe, then we will ask. So asking without faith is fruitless. It's meaningless. It's like someone out on the sea without an anchor. They're driven and tossed about Prayer without faith is like a double-minded man, unstable in all of his ways. In other words, prayer without faith does not work because that's not how prayer works. Now some have taken passages like this and abused it and have said things like we just need to believe enough. And we will get what we want from God. Right? So treating God more like a vending machine. We have enough money. And we put it in and we press the right buttons or we say the right words, then we will get what we want from God. But that is not praying in faith. Praying in faith is not about what we think God must do. Praying in faith is about believing in what God can do if He wills. Not about what God must do. It's about believing what God can do if He wills. And in prayer, we are called to believe that God can answer. If that's his will. And that his will is good. So we should pray in faith, submitting to his will, even if we can't see all that his will is. Because he's good, he's wise, and he's sovereign. If you are encouraged in your prayer life this morning May I ask, have you been praying as if God must do something? Or are you praying as if God can do whatever He wants Whenever he wants to, according to his good and gracious will. We are called to pray in that way because that is praying in faith Or maybe you're discouraged in faith, so you stop asking. Or you pray half-heartedly because you don't really believe that God can. And either way, let me remind you, brothers and sisters, of point number one, encouragement number one, that God is at work. It's not a matter of what he's able to do because God can do more, God can do all things. He can do more than what we can imagine or even think. But in the midst of our trials, God is doing a lot more than we think. God is not just trying to correct our trials as if something's gone wrong. God's trying to make us more and more like Jesus. He's working in us, and he will finish the work that he's doing. So as you pray, brothers and sisters, ask in accordance to his will. Ask for the wisdom to endure. Ask for the wisdom to understand what the Lord is doing and how he wants you to pray. And if you lack faith today, ask, because God is able even to give faith where we lack it There are many of us here who do believe that God is able, and we have been praying in faith in that way. And yet we've been asking the same thing year after year. God, won't you kill me? Won't you make me better? God, won't you bring that loved one to faith God, won't you provide for us long term? I mean, just think about the brothers and sisters that the book of James was written to. They might have been praying things like, Lord, would you just save us? Lord, would you keep us secure? Lord, would you give us relief from this persecution? Lord, would you give us comfort? We are in fear for our lives So what do we do when we ask in faith, but we feel like we're not getting answers or we're not getting them fast enough? Encouragement number three. Wait because God will reward. Wait because God will reward. Look at verse 9 Let the lowly brother boast in his exaltation, and the rich in his humiliation. For like a flower of the grass, he will pass away. For the sun rises with the scorching heat and withers the grass, its flower falls, and its beauty perishes. So also will the rich man fade away in the midst of his pursuits James here is referring to the lowly brother, which is referring to the poverty that many of these Christians were living in James says a lot about the poor and the rich, about poverty and about riches, in James chapter 2, for example, and also in James chapter 5. So we'll talk more about that. But in this section, He's encouraging the believers to wait for their reward and to remember that time is fleeting. So to those who are poor or those who are lowly, he's saying you can boast. Because you will soon be rewarded. You will soon be exalted. The Lord is glorious, and he will gloriously reward his people. But to the rich, and in this case, the rich apart from Christ, he's saying don't envy them, because they will be humbled. They will soon pass away. And James uses here the reference to the flower of a grass, talks about talking about how fleeting life is, and also how much wealth is fleeting from us. In the front of our house during the springtime, there were all these beautiful flowers that started to pop up. And I don't know much about flowers, but they were pretty. My wife knows about flowers, so she can tell you their exact names, but they started to sprout up everywhere, particularly in front of our house. Each morning, they they sprouted up and it was just beautiful. And we took pictures, we sent them to family back down in Miami And then, after about three and a half weeks, they were gone. Because springtime in Maryland lasts for around three and a half weeks It just got hotter and hotter, and those pretty flowers soon wilted and then vanished. They were gone before we knew it. James says here, the rich too will fade as quickly as that in the midst of their pursuits. Much more can and will be said in the book of James as it relates to wealth and money. But let me just say this: money is a good tool, but it makes a terrible God. You're hearing you're not a Christian. You have a God. You have someone, something that you're placing placing your faith and your hope in Someone, something that you're submitting your life to. Is it your money? Is it your stuff? You need to know that your life, just like all of our lives, just like our stuff Will soon perish and fade away, but only a life submitted to the Lord will be rewarded. And brothers and sisters in Christ, do you covet the wealth of others Do you covet sometimes the position of others? Do you ever think, if I just had a little bit more, Money, resources, etc. , then my trials will go away Beloved, remember that God is at work and that God is the one that will reward his people. Look at verse 12. Blessed is the man who remains steadfast under trial. For when he has stood the test, he will receive the crown of life that God has promised to those who love him. James there in verse 12 is refer referring to all of life as being a test. And our lives might seem like one test or one trial over and over and over again. And we will be called to bear a cross in this life. But Christian, remember that your crown is ahead of you. It's here in this section now Starting in verse 12, where James talks more specifically about what he's alluded to in the midst of these trials, is that our trials often come with the temptation. To leave the Lord, to follow our own desires, which is why he gives this fourth encouragement, starting in verse 12. The encouragement is to resist Because sin leads to death. Resist because sin leads to death. Let's look pick up at verse 13. Where he says, let no one say when he is tempted, I am being tempted by God. For God cannot be tempted with evil, and he himself tempts no one. But each person is tempted when he is lured away and enticed by his own desire. Then desire, when it has conceived, gives birth to sin, and sin, when it is fully grown, gives birth to death. So now we've gone from trials to temptations, talking about desires and sins, but as Douglas Mu puts it No solid line should be drawn drawn between verse 12 and 13, as if James is dropping the topic of testing to take up the issue of temptation. His concern rather is to help the reader resist The temptation that comes along with the trial. This means that in the life of faith, as you may well know, we not only have trials, but we have temptations. And those temptations often come alongside our trials. The Bible says a lot about temptation and sin And James says a lot about temptation and sin, like James chapter 4, for example. But I think here he wants us to know a few different things. About temptation and desire and sin. He wants us to know that God tempts no one. God tempts no one Says there's no evil in God. He doesn't tempt anyone at all. But rather, our own desires tempt us. Our own desires tempt us. James also wants to know us to know that God wants our faith to mature and grow, but not our sinful desires God wants our faith to mature and endure and grow, but not our sinful desires. Why? Because when our sinful desires grow and mature They only have one destination, and that is death. Now, this section might bring up a lot of helpful questions in our minds, right? Does all desire come just from ourselves? Not just for ourselves. The Bible teaches that we have our flesh that tempts us, so our own desires, but we also have the world and the devil. Which James talks a lot about in James chapter 4. But okay then, so if that's the case, then what should we do when we are tempted? Because we will be tempted. James says, in a word, resist. Resist. We should not be surprised when we do face times of not only trials but temptation. We live in a fallen world. But remember that with every temptation, we have the opportunity to follow the Lord and to resist instead of giving in. James wants these believers to know that the end result of their unchecked sinful desires is death. Because those desires will grow up and they will devour us. This means that we should not treat our sinful desires like some people treat wolf dogs. Kids in the room, have you heard of wolf dogs before? No, you can probably use your imagination. It's a wolf that's also a dog Therefore, they call it wolf dog. Show of hands, any of you own a wolf dog? Can assume that answer is no, because they are illegal in the state of Maryland. Why are they illegal? Because they're dangerous. They're described as wild and unpredictable. And while they may have some dog in them, they also have a lot of wolf in them too. And there unfortunately have been several stories of these wolf dogs in other states who people have taken in, they've raised up, and then they grew up and attacked and devoured their owners. Brothers and sisters, your sinful desires, my sinful desires, do not need to be pecked or coddled or played with. They need to be resisted. Because it wants to devour you. So may I ask you, of your own sinful desires, can you name them Do you know what they are? Do you know when they come up in your life? Have you prayed about them? Have you asked for accountability in those areas, whatever those areas may be? This is all why we need the wisdom of rejoicing. In the midst of trials, of asking and believing in faith, of waiting for our reward and also resisting during trials because our trials often discourage us and they often frustrate us And sometimes, if we're not careful to heed God's wisdom, then our trials can fool us into believing that it's acceptable to give in to whatever our sinful desires are. Just this one time, it'll make me feel a little bit better. Or we might start to believe the lies of the enemy. Did God really say and fill in the blank? Brothers and sisters, remember that sin always overpromises and under delivers every single time And sin takes us farther than we want to go and keeps us longer than we want to stay. So our sinful desires, whatever they are, they must be resisted. If you're enduring trials and specifically temptations today, remember though that the Lord is faithful in all of this. What's the Bible teaches in 1 Corinthians 10, 13? A verse you might want to write down if you struggle in different areas of temptation. Where he says, No temptation has overtaken you that is not common to man. In other words, don't keep it to yourself. Other people struggle as well. But he goes on to say, God is faithful. And he will not let you be tempted beyond your ability. But with the temptation, he will provide a way of escape that you may be able to endure it. So resist, brothers and sisters, whatever those desires are. Ask for the Lord's help. Ask your brothers and sisters in Christ for help. And also remember That though sin leads to death, our God has given us life. Which brings us to encouragement number five. Believe Because God gives life. Believe because God gives life. Verse 16. Do not be deceived, my beloved brothers. Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above Coming down from the Father of lights, with whom there is no variation or shadow due to change. Of his own will he brought us forth by the word of truth, that we should be a kind of first fruits of his creatures Our God is a good father to his children. He gives good and perfect gifts to us. And our Father is holy and righteous. He doesn't change. There's no shadow or change in him. As it says in 1 John, God is light, and in him is no darkness at all. Now remember the context here. This is written to Christians who are enduring trials. Why would James bring this up right now? It seems a little bit out of place. But I think it's because our trials have a way of clouding our view of who God is. So James starts that section by saying, do not be deceived, brothers and sisters. Our trials may tempt us in believing that God is not faithful That God is not helpful, that God does not love us, and that God is not involved. These believers who were persecuted and scattered, they must have been tempted in this way as well. Our brothers and sisters in Ethiopia and India and even Lebanon right now might be tempted in that same sort of way. That's why we pray for brothers and sisters who are persecuted often at this church. But I wonder if you've ever been tempted towards unbelief in the midst of your trial. Many years ago, after the death of a very close friend, I was tempted towards doubt and unbelief as well. I remember getting the text message saying that he died. Very far away. There's nothing I could do about it. I couldn't even show up to the funeral. And I remember thinking, as clear as day, I can't do this anymore. By that I meant I can't keep following Jesus anymore. But by God's grace, Peter's words in John chapter 6 rung out over and over again. Lord, to whom else shall we go? You have the words of eternal life Dear brothers and sisters, if you are struggling hardship right now, and if you're tempted even towards unbelief, do not be deceived. Our God and Father is still good. His son still has the words of eternal life. And James here in this section is encouraging his brothers and sisters to believe that God gives life, God has given life, and God will continue to give life. Just look back at verse 15 for a moment. Where he says desire when it's conceived gives birth to sin, and sin when it is fully grown, gives birth to death. Desire is conceived, gives birth to sin, it grows up, gives birth to death. So there's a birthing that's happening here. A birth that leads to death Look at verse 18 again, where it says, of his own will he brought us forth. Same words used here brought us forth or gave us birth by the word of truth so that we will be a kind of first fruits of his preachers. That's summary up the gospel. The gospel that we proclaim at this church week after week. The good news that by God's word, He spoke this world into existence. That God is the Father of lights, meaning the creator of all things. That by his word, he not only created all things, but he created us in his image, in his likeness, and for his glory. And by his word, he commanded Adam and Eve to trust him and obey him. But they were deceived by another word. They obeyed another word. They were lured astray by Satan and their own desires And through that, Adam brought forth death and sin in us. But God the Father is so good that He sent His Son, that He even promised in the garden that He would send His Son To save us, a new Adam, if you will, that Jesus Christ would come, the light of the world would come to the darkness in this world. Jesus being the perfect and good gift from God the Father that came down. He came to serve us and he came to save us. And his life, Jesus' life, was met with all sorts of trials. He was tried in various ways, but he relied on God the Father and trusted in his goodness. Jesus, the King of kings, was also tempted. But yet he was not with he was tempted, but yet without sin. Because there was no evil or wicked desires in him. Jesus never sinned, not in word, not in thought, not in deed. And Jesus lives lowly in this life. So he understands if we are in lowly states as well. The word became flesh, died on the cross, and the word who became flesh rose from the grave so that we, by faith in him Can be born again, can be brought forth of God, can have new birth, and can have new life. Because though Adam brought death, Jesus brings life to his people. And if you're here once again and you're not a Christian, we urge you today to believe because God gives life. And He can even give you life today by placing your faith in Him. Placing your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, turning from your sin and trusting in Him. And brothers and sisters in Christ, the encouragement for us is the exact same encouragement. Believe because God gives life. And you've been given new life in him. Life now. Regardless of what your trials are, and life eternally, which will be free from trials. Our God is good, our God is faithful, and He will reward us. And look at the end of verse 18 again where it says, He brought us forth. So that we should be a kind of first fruits of his creatures. Some of you might be thinking, okay, yeah, I saw that verse, but what does that even mean? First fruits there is a reference to the harvest, right? The initial batch that a farmer would see And it will receive from their crop. And that would give them confident hope that that first batch is not all that there is, that there is more to come. It was a guarantee that the rest of the harvest eventually is on the way. James is saying to these believers that are going through trials, that are experiencing hardships, that are experiencing persecution, he's saying that your salvation in Christ It's a down payment. It's a guarantee. It's a reminder that there is more harvest on the way. In other words, Christian, the Father will make good on all of his promises. He will continue to save. He will continue to keep. He will continue to mature. He will continue to work in our lives. He will one day right every wrong. He will wipe every tear. He will make all things new. And how do we know that? James says, look around the room. See who God has already saved. Our salvation is the evidence Of these first fruits, that the best is yet to come. And since God has saved us from our sins, He can also sustain us in the midst of all of our sorrows, in the midst of all of our trials The brothers and sisters, rejoice because God is at work. Ask because God is able. Wait because God will reward. Resist because sin leads to death Believe because God gives life. That's how faith works. Let's pray. Lord, we pray that you would help us to rejoice in the midst of trials, believing that you're at work. We pray that we would ask in faith when we need wisdom, we often lack it, believing that you are able. Give us grace to wait and trust in the fact that you will reward our endurance. Lord, give us faith to resist, remembering that sin leads to death And Lord, give us faith to believe, knowing that you are the Father of lights, that you give life to us, and that you have more life to come. We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen.