Let's pray. Father, we come now to worship you. In spirit and in truth. Lord, there is none like you, as we were just singing, who would send his only son for us? Who would delight for us to call him Father? Who else could rescue us from our failing? Only a holy God. So we come to you now as your people. In desperate need of you. So we're asking for you to speak to us today once again through your word. Use your word to convict us. To correct us, to change us, so we will look more like your holy son, the Lord Jesus Christ, as a result. And we ask in his name. Amen. There's almost nothing worse than a bad ending to a good story Maybe it's that book that you finally picked up you found riveting and captivating. Like, why didn't I read this sooner? Only to keep reading and the last few chapters just felt like they were trying to to reach the end of a publishing deadline. Like they just rushed to the end of the story Or maybe that TV series that you watched seasons one and two had you hooked. But then in season three, it seems like they lost the plot. Bad endings seem to kind of ruin good stories. And if you and I were writing the story of Nehemiah and of God's work through his people there. We probably would have ended last week in Nehemiah chapter 12, starting in verse 43, where it says at the end of that verse, and the joy of Jerusalem would have been was heard from far away. I would have just stopped there. That was beautiful. But we have Nehemiah chapter 13. And that story continues. And spoiler alert, it doesn't seem to end well. Because God's people, as he had done before, forgot his faithfulness. Please meet me there in Nehemiah chapter 13 if you haven't turned there already. That's on page 408 of the Bibles that are provided around you. Today we reach the end of this story. This story about God restoring his remnant people in Jerusalem. This story that started with Nehemiah, the cupbearer. Hearing about the trouble of his people in Jerusalem, asking of the Lord for help, and then being before the king, and being sent out to go to Jerusalem to rebuild the walls. Amidst opposition, God's people did rebuild the walls of Jerusalem. And God's people eventually gathered together again to hear his word, to obey it, and even to repent of their sin. And last week we learned about God's people responding to even that by making a new covenant together A covenant that said they would live sacrificially with one another for the sake of one another so that they could gather together and worship together regularly. And that story ended with the joy of Jerusalem being heard from far away. In Nehemiah 10, verse 39, where at the end of that verse it says, we will not neglect the house of our God. But we'll see in Nehemiah chapter 13 that that's exactly what they ended up doing. In fact, they broke every single covenant commitment that they made to God and to each other. How? Why? As one pastor put it, describing the history of God's people, the people of Israel, says the epithet over Israel's grave was, they too soon forgot. They kept forgetting. So here's the main point of our time together in Nehemiah chapter 13. You're taking notes. Although God's people are forgetful, our faithful God remembers. Although God's people are forgetful, our faithful God remembers. We'll cover that in three points or three parts. Part one, God's forgetful people. Well, we'll just go through the chapter Nehemiah 13 and we'll discuss it. Part two, God remembers. And we'll see how God remembered and be reminded of the fact that he does remember. And then part three in an application portion will tackle that let us remember. Let us remember So part one, God's people forget. Let's look at this story. Nehemiah 13. I'll start reading verses one through three. On that day, they read from the book of Moses in the hearing of the people, and it was found written that no Ammonite or Moabite should ever enter into the assembly of God. For they did not meet the people of Israel with bread and water, but hired Balaam against them to curse them. Yet our God turned the curse into a blessing. And as soon as the people heard the law, they separated from Israel and all those of foreign descent. Stop there for a moment. Most scholars, Bible scholars, think that that day that's referred to in verse 1 was not the same day at the end of Nehemiah chapter 12. It was a day much later than that, maybe even a year later. But some particular day, Nehemiah is referring to here. We'll see a layer in this chapter. Nehemiah is now telling the ending of this story, and he's referring to a time peep time period where he himself left Jerusalem and then eventually came back to check on things. And didn't find things in a good way. But on that particular day that Nehemiah is referring to, they read from the law of Moses. They heard about the story of Balaam deceiving God's people, referring to the book of Numbers, by the way. And they obeyed it. So they removed the Ammonites and the Moabites from the assembly. Now we're going to look at verse 4 in a second. What's interesting also about verse 4 in the chronology here. Is that verse 4 says now before this? Which means that Nehemiah is explaining a period of time before this, before that day happened where they did obey So the story seems like it's deliberately out of chronological order, which might be hard for us to wrap our minds around, but that's what the art of storytelling was, and for many still is. in the Middle East, and especially in the ancient Near East. The point of a story was not about chronological order, it was about points of emphasis. So then that means that the point that Nehemiah is trying to emphasize at the ending of this story is not God's people's obedience, but their disobedience. It's interesting. Look at verse 4. Now before this, Eliasheb, the priest, who was appointed over the chambers of the house of our God and who was related to D Tobiah, prepare for Tobiah a large chamber where they had previously put the grain offering, the frankincense, the vessels, and the tithe of grain, wine, and oil, which were given by the commandments to the Levites, the singers, the gatekeepers, and the contributions of the priests. While this was taking place, I was not in Jerusalem. For in the 32nd year of Araxerxes, king of Babylon, I went to the king. And after some time I asked leave of the king and came to Jerusalem And then I discovered discovered the evil that Eliashib had done for Tobiah, preparing for him a chamber in the courts of the house of God. Stop there. Again, Nehemiah helped to rebuild the people. They helped to rebuild the walls of Jerusalem. He looked around, everything seemed like it was right in place, right in order. So he went back to work as the king's cupbearer. And then decided after some time to go back to Jerusalem and check on things, and he found a mess. Not only did you have intermarrying happening. But there was also an Ammonite, not only in the assembly, but living in the house of God, living in the temple. Sabiah had been given a room in the temple by Eliasheb, who was in case you don't remember, the high priest for the people of Israel In fact, Elisha was one of the first ones that's mentioned in Nehemiah chapter 3, as far as the people who helped to rebuild the walls of Jerusalem. But now he betrayed God's people by allowing Tobiah to rent out a room in the temple. How could something like that happen? One possible reason is that one of Eliasheb's relatives was married to Sambalat's daughter That's in chapter 13, verse 28. Zobiah and Sambalat were friends and partners in conspiring against the people of Israel. That's in Nehemiah chapters 2 and 4. And there were also some in Jerusalem, like possibly Eliasheb, who were bound by an oath. To inform Tobiah about all that was happening to the people in Jerusalem. We saw that in Nehemiah chapter 6. And the room that Tobiah was using was the room that would have been stored for the Levites to put in the offerings there. So that all implies that God's people no longer were meeting in the temple, they no longer were offering sacrifices, they were no longer atoning for their sins, they were no longer gathering and worshiping together. So again, Nehemiah checked on Jerusalem and he found a mess. And the forgetfulness of God's people hindered their access. to the temple, which meant that it hinted hindered their access to God's grace and God's mercy. It's kind of like forgetting our passwords. Right? Now for some of us, forgetting your password to your work email or your home email or a certain app you have on your phone, it's become like a pastime because you always forget it. And that's frustrating, right? And then when you take your phone's advice by using the strong password that they offer to you, which is like 37 characters, you're like, okay, great. But then what happens is that you get logged out and you don't remember, so you can't get in anymore. Your password is so secure that you can't get access into your account anymore. Locked out of all that you were formerly had access to And that's kind of what happened here with God's people in the temple. Because they let Elisheb, or Eliasheb let Tobiah rent out a room God's people had no longer access to the mercy and grace that he offered to them, and therefore they could not atone for their sins They were given a new covenant though. Right? Remember in Nehemiah chapter 9 when God's people heard of God's word and then they gathered together and they owned their sin and their ancestors sinned and they prayed? We can assume that God heard and forgave them, which is why you have Nehemiah chapters 10, 11, and 12, where it seems like things were on the up and up And yet they seem to have forgotten all that. They forgot it. God's people are a forgetful people at times. We forget much more than our passwords, don't we? At times we forget about God's love or his holiness. Or his faithfulness, or his goodness, or his presence, for a host of reasons And when we forget, we lose out on the access that's already been granted to us through Christ. God's people in Nehemiah 13 neglected God's house and therefore they did not have access to the temple. So then Nehemiah responded by trying to cleanse the temple and confronting the leaders there. Look at verse 8. Here's Nehemiah's response. And I was very angry. And I threw out all the household furniture of Tobiah out of the chamber. And then I gave orders, and they cleansed the chambers, and I brought back there the vessels of the house of God with the grain offering and with the frankincense I also found out that the portions of the Levites had not been given to them, so that the Levites and the singers who did the work had fled each to his field. So I confronted the officials and I said, Why is the house of God forsaken? And I gathered them together and set them in stations. Then all Judah brought the tithe of the grain, wine, and the oil into the storehouse. storehouses. Verse 13. And I appointed as treasurer over the storehouses, Shelemiah the priest, Zadok the scribe, Padiah of the Levites. And as their assistants, Hanan, the son of Zekur, and Massiah, for they were considered reliable, and their duty was distributed to their brothers. So we learned from that section that God's it wasn't just God's leaders who failed, it was all of God's people who failed In the supporting of the ministry. If you remember from last week, we talked about God's people all giving sacrificially for these Levites to be able to minister in God's house. But that didn't happen because it seems like here they were no longer provided for and they each had to flee to go to their fields, which means they had to go back home and find a regular way to work. Find a way to provide for themselves and for their families. And where would they work if Tobiah was in the temple? They wouldn't have a place to work to serve God's people. And if you know from your Bibles, the Levites did not receive an inheritance from God in the book of Joshua like other groups of people did. Because it says specifically there that the Lord was their inheritance, which implied that they would be taken care of by God's people. And here we see that stopped happening That's why Nehemiah cried out in verse 11. Why is the house of God forsaken? So then he starts putting things in order. And then he starts to pray, and we'll see several more prayers of Nehemiah here, starting in verse 14. Look at verse 14. He says, remember me, O my God, concerning this, and do not wipe out my good deeds that I have done for the house of my God and for his servants So Nehemiah wants to honor the Lord, and he wants that to be clear with the Lord. I'm doing my bit, I'm doing my work. But we'll see later on in the chapter that this kind of remember me prayers, and there's plenty of them in the book of Nehemiah, they start to take on a different tone as you go through these prayers. Because things go from bad to worse for God's people, believe it or not. Their forgetfulness led them to neglect God's house, and they also rejected God's hand. They forgot to trust God. We see that starting in verse 15. Look there. Where Nehemiah goes on to say, in those days. I saw in Judah people treading wine presses on the Sabbath, and bringing in heaps of grain, and loading them on donkeys, and also wine, grapes, figs, and all kinds of loads, which they brought into Jerusalem on the Sabbath day. And I warned them on the day when they sold food. Tyrians also, who lived in the city, brought in fish and all kinds of goods and sold them on the Sabbath to the people of Judah, in Jerusalem itself. Then I confronted the nobles of Judah and said to them, What is this evil thing that you are doing, profaning the Sabbath day? Did not your fathers act in this way? Notice he says, your fathers. Did not your fathers act in this way? And did not our God bring all this disaster on us and on this city? Now you are bringing more wrath on Israel by profaning the Sabbath. Stop there. God's people also committed in Nehemiah chapter 10 to keep the Sabbath, to honor the Sabbath. But now they broke it. And it says there the tyrants, meaning some of the non-Jews who were in the area, they realized that God's people were open for business again. They were no longer honoring the Sabbath. So they started to sell. And God's people started to buy and purchase on the Sabbath. The Sabbath itself was given to God's people so that they will rest from their work and rest in Him. So that they could gather, so that they would worship, so that they would depend on him and rely on his provision. You've worked enough. Now this time is for me, basically. So in breaking the Sabbath, they were not trusting in God to provide for their needs, nor were they resting in Him and worshiping together. I think you can apply all of that Or imply all of that. So then Nehemiah responds again by confronting the nobles with the truth of God's word and also with the history of God's people. He's saying this went badly before. Don't you remember, or have you forgotten? And then he goes on. Because believe it or not, it still gets worse. Look at verse 19. As soon as it began to grow dark at the gates of Jerusalem before the Sabbath, I commanded that the doors should be shut and gave orders that they should not be opened until after the Sabbath And I stationed some of my servants at the gates, that no load might be brought in on the Sabbath day. Then the merchants and the sellers of all kinds of wares lodged outside of Jerusalem once or twice But I warned them, and I said to them, why do you lodge outside the city wall? If you do so again, I will lay hands on you From that time on, they did not come on the Sabbath. Then I commanded the Levites that they should purify themselves and come and guard the gates to keep the Sabbath day holy. Remember this also in my favor, O my God, and spare me to the greatness, according to the greatness of your steadfast love. Again, interesting, right? Nehemiah confronts and now threatens God's enemies about selling on the Sabbath. says don't come here again or I will lay hands on you and those were not praying hands beloved that was a threat And they took it seriously. They didn't come back. Then he commanded the Levites to do their jobs, to stand guard, to purify the people, and help the people to keep the Sabbath. And then he prayed another remember me prayer. And he says, God, spare me. You see that? According to the greatness of your steadfast love. So remembers that God is faithful and that God keeps his covenant and his people. His steadfast love endures forever. But he doesn't say spare them, he says spare me I don't want those consequences. I don't want that smoke, Nehemiah says. Notice, here he does not intercede for the people. He's kind of separating himself from his people. Saying that's not me. That's them. So this story was not ending well for God's people. They forgot the Sabbath. They forgot to honor God's house But believe it or not, it gets a little bit worse. They also forgot to pass on the faith to their children. Look at verse 23. In those days I saw also I saw the Jews who had married the women of Ashdod, Ammon, and Moab. And half of their children spoke the language of Ashdod, and they could not speak the language of Judah, but only the language of each people. And I confronted them and cursed them and beat some of them and pulled out their hair. And I made them take an oath in the name of God, saying, You shall not give your daughters to their sons, or take their daughters for your sons, or for yourselves. Did not Solomon, King of Israel, sin on account of such women? Among the many nations there was no king like him, and he was beloved by his God, and God made him a king over all Israel. Nevertheless, Isra foreign women made even him to sin. Verse 27, shall we then listen to you and do all this great kind of evil and act treacherously against our God by marrying foreign women? And one of the sons of Jehdiah, the son of uh Eliash, the high priest, again that's that connection there, was the son-in-law of Simbalat the Horonite, and therefore I chased him from me. So we see that the intermarrying that was referred to in the beginning of the chapter comes up again for God's people Now this was a problem I should mention because this intermarrying was not just different cultural groups of people getting together. That wasn't really the issue. The issue was that this was an interfaith marriage. And the consequences were great because of that. So these people start following the faith of all these nations around them instead of the faith of the one true God. And it says there that have the children spoke another language. Not a problem to speak different languages. But that meant that they could not hear God's word and obey it because they didn't get it. They didn't understand it. In fact, they were not taught the language of Hebrew. So then how could future generations hear and obey God's law? They couldn't. So then the faith could not be passed on. Quick word of application for all of us. Parents, this applies to you, but specifically or generally, I think it could apply for all of us. It is our responsibility to help our children, to help the generations behind us, after us, become biblically literate. It's our jobs. So press on, even when it's hard, in doing so Nehemiah knew that this sinful forgetfulness of his people will bring about grave consequences, as it did in the past. So Nehemiah, in his zeal, confronts the people again. And then start hitting them and beating them and pulling out their hair. I think we can all admit that's when things start to go off the rails, right? Zeal is okay, but keep your hands to yourself Right? It's like what is happening here? What happened to this story? I thought they heard the joy of Jerusalem was heard from far away, and now this. What's going on I think we can at least say from the passage that Nehemiah wasn't beating the children, which is good. He was beating the parents Either way, it's still not a good look, is it? He's zealous and passionate, but he's trying to get God's people to obey with all of their with all of his strength Kids and teens, can you think of another leader? So somewhere in the Bible, someone who was a leader of God's disobedient and wayward people Who also was tempted to take matters into his own hands. I'm thinking of one person specifically. David? You can say David. Jackson, what do you think? Saul? Okay. Who said Moses? Langson, that's who I'm thinking of. Moses. All of you were writing the people that you named. But I'm thinking specifically of Moses because In the character of Nehemiah and the character of Moses, there are a lot of parallels between them. Maybe you've caught that throughout the study on Nehemiah. But think of Exodus chapter 32, for example. You know, the whole after the whole golden calf incident, Moses broke the tablets of stones Right? And then the Bible teaches that Moses grinded the gold of the golden calf, he put it in the people's water, and he forced them to drink it. Now, much as we love Moses, I think we could also say like uh that might be a little too far. Not a good look. But one difference between Nehemiah and Moses is that even if you read the rest of Exodus chapter 32, Moses went before God and interceded on behalf of God's people. He said, Lord, be gracious to them. It doesn't seem like Nehemiah does that. Look at verse 29. Remember them, O my God, because they have desecrated the priesthood and the covenant of the priesthood and of the Levites That's what scholars call in the precatory prayer. It's a nice way of saying God go get them. Now, Nehemiah prayed that kind of prayer earlier in the book, but when he did so in chapter 5, the them were God's enemies. So the people who were trying to stop the work of the rebuilding of the walls. Now the them, he's referring to God's people who are being unfaithful Now in Nehemiah's defense, he had a lot to be mad about, didn't he? He worked really hard. He was really faithful, really attentive. He used his own money. He used his own resources He was not a greedy leader. And he even saw fruit. He saw God's people grow. They heard the law and they obeyed it. They rejoice in the word. They start confessing their sins. There was revival there. They made a covenant with God and with each other. They were free. But it seems like they were willing to put the shackles right back on. Brothers and sisters, that's a good reminder for us. We are free in Christ. So no shackles are worth putting back on. And Nehemiah concludes this story by summarizing his response and starting in verses 30. I'll read verses 30 and 31. Thus I cleansed them from everything foreign, and I established the duties of the priests and of the Levites, each in his work, and I provided the wood offering at the appointed times and the first fruits Remember me, oh my God, for good. So he cleansed the people. He appointed who he thought was trustworthy leaders. Hoping that they would follow through this time. And he used his own money, his own resources to provide the wood offering so that the people could make sacrifices again because they needed to. There was a lot of sin going on And then he says, remember me, as in, bless my efforts. Again, we can sympathize with Nehemiah in some ways But we can also agree that something went wrong. It seems like it wasn't just all of God's people who were forgetful. It seems like Nehemiah was forgetful as well. I think at the very least, he forgot about God's power, and he also forgot to pray for God's people. Because that's very different than Nehemiah chapter 1. after he heard what was happening in in Israel, as he heard what was happening to the people of of Judah. He heard about the walls and the people in ruins He says in Nehemiah chapter 1, we have acted very corruptly against you and have not kept the commandments and statues and rules that you commanded to your servant Moses. Remember the word that you commanded to Moses, saying, If you are unfaithful, I will scatter you among the peoples. But if you will return to me and keep my commandments and do them Though your outcasts are in the uttermost parts of heaven, from there I will gather them and bring them to that place that I have chosen to make my name dwell there. Not praying like that anymore. Like I said earlier in our prayer, Mother's Day can be a hard day for many reasons. But I think one area where Mother's Day can be kind of hard is when you as a mother Have led well. You've worked hard. You haven't been perfect, because no one is. But your children are not obeying you. They're not listening, they don't seem to get it. Or you imparted the gospel to your children day after day, year after year, and it seems like they've walked away from the Lord that you love. That's hard, isn't it? And maybe you think, what more could I have done? Nehemiah was probably thinking the same thing. What more could I have done? Dear sisters, if that's you this morning, refer back to what was said just a few moments ago and learn from Nehemiah's mistakes. Don't forget about God's power. And don't forget to pray for your children. Even while you stop working, the Lord can still work. Same can be said for those of us who disciple other people, who impart the faith to uh somebody else. We disciple them, we train them, we do Bible studies with them, we help them in the ways of the faith. And then after a while, they go off the rails. It's like, what else could I have done? What else could I have said? Again, I say to you, brother and sister, don't forget about God's power and don't stop praying for them. So what do we make of Nehemiah chapter 13? This story that doesn't seem to end well. While the story doesn't end well, we should know of God's people that his story ends differently. God's story ends very differently than Nehemiah. And we know from the rest of the story that God's people were forgetful and remained forgetful, but praise be to God that God remembers. That's part two. God remembers. This should remind us, brothers and sisters, that our hope is not in our promises that we make to God. But it's the fact that he has made promises to his people and he delivers on every single one of those promises. Our promises to God are like the difference between a promise ring and a wedding ring. You guys know what promise rings are, right? I hear some rumbles. Around the time when I uh was dating Erlen, promise rings were pretty popular. It was a way of saying, hey, I'm committed to you, but not enough to marry you yet, but don't leave. Right? Problem with the promise ring, although it might look like a wedding ring, it didn't have the weight of a marriage behind it You didn't gather in front of witnesses. You didn't gather before the Lord to make these vows that you were committing till death to you part to each other. You didn't do that with the promise ring. Our promises to God are kind of like that. And you and I can get caught up in making promises to God at times, can't we? Like, how many times have we made many covenants with God? Like if you get me out of this bind, I won't do that ever again. I won't go there anymore. I won't hang out with them anymore. If you forgive me, then I will start and fill in the blank. Think about whatever that mini covenant was. Did you keep it or did you eventually break it Speaking for myself, more than likely you eventually forget about it and you break it. But God does not forget, beloved. And God does not break his promises. So our hope is not in our covenants or our promises that we make to God. Our hope is that our faithful God remembers. And our faithful God, since he remembers, he provides for his people. And we see glimpses of that in Nehemiah, even in chapter 13. I think we see at least in two ways glimpses of the fact that God, since he remembers, he provides a better covenant and he provides a better mediator. So God's people broke his covenant over and over again. That's why they were in exile. And God's people, as we saw in Nehemiah 13, they continued to forget his covenant. But God was faithful to provide even still for his people, because this is not how the story ended for God's people God will send prophets and people to continue to teach God's law and call God's people to repentance. Prophets like Haggai, prophets like Malachi, for example To say, turn away from your sin and turn towards God. And just think of the story of Nehemiah. He placed Nehemiah in the palace At just the right time in front of the right king, so that his people can be restored. Nehemiah didn't put that all together. He sent Ezra as a as a priest to teach them the law. And again, God's people prayed, and we can assume that their prayers were heard and answered. Well look at Nehemiah 13, 8. I think this is where we get some glimpses of hope in Nehemiah chapter 13. He says in verse 8, I was very angry, and I threw out all the household furniture of Tobiah, and then I gave orders, and they cleansed the chambers, and I brought back the vessels of the house of God. With the grain offering and the frankincense. Verse 30. I cleanse everything foreign among them And I established the duties of the priests and the Levites in his work, and I provided the wood offering at the appointed times and for the first fruits. Why bring back the vessels? Why provide the wood offering? Because once the temple was cleansed, God people could go back into the temple and confess their sins and be forgiven of their sins. And though God's people would continue to sin and continue to rebel, the Lord would eventually clean that temple and cleanse it for good. Because he would come into it himself. So we heard about in our scripture reading, right? In John chapter 2. The the turning over of the tables and the cleansing of The temple. Jesus didn't put his hands on anybody, he chased out the money changers. And that, even that verse implies that whatever good Nehemiah did was temporary. Because Jesus showed up and the temple was defiled again 400 years later. But Jesus was consumed with zeal for his father's house, and he cleansed the temple. And he shows them that a greater cleansing would come. And that's why in John chapter 2, when the Pharisees start asking Jesus about what are you doing? Who do you think you are? This is what Jesus says in response to them. They ask him in John chapter 2, verse 18, what sign do you show us for doing these things? And Jesus says, destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up. The Jews said, It took forty-six years to build this temple, and you'll raise up in three days? But he was speaking of the temple of his body. The Lord Jesus would bring cleansing to God's people by becoming the sacrifice himself. Jesus himself went on the cross on the wood offering to pay for the sins of all of us. Jesus' temple would be destroyed. His body was broken. His blood was shed for the sins that you and I committed against God. But Jesus' temple would not take 46 years to rebuild. He says, I will raise it up in three days. And he did when Jesus got up from the grave. And Jesus rose to offer his people a new covenant and a greater covenant, promises that cannot be broken by us, but promises that are perfectly kept by him, because he's the one that came to fulfill it. Friends, if you're here and you're not a Christian, you can try to make your many covenants or agreements with God, they will fall short and they will not work, and ultimately they will not save you. It will not spare you from the punishment that you and I have earned because of our sins. But Jesus came and did what you and I cannot do. So that we can be forgiven by God. You can place your faith and hope in the Lord Jesus by faith today. And brothers and sisters in Christ, if you are reminded, and as you are reminded of ways that you have sinned against God, failing to keep his word Remember that Jesus is the greater mediator. Nehemiah stopped praying for his people. But the Lord Jesus, even now, is praying for your endurance. And Moses, he continued to pray for his people, but he wasn't even good enough to enter into the promised land because of his own sin. And yet it's not so with Jesus. Jesus is at the right hand of the Father right now, interceding for you to endure, to persevere, to keep going, to obey him, to love him. He can sympathize with our weakness as the faithful great high priest who's never sinned, who never left the throne room unoccupied. So go to him over and over and over again with your sin. Confess him, as 1 John chapter 1 says, confess your sins. He is faithful and just to forgive you of all of your sin and cleanse you of all unrighteousness. And let's remember that the Lord wants us to remember his covenant so that we would be people of his covenant, so that we would obey his word. And he gives us the grace to do so. Not so we can earn his favor, not so we can earn his righteousness, but because of what Christ has already done, because of where he's called us to be. We belong to him now. We're called to live like his children. Which brings us in closing to part three. Let us remember. Let us remember. We're going to focus these application points on those main things that God's people seem to have forgotten based on Nehemiah chapter 13. They forgot his house. They forgot his provision. So the encouragement for us is to remember God's house. Remember God's provision and remember God's mission. Go through these quickly. Remember God's house. Remember God's people in Nehemiah 13, they rejected God's house. They were called to remember, like we talked about last week, where it seemed like they actually did remember There was zeal, there was passion, there was love for each other, there was commitment, there was sacrificing. They were living set-apart lives, and they were helping one another to gather into God's presence to worship Him together. So we as God's people are called to remember his house. Not a building, but the fellowship, the covenant people that he's called us to be. So members of Chevrolet Baptist Church. We have covenant commitments that we've made with each other in our church covenant. And yes, we read it during our members' meetings, so we'll read it Lord willing next Sunday. But you don't have to wait till then Why don't you grab your your membership directory this week? Look in the front, find the church covenant, look over it again, ask the Lord to search your heart. How am I doing at this? Am I rejoicing with my brothers and sisters? Am I weeping with them? Am I giving appropriately? Am I giving my life in full devotion to him? We are called to remember God's house. Secondly, remember God's provision Remember, God's people forgot the Sabbath, which meant that they forgot that He would provide for them when they were not working. So instead of resting and worshiping, they continued to buy and sell on the Sabbath. What's interesting here is that the neglecting of God's house seems to go hand in hand with neglecting to rest, with neglecting the Sabbath. And Jesus teaches that the Sabbath was made for man, which means that the Sabbath or the gift of rest, not on just a particular day, on every day, is a gift from God. It's a foretaste. of the eternal rest that we will have with him in glory, but question, are you resting or are you too busy? Are you working too much? Are you mentally on or even mentally at work even when you're away from the desk And fathers, where can you step in to allow your wife to have that time of worship and rest for herself? Let's remember, brothers and sisters, that none of us are God, and that's a good thing. He continues to work even while we are sleeping. He works right now. So rest is a good gift. From God. I think another part of this provision question goes to this intermarrying that was happening with God's people. Text doesn't say why they did that, but I think we can at least assume and infer that in some place or some ways they didn't rely on God to provide for them, even a spouse. So, brothers and sisters, if you're here and you long to be married, ask the Lord to provide. Trust that if it is with His will, that He can provide, but trust that He will only provide in His way. Trust that the Lord will only provide a godly and faithful partner that will help you to follow Him as well. Thirdly Remember God's mission. Remember God's mission. God's call on his people's lives were to make his name known. That's why the end of Nehemiah chapter 12, their joy was heard from far away. They could hear their worship. They could know these this is God's people. This is what God says. This is what they are doing. But when they didn't pass on the faith, not even their children could understand the words of Hebrew So you have this Sabbath breaking, this intermarrying, this defiling of the temple, and that's not a good witness to the world that was around them So, brothers and sisters, remember the call that we have to make disciples. Now, along with that call to make disciples, Jesus calls us to live as his disciples. And that's even part of the mission of this church. We want to glorify God by being and making disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ. Being disciples meaning that we do what Jesus says. Jesus says, if you love me, you will keep my commandments. Jesus said, love God and love your neighbor. Jesus says, deny yourself, carry your cross, and follow me. We live as disciples, and then we make disciples by saying to others, the children in our household, the children in our church, the people in our community, our neighbors, co-workers, and friends, follow Jesus. He's worth giving up everything for. So we are called to remember God's mission. So while the story of Nehemiah doesn't end well, remember that God's story does. It doesn't end in that same Jerusalem where Nehemiah found that it was a mess, but it ends with a new Jerusalem coming down from heaven. Revelation 21, 22 I saw no temple in the city, for its temple is the Lord God, the Almighty, and the Lamb. And its city has no need of sun or moon to shine on it. For the glory of God gives its light, and its lamp is the Lamb. Take heart, brothers and sisters. God's story ends well, and so will ours by his grace. Until then Remain faithful to him and remember that our faithful God remembers. Let's pray. Lord, we help you. We pray that you would help us even today as we're reminded about how good you are and how faithful you are. That would not be truth that leaves us when we leave this gathering. Or that we would go to your word, that we would cling to your people. That we will be reminded over and over again of who you are, just how faithful and good you are, that we will trust in you and not ourselves. Lord, help us to be a people that remember your faithfulness and thank you that you do not forget us. Jesus name, Amen