If you have uh engaged in and resonated with the content of what we've been celebrating together so far in this gathering of worship, if you've been able to sing Thoughtfully and really understanding and believing what we've sung, what we've prayed about, the goodness of Jesus, the trustworthiness of Jesus, hearing his words of love. Standing on every promise of his word, then I trust that you are desirous of doing something great for the Lord. Is that right? Christian, brother? Yeah, okay. I like that right from the beginning. I o I'm okay with some participation. You want to do something great for the Lord. I hope so. If you're here and you're a follower of Jesus, I hope it is your desire to do something great for the Lord. And that's what I want to talk with you about for a few minutes this morning, how you can do that, how you can do something great for the Lord. This very week. Even this very day. Let's pray and ask the Lord to help us with that Father, we thank you for this opportunity to open up your word together. We pray that you would help us to be attentive to it And help us to be submissive to it. Help me, as I stand here and proclaim the word, to be faithful to its instruction, to not say anything that would be amiss or that would be in error. We thank you that it's your spirit who gives life. And the flesh is no help at all. The words that you've spoken to us our spirit in life. And we pray that you would renew life among us today and perhaps some who are spiritually dead now. And Blind to the glories of Jesus, that you would awaken and enliven them even today. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, I want to speak with you this morning about your tongue. Or more properly put, your speech, the words that come from your mouth. Have you ever thought about the tongue as an instrument of spiritual greatness It is. That's why it's included in Ephesians chapter 4, where it is. So you can go ahead and open in your Bibles to Ephesians 4. We've been celebrating in the book of Ephesians, we've been celebrating the grace of God By which the Ephesians had been changed. And all of us here today who have trusted in Jesus, we've been changed from rebellious enemies of God To beloved children. And we've been united together in the body of Christ. We have been lavished. With every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places, and Paul has recounted that the beginning of the letter of Ephesians, and then in chapter four Paul pivots in light of the wonderful riches of blessing that God has lavished upon us in Christ. How is it that we live in a manner that is worthy of Christ? How is it that we Walk in such a way, putting on this new self, this new life that God has given to us in Christ. And that's what we're studying in Ephesians chapter 4. In writing the ethical practical instructions that he does in Ephesians 4, Paul's not just giving us some fortune cookie wisdom, some moral axioms for us to learn and just put into practice. No, he's telling people who have learned Christ, telling people who have come to Jesus and seen the grace of Jesus break into their own lives. He's teaching them how to live in a way that is consistent with that is suitable, that is befitting of such a great salvation and such a great savior. And as Paul calls his people, God's people, to this newness of life, he doesn't call them to this new life generally and broadly. But starting in verse 25 specifically of chapter 4, he presses into these specific details of life And last week we we we breezed through 13 specific commandments that Paul gave. 13 ways in which we're to To put off the old self and to put on the new self and to be imitators of God. And I I thought about just moving on. In fact, my plan was to just move on from thinking broadly about those 13 commandments to our next section in chapter 5 verse 3. Lord willing we'll do that next week. But I decided earlier in the week that I wanted to just press down for a little bit of time together on one of those commandments that we touched on last week and those that's the commandment related to our tongue to our speech it's found there in verse 29 of chapter four. Look at Ephesians four twenty-nine. If you're new to looking at a Bible Uh the chapter numbers are those big bolded numbers that they're there. And then the uh verse numbers are the smaller numbers after those bolded letters. So we're in Ephesians chapter 4, verse 29 And this is God's word to us this morning. Let no corrupting talk come out of your mouths, but only such as is good for building up as fits the occasion That it may give grace to those who hear. That's such a short verse. That's such a short passage today. Let me read it again. Let no corrupting talk come out of your mouths, but only such as is good for building up, as fits the occasion. That it may give grace to those who hear. This is God's word. Kids, if you just have any interest, kids, in making your pastor really happy next Sunday. You could come up to me next Sunday and share with me Ephesians 4. 29 that you've committed to memorizing in the past in this coming week. You would make my whole next week if you would come and share with me next Sunday that you committed that one verse to memory. That would be a good thing to do, I think, kids. So that's our verse for today. Okay, why of all the 13 commandments, why not just move on? Why why this one? I have three reasons. So this is not my three points in my sermon. This is three reasons why I'm preaching the sermon. It's going to be that kind of a morning. First reason, I came across this bit of research. I don't know if this is accurate exactly, but as I was studying this week, it it said that the average American speaks about 700 times per day. And I thought that just can't be possible. That that just seems like too much. That's not possible. Let's just say we did we were to cut that in half to 350 times a day, that you opened up your mouth and spoke words. But let's say that still seems a little bit crazy. Let's just cut it down to 175. Is there anything else that you're doing 175 times in a day? But you are opening your mouth and speaking and you're doing it a lot. So if there's like a hundred and twenty of us or so, I put that number down. I th I don't know that we had a lot of people leave when we uh after when we collected the offering. But let's just say we had 120 people listening to me right now. That means that collectively our mouths would have opened to speak words about 150,000 times before we gather next Sunday for worship. So talk, speech is a big part of our lives. Second reason is that it occurred to me that almost all of the words that will come out of our mouths, thousands of words every day coming out of your mouth. Almost all of those words are not scripted. Right? Think about yesterday. What percentage of your words That came out of your mouth, had you plotted out, planned out, written, and decided, I'm going, you know, that's not how life works. That's not how conversation works. This service is going to end. Hopefully you don't just run out, but you stick around and you talk to other people. And when you start talking, you're not going, when somebody asks you a question or says something to you, you're not going to step back and sort of, now what should I say? Should I Okay, I've decided. No, words just come out. Jesus said it's out of the abundance of the heart that the mouth speaks. So we're speaking thousands and thousands of thousands of words in a day or a week. And most of them just they just come out. We're not even thinking about them. Third reason why. So there's the frequency of speech, there's the spontaneity of it, and then there's this third reality that our words have huge power. Potential to do either great good or to do great harm to other people Kids, what kind of speech uh does a dog make Go ahead, come on now, kids. I know the younger kids maybe want to do this, they all left. Come on. What speech does a dog make? Okay, there's not much. Okay, so that and a duck Okay, thank you older kids who are helping out a little bit. So animals do talk in a in a sense. But I wonder kids has an animal ever hurt your feelings? Like has a duck quacking? Has a cow moving? Has it ever happened and you walked and you just stayed up at bed uh you know in bed and couldn't sleep because that that duck's quacking really upset you and hurt your feelings. I I bet probably not. But I I bet you can, okay, thank you. Somebody gave me a no. But I bet you can think of words that other people have spoken to you that have hurt Your feelings that have brought pain to you. So God's word says in Proverbs 18, death and life are in the power of the tongue. So, because of the frequency of our speech and the spontaneity of our speech and the life-giving or life-destroying potential of our speech, I just thought this would be a helpful thing for us to pressed down upon for a particular Sunday that this might be a help to you personally, in your family, in your workplace, in your witness to neighbors, in our life together as a church. We want to just think about this great thing that is our speech. And I have four questions That I want to answer for you from thinking about this passage. I'm not going to tell you all of them up front. I'll just we'll work through the questions as we go. But number one, what kind of speech does the Lord condemn? What kind of speech does the Lord condemn? When I say the word condemn, kids, that maybe is a fancy-sounding word, I just mean that he that he calls wrong or evil or bad. Well, God's word tells us here, our verse tells us, let no corrupting talk come out of your mouths. I am pretty confident that when Paul says let no corrupting talk come out of your mouth, he does not mean that we need to be really careful about what comes out of our mouths. But whatever we type on a computer. Or on our phones, that's fair game. Just let all the rottenness come out there. No, he's talking about speech broadly, whether it is in Our spoken word or emails or text messages or tweets or I don't know if they're they're not maybe called tweets anymore, but you understand what I mean. Let no corrupting talk come out of your mouths. So if if you've ever, maybe you've gone to the refrigerator to grab a carton of milk, put in your cereal, maybe, and the date is like, uh I'm not sure. Let me open up the cap and smell and then you've had that kind of experience. The milk is rotten or maybe finding some some packaging of some salmon that was cooked yesterday, but the packaging is in the bottom of the trash can and that odor when you walk around like wait what is this smell and then you you find it and it's revolting That's the kind of revulsion that Paul is envisioning when he uses this word corrupting It's a word that everywhere else that it's used in the New Testament it comes out of the mouth of Jesus, and he's talking about bad trees or diseased trees or the fruit that comes from those trees Or at one point, rotten fish that are to be discarded. There are kinds of speech that stink in God's nostrils Kids, I'm not saying that God actually has nostrils. He's spirit. That's just a way of talking for you to get the idea. There are kinds of speech that God regards as gross. Spoiled, rotten, harmful. Those words can grieve the Holy Spirit. Do you see that in verse 30? Didn't read verse 30, but it says right on the heels of that statement about our speech, and don't grieve the Holy Spirit of God. Your words can grieve God the Holy Spirit. It's not just big sins. If you think about someone who's grieved the Holy Spirit, maybe you think about somebody who's like committed apostasy, like they've walked away from the Christian faith altogether. Or they've they they've committed adultery, perhaps, or they've engaged in some sort of abuse cover up or engaged in abuse themselves, and those are heinous and those are grievous without question. But something as seemingly Mundane and small as our words can grieve the Holy Spirit. Let no corrupting talk come out of your mouths Well what what kind of talk is that exactly? Like what what what is this corrupting talk? Well, Paul gives us some language right in the surrounding context. Right? Verse 25, lying speech. Would be rotten, corrupting, right? Put away falsehood and speak truth with one another. In chapter 4, verse 31, he speaks of slander. Don't slander. That's a kind of corrupting talk. Bringing damage to the reputation of another person, that's corrupting. In chapter 5, verse 4, he talks about crude or filthy speech. We'll talk a little bit more about that kind of speech, Lord willing, next Sunday. In chapter 5, verse 6, he talks about empty words. Words that in that context seem to be minimizing If you speak words that kind of treat sin lightly, like it's not a thing, like it's just like no big deal. Those are rotten words. If life and death are in the power of the tongue, then words moving in the death direction are angry words. Malicious words, jealous words, gossip, harshness, just cutting critical belittling, contemptuous, judgmental, condemning words. I mean we could take the positive of verse 29 and and flip it to the negative and see words that tear down. Words that discourage, words that belittle, words that are untimely and insensitive, even perhaps Right things that are said at the wrong time. We talked about that a little bit even in our Sunday school class. If you want to fill out your picture of rotten talk, I would commend that you read uh really whether you want to fill it out or not, actually, I would commend that you read, maybe even this week in its entirety, the book of Proverbs. That will give you much practical wisdom, both about the kind of speech that God condemns and what he commands. It's loaded with practical guidance. But for now, you can just ask yourself Ask the Holy Spirit to search you now. Are the characteristic words that come from my mouth? Do they deflate? Do they discourage? Do they insult? Do the words coming out of my mouth s smell like a a fresh loaf of baking bread? Or do they smell like rotten fish that's been sitting in the trash can for a couple of days? Does your mouth heal? With words of peace and grace and love and kindness, or does it wound people with insensitive and harsh and critical and unhelpful words? Don't presume to answer those questions for yourself, but you should ask someone else who maybe who lives with you, who knows you well. Paul's charge to Christ's new people, new people who are still being renewed and therefore need this kind of instruction in their lives, his instruction is Don't let this corrupting garbage come out of your mouth. Like don't let it happen Proverbs, one bit of wisdom that you get from the book of Proverbs is a fool gives full vent to his spirit, but a wise man quietly holds him back. Sometimes people actually brag about like having no filter and just always telling people like it is. That's not something to boast about. That's not commended in God's word. So stop it. That's right. That's the countless like that. That's that is insufficient to say only, but it is helpful to say. Paul is saying, stop. Stop talking like that. If Job could make a covenant with his eyes not to look at a woman lustfully, we'll talk about that subject matter next week. But if Job could make a covenant and a vow before the Lord that he would not look at a woman lustfully, then you can make a vow, you can make a commitment to the Lord I will not let corrupting talk. God help me. I will not let corrupting talk come out of my mouth this week. I'm not going to let it happen. That's not a ban, that's not legalism. If you make a commitment like that, now what do you do? If you make that commitment and then you break that commitment, you speak and you you don't know well, we've got grace for that, we've got a gospel for that. But we don't minimize the commandments of God because of that, right? John says, John says, if I'm writing these things, this is the whole letter of 1 John, I'm writing these things so that you don't sin. But if you sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ, the righteous one. So commit yourself, beloved. I'm not gonna talk in corrupting ways this week Let no corrupting talk come out of your mouth. But as God's people, as a new people, created anew in Christ We don't only put off, but we put on. I mean maybe you hear what I'm just saying. It's like, okay, well if it's that serious, I better just keep my mouth shut altogether And that's not the kind of life that God's word commends to us. The Christian life is not a just say no life. It's a say no to certain things that betray God's character, that are contrary to the gospel, but it's putting on those garments, that way of life that is appropriate to the gospel. So question number two, what kind of speech does the Lord command? And that's it's right there, right? That's most of the verse. Let no corrupting talk come out of your mouth, but only such as is good for building up, as fits the occasion. That it may give grace to those who hear. That's part of Paul's vision for spiritual greatness I'm just wondering if it's part of your vision for great things that you could do for the Lord. Speak only what is good for building up as fits the occasion, that it may give grace to those who hear. Words that build up Paul's used that word of that language of building up a few times already in the letter to the Ephesians. It's actually there a couple of times in chapter four. If you just look at uh chapter four, verse eleven. Paul says he gave the apostles, he being the risen and ascended Lord Jesus. He gave the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists, the shepherds and teachers. To equip the saints for the work of ministry for building up the body of Christ. And he goes on to say there, until we attain to the unity of the faith and the knowledge of the Son of God to mature manhood. to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. So this this being built up, speaking words that build up, does not mean just speaking words that make a person feel better about themselves. Don't misunderstand. I'm not saying we should be disinterested if people feel good about themselves. I'm not saying that that's a bad thing If you're feeling good about yourself, that doesn't mean you're living in sin. But the point of our words is not just to build people's self-esteem. The point of building up of edification is building Jesus into people. And our culture can really lead us astray here because our culture thinks that if you're building somebody up, it's because you're affirming them and and just whatever it is that they're feeling and thinking and you're affirming that, then you're building them up. That's not what Paul's talking about when he speaks of speaking words that build up. He's speaking of building the life of Christ. He's speaking of in all the different hues and shades that these upbuilding words might come. It could take the form of a rebuke from time to time. But in all the different hues and shades of upbuilding words, what we're aiming to do is support and strengthen someone's devotion to Jesus, someone's loyalty to Jesus, their their trust in the reliability of Jesus, their conformity to the likeness of Jesus, their desire and resolve to glorify Jesus. And we all need those kinds of words to be built up in those ways. Do we not? I sure do. I do. I'll just tell you, I need those words. Right? Maybe you come in here just so stuffed full of encouragement, it would just be painful if anybody encouraged you more. You know, we go out the week the week just gives and gives and gives. We live in a broken world. We heard it read in Isaiah 50. Even the people of God sometimes walk, those who fear the Lord and who listen to the servant of the Lord, they they walk around in darkness as though they have no light. Sin steals joy. Our bodies break down. Our plans falter. Our dreams die. Our resolves weaken. We actually are promised, like we're told in the Bible, that we're going to experience suffering, trials of various kinds. We've experienced living in a world that is at enmity with God. We have a spiritual adversary who prowls around like a roaring lion seeking to devour us. And so and we experience, we experience that's the daily drain of labor, the problem of spiritual drifting. And so it's regular, it happens. I just want you to understand that if you think you're the only person who feels like they're in darkness and they have no light and they can't see, I'm not trying to minimize your your case. I'm not trying to but you're not a special case. This is this happens. You're not some isolated freak. If you find yourself, I do love Jesus, I trust Jesus, but I feel like I'm wandering around in darkness and I can't see anything And so the Lord, knowing that about us, knowing that we are, as the Psalms say, but dust. He has commanded his people to be instruments of his grace, grace-giving words, words that would build each other up in this world that is full of weariness. God intends to do that for weary, tired, heavy laden saints. He intends to do that through your words. through timely, wisely discerned words according to the need of the moment, he's intending to use your words to build Jesus into people. Oh, I look at this room and I oh the last 360 it was 364 days ago you had a vote in this gym and you decided you voted to have me come and be your what your one of your pastors Thank you for that. I'm really glad to be here. But it's been hard. It has been wearying in different ways to leave our whole life from 20 years. But you have been the voice of Christ to us in so many ways. I could go around this room and take the whole, I mean we could go to the prayer service talking about ways that you have sustained us, strengthened us with seasonable words. You have been the instruments of Jesus' own voice to us. Thank you. This is part of why you have a mouth. So as you think about doing something great for the Lord And I'm all for holy ambitions and aspirations and do great things in your career, in politics, or whatever. I'm all for that. That just is a fine thing to do. Praise God. It's more than a fine thing to do. But as you calibrate, as you think about great things, please make sure that Ephesians 4. 29 factors into your calibration A life purpose to help ordinary people in their ordinary struggles to taste and see the presence of Christ and be strengthened to keep on serving Him. That is not a small thing. Those are great things. That your words might build the life of Jesus into another soul. To stir up a saint, to love and to trust and to obey this good and gracious king of ours, that's not a small thing. There's more I could say. So much I this whole series, you know, I'm pressing down on one verse. There could be a whole series of sermons on our words. It's not gonna be, I promise. I don't think. No. We're gonna stay in Ephesians. So pause now. Okay, we've talked a little bit. What kind of speech does God condemn? What kind of speech does he command? Put off, put on. How are how are you doing? Are you, I've used this question in a slightly different way a few weeks back in going through Ephesians, but are you, are you a net force for upbuilding, for strengthening? For gracious words that give timely help. Are you a net force for that at Chevrolet Baptist Church? In your home, your workplace. If well maybe you just say no, maybe I'm not. And you need to confess and repent. Maybe you say, well, I I think I am, but I I need to grow. Question number three. What help does the Lord provide? What help does the Lord provide? And here's where I have great news for you. The Lord gives great help by renewing the spirit of our minds in the truth that is found in Christ. You see, that's the context. If your Bibles are still open, the context here of these words about our tongue, it reminds us back in verse 20, he speaks of having learned Christ, right? Putting off the old self, that's where that corrupting talk is located. We've been taught to put off that old self, to put on the new self, he says there in verse 24 I'm sorry, verse 23, being renewed to be renewed in the spirit of your minds. That's how we learn Christ. We learn in Christ. To put off the old self and to put on the new self. And so as we think about how can I change, how can I grow, the help that the Lord provides is that He gives you Jesus. This is this way of life that we are being called to is the way that Jesus Himself lived. Jesus Himself came to those who were in deep darkness and misery because of our own sin, but he came to us with upbuilding, need meeting, grace-giving words. He came to us with the word of the gospel. Jesus Is the help that God gives. He is able to disciple us into wholesome, constructive, life-giving speech. Because that's the way he himself lived when he was among us. And that passage that Shannon read in Isaiah 50 is such a sweet picture of how Jesus lived his life before God his Father. Isaiah 50, verse 4. The Lord God has given me. Listen, okay, I'm going to read this verse in a second. Have you ever read through the Gospels and it says, there's times where it says, Jesus would withdraw to desolate places and pray. He would get alone, right? They couldn't find him because he was with the Father. And if you've ever wondered, like, what was that like? For for the Lord Jesus communing with his father. We don't really, we're not told about what it looked like in the Gospels, but here's a glimpse. Seven hundred years before Jesus ever set foot on earth Isaiah's given us a glimpse of what it was like for the Messiah, the Lord Jesus, to have devotions. The Lord God has given me the tongue of those who were taught. That I may know how to sustain with a word him who is weary. Morning by morning, he awakens. He awakens my ear to hear as those who are taught. You see that? Morning by morning, Jesus would awaken and he would give himself to having the ear of a disciple, hearing his words, the words of his father of love. And then he would give himself having heard the words, having been taught, he would go out and speak the words of life to others. Have you ever wondered? We read through the gospels like Peter says, hey, how many times do I need to forgive? Like is seven times good? And then Jesus says, no, it's actually 70 times seven. And he tells a story about this servant. who with 10,000 talents and he he he he cried out for uh mercy and the the man gave him mercy but then he he tells this whole parable you say wow what wisdom You know, they the Pharisees came to him to try to trick him and trap him. Uh hey, should we pay taxes, Jesus? How do you roll with the tax situation here? And he said and he and he confounds them right when he says, render to Caesar the things that are Caesar and to God the things that are gods. And they walk away in shame. Where did he get all that? Well, yes, he was the divine son of God. I understand that. He was the eternally existent son of God. But he learned, Luke 2. 52 says he grew in wisdom. Day after day, morning by morning, he immersed himself in the words of the Father. That's why when Jesus spoke, the Bible came out of his mouth, like all the time. And as he lived his life, being taught by the Father, here having his ear open to the Father's instruction, speaking, he never sinned with his mouth. Never once. He used his tongue always only as an instrument of life. Not one careless word, not one critical word, or graceless word, or unnecessary or unhelpful word. Even his enemies were forced to admit, nobody ever spoke like this man. He guarded his mouth perfectly. He used his speech only helpfully. And he had learned from his father. That he would give himself to suffer, to being scorned, to being shamed and disgraced, in order to be able to speak to us the consoling words of eternal life. He went to that cross. I mean Isaiah 50 is given us a grade. I mean I can't I'm not doing an I'm not doing an Isaiah 50 exposition, but Get a look at when it says in Hebrews 12 that Jesus despised the shame. That's right there in verses 6 and 7 and 8 of Isaiah 50. Despise the shame. And he went to the cross, and on that cross, he absorbed in his own body the damning record before God for every foolish, corrupting word that you and I have ever spoken. On the cross, Jesus suffered the wrath of God that was due to us for our sins of the tongue. Every one of them. Every lie, every insult. Every bit of juicy gossip that you've spread, every put-down, every self-exalting braggadocious claim All innuendo and false promises and murmuring complaints, as well as our guilty silence when we should have actually spoken up He took all of that on himself and he canceled that debt to bring to you, to build you up and meet your greatest need, which was to be delivered from the eternal wrath of God. He met your greatest need and he graced you with his own life and death and resurrection so that you might be forgiven and cleansed and brought into his family. Look at him there now. So you look at him. This is how our minds are renewed. You look at him there suffering for you Dying for you, rising for you, and then appearing before his disciples, right? His doubting, fearful disciples who'd all run away from him. One of them had denied him, posturing themselves as if they were great people Arguing with each other about who would have the seed of greatness, and he shows up to them. And the first word he speaks to them is what? Peace. Peace be with you. He speaks a comforting word. To the hell deserving. Have you heard those words of love? If you're here this morning and you don't consider yourself to be a follower of Jesus, Understand that you deserve God's punishment. Not just for the words that have come out of your mouth, but for what those words reveal about your heart. You you draw breath from Almighty God and you don't thank Him with your words, but you complain and you slander and you lie and you deny the one who's giving you life and sustaining your breath at that very moment. And the word of God says, because of that, and we've all lived that way, we deserve to be punished by him righteously. But in love, he sent Jesus. Jesus lived a perfect life and he died and he rose and he's summoning you today to trust in him. to believe in him. Love to talk with you more about it, what it would mean for you to embrace Jesus and get on this way of being discipled by Jesus. Most of you, you have heard those words. And when we hear those words, do you not, I mean, do you not, if the Holy Spirit is among us, he's the Holy Spirit has sealed us for the day of redemption. And if you're hearing these words and if these words matter to you, you're saying, I don't want to speak corrupting talk. Get it away from me, Lord. Help me Help me to kill this sin in the power of your spirit. And the way we do that is having our minds renewed regularly in this gospel word of Christ. When the word of Christ is dwelling in you richly, it's very hard to speak angry, sharp, critical, bitter words It's very hard to speak haughty words and judgmental, combative, ungracious words from the foot of the cross We want to be a people who speak when we open our mouths, people can tell they've got the accent of Calvary In a room like this, in an ethnically diverse area as we are, when you meet somebody, I can't tell necessarily by looking at somebody what their ethnicity is, where they're from, what country, but when they open their mouth and speak, I say, oh, you don't you didn't grow up around here. There's a way that we can open up our mouths and speak that over time people say, oh, this person, they come from Calvary. They're people of the cross. And that's what we want to give ourselves to. Hearing the words of love, we speak words of love. We begin to speak with the accent of Calvary. We have the tongue of those who are taught, that we may know how to sustain with a word him who is weary. I'm gonna share this quote because my daughter worked hard yesterday to transcribe it. I could pass over it, but that would be passing over her hard work in transcribing for me an audio clip that took her some time, so I'm not gonna do that. I'm gonna read it. Uh because I was I came across this sermon. Martin Lloyd Jones preached this sermon on June 29, 1958, to his church in England. On Ephesians 4 29. And I'd already done the work. I earlier in the week I'd planned out this whole Isaiah 50 and this tongue of those who were taught thing. And I just I was seeing that in the Bible, and then I was so delighted when When Martin Lloyd Jones, at the end of his sermon on Ephesians 4. 29, he referred to the 50th chapter of Isaiah. And I want to read to you what he said to his church uh whatever many years ago. That was a long time ago. 1958. Lloyd Jones said, I can sum up the apostles' teaching by pointing out that what he's really doing here is asking us to behave like our Lord himself. How did he behave? Well, we have a description of him written by the prophet Isaiah in one of his great messianic passages. In his 50th chapter, he looks forward and sees him. He sees the Messiah. And he tells us the Messiah is speaking the following words. The Lord has given me the tongue of the learned that I should know how to speak a word in season to him who is weary. My dear Christian people. Now don't just listen to some Welsh preacher from the 1950s. I'm talking to you as I quote this man, my dear Christian people. There are weary around and about us. Weary of sin, weary in sin, weary of life There are Christian people around us, carrying burdens, carrying loads, suffering illness and sickness, disappointment, the treachery of friends. Some fond hope suddenly gone, dashed in vanished illusions. There are men and women around us and about us who are weary, and as we meet them and speak to them, let us forget ourselves. Let us not regard the meeting as an occasion where we can display how wonderful we are. God forbid. Let us pray that we may have the tongue of the learned That we may be enabled to speak a word in season to some poor, weary soul. Our Lord came from heaven to do that. And of him it was written, he verified it in his life, a bruised reed shall he not break, and the smoldering wick he shall not quench. That is the way for us also. As we travel through this journey of life, we are to help men and women and I would have and children by a word. A word of encouragement, a word of cheer. Perhaps a word of rebuke, but a word that will remind them that they are under God. And if they are in Christ, they are precious to him. Let us go, therefore, to soothe the weary and help the infirm. Let us indeed help one another in the whole of our life and conversation, but above all in our speech. Let no corrupt communication proceed out of our mouth, but that which is good for edification of others, the improvement of the need, that which fits the occasion, that we may ever administer grace to the believers. I'm sorry, to the hearers. Thank God. I'm still quoting. Thank God for the Christian life in which everything has changed. And all we are and do and say is so different from that which characterized the old unregenerate life Blessed be the name of God, who has had mercy upon us and sent his son not only to die for us and to deliver us from hell and its corruption. But who has given us this new nature and who has fashioned anew our lives after his own image. End quote. And I probably should just say amen and let's pray there. But I still have a fourth question. It will be brief. What kind of response then should we make? If all this is as we have seen, what kind of response should we make? Very briefly. One, perhaps we need to confess sin. And our brother Matt Sanders is going to come up in a few minutes and he's going to help us lead us in that time. We certainly can be praying. Lord, set a guard over my mouth. Keep watch over the door of my lips, Psalm 141. 3. Confess where it's needed. Pray and ask God. Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight. O Lord, my rock and my redeemer You'll see a prayer there on the opposite side of the sermon notes in your bulletin. You'll see a hymn that is written. We're not going to sing that hymn, but it's called, uh, what is that hymn called? Lord Speak That I Might Lord, Lord, speak to me that I might speak. It's the first line of the hymn, whatever it says. And I just came across that. That's actually the hymn that they sang at the end of the Martin Lloyd-Jones sermon. And I had never heard it before, but it the words are so fitting and appropriate. There's a prayer that you could pray So confess where it's needed. Pray that God would set a guard over your mouth, that you would speak only that which he himself would speak. Thirdly, morning by morning. I mean this is basic, but It's good to be reminded, morning by morning, give yourself to having the ear of one who is taught by taking up God's word and receiving his sustaining words to the weary yourself. You won't have those life-giving words to give to others if you're not taking in those life-giving words yourself. And then finally. This is maybe the mo well, that's it's all practical. Here's one more. This coming Saturday, if God gives us till Saturday, Maranatha, I just hope we don't I hope we don't meet again because Jesus takes us. Are you ready? Are you that eager for him to come? But if he does delay and we get to come again next week. On Saturday, just give a few minutes thought to who are three people that I'm likely to see tomorrow morning when Chevrolet Baptist Church gathers. That I could strengthen with a word of encouragement, with a word of affirmation, a word of thanksgiving, a word from Scripture, a thoughtful, careful question, and then actually do that on Sunday morning. And then repeat that every weekend for the next six months. I think if you give yourself to that practice for six months, it you'll become skilled at speaking a word in season. it will become second nature to you for the rest of your life. And you will be a part of filling up this body with joy and gladness and precious jewels, apples of gold and a setting of silver. To quote some Proverbs. Can you imagine? Can you imagine what it would do for Chevrolet Baptist Church if there were over the next half a year 8,000 plus soul strengthening, life-enriching, upbuilding, need meeting, grace-giving words, ricocheting around this gymnasium Weekend after weekend after weekend, it would be a little taste of heaven on earth. A gentle tongue, Proverbs says, is a tree of life. It's like a little taste of the Garden of Eden. I think that's what Martin Louis Jones meant when he said, thank God for the Christian life This is what Jesus lived and died and rose and ascended and sent the Spirit to create among us. So let's devote ourselves, beloved. to having the tongue of those who are taught, to listening to his words of love, and then giving ourselves to one another as good stewards of God's varied grace. Whoever speaks as one who speaks oracles of God, in order that in everything God may be glorified through Jesus Christ. To him be glory and dominion forever. And ever. Amen. Indeed. Heavenly Father, we do pray that you would help us To marvel at what a great thing it is to live as a Christian, to hear words of love from you, and then to be able to speak words that would build up other people in Jesus' name. We pray if there are any in here this morning who don't know this love of Jesus, would you open their hearts to receive that love? Would you pour your love into their hearts this morning, even by your Spirit? And for those of us who have come to grasp and rejoice in that love, would you renew the spirit of our minds that we might learn to put off all corrupting talk? And to put on talk only that builds up, that meets needs, and that gives grace to those who hear. We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen.