Well good morning, brothers and sisters. Good to see you again after being away for a couple of weeks Glad to be with you, to sing with you, to worship our Lord together, to pray with you, and also to go to the Lord's word together. Oh God, we pray that you would meet us now in the hearing, preaching, and doing of your word. That we would trust in you and rely on you entirely, that you would build us up, and that you would strengthen our faith, continue to walk in you. But we ask you to use your word to convict us, use your word to correct us, use your word to change us, that we will look more like your son Jesus as a result. We ask in his name. Amen. My son and I just got back from London. And we greatly enjoyed our time there, our time with our former churches that we were part of, and seeing good friends and sightseeing and all of that. And Alan seemed to enjoy all of the the time with people and also the sightseeing. But he didn't really like going to Buckingham Palace. I guess the building for him wasn't much to look at. But we were trying to get his attention on the royal guards that were standing out front, you know, with the big hats. And he was not impressed They were just standing there, watching and waiting, not doing anything. So what's there to see? Why be impressed But the Royal Guards they stand and they watch for any activity and they wait to hear orders from their commanding officers. They're just not guys in funny hats. They are soldiers. Right? And when we last left Habakkuk last week, as we heard from our brother Jonathan Stockland, Abakak lamented once more before the Lord. He did not understand what the Lord was doing, but then he took a stand and was at his watchpost. You see, Habakkuk was frustrated that the Lord would seemingly seem to only judge God's people, Judah, for their sin. But seemed to be doing nothing about the Babylonians, also known as the Chaldeans. So Habakkuk took stand at his watchpost, which is what he says in Habakkuk chapter two, verse one, I will take my stand at my watchpost, and station myself on the tower, and look out to see what he, God, will say to me, and what I will answer concerning my complaint. Now, at a watch post or at a watchtower, a soldier is going to stand watch, stand guard over a city, over a town. They're looking out to make sure that there are not any enemies approaching, and if they see anything that's wrong, they're going to say something and give warning so that the people can respond appropriately. That's what they do But also as they're standing there, they're waiting to receive orders, if there are any orders or words from their commanding officer But Habakkuk is not looking out for enemies, at least not yet. He's looking, watching, and waiting for the Lord to respond to him. He wants to hear what he will say so he can respond appropriately. Is that what you're doing today, Christian I'm not sure what you're going through or what you've walked in here carrying, but are you standing at your watch post Are you watching and waiting for the Lord to respond to you, to answer you and your cries for relief or rescue or rest? If you have a copy of God's word, please meet me in the book of Habakkuk, chapter 2. You're using one of the few Bibles around you. That's on page 785. 785. And we're continuing this morning our study through this minor book of Habakkuk, this minor prophet, the major message for God, people. The prophet Habakkuk is lamenting the state of God's people in Judah, as well as lamenting the coming judgment that's going to come upon them at the hands of the Chaldeans. And in our text for this morning, we'll see once again that the God that God, who rules over all the nations, the God that rules over the universe, does indeed hear And he does indeed answer. And he acts according to his righteous will. Because he's good and because he's sovereign So I'm going to read the passage. I'll then give us the main idea, and then we'll walk through the passage and our time together. So here's Habakkuk chapter 2, starting in verse 2. This is God's word. And the Lord answered me, Write the vision, make it plain on tablets, so he may run who reads it. The vision awaits its appointed time. It hastens until the end. It will not lie. If it seems slow, wait for it It will surely come, it will not delay. Behold, his soul is puffed up. It is not upright within him. But the righteous shall live by his faith. Moreover, wine is a traitor, an arrogant man who is never at rest. His greed is as wide as Sheol. Like death, he has never enough. He gathers for himself all nations and collects as his own peoples, and he can collects as his own all peoples Shall not all these take up their taunt against him with scoffing and riddles for him, saying, Woe to him who heaps up what is not his own. For how long? and loath himself with pledges, will not your debtors suddenly arise, and those awake who will make you tremble? Then you will be spoiled for them, because you have plundered many nations, all the remnant of the people shall plunder you. For the blood of man and violence to the earth, to cities, and all who dwell in them. Woe to him who gets evil gain for his house To set his nest on high, to be safe from the reach of harm. You have devised shame for your house by cutting off many peoples. You have forfeited your life For the stone will cry out from the wall, and the beam from the woodwork respond. Woe to him who builds a town with blood! And founds a city on iniquity. Behold, is it not from the Lord of hosts that peoples labor merely for fire, and nations weary themselves for nothing? For the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord as the waters covers the sea. Woe to him who makes his neighbor drink. You pour out your wrath and make them drunk in order to gaze at their nakedness You will have your fill of shame instead of glory. Drink yourself and show your uncircumcision. The cup is in the Lord's right hand It will come around to you, and utter shame will come upon your glory. The violence done to Lebanon will overwhelm you, as will the destruction of the beast that terrified them For the blood of man and violence to the earth, to cities, and to all who dwell in them. What prophet is an idol when its maker has shaped it? A metal image, a teacher of lies? For his maker trusts in his own creation when he makes speechless idols. Woe to him who says to a wooden thing, awake! To a silent stone, arise. Can this teach? Behold, it is overlaid with gold and silver, and there is no breast at all in it But the Lord is in his holy temple. Let all the earth keep silence before him Here's the main idea for our time together in God's Word. The Lord answers. By declaring his righteous will, so his people can live by faith. The Lord answers by declaring his righteous will So his people can live by faith. We'll cover that in three parts. The Lord's answer. We'll talk about the text. The Lord's righteous will will see these promises that are within this passage. And thirdly, living by faith, where we'll talk about some application for all of us. Part one, the Lord's answer. Hopefully by now you've seen the progression of Habakkuk. He laments. He says, How long shall I cry out and you will not hear? That's Chapter 1. And then at the end of chapter 1, he gives another lament to the Lord. He laments twice, so he laments first, the Lord responds. He laments again, and then the Lord is responding right now. But notice he started by saying, Will you not hear me? And now he's going to the Lord again to lament Which means that he believes that the Lord will actually hear and answer his cries. He doesn't know how he will answer, but he believes that he will answer. Just look at chapter 2 for a minute, even before we get into the Lord's response, where it says there, and the Lord answered me. Let's not quickly look over that part. The Lord hears and answers and responds to his people according to his gracious will so that they can walk by faith. You think the Lord does not hear you this morning, keep crying out to Him. Keep watching and waiting. He will answer. Just like the Lord answers Habakkuk, and he gives him this vision that is meant to be shared with the people. This vision that would require that he wouldn't have to wait. On the Lord. Look at verse 2. His write the vision, make it plain on tablets, so that he may run who reads it. For this for still the vision awaits its appointed time. It happens to the end. It will not lie. That means Habakkuk is hearing this message from the Lord, but it's not just for Habakkuk. He is meant to spread that message to all of God's people, to tell the rest of the people of Judah just exactly what God is doing and what he's going to do. God's people are called to believe in him and believe his word, even though, as it says here, it might take time for us to see it. He says, if it seems slow, just wait for it. And waiting is a major theme in the book of Habakkuk Abacuck standing at his watchpost, he's watching and waiting to hear this response from the Lord. And the Lord told him in part, I'll tell you what's gonna happen, but you're gonna have to wait to see it. We don't like waiting, do we? As we heard this morning from John Malone, waiting is part of the Christian life. It just is. But in verse 4 comes the key to Habakkuk's waiting, and also the key to our waiting on the Lord. Look at verse 4, where it says, Behold, his soul is puffed up. It is not of right within him, but the righteous shall live by his faith Now, his soul in verse 4 is likely referring to that of either the Chaldeans or the people of Judah who have turned their back on the Lord, who have decided to not wait on the Lord. Decide to go their own way. But waiting on the Lord requires living by faith. And if we're going to live by faith, then that means that we must also wait on the Lord. It goes hand in hand. Especially in light of this situation that Habakkuk is seeing and experiencing in Judah. So the Lord's answer to Habakkuk that we will now unpack or that we will soon unpack is basically that you must live by faith That's what he says. You must wait for me to respond, and in the meantime, you must live by faith. Notice it says the righteous shall live by faith. And I think the Lord here is also responding directly to one of Habakkuk's lament in chapter 1, verse 13, where he kind of accuses the Lord. He says, why do you idly look at traitors and remain silent when the wicked swallows up the man more righteous than he? What is God's rebuttal to that? The righteous shall live by his faith Remember that this part of the vision of what the Lord is doing, he's declaring that to Habakkuk. He wants him to write it down on tablets, and he wants him to share it. So that means that means that we can take this message of what the Lord is spreading about the righteous living by faith as what God wants not only Habakkuk to do, but also wants his people to do. And this is very different than what Habakkuk had in mind about righteousness. It's also different than what we might have in mind when it comes to righteousness. It seems like Habakkuk was comparing himself and the people of Judah to the Chaldeans. We're more righteous than them. Why are you just judging us? We can tend to do that as well. We're more righteous than them. So why are our lives in the state that it's in? But God doesn't respond to us on our terms He makes it clear that righteousness is based on what he declares as righteous and on what he declares that he will do. That's what this righteousness was based on. More on that later. In verse 5 of our passage, describes the Chaldeans, these enemies of God's people. They're arrogant, they're greedy, they're never at rest, they're going on to conquer more and more nations Abacit would have heard about the work of the Chaldeans. He would have heard about the Babylonians. And God's basically telling him, it's as bad as you've heard. But the Lord seems to be alluding to the fact that the Chaldeans, their days, even though they're wicked, their days are numbered. They may be intoxicated off of their own success. They may think that they're going to continue to slaughter people after people over and over again. Because the grave or their greed is as wide as the grave, as Sheol, the place of the dead. They're collecting all of these nations to themselves. They're putting it in their net, so to speak. But the Lord tells his people what's going to happen and then tells them that they can almost Taunt the Chaldeans or taunt the Babylonians because they know exactly what's going to happen And that's exactly what the Lord does in verses 6 through 19, where he gives this taunt song because he's helping them to know You should be at rest because you know how this story is going to end, even though it looks bad right now. Recently I re-watched the World Cup final, Argentina and France, a couple years ago. You might remember that. It was also on a Sunday Which was very hard for me to be at church that morning, I'll admit that. But there were lots of suspense and drama. This is football or soccer I'm talking about It went to penalty kicks. It ended in a tie. It went to overtime. It then went to penalty kicks Now think of all the suspense and emotion bound up as you watch that match as it happens. You don't know what's going to happen. You don't know the outcome. But as I re-watched it, I already knew the outcome. So it was kind of a different way to watch it. Oh yeah, they're gonna score. Oh yeah, he's gonna block the goal right here You know the outcome, that kind of affects how you view your circumstances, doesn't it? Let's think about that with the Lord. We have his truth. We have his promises. We have his word. He tells us the very beginning, and he tells us what's going to happen at the very end. We know that he rules and he reigns eternally, and that's not going to change. One day his enemies will be brought to nothing, and the earth is going to be filled with his glory. So as God's people, We are called to live as if we already know what the outcome is going to be because we do. And that's why, starting in verse 6, the Lord tells Habakkuk about what the outcome is going to be. He's giving them a vision of God's people pronouncing these woes or these words of judgment on the Chaldeans. And these words were meant to taunt the Chaldeans. And God's people would use these. Some people think that they were actually songs, that they were meant to sing as their enemies were approaching But to tell them about the judgment that they would eventually face, because the Lord is a good and righteous judge. Now that would make sense for the Chaldeans to be the ones on the taunting end. But for the people of Judah to taunt their enemies when they heard how bad they are, when they know that they're approaching them soon? Why would they do that? The Lord is demonstrating here that God and God's people will ultimately prevail over all of God's enemies. That was true of them in Judah, and that's true of us today. Let's look at these five woes, these pronouncements of judgment. As we see also the reasons for the way the the um the judgment that that God has on these people. Verses 6 through 8, the Chaldeans are condemned for their exploitation. They're exploiting other nations. But look at what it says in verse 8. It says, Because you have plundered many nations, all the remnant of the people shall plunder you. Referring to God's people who remain faithful to Him, who continue to live by faith. He's saying what you're doing is going to come back to you. God is going to judge you. Look at verses 9 through 11, where the Chaldeans are condemned for their false sense of security. This section describes them as those who put their nest on high. Based on evil game. They think that they are protected. They have a false sense of security But God says by cutting off the peoples, by destroying these other people, you have forfeited your life So since they broke God's law, they will face God as a judge. What he's saying to them. Or even verses 12 through 14. Where the Chaldeans are condemned for founding cities on iniquity or on sin. God says that they are wearying themselves for nothing. And their cities will be brought down by the Lord in due time. God says something similar through another prophet, the prophet Jeremiah, in Jeremiah 51, verse 58. Thus says the Lord of hosts, the broad wall of Babylon shall be level to the ground, and her high gates shall be burned with fire. Walls, gates, all used for security, false sense of security. It says, you might think you're safe now, but you will not escape my judgment. The peoples, he continues on in saying, the peoples labor for nothing. Nations weary themselves only for fire. Or even in verses 15 through 17, the Chaldeans are condemned for their immense violence. Habakkuk already said how violent the people are. In Habakkuk chapter 1, first few verses. They've made the peoples they've invaded feel shame, but they themselves will be met with shame. They conquered with violence, but they themselves will be met with violence. God's predicting the fact that these people, these Chaldeans, Will eventually been be invaded by another stronger army. And now we'll all be on the Lord's watch. Now all be the Lord's judgment on them. Notice verse 16, for example. Where he talks about their unrighteousness and therefore alluding to their coming judgment. He says, drink yourself and show your uncircumcision. Points to the fact that they are unrighteous completely in the Lord's sight. But notice that the Lord is also comparing the wrath that they have been inflicting and will inflict on God's people. To the wrath that he's going to inflict on them. He says, you have a cup, but I have a cup as well. That's why it says the cup in the Lord's right hand will come around to you. It will get to you eventually. And utter shame will come upon your glory. In no uncertain terms, God is saying that judgment will come and it will be severe. Their sin, their drunkenness, their unrighteousness, their violence, all of the wicked things that they are doing to people The wages of all of their sin will result in death and judgment. And even their idols and their false gods will no longer profit them. Look at verses 18 through 20. Because what prophet is an idol when its maker has shaped it? A metal image, a teacher of lies? Or his maker trust in his own creation when he makes speeches idols? Woe to him who says to a wooden thing awake, to a silent stone, arise. In this teach, behold, it is overlaid with gold and silver, and there is no breast in it. The Chaldeans are condemned here for their idolatry. Their idols can't wake up. Their idols can't speak. Their idols can't act. Their idols have no breath in them. And their idols will not spare them for the wrath that is going to come when the Lord judges them for their sin. And in contrast, listen to verse 20, where it says, but the Lord is in his holy temple. Ruling and reigning, let all the earth keep silence before Him Think back to Habakkuk 10, his first lament in chapter 1, verse 3, where he says that the Lord is looking idly at iniquity. He says the law is paralyzed. He says that justice never goes forth. He says that the wicked surround the righteous. And maybe you feel that way even this morning. But the Lord makes it clear in this second response that He sees all iniquity. That the law is not paralyzed, that his justice will go forth, and that the wicked will be judged for their wickedness by him as the great and righteous judge. Therefore, the righteous can live by faith. The righteous can live by faith because eventually the unrighteous will be judged By the Lord. The Lord will not allow the wicked to reign indefinitely. And when they are judged, they will not get away with anything. Everything done in the dark will come to the light. And the Lord will see to it through his sovereign and righteous will, which brings us to part two. The Lord's righteous will. Here we'll focus on these important three promises that come up in this passage in Habakkuk chapter 2. These promises that God's people could hold on to back then, and also that we could hold on to today. First promise is that the righteous shall live by his faith. Again, that's chapter 2, verse 4. We heard that from our scripture reading. Where the Apostle Paul picks up this theme and says, I am not ashamed of the gospel in Romans chapter 1, where is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes The Jew first and also the Greek, for in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith, for faith, as it is written, the righteous shall live by faith Meaning, the gospel is this declaration by the Lord that salvation is available to all who will believe. Not in what they've done, but in what He's done. This righteousness is revealed from faith to faith, meaning that it's by faith from start to finish. Just as it is written, the righteous shall live by faith But maybe you thought, why would Paul connect this story of a minor prophet to the gospel? It's because just like Habakkuk and the people in Judah were awaiting for salvation, God's people have been awaiting people for his salvation. Because God created this world and everything in it for his glory. But like the people of Judah, all people have turned away from God They have turned away from his word and turned away from his ways, starting in the garden. We all have done the same as our forefathers. But even in the garden, God promised that he will one day send a redeemer to make everything right. And God's people since then have been longing and watching and waiting for their Redeemer to come. The Lord sent prophets like Jeremiah or like Habakkuk to remind them to hold on to God's promises. But God's people in their sin, they looked for redeemers elsewhere. Like the leaders of the world. That's why God's people eventually wanted a king for themselves. Or they turned to idols and the other gods, the false gods that other peoples were believing around them But the Lord all throughout has kept a remnant of his people who continue to live by faith and therefore are declared as righteous in his sight. People like Abel or Enoch or Moses and Joseph or Gideon or David and Samuel and many others who are mentioned in Hebrews chapter 11 Because without faith it is impossible to please God, it says in Hebrews 11, verse 6. But in that same chapter, at the end of that chapter It says that all of these, so all of these people, Moses, David, etc. , though commended for their faith, they did not receive what was promised, since God had provided something better for us. And that something promised was the great redemption that they will be able to see that will be brought to them by the great Redeemer that they had been waiting for all along. And that's the Lord Jesus Christ. The Redeemer who came to this world to defeat more than just the Babylonians. He came to defeat the enemies of sin and death and hell and the grave, and he did so. By living the perfect life, by fulfilling all of God's righteous law, by giving up his life as a ransom for us, and by rising from the grave, proving that his sacrifice was accepted by the Father. So that by faith only in him sinners can be redeemed and declared as righteous before a righteous God. The only way that anyone is saved. And if you're here and you're not a Christian, you need a Redeemer, and the Redeemer has already come for you. Place your faith, all of it, in the Lord Jesus Christ for your salvation and continue to walk with him by faith. We'd love to talk to you today after church. You don't know what that means and you have more questions. And brothers and sisters, remember that this redemption that we have, this redemption that is ours by Christ, Means that we can now live by faith in Him, even in the midst of the greatest suffering that we might see and face in this life. Even in the midst of what's going on in your mind and heart right now How do we know that? Because, second promise, the earth will be filled with the glory of the Lord. Verse 13. Behold, is it not from the Lord of hosts that peoples labor merely for fire and nations weary themselves for nothing? Again, they will be dealt with. These nations will not get away with anything. These wicked rulers will be judged by God For, verse 14, the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord, as the waters covers the sea. So the rulers were plotting, but they were plotting in vain. Because try as they might to glorify themselves, God on the last day will be the only one that's glorified. And his glory will be everywhere for everyone to see it. And that glory of the Lord is about God's presence with his people. Just as God's presence or his glory fills the tabernacle or fills the temple. But God's saying that his glory extends to the entire earth. Isaiah 6, chapter, uh Isaiah chapter 6, verse 3. And one called to another and said, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is filled with his glory. And his glory, because he's so holy, should consume us. But because of Christ, we can behold his glory. Second Corinthians 4, verse 6, where it says, For God who said, Let light shine out into the darkness, has shone into our hearts to give us the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face. Jesus Christ. Now some of us might be thinking, I believe that. That sounds good, but I don't see that right now. We might look around and still see the enemies of God winning. In fact, all of creation is still groaning. Abak looked around Judah and saw violence and destruction, and the Lord told him, there's more to come. But that's why we can't just look around to see the glory of the Lord. We need to look ahead to see the glory of the Lord. He's already told us what's going to happen. Revelation 21. Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth. The first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and the sea was no more. And I saw the holy city, the New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with them. and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more, neither shall there be mourning or crying or pain any more, for the former things have passed away. Brothers and sisters, your mourning, your pain, your suffering has a purpose, but your mourning, your pain, and your suffering also has an expiration date. God will be with his people, and we will see him in all of his glory, and we will be with him, without sin, without suffering, without shame, without doubt, without death, without fear, without pain, wit of despair Clouding our view of him. Which means in the meantime, we must remember that he's sovereign and that he still reigns from his holy temple, which is promise number three. The Lord still reigns from his holy temple. The righteous shall live by faith. The earth will be filled with his glory, and the Lord still reigns from his sovereign temple, from his holy temple. That's why it says in verse 20, but the Lord is in this holy temple, and all the earth keep silence before him. Now, this verse does not mean that we should not cry out to the Lord. That's what Habakkuk has been doing over and over and over again. But this verse is more about a quiet humility before the Lord. Think of where we are in Habakkuk. He lamented, the Lord responded, he lamented again, the Lord answered in more detail about what was going to come. The Lord told him that these words would be sure, would be true. Write them down, share them with whoever you want to share it with, share with my people. It is going to happen. And it did happen. As we know from history, the Lord's judgment on Judah took place in 586 BC, when they were finally invaded by the Chaldeans. But then in 539 BC, in that waiting period, in 539 BC, the Chaldeans were themselves invaded. And the exiles, the remnant of God's people, were able to return to Jerusalem. So the Lord is calling for Habakkuk and all of his people to step back as they see the tapestry of his grace woven together and to stand in awe of his gracious and sovereign will. It's like being in an airplane and being able to get a window seat. Kids in the room, have you gotten a window seat before? Yeah? It kind of changes everything, right? Once you're up in the air, hovering over everything, you're next to the clouds. Maybe you get to peek down and you get to see the area around you, and you're like, oh, I didn't know that lake was there. I didn't know how this all fits together. You ever seen that vantage point kids, teens? How do you feel when you get way up there and you look over? You see everything? What kind of feelings come to you? You can answer. It's cool, right? You're like me, you feel small, right? Not insignificant, but appropriately. Like there's a lot more going on outside of me There's a lot more that I don't see and understand. There's a lot more that I don't know. That's what verse 20 is about here. God wants us to be in awe of His sovereign will. Even though there's a lot more that we haven't seen. There's a lot more that we don't know. But we get to stand back or hover over if we're in a plane and just marvel that somehow it all fits together. Somehow it all works together. We might not even be able to explain the how, but we know the how. And that helps us to walk by faith in Him as a result. Which brings us to point three or part three, living by faith. Here we'll have some brief points of application. This is all true about the Lord. He says the righteous shall be shall live by his faith, declared righteousness. If he says that he rules from his holy temple, and that's true. If he says that the earth will be filled with his glory, What does that mean for us when we still feel and experience trials and suffering of all kinds? Answer, he wants us to live by faith. He wants to live by faith in him. Now maybe you're here and you're not a Christian or you haven't been in church for a while and you might be thinking, see, that's That's why I have questions about Christianity. Live by faith? Isn't there more? Well, it's not just faith for faith's sake. The object of our faith. The object of our faith, the person, is God Almighty. Who does not lie, who does not go bad on his word, who fulfills everything that he says How do we know that? Because he sent his son to die for us, to rise from the grave, while we were still his enemies, and none of us asked him to do that. He sees the end from the beginning. And he calls us to live by faith in him. Not so that we can earn his righteousness, because we cannot. But we are called to live by faith because his people have been declared righteous in his sight. How do we do that? A few points. We live by faith by remembering his promises. We live by faith by remembering his promises If you don't know where to start in God's word by knowing what his promises are, you can start in Habakkuk chapter 2, what we talked about today. Says the righteous shall live by faith, the earth will be filled with his glory, and he is in his holy temple. We can start there. And as we recall these promises, maybe these places of scripture where we see who God is and what He's done, we should do what Habakkuk was called to do. Write them down. Share them with others. Maybe use index cards. Put them in your room or in the mirror in your bathroom or in your car. Share them with other people. Put it in a text message and send it to someone you know is struggling with a hard time. So that we can live by faith, by knowing that he keeps his word, he keeps his promises. But again, we want relief, don't we? We want answers and not just explanations. We want our circumstances to change We want the prodigal son to come home. We want that marriage to be restored. We want our financial troubles to fade away. We want to be healed. We want a break. But living by faith means that we are willing to trust in God, even if those circumstances do not change at all Joni Erickson Tata has been a paraplegic for most of her life. So she's one acquainted with suffering, acquainted with grief. Their circumstances have not changed. But she's also learned how to live by faith. Here's what she says. When we learn to lean back on God's sovereignty. Fixing and settling our thoughts on that unshakable, unmovable reality, we can experience great inner peace. Our troubles may not change. Our pain may not fade with a new dawn. But the power of those things to harm us is broken as we rest in the fact that God is in control. Our suffering might grieve us, but our suffering's not meant to harm us. And living by faith means that we get to rest in the fact that God is still on the throne and he is still in control. We live by faith by remembering his promises. Secondly, we live by faith by embracing our trials. We live by faith by embracing our trials. Some time ago I was having a conversation with a pastor friend. You gotta have you gotta be careful but when talking to those pastor friends because Those friends become pastors and they just start pastoring you. So I caught them up on how I was doing, explained how things were going, and caught them up on some things that were challenging and difficult. And honestly, I explained it in a way that I thought he would kind of appreciate. Like, oh, you're doing all right, Tony. You're doing a good job Uh but it didn't go that way. It didn't go like I thought it would. Because he asked me this probing question. Which I will share with you. He said, have you embraced your trials or are you just trying to outrun them? I know, right? Ouch. And I think I tried to wiggle my way out of that and just kind of explain, like, yeah, yeah, yeah, but the more I thought about it, just like he's right. I'm just trying to avoid it. I'm just trying to outrun it. I'm just trying to get away from it unsuccessfully But living by faith means not that we're trying to outrun our trials, but we turn around and embrace them We embrace our trials, knowing that we have a sovereign God who's in control of everything, including our lives. And while we might not be able to outrun our trials like some of us might like to, let's remember that by God's grace we will outlast all of our trials. So we can actually embrace them by faith. Just like the people of Judah did, as we'll see in chapter 3 God already told them the outcome. And he listens and responds. More on that next week. And Habakkuk responds to the Lord with praise. But we can embrace our trials, knowing that we are in a fallen world, knowing that trouble will come with this life, but that Jesus has overcome the world. Now he's with us and will be with us and we can walk by faith. The earth is full of his glory, and he still reigns from his holy temple. So, brother and sister, if you're experiencing trials right now, cry out to the Lord, tell him exactly how you're feeling. He wants to hear from you. Lean on your brothers and sisters in Christ. We want to hear from you, we want to help you. But don't just plot and scheme your way out of your trial. You won't be able to. Embrace it. Embrace the Lord that is over it. Trust in Him to work through it. for his glory and for your good. So stand at your watch post, watch, wait, listen, not just for answers, but look for the Lord to display his glory. He's declared his righteous will. He's with us so we can live by faith. And the earth will be filled with his glory. Let's pray together. Oh God, this is easier said than done. In fact, this is easier preached than done But Lord, we pray that you would help all of us to increase our faith in you. Lord, that we would know that you rule and reign over the heavens and the earth. You know the ends from the beginning. You know the number of hair on our heads. You you hold all of our tears in a bottle. You are sovereign and faithful and good, but we can rest in your sovereign will. And we can also walk by faith in your sovereign will. We ask that you would help us all the more to walk by faith today and to live by faith in you. In Jesus' name. Amen.