Good morning, brothers and sisters. Good to be with you this morning to share God's word. Before I do that, though, I come bearing gifts. Two gifts for someone who wants it, for two people who want it. It's a ESV scripture journal for the book of James. I'm planning to give out some more of these tonight at our prayer service But I figured maybe somebody wants it and would be helped by it even having it right now. Would anybody want one of these? Okay. Yeah, Beth and Shade. Can you pass us? The Beth and Shade. Alright. There we go. Now let's pray once more before we go to God's word. Oh God, we need you to hear your word clearly and correctly. I need you to preach it accurately, Lord. Please give me grace. Please give us grace to hear your word and respond in the way that you call us to. To hear you, to trust you, to love you enough to obey you and to do what you say. Holy Spirit, help us, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. So back in high school, when I used to uh go to church, once I was able to drive myself to church, I soon figured out what time the music started. And roughly ended. And I gauge when I left my house based on when I thought the music would end. Because the music at that church went on for a long time. Like a long time. There was singing, there was some dancing, some shouting. And I wanted to skip all that and just get to the sermon. So what I would do is I would leave deliberately late to get there deliberately late and get there, sneak in the back so I could hear the sermon. And this is incredibly ironic that I'm a pastor right now, in light of all that. God has a sense of humor. But in part. My definition of what worship was was incomplete. Because I thought I don't want to be there for the time of worship. I'll just go there to hear the sermon. But that's not all that worship is, is it? At a wrong definition of what it meant to worship the Lord. But what about you this morning? Is your definition of worship incomplete in some area? Maybe you know that worship is not just singing songs to the Lord. Maybe you know that every part of our gathering, for example, The praying, the hearing of scripture, the singing, the sermon, the Lord's Supper, and even the fellowship afterwards. Maybe you believe that's all worship But what about when we leave? What about when we get in our cars and drive away? Does the worship end with the benediction? Well, we should know that it doesn't. All of our lives are meant to be an act of worship to the Lord. Meaning, what are we going to do with the word that we've heard from God? If you haven't turned there already, please meet me in James chapter 1. That's on page 1011 of the Black Bibles provided. Last week we started going through the letter of James. James is servant of God and brother of the Lord Jesus Christ. He wrote this letter to the 12 tribes dispersed abroad, meaning these Jewish Christians who were being persecuted, who were dealing with extreme poverty. And all other sorts of problems and various trials, as he talks about early in chapter one. And this letter is intended to help these brothers and sisters to know how faith in Christ works. Faith in Christ, as we talked about last week, it matures and it endures. And we're going to follow that same theme throughout the letter of James, but this morning we're going to pick up a James. Chapter 1, starting in verse 19, to talk about faith maturing and enduring by hearing and doing his word, which is our worship of the Lord. Please follow along with me as I read James chapter 1, starting in verse 19. This is God's word Know this, my beloved brothers. Let every person be quick to hear, slow to speak, and slow to anger For the anger of man does not produce the righteousness of God. Therefore, put away all filthiness and rampant wickedness, and receive with meekness the implanted word which is able to save your souls. But be doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving yourselves. For if anyone is a hearer of the word and not a doer, he's like a man who looks intently at his natural face in the mirror. Where he looks at himself and goes away and at once forget what he was like. But the one who looks into the perfect law, the law of liberty, and perseveres, being no hearer who forgets, but a doer who acts, he will be blessed in his doing. If any one thinks he is religious and does not bridle his tongue, but deceives his heart, this person's religion is worthless. Religion that is pure and undefiled before God the Father is this: to visit orphans and widows in their affliction, to keep oneself unstained from the world. You're taking notes this morning. Here's our main point for our time together. Faith in Christ matures and endures. As we worship God by hearing and doing his word. Faith in Christ matures and endures as we worship God by hearing and doing his word. And we'll cover that in three points. Point number one, here, because God's word saves. Point number two, do because God blesses our doing. And point number three, worship, because God alone is worthy. Point number one, hear because God's word saves. If you remember from last week, verse 18, James had already talked about God and God's word bringing us fur forth, meaning giving us birth, the spiritual birth that we've been given by the Word. So he says in verse eighteen, so that we will be a kind of first fruits of his creatures. So then verse 19 is not a brand new thought or brand new concept. I think he's still talking about the word, the role of God's word in our lives and in our hearts, and also our response to God's word. So James says, first of all, in verse 19, we must be quick to hear it. Look again at verse 19, where it says, know this. Every person must be quick to hear, slow to speak, and slow to get angry. As I mentioned before, James, the the letter of James is a letter, but it's also very proverb-ish. If I may. Meaning we can see pithy verses like this, and we can take those verses and run away with it and apply it to our lives because they're good and helpful. That's a verse that I've used in my household often We should be quick to listen, slow to speak, and slow to get angry That's how we would demonstrate it to our kids, right? And James teaches about our words and our anger elsewhere in the book of James, like in James chapter 3. He even talks about our words more in James 1, verse 26. So our words matter. Why? Because as James says, the anger of man does not produce the righteousness of God. And that's really good wisdom here because we often can be slow to hear and quick to speak and quick to get angry, quick to misunderstand. We've all been there before, haven't we? Maybe even this week with a spouse or with a friend or with a roommate. Or maybe with a sibling where we assumed a response, so we just got mad, or we responded really quickly, and it turned out we were wrong the whole time. Kids, maybe you've heard this before that our words are like toothpaste. Right? Have you ever heard something like that? What happens with toothpaste once it comes out? Can you put it back in the bottle? No. I mean you could try, but the mess has already been made. That's kind of how it is with our words. We can apologize for our words. We can even take them back. But they still have the effects, don't they? So in your conversations, are you quick to hear? Are you quick to listen? Or are you listening to dissect? And listening to quickly rebuttal or quickly respond. In our culture of clips and sound bites, we have all grown accustomed to hearing bits and pieces of information and then quickly responding to it. That happened recently with this tragic attack that happened in England, where these little children were killed. It was devastating. But then to add to that, people quickly made assumptions about the murderer, put that online, and then that sparked protests that quickly led to riots. Saying that the person who killed these young girls was a Muslim immigrant that shouldn't have been there in the first place. That wasn't true at all But the damage was already done. You couldn't put that back into the toothpaste. And we can still turn on the news today and see some of the effects. That tragedy was hijacked by an agenda because someone was quick to get angry. But what about us though? Are we quick to listen? I'd encourage you today to maybe take a survey of your own life. Husbands, maybe you want to ask your wives that question. Are you quick to listen? Wives, you might want to ask your husbands that question. Roommates, you want to ask each other that question. Maybe family around a dinner table or lunch table, you want to ask each other, am I really a good listener? Or am it am I just quickly responding? Am I just lashing out in anger? Parents, we might want to ask our children that as well. We all need to watch ourselves because our anger does not produce God's righteousness And what's interesting about that is even our righteous anger does not produce God's righteousness But James is not just concerned with people listening to each other and becoming better listeners, although that's helpful and that's part of it. He wants them to listen quickly to God and his word. And that's why he presents this contrast in verse 21 Look at verse 21 where he says, Therefore, put away all filthiness and rampant wickedness and receive with meekness the implanted word which is able to save your souls. There's a contrast there. Put away wickedness, but receive with meekness the implanted word. So we're to hear not just from people, but fundamentally from God and from his word And that word being implanted in us has deep roots. And it's a picture of gardening, for example. My father-in-law is still in town, and my father-in-law and my wife primarily, and I helped a little bit, have been working a lot in our garden. And we found these daffodil bowls Maybe you haven't seen them, but they look like clay or they look like rocks almost. And there were dozens of them that are deep into the ground as we were trying to uproot the front part of our garden. I looked it up, and these daffodil bulbs have an indefinite lifespan, meaning that their roots are so deep that the purpose is that they're going to sprout up every spring. And this is going to happen again and again and again. And some people say that this can happen even for centuries. It's an indefinite. Lifespan. God's word deeply planted in us has an indefinite lifespan. Because James says that this word is also able to save our souls. James, there by saving, is talking about the sanctifying work of God's word planted deeply in us, helping us to mature in the faith and helping us to endure in the faith. And that's why we gather each week around God's word to hear it read, to hear it sung, to hear it preached, so that it can go deeper and deeper still into the roots of our souls. Because God's word has an indefinite lifespan. So are you quick to hear God's word? Does God's word have deep roots in you? Remember, brothers and sisters, the Lord wants us to mature and endure in Him, and He wants to use His word planted deeply in us to do that. So, your own reading of God's Word, your own studying of God's Word, and your own devotional time is meant for God's word to be planted deeply in you, so that at the appropriate time When things are good, or when you're tempted, or when you're experiencing trials, and everything in between, God's word can spring up and sprout up again in our lives. But if you would honestly say that you have not been quick to hear God's word lately, may this be a challenge and an encouragement to you to dwell deeply into God's unending and unchanging word. Maybe you need to decide today that you are going to read God's word every day Not because it's the law, but because God's word is good for you. Maybe you also need to decide when you will read God's word every day. Maybe just in the morning, or maybe during your lunch break, or maybe when the kids take a nap, or maybe in the evening. Pick a time and try to stick with it And you should also decide what you're going to read in God's Word every day. So maybe finding a Bible reading plan or just deciding we're studying James, so I'm going to start in the book of James. And just go through it slowly. Or just go to the through the Psalms, for example. Or pick a gospel like the Gospel of John, for example. We are called to go to God and his word with humility, being quick to hear it. Slow to speak, assuming that we know better than the Lord, and slow to get angry with what God's word says. So when part of God's word rubs against you, meaning rubs you the wrong way, assume that either you need more clarity on that passage or you need more humility to understand understand God. better and trust him more. When that happens, ask the Lord for wisdom. When that happens, ask the Lord for clarity. When that happens, ask a mature brother or sister in Christ to help you understand what a passage means. Ask a pastor. Spend time not just with that one verse, but with that paragraph And then with that chapter, and then with how that book fits in the entire collection of God's word, and pray that the Lord will continue to use his word to sanctify your hearts. But this saving work of God's word comes not just by our hearing it and not just by our receiving it. We are called to respond. We're called to respond by doing it, which brings us to point two. Do because God blesses our doing. Do because God blesses our doing. Look at verse 22. But be doers of the word and not hearers only deceiving yourselves. Those who hear God's word without doing it, they deceive themselves, James says. They deceive their own hearts We heard Jesus say similar things this morning from our scripture reading. Hearing and doing his word is wise, but hearing and not doing his word is foolish. It's like building your house on sand. It will not last. You will be shaken. That house will collapse But James here uses the picture of a man looking at himself in the mirror. Look again at verse 23. For if anyone is a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like a man who looks intently at his natural face in the mirror Or he looks at himself and goes away at once and forgets what he was like. Now, I used to be a teacher, and having taught middle school boys for many years, I've seen this verse in action, where these boys would show up to school, show up to class with their hair going in three different directions. Eyes still crusty, snot around their noses. The question that everyone will pose to them is, have you even seen yourself in the mirror? And have you done anything about it? No shade, most school boys here But James is saying, have you seen God's word and have you responded to it? Someone who hears God's word but does not respond by doing what it says. Is someone who sees himself, is like someone who sees himself in the mirror, flaws and all, and does nothing about it. James says they forget what they were like. So they forgot the cross was in their eye. They just walk away as if nothing happened. And James here is describing God's word as a mirror for us. But I think this mirror, we should we are helped to think of it more like our phones and our camera phones. Kids and teens, what can you do with your camera phone? If you have a phone or if your parents have a phone. What can you do with it? Don't be shy. You can take Pictures, okay. There we go. Good morning. You can take pictures, right? Meaning you look out something, you look through the lens, you see something clearly, you snap a photo of it. But you can also press the button to turn the camera onto you onto selfie mode and look at yourself. And use it as a mirror. And as we go to God's Word, we are to look, use it, to look through the lens of God's Word, to see God clearly. And then turning on selfie mode, look at ourselves, look at our hearts, look at our lives, and apply it. And when we do, we are saying, this is what God's Word says. This is what I see from the Lord in His word. Now, what does this mean for me? What must I do in response? What must I start? What must I stop? Beloved, we are called to do both To hear and to do God's word. And if we only hear it, we are deceiving ourselves. We are called to look intently into God's word and do what it says, because God's word is perfect, and because God blesses those who do his word. Look at James 25. James 1. 25. Bless the one who looks who looks into the perfect law, the law of liberty, and perseveres Being no hearer who forgets but a doer who acts, he will be blessed in his doing In verse 25, there, James calls God's word the perfect law or the perfect Torah, the law of liberty. James has in mind the Torah, the books of Moses, and even the law and the prophets by extension Or we would refer to it as the Old Testament of our Bibles. Remember, the book of James is likely one of the first New Testament writings that was ever written So James does not have, say, the Gospel of John in mind, for example. This book preceded that. What he has in mind about God's word is what we would think of as the Old Testament. So, no, we cannot, as Christians, unhitch ourselves from the Old Testament. It doesn't work. It's not true. I mean, just look at your Bible itself. Most of your Bible is the Old Testament. And Jesus said he came not to destroy the law and the prophets, but to fulfill it That's why at our church we aim to study not just New Testament letters like the letter of James, but also Old Testament history, like in later in the fall, where we will, Lord willing, be studying the book of Nehemiah. Why? Because all of God's word is useful. All of God's word is helpful. All of God's word is profitable. It is the law of liberty. And Jesus taught us that His Word is all about Him. And that's why Jesus also said on the Sermon on the Mount, he came to fulfill the law, not to abolish it. That's why Jesus taught In Luke 24, 27, and beginning with Moses and all the prophets, he interpreted to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. And that's why Jesus said it in our scripture reading: whoever hears his words, his words, and does them are wise. To not do them is foolish. And Jesus did fulfill all of God's word. He fulfilled all of God's law. And that law is perfect, was perfect, and has always been perfect. But God's law points beyond ourselves because we in ourselves cannot keep God's law. It points to the lawgiver and the law keeper, the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus was completely obedient to God's word. Obedient even to the point of death, God's word says And he died because we broke God's law over and over and over again, in word, in thought, in action, and in action, and also in deed. Jesus died for our sins against God. But Jesus rose from the grave, showing that his sacrifice was accepted by God the Father. So now all who turned from their sins And put their faith in him, are saved from the bondage and the penalty of their sin and can be free to walk in his perfect law of liberty, his perfect law of freedom. So that they can hear his word, but also be doers of his word. And if you're here this morning and you're not a Christian, What I just explained is the gospel. That's the good news for how your soul can be saved. What does God want from you? You might be asking. He wants you to believe today. And you can believe today, and he will save you. Brothers and sisters in Christ, remember that God says he will bless our doing. But what does he want us to do? He wants us to love him. And how do we love him? As one pastor put it, obedience is God's love language He wants us to obey him. But remember, as we seek to live lives of holiness and righteousness As we seek to live lives that bring honor and glory to God, we are not doing it all by ourselves. God is with us as we seek to forgive. God is with us as we try to share the gospel. God is with us as we try to overlook offenses from others. God is with us as we grow in patience. God is with us as He called us to rejoice in our trials. God is with us as we ask for wisdom. He's with us as we wait for our reward. He's with us as we resist. Sin and he's with us as we believe that he gives us life. So we must also remember, brothers and sisters, yes, the Lord does want us to love him. And to love our neighbor. And doing both is how we rightly worship Him. That's what he's going to go on to explain, which we will talk about now in point number three. Worship because God is worthy. Look at verse 26. James talks about this perfect law of freedom, this perfect law of liberty, and then he takes a turn or what might seem to us to be a turn and goes in a different direction. Here's what he says. If anyone thinks he's religious and does not bridle his tongue but deceives his heart, this person's religion is worthless. James will talk more about bridling our tongue and controlling our tongue in James chapter 3 But he says here, we need to watch our mouths, watch what we say, because the one that does not do that deceives his own heart. There's that deception again, deceives his heart, and his religion is worthless. By religion, James means their worship. If anyone does not control his tongue and says that he is religious or says that he is worshiping God, He might be, but James says it's worthless. Is this an exaggeration? Does it matter what we say? Does it matter who we say it to? Does it matter how we say it Maybe you've heard the expression, sticks and stones may break my bones, but words will never hurt me. Right? It's a weird statement, first of all. How big are these sticks and stones? But words will never hurt me? That's foolish. We all know that that's not true at all. We know what it's meant to say. We want to build up self-esteem, I guess. But if I asked you to remember the most offensive thing someone has ever said to you, I'm sure you could remember it right now and also remember how it made you felt, made you feel, or how you still feel as a result. So if James is talking about our worship here and what our worship sounds like, then what does our worship to God sound like? Since he's talking about our words, then I'll ask about our words. What do you say about other people, for example, when you're in like-minded company? Whether you say about those people, whoever those people are, when you see those people on the news, or when you see them in your neighborhood. Or when you see them at church and you think that they might vote for that person instead of the other person. Do your words in those contexts. Does this sound worshipful for the Lord to the Lord, or does it sound worthless? We worship God with our words, but not just in the songs that we sing to Him. But also what we say about other people. So James is saying here that our worship of God does not end with the benediction It continues as we love God and love our neighbors, even through what we say, but also in what we do. Look at verse 27. He goes on to say about this religion or this worship, religion that is pure and undefiled before God the Father is this. Now hold on before you read the rest. How would you fill in that gap? If you were writing the Bible, what would you say? Pure and undefiled religion before God the Father is this. It's reading the Bible It's going to church every week. It's praying. It's singing songs to him. All things that we should be doing. But James teaches us here that our worship of God is not just by our personal piety. It also includes and involves how we treat and how we love other people. Here's how he finishes the verse. Pure and undefiled religion before God the Father is this to visit orphans and widows in their affliction. And to keep oneself unstained from the world. This is one train of thought in James's mind He's talking about caring for the afflicted and conducting a holy life. Not in two separate lanes, but all together. It's not one or the other. It's both And that's what Jesus taught. That's how Jesus summarized the law in Matthew 22, 37. Where he said, You shall love the Lord your God with all of your heart, all of your soul, all of your mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like it. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. On these two commandments depend all of the law and all of the prophets. Now, many of us can tend to lean one way or another. I'm gonna love the Lord with all of my heart And all of my soul, all of my mind, I'm going to be devoted. I'm going to be intentional about my quiet time. I'm going to be intentional about family devotion. I'm going to be intentional Singing his word and getting in his word and studying it, etc. Others might be intentional about the other side. I'm gonna love my neighbor. I'm going to reach out to them. I'm going to see where people have needs, and I'm going to meet those needs. I'm going to show mercy. But we can't do one without the other. God teaches that that is impossible. We are called to love him and to love our neighbors. So a love for God that is divorced from love for our neighbor is not actually a love for God. And the result is defiled and impure worship. The Lord says as much in Isaiah chapter 1. Or he says it to his people of Judah that strayed in their devotion to him. He says in Isaiah 1:15, when you spread out your hands, I will hide my eyes from you. Even though you make many prayers, I will not listen. Your hands are full of blood. Wash yourselves, make yourself clean. Remove the evil of your deeds from before my eyes Cease to do evil, learn to do good, seek justice, correct oppression, bring justice to the fatherless, plead the widow's cause. God wants nothing to do with impure worship. So this begs the question, what does that mean? If James says we are to visit orphans and widows and their affliction, then what does it mean I think James is talking about here looking after those who are vulnerable, like orphans, who would have been those who were fatherless. Or like widows who at the time of their husband's loss, especially in that time period, they lost everything. Both orphans and widows would have lived lives of utter poverty, despair, shame, and vulnerability. And James may have also had in mind those children and those widows of those who would have been killed through Christian persecution. Christian persecution leaves a lot of orphans and widows. But the Bible also teaches in various other places that orphans and widows have a special place in God's heart. Psalm 68:5, for example. Says father of the fatherless and protector of the widows is God in his holy habitation. So to visit orphans and widows means to intentionally care for those who are vulnerable. In James' day, that looked like orphans and widows And that can look like orphans and widows for us as well. The fatherless, the widow, the poor. The immigrant, the handicapped, the mentally ill, those who are abused and neglected, the unborn The list can go on and on, but the point is this: pure worship of God, in part, looks like caring for those who are afflicted. Notice in verse 27 it says to visit orphans and widows. That involves actually going out. That involves more than just our thoughts and prayers. It involves entering into their affliction, loving them and pointing them to the Lord of love So how are we caring for the afflicted? Based on the Bible's definition of orphans being those that are fatherless? And widows being those who've lost their husbands, there's orphans and widows among us. And we are called to show up in love, not with all the answers, but ready to love, ready to serve, ready to share the gospel. And praise the Lord. There's so many of you who are already doing that. I'm gonna embarrass some of you right now by calling names. Please forgive me But this is just to show that God is doing this work among us already. Like Stephanie Robson and her work with Angel Tree, normally around every Christmas, or the Bookers and their work with Safe Families. or Leanna Stockland with the women's clinic, or Bryce and Sarah Adams with the Laurel Pregnancy Center. And there's many others that can come to mind as well. But the point is, people are caring for the afflicted among us right now. Pray for them. As you hear about it, pray for them. Ask them how you can join them. Ask them how you can encourage them. Look around in your area or sphere of influence and see how the Lord can use you to look after the afflicted in your area. Maybe consider sponsoring a child through organizations like Compassion International or supporting organizations like International Justice Mission that works with victims of human trafficking Or Horizons International, for example, that works primarily with sharing the gospel with Muslims in Lebanon, but also works with relief efforts in the various other places in the Middle East. Or continue to pay careful attention, as many of you already do, to the fatherless and to the widows who are among us. By showing up, by loving them, by praying for them, by supporting them, by showing up again and again and again. Praise the Lord for his work among us already. But let's continue to look around. Let's continue to look out and go before the Lord and ask him how we can serve those who are afflicted among us. But also around us. And let me also say: if you are here right now and you feel personally in a time of affliction or in a season of affliction, and you don't feel that you've been well cared for. Let me just say, please assume the best and please let that be known. Let's not let needs go unmet because they're simply unnoticed or unknown by other people. We can be gracious to one another so that we can care for each other better. But James is not talk just talking about orphans and widows in verse 27. He goes on to say that we are also to keep ourselves unstained from the world. Similar language that he used throughout the book of James He talks about pure and undefiled religion or pure and undefiled worship. And then he says, keep yourselves unstained from the world. Once again, why? Because God is worthy of what is pure and what is undefiled. So then, how do we keep ourselves clean James 4. 4 says this. Do you not know that friendship with the world is enmity with God? Therefore, whoever wishes to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God. So in part Keeping ourselves clean involves resisting those sinful desires that we talked about last week. It looks like knowing in our own lives, in our own hearts, what tempts us But also recognizing when we're usually tempted and who we normally listen to besides the Lord when we're tempted. Recognizing the what and the when can also often help us resist, but also recognizing the who The who that we listen to to challenge us and encourage us to go instead to God and His Word when we are tempted. When we are deceived by our sinful desires. This all works together because this all involves our hearing and our doing of the word. And as we gather each Lord's Day, we gather to help each other hear and do God's word. We can continue to do that by sharing God's word with each other. By looking out for each other as well. So if you haven't seen somebody for a long time, or if you think someone may be distant, pray for them, but also pursue them. Because they are likely listening to someone other than the Lord, and they might be deceived. But the good news of the gospel. Is that the Lord gives us what we need to live lives of holiness, to live lives of righteousness To keep ourselves unstained from the world. He's given us his Holy Spirit that convicts us of sin, of righteousness, and judgment, not just out there, but in our own hearts He's given us the local church where brothers and sisters can encourage each other to persevere in the word. And he's given us the Lord Jesus Christ and his very righteousness. And he's also given us his word so that we can hear and do, so that we can receive in faith and rightly respond. Which means that we will rightly worship him as we hear and obey. So me showing up for the sermon at that church was an incomplete view of worship. But hearing God's word without doing it is also an incomplete view of worship. Because we are called to worship the Lord with our entire beings, with our entire lives. May the Lord continue to give us grace to be hearers of the word and doers of the word, for we therefore can worship rightly the God of the Word. Let's pray. Lord, your word is good, it's true, it's also challenging, it corrects, it also convicts. It encourages. It also sharpens. Lord, however we would have received your word today, help us to do so in faith Help us to not just hear, but to do. Help us to respond in faith, not just by saying amen. But by following you and trusting that you are good and you are gracious to help us to hear and do your word. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen.