Good morning. My name is Ryan. I'm one of the elders here. It's my pleasure to open up God's word with you this morning. I would encourage you to go ahead and if you don't have a Bible, go ahead and get a Bible that surrounds you and turn to page 458. We're going to be looking at Psalm 23 this morning. But before we get started, let me go to the Lord in prayer. Father, as we look to your word, may we be instructed by May we meditate on it. May we see it. May we feel it. May it change us this morning. We ask and pray this all in Jesus' name Amen. We are told in 2 Timothy that all scripture is breathed out by God, profitable for teaching. Teaching for reproof for correction and for training in righteousness, that the man of God may be complete and equipped in every good work. 316. But all not all scripture is the same. The Bible is full of different genres and subgenres There's narrative like storytelling. There's poetry like the psalm we're gonna look at this morning and much of the prophets. There's prose and discourse like a Epistles, Bible authors inspired by the Holy Spirit have different aims and different goals depending upon the genre that they're using. They have chosen these genres to fit their message, but the message can impact their audience. So our text this week is poetry, it's biblical poetry. And it as such, it's an invitation to meditation. It's supposed to be read slowly, it's supposed to be read repeatedly. You're supposed to linger over it, dive deep into it, its structures, its images. You're supposed to experience it. You're supposed to see it. You're supposed to feel it. There's a popular phrase that I've heard bantered about these days. Because we have such a media sense. saturated culture. And the phrase is the medium is the message. Have you guys ever heard that before? The medium is the message. Yeah, it was a phrase that was coined about 60 years ago by Canadian communication theorists. It's really not important where it came from, but the point of that the medium is the message is that the form of the message The medium plays a vital role in the way the message is received, the way it's communicated. So my first point of application this morning morning is that the medium is the message. What we're looking at here this morning is biblical poetry. It's a particularly uh particular poem that's full filled with lots of images. The substance is extremely important, but it's also equally as important that it's come to us in the form of a meditative poem. The point is that we're supposed to linger over it. We're supposed to see something about God through its form and through its structure. It was images. So to illustrate that point, I'm going to go ahead and tell you what the point of the passage this morning is from Psalm 23. And the point of the message this morning is that you can confidently trust God in all circumstances because he provides, leads, protects, and protects Preserves his people. Psalm 23 is attributed to King David, who was the second king in Israel. The psalm is a poem and it reflects the poetic style of the Hebrew people. The point of the psalm that we're looking at this morning is that God provides for his people. He leads for his people. He protects his people and he preserves his people. And that is a great message. And it's a message I believe if we're all Christians, you would say that we believe this message. We believe that God provides, that God leads, God protects. God preserves his people. But if I came up to you this morning and I said, hey, trust God because he provides for you. And I simply say that it directly to You may say, okay, I believe that, but I don't feel that. I don't know what that means. I'm not sure what I'm supposed to do. You see it I can communicate that with mere words God provides for his people, but that's not always so easily understood or grasped. we supposed to do with that not that knowledge that God provides for his people? David believed God provides for his people, but David wants you to experience what he means when he we say God provides for his people or God leads his people or God protects his people. So instead of just stating this wonderful truth about God plainly, he pinned a poem. Filled with vivid and familiar imagery to show us what it means. And choosing to write his message in a poem, David is telling us that God is profoundly profo beautiful and complex and to truly understand him you have to experience him through the images and structure of poetry Let me say it another way. David thinks indeed a lot of the biblical poetry tells us that to truly understand God, you have to use your imagination. To truly know God, you have to experience Him through the modes of the poetic language, through simile, through metaphor, through hyperbole, through juxtapology. Supposition. You see, God is two-dimensional. So I can say to you, God provides for his people, and you can understand that. But God is also three-dimensional, he's also four-dimensional, he's also five-dimensional. six dimensional and so on. Infinitely God is infinitely beautiful and infinitely complex. So how do we come to understand this God? How do we come to know him? Well The answer is poetry. The answer is poetry. The medium is the message. God is so wonderful, so beautiful, and complex. We must meditate on who He is through poetry. Particularly this morning, it's imaginative poetry. So this morning, what I hope to accomplish is an instructive meditation that causes us to see and experience God for who he really is. So let us look at the text this morning and look at your Bible. Before we do that, let us pray that God helps us. understand. Heavenly Father, we pray, Lord Jesus, that we understand who you are, that we can love you more dearly. Understand you You more clearly come to be cling to you and be uh more near to you as we look and meditate on this passage of scripture today. Help us In Jesus' name. Amen. Psalm 23. I'm going to read the whole passage for us now. A Psalm of David. The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. He makes me lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside me. Still waters. He restores my soul. He leads me in paths of righteousness for his name's sake. Even though I walked through the valley of the shadow of death, I I will fear no evil, for you are with me. Your rod and your staff, they comfort me. You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies. You anoint my head with With oil, my cup overflows. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I shall dwell in the house of the Lord. So as I said before, the point of the passage this morning is is you can confidently trust God in all circumstances because He provides, leads, protects, and preserves his people. So I have four points this morning. You can confidently trust God because he provides for his people. You can confidently trust God because he leads his people. You can confidently trust God because he protects his people. And you can confidently trust God because he preserves his people. Now Psalm 23 can be really divided into two primary metaphors. Kids or maybe teens. Can someone tell me what a metaphor is? Anybody bold enough? Maybe some kids in high school who just Just finished or not high school. Go ahead, Cooper. A word picture. That's exactly right. I love that. It's a word picture, right? It's saying two things that are not the same or have similar qualities. And to understand one of them You can look at the quality of another thing to help you understand one of them. So in this passage that we just read, Psalm 23, what, kids, can you tell me what are the two primary metaphors? I think one is pretty easy, maybe the other one's little bit harder to to grasp. Anybody bold enough to do that? Anyone who's a kid at heart want to help me with that? What are the two marriage? Okay, Adam. Shepherd. And of a meal. Yes, of a meal. It's metaphors of a shepherd in a meal. And actually I'm gonna I'm gonna to change that a little bit of the from the meal. So right you said the Lord is my shepherd in verse five and you prepare a table before me. It's a banquet. It's a it's a metaphor kind of behind that is of a great host. In fact, it's a powerful host we'll see this morning. So these metaphors kind of they fill in that they're kind of the meta structure of the sermon, actually. So all of my points are ways that are helping us understand. what these metaphors mean, or actually these metaphors are helping us understand what these points mean. They're interwoven. You can't really separate them. So Point number one, you can confidently trust God because He provides for His people like a shepherd provides for His flock. So you can look at verse 1. It says, The Lord is my shepherd. So the first thing to understand about a shepherd is a shepherd has a flock. Now this this this uh uh psalm, I'm sure that many of you are very familiar with that, it's beautifully personal and intimate. But it is part of the Psalm or the Hymn Book of Israel. The Psalms were the hymn book of Israel. These poems were shared among the community of God and used in worship They were specifically used to remember the quality and nature of God and his relationship to his people. David, who authored the psalm was a king with whom God made a covenant. Now can we read about that covenant in 2 Samuel chapter 7? It's a covenant that establishes him and his son on the throne of Israel forever. This covenant also, though, included the people of God, Israel, the nation wouldn't Under this forever throne from the line of David. So the Israelite, an Israelite meditating on this poem, knows that through David, the great king, they can place themselves in the poem of Psalm 23. They are part of the metaphor. They are part of the flock. They are sheep. The simple point here is that the people of God can also say that the Lord is my shepherd. Along with David. You and I, as followers of Christ, the son of David, sitting on his now forever throne of David, can say that the Lord is my shepherd. We are the flock of God. Now look at the second half of the verse, which is probably ingrained into your psyche if you've been a Christian for any length of time, it says, I shall not want. Then I V says that the Lord is my shepherd, I shall lack nothing. Many other translations use a variation of something like, I have all that I need. Need. So the second thing we learn from the shepherd, well, first we learn that the shepherd has a flock, and the second thing we learn is the shepherd provides for his sheep. So they have all that they need. This is not a statement about desires. In life, we're going to have many, many desires. Or some of those desires are going to be good, and some of them are going to be bad. David had all he needed. But on that faithful night when he invited Bathsheba into his house, he had desires. And those desires led him away from the shepherd. of his soul. So just from the first line of the Psalm, we need to understand that a shepherd takes care of all that our needs and all the needs of the flock. One of my favorite books that I've read twice now is The Shepherd Life The Shepherd's Life, sorry, The Shepherd's Life, Modern Dispatches from an Ancient Landscape by author named James Rebank. It's a memoir from a modern shepherd in the Lake District. of England. And the book kind of tracks a year in the life of a shepherd. It's apparent from the book that the shepherding has changed a lot in the 20th. You know, the 21st century, but but the fundamentals of shepherding have stayed the same for thousands of years. And fundamentally, I learned from the book that shepherding is an all-consuming, exhausting labor. The story Rebanks tells of the day-in and day out labors of the shepherd demonstrate that the work is not for the faint at all. Heart. One of the most interesting facets of his story is the sheer grind and filth of the job. There seems to be no moment's rest. Like consider Christmas morning. So kids, what what do you like to do on Christmas morning? Oh yeah. What do you like to do on Christmas morning? Yeah. Open presence, right? Like do you get up and just get to run straight down and start opening presence? No, okay. Well Right. Yeah. Well, a lot of times that's what we do. We get to go and just go and do our thing, open presents. Maybe mom and dad make you wait. I know in our house you get to open your stockings, and then we have some breakfast. Breakfast and open presence, right? But the shepherd, Rebanks tells us, on Christmas morning, he gets up like any other morning. He goes out and he tends to the sheep And the cattle of his flocks. The kids have to wait. And when the kids are old enough, guess what they do first thing on Christmas morning? They don't go to their stockings, they go out and take care of the sheep. Shepherding is all-consuming. It never stops. I want to read to you a passage from the book where uh Rebanks is introducing shepherding. And introducing the shepherds around his country and what it's been like. He says this: there is no beginning, there is no end The sun rises and falls each day, and the seasons come and go. The days, months, and years alternate through sunshine, rain, hail, wind, snow. And frost. The leaves fall each autumn and burst forth again each spring. The earth spins through the vastness of space. The grass comes and goes with the warmth of the sun. The farms and flocks endure bigger than the life of a single person. We are born, live our working lives, and die passing like oak leaves that blow across our land in the winter. We each tiny parts of something enduring, something that feels solid, real. And true, our farming way of life has roots deeper than 5,000 years into the soil of this landscape. So what Rebanks is doing there is he is describing the history of the shepherding people. And the shepherding culture that he was born into. It's a picture of a way of the shepherding life. Carrying on Caring for, growing, and protecting, and ensuring that the sheep's endure for generations and generations, you see, is a constant work. For 5,000 years history of the shepherds on the hills of England, there's a 5,000 years history of the shepherds on the hills of Lincoln. England. It is a quiet and relentless history. And David knows this kind of life because he was once a shepherd himself. The people of Israel know this kind of life too. Consider the patriarchs, those men of faith who are the genesis of the people of God. In fact, in the book of Genesis, we learn about those patriarchs. Patriarchs, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and they were all shepherds. So this this is ingrained in the minds of Israel as they read this poem that their forefathers, their patriarchs, were she Shepherds. Genesis 48, 15, Jacob refers to God this way. The God who has been my shepherd all my life. Genesis 49, 24, then again, Jacob is blessing Joseph, and he says, By the hands of the mighty one of Jacob, from there is the shepherd, the stone of his Israel. So the patriarchs began to see God as a shepherd. And following the patriarchs, the very next chapter in the history. of Israel is the story of Moses, an Exodus from Egypt. Moses was also a shepherd, but really the whole book of Exodus is a story about God shepherding his people. Through out of Egypt, through into the promised land, out of bondage, out of slavery, to a homeland. Kids, you have learned a lot about the story of Exodus in Sunday school recently You can see how God shepherded his people, right? When they came to the Red Sea, they were stuck. God parted the sea and provided a way through. When they needed food, God gave manna when they needed water god provided water over and over again god is providing for his people through their desert wandering on their way to the promised land so when we See what Jacob says back in Genesis when he calls the Lord uh the God his shepherd, the shepherd of Israel. He's both reflecting on what God has done for him personally, but he's also foreshadowing what God will do for his people in the Exodus. He's also foreshadowing what God's going to do for his people by establishing the throne of David. So when David says, The Lord is my shepherd, he is not only calling on God's provision for his own life personally But he's confessing the ancient and present relationship that the people of God, Israel, has with their God. And he's also foreshadowing the good shepherd to come. As we read this morning in John chapter 10, Jesus says, I am the good shepherd. I know my own, and my own know me. Me. So why did I go through all of this? The point is that God is a constant presence in the life of His people. God is a constant presence in the life of believers. He is always with us. He is always with his people. You have all that you need. He has been shepherding his people from creation. He's been shepherding the patriarchs. He shepherded his people through the Exodus. He shepherded his people through the rise and fall of the kingdom of Israel. And ultimately, his church, through the good shepherd Jesus Christ, he has laid down his life for the sheep. You and me, God shepherds, his people. The challenges we face in life will threaten to overwhelm us, but God in his kindness is Shepherding us. It's shepherding providence. It's always working around us and providing for all that we need. It always has been and always will be. Again, uh in the book, The Shepherding Life, the author, James Reback, talks a lot about pay. Hey. In the summer, the grass, the green grass, the pastures, they the the sheep feed on the land. It provides all that they need, but when winter comes, the grass is not available. So they They need hay. And hay apparently is a delicate. It has to be cut and dried out and stored properly so that the sheep can be fed in winter. If they don't do it properly, then they don't have hay in the sheep. Sheep don't cannot be fed. They don't have what they need. So in the book, Rebanks talks a lot about preparing the hay. It's a constant theme through the book. And this shepherds spend a large part of the year thinking about hay and preparing it so that the sheep can be fed in winter. And it's kind of, you get the picture in the book that it's a never-ending cycle, this preparation of hay The sheep have no idea what the shepherd is doing all year long. The sheep are not present for it. They have no part to play in the preparation of the hay, but they are nourished by the persistence. and prudential work of the shepherd who feeds them their hay in winter. The sheep just trust that the shepherd will provide them all that they need. The former pastor and author John Piper famously once said: God is always doing 10,000 things in your life, and you may be only be aware of three of them. of them. Brothers and sisters, you can confidently trust God because He's always shepherding you, providing for you what you need You may not even be aware of all the work that he's doing in your life. Winter comes and he provides you exactly what you need because all year long he's been working on the hay. Jesus, you can you we can trust the Lord Jesus because He prepares He provides for us He prepares for us all that we need He is always working in our lives doing things even if we can't see it or understand it or know where those provisions come from. Point number two, you can confidently trust God because he leads his people like a shepherd leads his flock. Shepherds may have to be fed by hay in winter, but the goal is always to take the shepherds. to the green fields on the mountainsides so they can be nourished by the lush spring grass. That what that grass feeds the sheep, the nutrients that they need the most most. It's what makes them truly healthy. Again in the shepherd's life, the author talks about the end of winter and the anticipation of green grass. Listen listen to this. This is what he says. So you live for those little signs that you have outlasted winter. The point when the days lengthen in March. and April, and the days eventually warm, and the fields run marginally greener, and the sheep suddenly lose interest in hay as the grass begins to grow. is everything. We see a thousand shades of gray like the Inuits see different kinds of snow. Look at verse 2 and um Our psalm this morning. It says, He makes me lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside still waters. He restores my soul. The picture here is a fulfillment of the hope of green grass that we just read about from the shepherd's life. You know, grass is everything. The Lord leads his people to place places of nourishment and rest. Notice the image is of sheep lying down in green pastures. This is a picture of abundance. This is a picture of rest. It's a picture of tranquility. I wonder if you can see see that. Shepherd has led his sheep to the greenfield. It is lush and it is green. They eat their fill and there's they don't want anymore. So they just lay down. Similar to the green pastures, the shepherd also leads them to still waters, a place of rest and nourishment as well. You can also imagine in in the Mediterranean in David's day and in If you've been to that area of the country uh world, you know it's rocky. The sun beats down on the soils. So this image that David is painting uh of going to gr uh fresh still waters is protect particularly poignant, right? The still waters present rest and nourishment. And David is saying that we can trust God to lead us to these places. These still waters is also a poignant because it's the opposite of chaotic waters. Chaotic waters is actually a motif for the people of Israel. Israel would recognize. In Genesis 1. 2, we're given a picture of chaotic waters actually before the Lord splits the waters with dry land. land. We also know that God leads his flock. We also know that they have an image of chaotic waters because deep ingrained into the psyche of the Israel. Israelite people is the Red Sea. They came to the Red Sea. There were waters before them. It was complete peril. But the Lord led them through. They came to the Jordan River. It's rushing. It's strong. They cannot cross it, but the Lord has led them through. But here, God leads the flocks to still waters These are safe waters. These are not waters that need to be conquered, but these are waters that nourish. Look at verse 3. It says, He restores my soul. These waters are like the waters of Psalm 1. In Psalm 1, we are given another metaphor. It's a fruitful tree planted by streams of water. The streams of water are understood to be the meditation on God's Word and the Context of Psalm 1, blessed man meditates on God's word, so he is like a fruitful tree planted by streams of water. Psalm 1 concludes by saying that for the Lord knows the way of the righteous, but the way of the wicked will perish. In Psalm 23, verse 3, we see a Similar concern for righteousness. But there the Lord is the shepherd, leads his sheep in paths of righteousness for his name. The picture of the shepherd is not just one who cares for the sheep's physical needs, but he also cares for their spiritual and soul needs. The picture of green grass and still waters. takes our mind to a place of physical rest and security, but David jumps quickly to those images as a spiritual comfort, for he restores mind My soul. God never leaves us to fend for ourselves spiritually. He means to always lead us to paths of righteousness. This purpose comes from God's own nature and his goodness. He leads us on paths of righteousness. Look what it says. It says, for his name saved us. sake. David is saying saying God, his shepherd, takes care of him. He feeds his body, he feeds his soul, he cares for him in every way. He cares for his whole person. God means to lead him in paths of righteousness for the highest and greatest good in the universe. Which is his own name, his own renown, and his own glories. Brothers and sisters, the peace and the consolation that we read about in Psalm 23 right here can only be experienced through knowing God Through his written word in the Bible. You want to walk on a path of righteousness, you will only come to that path of righteousness through his written word So I want to take a moment here and just to encourage you. We've been given a picture of God's sustaining goodness. And quickly, David has taken us also to a picture. picture of a restored soul. But week in and week out, that that sense of restoration, that sense of knowing God, that sense of being led to the still waters of the green pastures are only going to become come through knowing God, through his written word. So brothers and sisters, I want to encourage you to take that seriously, to read, study, meditate on God's word. Maybe you this week you want to read Psalm 23 a hundred times. Better yet, maybe you want to read Psalm 24, Lord willing, John Malone will be preaching that next week. Maybe read it a hundred times. Linger over it, meditate on it, come to know what it's saying. It's structures, it's images. We uh had a Sunday school over the last uh semester, and one of our couple a couple of our lessons were on biblical images. If you were there for that Sunday school, we talked a little bit about strategies and the way you can take it in. But I'm just going to give you five questions you can ask of any scripture when you're reading it. There's more to it. And then these questions they have kind of subpoints. And if you're interested in knowing more about how to study the word or w or take in the Bible, but come find me afterwards or email uh uh the church There's some email addresses on the bulletins. And we'll email you the manuscript from that Sunday school lesson. It's good because we need to learn how to read the word and study the word. But here are five questions that you can Ask of scripture when you come to it. What does the text say? Number one. Number two, what does the text mean? Number three, what concerns cause the text to be written? Number four, what do I share with the original audience or the human authors of the text? And number five, how should I now respond to the truth in the text. I know I went over this kind of quickly, but uh I'll go over them again just to what what should the does the text say? What does it text mean? What concerns cause the text to be written? What do I share with the original audience or the human author of the text? And how should I respond to the truth in that text. If you got those questions down, ask those questions as you read 100 times Psalm 24 this week. uh this week. So God is our shepherd. He leads his people in paths of righteousness. God is shaping his people. He is concerned that we become conformed to the image of his son. Romans 829 and the primary way of doing Doing that work is through knowing Him through the soul refreshing and nourishment of the written word, the Bible Follow the shepherd, hear his voice by taking in the Bible, and you will know the comfort and the nourishment of still waters and the confidence of following him. on paths of righteousness. So this leads me to my third point, point number three. You can confidently trust God because he protects his people. Like a shepherd protects his flock. So look at verse 4. Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me. Your rod and your staff, they come. So the phrase, though I walk through the valley of shadow death, it's commonly recognized phrase. The NIV says, even though I walk through the darkest valley, and many other translations. Use some variation of darkest valley. David has given us a picture of utter darkness and gloom, but not necessarily a picture of imminent death. Look at verse 4 again, look at the references of your rod and your staff. Now these are common tools of the shepherd. David is confessing that he knows God has all the tools he needs to protect both his body and his soul when he faces challenging times, when he faces Dark times. Again, I'll I want to call our attention to the book, The Shepherd's Life. It's a memoir. It talks about, in that memoir, he talks about the short and the long and the cold days. of winter. The author, the a shepherd, says that snow is not a joyful blanket on the land, rather it is peril and danger. So kids, when we see snow, we see, oh fun, let's go sledding. But for the shepherd, and the shepherds here that I read about in this book, when they see snow, they actually see Danger and peril. The author of the book recalls a blizzard. It's one of the worst he's ever experienced. He goes out in the field and he has to find his flock because he has to take care of the flock. But the snow is really coming down and when he gets out there it's waist deep and before you know it, it's just Deep. It threatens the life of the sheep with all their thick wool, and it also threatens the life of the shepherd. But anyway, he trudges on through that snow. Does he have Has to get to those sheep in order to save them. As he gets to the sheep, he's able to coax them. They hear his voice, he's able to follow him. And as he walks through that snow, he creates a little bit of a goal, and the sheep follow him to save them. Look again with me at verse 4. It says that even though, so it's a even though I walk through the valley of shadow of death. You know, life is full of peril. David knows that very well. His whole life is one where he's constantly escaping enemies A few years ago, my wife, Angela, had a diagnosis diagnosis of invasive melanoma on her face. She had to go undergo multiple surge surgeries. It was a a season of gloom. It was a it was a dark valley for us and for her. But she and Because she wasn't alone. You know, God protected her through that season. The melanoma was removed, and she can now praise God that there is no cancer that we know that in her body But she even praises God now for the actual cancer because she knows that the reality of the protecting presence of God that she had experience during that that time. She will tell you that if she got through that season because of the years of walking with God Before the cancer. Because of those years of walking with God and knowing his word, she knew his voice. She knew his voice like the sheep. She knew the voice of the shepherd in that blizzard, in that snow. snowstorm. They were able to follow him and get through that because they knew his voice. And Angela was able to get through the deep valley because she knew God's voice. Using the shepherding imagery in John chapter 10, Jesus says, and we read it here this morning, Jesus says, the sheep follow me because they know my voice. Brothers and sisters, if you know Christ, I can't emphasize this enough, you know his voice, you've heard his voice, and you have followed him. But that's not the end of it. You have to make time to continually hear his voice. And one of the best ways to do that again is by meditating on his word. So that his voice is always familiar to you and is a constant comfort to you in those times, those inevitable times, those even though times, those even though I walk through the valley of the shadow death, you will know God's voice So one of the key ways that we can do that is by memorizing scripture. So I have a bit of a challenge for you this morning. Memorize Scripture. But let's take it a step further. How about if you really want to memorize scripture and you're not good at it like me, before you leave this building this morning, you look to one of your friends and you say, Hey Let's have accountability. Let's memorize scripture together. Let's encourage one another and push one another on and knowing God's word and hearing his voice through memorizing scripture. Because memorizing scripture means that you will learn to hear and know God's voice, and that that voice will sustain you. darkest trials. So point number four, can you can confidently trust God because He preferred preserves His people like a powerful host. So look at verse 5. It says, here David switches metaphors, right? He's not leaving us with the dark valley, but he is now taking us to a Great feast, a great banquet. It says, You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies. You anoint my head with oil. My cup overflows. So this image of you prepare a table before me would have been a familiar picture to an Israelite. It's a picture of a banquet, it's a picture of a celebration. And intuitively we understand that, right? We celebrate things with food, lots and lots of food, right? We celebrate anniversaries by going out to dinner. We celebrate graduations and holidays in honor of the occasion or the person with lots of food. Here the banquet host pulls out all the stops. So look again, it says, you anoint my head with oil, and my cup overflows. And these are images that demonstrate that the host is generous and even lavish. Now you may somewhat over relate to or kind of understand or get the idea of an overflowing cup, but the idea of having your head anointed with oil maybe seem a little bit foreign to you. It's just you should know that it was a it was a it was a part of the custom of the day. It was something that you you did for the the guests that came into your home. It was something you did to delight the guests. The oil would be aromatic. It was an expression. Of extravagance, and it's meant to comfort the guest. But this host is not only just lavish, he is also powerful because the banquet is spread, look what it says, in the presence of enemies. Again, this is a poignant point that the Israelites would take that is spread in the presence of their enemies because David and the Israelites, as we can read in the Old Testament, had many, many. Images. I mean many, many enemies. So I'm not going to take the time to survey all of those enemies, but this banquet is an exaltation of God's great preservation of David and his His kingdom, and that means it's also an exaltation of the great preservation of his people. God preserves his people. When he brings them to the table, all of our enemies, all our enemies can do is watch in frustration. Because the banquet itself signifies their defeat. Now you may think that hey I don't have many enemies. I mean you may not have many enemies in the same way that David has enemies But if you're a Christian, you you have enemies. Those enemies are sin, Satan, and death. But God has come Conquered those. And he invites all Christians, all people who put their faith in him to a great banquet where all our enemies can do is look on and frustrated because they have been defended. Now these images, the images of the powerful host and of the shepherd, they form the foundation of verse Look at verse 6. It says, Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever. See here, David is convinced that the good shepherd and the powerful host will always supply him with goodness and mercy. The idea is that goodness and mercy is actually pursuing him. And there's no end in that pursuit. And if that's the case, the ultimate gift in verse Look again, he said, I should dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Forever is uh is a term that you should see in parallel to the line before it says, all the days of my life. So this means that the goodness and mercy will always pursue David. There's no time, there's no time, David believes, that he will not be near the house of the Lord because goodness and mercy is pursuing him. David trusts God because David knows God pursues him with goodness and mercy. and mercy and through that preserves his life. Christian, this is also a foreshadow of Christ. Psalm 23 is a foreshadow of Christ. We see in uh in Ezekiel 34, 23, God says to his people, and I shall set over them one shepherd. My servant David. He shall feed them. He shall feed them and be their shepherd. Then again, the prophet Micah alludes to a future shepherd of God's people whose origin is from old. The ancient of days. This is the shepherd who will not fail his people, like we know King David and his many sons did. Jesus said, and we read it this morning, but we'll read a portion of it again. Again, Jesus says in John 10, I am the good shepherd. I know my own, and my own know me. Just as the Father knows me, and I know the Father, I lay down my life for the sheep. For this reason, the Father loves me because I lay down my life. Father loves me, because I lay down my life that I may take it up Again. No one takes it from me, but I lay it down on my own accord. I have authority to lay it down, and I have authority to take it up again. First Peter 2, 25 reminds us. that we were all strain sheep, straying like sheep. But through faith in Christ, we have now returned to the shepherd and overseer. Seers of our soul. So Christians, we are in the hands of a loving care of a good shepherd. Who laid down his life for his sheep. He did that to defeat our greatest enemy, sin. Like the powerful host, he preserves our life. Sin and death cannot take uh overtake us. Satan has no hold on us. We will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. I want you to consider this image from Revelation 6. seven, sixteen and seventeen. It says, they shall hunger no more, neither thirst anymore. The sun shall not strike them, nor any scorching heat. For the Lord is in the midst of the throne and will be their shepherd. And he will guide them to springs of living water, and he will wipe away every tear from their eyes Now, if you're here today and you're not a Christian, you may be wondering, what what are we talking about? I want to tell you what we're talking about. Just take a moment to tell you what we're talking about. We're talking about Like Jesus ultimately, the good shepherd of our souls. Like what we read here in 1 Peter 25, that we were all of us at one point like strain sheep. But what through faith in Christ, we have returned to the overseer of our souls. We were straying. We were lost and dead, following the path of our sin. And Jesus, we heard his voice, called us into his flock. If you don't know, if you haven't heard that call today, if you don't know that you're a Christian, well, today's the day. Hear his voice. Jesus is calling. To you. If you're curious about what it means to follow him, find me after the service or find Tony after the service. We would love to tell you more about our good and great shepherd. So in conclusion, you know, uh growing up, actually I called my dad last night uh because growing up I heard him quote a poem from uh a poem by Red Kipling called The Young British Soldier. So I never understood why my dad quoted uh the last stance of that poem poem and so he would he would quote it just kind of and my memory was always kind of random. I'm sure uh as a father now I realize I don't do random things, but I I my kids may think I do random things But he always quoted that poem and I I was like never really understood it. So um so I called him last night and asked him said, hey dad, why did you always quote that poem And why did you have that poem in your mind? And he told me that he memorized the poem in college, you know, at the height of the Vietnam War. The poem itself, it specifically the last stanza made him think Think of what many of people from his generation were going through when they went to Vietnam. It made him think about the terror that they must face. They might be experienced while they're there. The poem allowed him to imagine and in some sense experience what they were going through. So I want to end where we kind of began this morning. Remember, Psalm 23 is a poem. I mean, the whole point is for us to experience God as a shepherd and a powerful host. We can make the logical statement that God provides for his people or that he protects his people and he leads his people, that he preserves his people, but my dad knew that the war in Vietnam was terrible, but Kipling's poem affected his imagination. So that he felt it. He felt that the war was terrible. Biblical poetry similarly is an. invitation for us to experience God for what he's truly like, a good shepherd, a gracious host. For us to meditate on the infinitely dimensional God, who specifically, you know, this morning we read about as a shepherd who lays down his life for his people. How is God preserving us? How did he do that? Well, he did it because through his son Jesus, who laid down his life for his people. How are we to understand him? Well, the one way we begin to understand him is Through poetry. So I want to encourage you to not rush through Psalm 23 or Psalm 24 or Psalm 25. I want you to linger over those psalms so that you can feel God so that he can affect your heart so that he can affect your imagination and you may have some sense of knowing and tasting and experiencing who he is he really is and so that you know and can trust in those dark valleys, ah yes, God protects me like a shepherd. Oh, yes, God leads me. It may be winter now and the snow may be threatening, but God will lead me to green pastures. He will restore my soul. Experiencing God this way will sustain our faith and give glory to Him. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you so much that you are a good and wonderful shepherd We look to you to lead us, to guide us, to provide for us. But we also look to you to affect our imagination so that That we might truly understand who you are. We want to know you. We want to know your voice. Even today, convince Convict us. Convict our hearts that we need to know your word better. Help us to study it. Help us to meditate on it. Make us a church full of people. who memorize the scripture that we may know your voice that we may rest on it that it may comfort Us in times of despair and times of darkness, that we may trust you as a powerful host that preserves us, that has saved us. That has defeated our enemies and will sustain us to the very end. Pray this in Jesus' name. Amen