Well, I first want to take this opportunity to express my thanks and our thanks to two men, to Jonathan Lehman and to Tony Merritt. This marks the first Sunday of 2024 where one of those two faithful brothers has not preached God's word to us. And I we know that is not something either of them could have predicted would be the case one year ago So as you have opportunity to encourage them and thank them for their service to the Lord and to this gathering of Christians, please do that. Please pray with me now as we look to God's word together this morning. Father, we praise you. We thank you that your word is truth. That you are a rock that we can lean against, that we can rest upon. We pray that you would be magnified. In this time, that you would increase our endurance, our steadfastness, that we would rest in you. I pray these things in your name. Amen When is a time recently, or a time that sticks out prominently in your memory, where you received difficult news? Kids, maybe it was this morning when you came downstairs and your sibling had eaten the last bit of the cereal that was your favorite that you were hoping to eat this morning. Maybe it was the news that that boy or girl that you really like didn't like you back and that's unrequited love and that's hard news. I'm not making light of that. That's that's a big part of your life at a certain age Maybe it was a call from a boss that a deadline was moved up and your weekend plans or the next few weekend plans have been adjusted significantly. Maybe it was the notification of a difficult medical diagnosis. We don't know what's wrong. Or we do know what's wrong. And it's not good. Or maybe it was the kind of news that buckles knees and erodes all facades of composure. It was that last kind of news that met one mother on a November day in 1978. She and her husband Jerry, along with their two young sons, lived at and operated a small airport in rural Indiana. But they had their eyes set toward a life of ministry, namely missions aviation. Well, on the morning of November 4, 1978, Jerry needed to make a quick flight to deliver a plane, and he brought their six-year-old son, Jeff, along with. He took off and rocked his wings three times to his wife and son on the ground, a signal of I love you. What Jerry failed to notice as he was taking off was that, although he had fueled up the airplane the night prior, in the night someone had siphoned the fuel out of the plane. As airplane fuel was a desired fuel for vehicles at a nearby raceway. After taking off and being well into the climb, the plane's engine stopped. A short time later, after hearing sirens in emergency vehicles, this wife and mother received a phone call. There's a plane crash. It's both of them. They're gone. This mother held her toddler son on her hip as her whirled. It's turned upside down and inside out. What do you do when you receive life-changing, world-altering news? What do you do when that news ushers you into a season of imminent profound suffering? Maybe even a season with no discernible end outside of death and eternal glory. Well, you may be thinking, Pretty bad start to a Mother's Day sermon. But I think there are mothers here and others here who are yearning for fresh reminders from God's Word about where to find comfort with absorbing hard news. Or enduring seasons of suffering. And in our text this morning, Habakkuk is absorbing and processing some life-changingly difficult news As we heard from our in our first sermon from Habakkuk several weeks ago, he is a prophet crying out to God, seeking relief from the wicked of Judah, who are sowing destruction and violence. Habakkuk says the law is paralyzed. The law isn't working, God. Something's got to be done. Something's got to change. People aren't submitting to it, and the wicked are surrounding the righteous. And then we heard last Sunday about God's response. I'm doing a work in your days, Habakkuk, that you wouldn't believe if told. And I'm about to tell you. I'm raising up the Chaldeans, the Babylonians. They march the breadth of the earth. They all come for violence. They gather captives like sand. They scoff at kings, they laugh at every fortress. Their own might is their God. How do we reckon with that kind of evil being present in the world? That was the question we thought about last week Babylon, then, is God's planned solution to the wickedness within Judah. God intends to use Babylon to bring judgment on the evil of Judah. God has heard the cries of Habakkuk. The Lord answered those cries, and now we are at Habakkuk's response to this difficult news. The news of the disaster that was about to come upon Judah. So please turn with me to Habakkuk. We're going to read chapter 1, verse 12, to chapter 2, verse 1. That's our text for this morning. Chapter 1, verse 12, to chapter 2, verse 1. I'll read the passage. Please follow along with me as we read. Are you not from everlasting? O Lord, my God, my holy one? We shall not die. O Lord, you have ordained them as a judgment And you, O Rock, have established them for reproof. You who are of purer eyes than to see evil, and cannot look at wrong, why do you idly look at traitors and remain silent when the wicked swallows up the man more righteous than he? You make mankind like the fish of the sea, like crawling things that have no ruler. He brings them he brings all of them up with a hook. He drags them out with his net, he gathers them in his dragnet, so he rejoices and is glad. Therefore he sacrifices to his net and makes offerings to his dragnet, for by them he lives in luxury, and his food is rich. Is he then to keep on emptying his net, and mercilessly killing nations forever? I will take my stand at my watch post and station myself on the tower, and look out to see what he will say to me And what I will answer concerning my complaint. The main aim of this text that will guide us as we go through the passage is that we are to cling to the revealed God. When sufferings are difficult to understand and difficult to endure. We are to cling to the revealed God when sufferings are difficult to understand and difficult to endure. In the text we just read, Habakkuk asks three questions. And those three questions will frame our three points this morning if you're taking notes. The first question: who is God? It's going to be verses 12 to the first half of 13. The next question, will God be silent? Second half of verse 13. And then the last question, will the wicked reign forever? Verses 14 to 17. So who is God? Will God be silent? Will the wicked reign forever? And in each of those points or questions, we'll consider what is being said or asked. We'll consider how Habakkuk was processing God's news and his response, and we'll consider how we can learn from Habakkuk's example Like I said before, Habakkuk has lamented and cried out to God for help. God's answer was not what Habakkuk expected. Indeed, God was right in verse 5. Habakkuk is finding God's plan hard to believe. Even after being told by God. But should Habakkuk be surprised by this coming judgment of Judah As God was establishing the law in Leviticus, he said in chapter twenty-five, verse eighteen, Therefore you shall do my statutes, and keep my rules and perform them, and then you will dwell in the land securely. Implication being if statutes and rules are not kept, if God's people turn from him and worship other gods, if they do what is right in their own eyes, they will not dwell in the land securely. Well, Habakkuk clearly is lamenting the lack of statute doing, the lack of rule keeping, and he's probably aware of these warnings by God, but perhaps wasn't prepared for the reality of that warning carried out. Either way, what God has said, He will do. So as Habakkuk receives and processes the news of this coming judgment by God on Judah at the hands of Babylon It's as though immediately any self-confidence, any self-strength, any problem-solving sense of I can fix this, what can I do to fix this? It's immediately eroded, washed away, stripped down to the foundation of Habakkuk's heart What can he rely on after absorbing that news? What can he put his hope in? Well, look at how he begins his response. It's basically a concise theology of God, according to Habakkuk. Descriptions of who God is and what he is like. When news comes that explodes Habakkuk's world, he has little else but the truth of God to stand on as his foundation. Habakkuk has seen the physical manifestation of evil in the form of Babylon, and he's reckoning with that reality by reminding himself who God is. So, our first point and our first question: who is God? And let's look at who God is together by systematically going through his descriptors, starting at verse 12. And as we go, we'll consider for a moment how each attribute would be a comfort to Habakkuk and to us. So he starts off. Are you not from everlasting? God is the everlasting Father in Isaiah? He's the everlasting king in Jeremiah. In Daniel, his kingdom is everlasting. He is and is from everlasting Psalm 90, before the mountains were brought forth, or ever you had formed the earth and the world, from everlasting to everlasting, you are God. God is eternal. His perspectives are eternal. He is the Alpha and the Omega. He's the beginning and the end. He was and he is and he is to come. His ways are higher than our ways. His thoughts are higher than our thoughts And with those thoughts, he sees well beyond our suffering, to his finished work of sanctification and conforming us to his image Our perspectives by comparison are often nearsighted, sometimes consumed in our finiteness by the weight of suffering We can remember then that our everlasting God and His perspectives are eternal. Take comfort. He goes on in that question, are you not from everlasting, O Lord my God? God is relational. God seeks us. Seeks relationship with us. We can call him our God, my God. God is near to all who call on him in truth. Here also Habakkuk uses the word Yahweh, translated Lord, alluding to God's covenant-keeping nature. And that is the name of God, first revealed to Moses when God told him he was remembering his covenant with Israel and rescuing them from Egypt and bringing them into the land God swore to give to them. The same land Judah is in now, and seemingly the same land God is going to be driving them from. So he's acknowledging this covenant-keeping nature of God, but also seems to be trying to reconcile that with the news that At face value seems to contradict God's covenant. We can remember that God does keep his promises, however. Promises like, I will never leave you or forsake you. Hebrews 13 5. Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever. Hebrews 13, 8. God the Lord is King forever and ever. The nations perish from his land. Psalm 10 16 In the most comforting sense, God is affected by our suffering. The Lord is compassionate and merciful to us, and Jesus calls us to come to Him for rest. And we can find comfort in knowing He is my God. He is our God, who we can personally know and be known by And he goes on and ends that question: Are you not from everlasting, O Lord my God, my holy one? My holy one. Well, in the most comforting sense, then, God is unaffected by calamity, by evil, by the sinful fallenness of mankind. His holiness remains unchanged, unshaken. He is unique, holy other, set apart as being worthy of all worship and adoration as the one perfect in goodness and righteousness. If anything, the majesty of his holiness is magnified when surrounded by suffering, and his holiness shines even if the darkness tries to hide it As verse 3 of the song we sang, the first song we sang this morning reminds us, holy, holy, holy, though the darkness hide thee. Though the eye of sinful man thy glory may not see. Only thou art holy. There is none beside thee, perfect in power, in love, and purity And he goes on with that little statement, we shall not die. There's a little debate over whether this should read, we shall not die, or if this was a correction of the scribes, and it should instead read, you shall not die. Either way God is eternal, and the faithful remnant of God's people will be preserved as God promised And then jumping down a little bit, he says and describes God, as we've mentioned several times this morning, O rock. Describes him as a rock. God is stable, reliable. Habakkuk needed a rock, a steady truth and comfort, and he has it in God. But those comments by Habakkuk, that bookend, that descriptor of God is a reliable rock. Look at those. O Lord, you have ordained them as judgment. And you, O rock, have established them for reproof. Speaking of Babylon God is in control. Habakkuk is acknowledging that God is sovereign over the rise and fall of nations. Sovereign even over evil, permitting and planning evil's pathways for his precise purposes, as Dr. Lehman helped us remember from the text last week. But if you're in the midst of suffering, God in his sometimes unknowably sovereign plans will bring about your good and his glory. Now, about here we should pause and acknowledge. Right now our hearts can and may be tipping two ways on this knife-edged topic of suffering. Maybe your response is, Amen. Praise God that we have and worship a mighty God and can find comfort in him in all circumstances. And that is true. Amen. God is eternal. He's a rock. He's covenant keeping. He's holy. But maybe this morning you're in a season or recall raw seasons in the past where you may have thought. Take comfort in these present sufferings? Okay, great. Where is my comfort? Where is my relief from this suffering? I didn't choose this. I didn't choose that illness. I didn't choose that difficult relationship I didn't choose my manager at work. I didn't choose that sin that would wound me so deeply. I didn't ask for this. We tip toward bitterness. A few years back, I was having a conversation with a docent at the Holocaust Museum in DC. And at the end of the tour, I asked her. How do you feel toward God after seeing all the suffering of your people, of the Jewish people, over all these years? She said there's a sentiment she shares with many other Jews, which is, God, we are your chosen people. Please choose someone else. In other words, this isn't working out. We'd like to go it alone, please. That's heartbreaking, really. But it's also a temptation of our hearts as well, right? God, how could this possibly be for my good? How could this bring me closer to you? What are you trying to teach me? Can it please just stop? Can I just go it alone I wanted to acknowledge that tension and responding to suffering. Some of you are probably right there, right now, this morning. And when you're knee deep in it The diving into worshipful trust in God's plans may not look that clean. It may not be that easy Remember, God is compassionate toward you, and he desires for you to cast your cares upon him. We'll consider those things more as we go. I want to consider these attributes of God just a moment longer, though. I want to consider together how helpful is this knowledge of God or about who God is if it's just in our head? How far will solid academic theology carry us in suffering? Well, if that's all it is, just knowledge, not too far. So, how do we then go from reading and understanding these awesome, worship-inducing attributes of God to then hiding them in our heart, to deeply knowing them, hoping in them? Resting on them and clinging to them. I'm going to offer a few things, and most of these won't be new to you, but if they serve to renew your resolve in any of these areas or remind you of a season where, yeah, that was really helpful. Then praise the Lord. We'll move on. Verse 1. Journaling. Not just for teen girls. After you read, or as you read the Word of God, consider jotting down a few thoughts or words or phrases that stuck out to you. Even specifically consider recording what the passage you're reading reveals about the nature of God, what he does, what he's like. Who he describes himself to be, who he is. We basically just did that in expanded form for verse 12 of our passage. Another thing, scripture memory. Memorizing scripture, hiding God's word in your heart. When we wish we had a comforting word for a brother or sister, or for ourselves even, in times of suffering, have we committed any to memory? Or are we dependent on someone or something else to point us to the truth? Praise the Lord for unparalleled access to God's word. But a collateral damage of that is a sense that there is a decreased need for memorization of Scripture. But scripture memory allows for robust meditation and exploration of God's word and nature. It can be drawn to mind and considered while you mow, while you fold the laundry, while you drive, while you walk, while you fall asleep. The options are literally limitless when God's word is trapped in your mind and heart. Next, it's this concept uh called quiet. If you're old enough to remember, take a moment to think back to the turn of the century Or or if you can, back to the 1900s. How often then were you being stimulated with podcasts, with music, with audiobooks, with TV shows? Was it in your ears while you walked, while you worked in the kitchen, while you folded laundry, while you drove, while you walked to the metro or to your office? Moments that were once quiet aren't as quiet anymore. And I'm not saying that everything about those things is wrong and choking out God. Some of those very things can draw us to know God and consider Him more. But, particularly in seasons of suffering or stress, aren't we tempted to drown out that pain? To distract ourselves and do whatever helps us forget about the challenges that we're facing. Along those lines, consider establishing areas of your home or routine where you keep them quiet. Your bedroom, for example. Print media only. Whatever, that could work. Or instead build into your routine times of quiet, just to be still before the Lord and consider his ways. And you know what I find myself often thinking about on the occasions when I do that? I think about people. Other people for once And that leads to another way to deepen our knowledge of and our deep-rooted dependence on God. That's to come alongside others in their suffering You don't have to have every answer. And what you do have to say likely won't be the magic words to ease someone's pain But come alongside and genuinely care about them. Hear and see them. Follow up with them Pray with them, pray for them, ask questions of God with them. Together you can share one another's burdens and rejoice at the way God proves His faithfulness and wisdom along the way. Maybe along those lines at lunch today or at your next small group gathering perhaps, ask the question, what is something hard in your life right now? And hard is not just limited to the really big suffering either. But hard is often the persistent small challenges of living in a fallen world with other fallen people. Another question you could ask in those same contexts: what is something that has sustained you or given you endurance in challenging seasons? Maybe it's one of the things I just listed, maybe it's something else. I'd love to hear it. So back to our first question. Who is God? All of that was the long answer. Here's the short one. When all around my soul gives way, he then is all my hope and stay We just saw that Habakkuk's first instinct when facing difficult news was to remind himself and remind God of who God is. And now he asks that next question, which is our second point. Point two: will God be silent? Back to our text in verse 13. Just before we get to our second question, Habakkuk attributes to God an unstained purity. You who are of purer eyes to see evil and integrity. You cannot look at wrong. So Habakkuk is pulling out This is everything I know to be true about God. I'm not understanding how what you just said about the Babylonians is compatible with who you've revealed yourself to be But you have ordained them as judgment. You have established them for reproof. So why do you idly look at traitors and remain silent when the wicked swallows up the man more righteous than he? This is similar to the verbiage in verse 3 of the chapter where he says, Why do you make me see iniquity? And why do you idly look at wrong? He wasn't thrilled with the answer the first time, maybe, so he's seeking clarification again. So we can see Habakkuk is in the business of asking God questions. And it's important to note here that there is a difference between lament and grumbling. A difference between questioning and whining A difference between seeking to understand God's sovereign ordained actions and purposes and presuming to know a better way. Habakkuk is adopting that posture of seeking understanding in his laments. Are you not from everlasting? Now he's asking in a sense, how is this possible? Help me understand how this is compatible with your nature. You say you are pure, you say you cannot look at wrong. But you you can look at traitors and then let the wicked destroy the righteous. How is this part of a good plan? How can a perfect, holy, and good God tolerate wickedness and treachery? For a fuller explanation of that question, I refer you to the sermon from last week. For now, remember again that these evil nations, these evil actors then and in our world now, they are not roaming around unchecked. As J. C. Ryle puts it, the wickedest enemies of God are only axes and saws and hammers in his hands, and are ignorantly his instruments for doing his work in the world. Friends like Habakkuk, we can go to God when reckoning with hard news. When struggling through trials and suffering. We can ask God for understanding. We can acknowledge his nature and seek to be granted peace and comfort and even understanding through God's abundant mercy When we pray, remember who God is. Specifically, remember his attributes that apply directly to your suffering You're suffering with loneliness from relationships parted either by geography or death, for instance. Or you feel the lack of close friendships and feel distant even from God God, you say that a friend of many companions comes to ruin, but there is a friend who sticks closer than a brother. How is that true in my life? Help me understand your nearness in my life. Help me see ways in which you are near where I don't see it right now. You're suffering from or anguishing over the consequences of sin in the lives of those around you. God, how long will this suffering endure? How long will this pain continue? I know you say weeping and sorrow may last for the night, and joy comes in the morning. God, show me the morning. Bring me to the morning, I pray. Give me understanding of your purposes in this season. Equip me even to be a comfort to others through this. Nevertheless, God, draw me near to you, in joy or in sorrow. Prayer can be hard in seasons of suffering, though, can it not Pride keeps us from it. Stubbornness, bitterness, anxiety. They can all be barriers to prayer In the C. S. Lewis book The Horse and His Boy, the Boy's Shasta illustrates this for us. He endured a long journey in which nothing seemed to be going right. As all hope was fading, he noticed a quiet presence, breathing on a very large scale. The barely audible breathing was Aslan's. who was a lion and the god figure in the book, and he had been accompanying Shasta through many of his difficulties. Who are you? asked Shasta One who has waited long for you to speak, responded Aslan. God waits for us to speak, to come to Him at all times If you are emotionally or spiritually weary and you do not know what to pray, pray the word of God. Pray words of truth We could start with Psalm one thirty, Psalm seventy three, Psalms of Lament. Now, looking back one more time at this question that Habakkuk asks in verse 13, and pay close attention to the specific verbiage. Why do you idly look at traitors and remain silent? When the wicked swallows up the man more righteous than he. We would echo with Habakkuk, yeah, idly looking at traitors is unjust. Remaining silent when wicked swallow up the righteous God, how can you do that and be good? Well, we know that he can do that and be good. Because there would one day come a man who would see traitors and would not dole out immediate judgment. Indeed, he would even be betrayed by the kiss of a traitor. And that same man, the righteous man, he would remain silent, like a lamb that is led to the slaughter, and like a sheep that before its shearers is silent, so he opened not his mouth. That man, of course, is Jesus Christ, the Son of God, who bore humiliation and betrayal, who suffered, fled, and died. And he remained silent. Because he trusted God in his suffering, knowing it would finally, ultimately be for our good and for his glory And he was swallowed up by the wicked. But he was not destroyed. Instead, he was raised victorious over death and evil and seated in heaven. In control of all things and waiting for when he will execute judgment on all nations and all evil. So Habakkuk asks the most rational, airtight question. It's a good argument. How can you idly look at a traitor and be silent while the wicked destroy the righteous man? And the verbiage he used points us to the ultimate example of how can purpose treachery wickedness, and all manner of sinfulness and suffering, for his purposes, and for our good, even for the ultimate good What a poignant reminder that sometimes our best arguments and reasonings for what is or isn't acceptable or good for us, those can sometimes be really off. Friends, if you are here today and you are suffering and you do not know Christ as your Savior, your Redeemer, your comfort, your friend. I urge you to consider the forgiveness and eternal comfort he offers. He does not promise comfort in this life, but he does promise eternal comfort with him in heaven. And if you do know this Savior, and you are suffering, or you know others who are suffering, be encouraged as we remember our Savior's unfathomable suffering. For the joy that was set before him, he endured the cross. The joy that is set before us is eternal peace and joy. Therefore, in the face of hard news and suffering, we can endure. We can grieve with hope So, will God be silent? Answer. Yes, when we would have least expected it, with a plan that we would not believe if told, God was silent. And also no. You will not always be silent toward evil. With that hope in our hearts, let's continue to point three. Will the wicked reign forever? In verse 14, Habakkuk begins with a detailed metaphor, likening mankind to fish and likening the nation of Babylon to a fisherman. First, in verse 14, Israel and mankind are described as fish, as crawling things. Subhuman, seemingly existing only to be someone else's food. They're described as having no ruler And the Babylonian fisherman is a powerful angler, utilizing all different means of fish catching apparatus of the period to gather fish up in bunches. He uses hooks for some, nets and dragnets, and it doesn't look like any fish escaped his snares. And in true fisherman fashion he rejoices, and is glad in his hall. But he then takes it a step further and commits idolatry, worshipping the fishing devices that made him rich and successful He sacrifices to his net and makes offering to his dragnet. As God said to Habakkuk in verse 11 about the Babylonian military power, their own might is their God. They worship their own might, their own military that can capture all of these nations that are like nothing more than helpless schools of fish under their hand. As we consider Babylon's self-worship, ask yourself, what are ways we worship our own strength or power? If you're married, you can ask your spouse one of these questions, or if you have roommates or close friends, ask them, hey, what am I prone to worship? What do I depend on above God? What do I give the first fruits of my time or energy to? The God the Babylonians worship is themselves Rebecca concludes this metaphor with a question in verse 17: Is he then to keep on emptying his net and mercilessly killing nations forever? Well, our first clue to the answer is wrapped up in the metaphor. Two other places in the Old Testament, this idea of a fisherman as judge is mentioned. In Jeremiah 16, referring again to the judgment of Judah, and Amos four, then speaking judgment to the indolent women of Samaria. So in the Old Testament, we have metaphors of fishermen gathering up helpless fish to their judgment and destruction. The question is valid. Will this go on forever? Well, in the New Testament, in Matthew 4, the metaphor of a fisherman is used again But this time Jesus gathers up helpless fish not to their judgment, but in mercy he gathers them up to their deliverance and to their salvation. Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men, he says to his disciples. Bring them into my fold. I will be their ruler. I will capture them in the nets of my mercy and love. Jesus has rewritten this metaphor with mercy and forgiveness, not judgment and destruction. So will the wicked reign forever. No. The Lord is King forever and ever, and will reign with mercy and justice over all nations and all evil forever And that brings us near the end of our passage. But what happens with Habakkuk? What happens with Judah and their judgment Will God respond? Well, obviously you can read on in Habakkuk and the Bible to find answers to those questions, and I certainly won't stop you, but I think a valuable reminder for us, by slowly moving through Habakkuk as we are, is that tension, that not every passage And not every season or experience of our lives has a nice little bow tied on the end of it. Last week was a real downer of a passage. And the week before, and this week a little bit. First week, God help us. There's a lot of wickedness. Last week, I have a plan. Judah will be judged by a ruthless tyrant of an empire. Stop. And now we have Judas pleased for understanding, struggling to wrap his head around God's purposes, but seeking to trust him. We stop. How does this resolve? Well, stay tuned. The best is yet to come. Can't wait, read on in Habakkuk. That's where we leave Habakkuk. But what about the mom who I shared about at the beginning? While burying a husband and son and continuing on in life, she would ask at times, she would ask herself if she would ever feel anything again Or if numbness would persist. And when the numbness did give way to feeling, pain moved in. And she said to herself, I think I want the numbness back. In this season, by God's grace, she turned to her local church. She was open and honest with others there about her heart, about the pain and sorrow, and she was gently guided to truth and hope in God. She clung to the hope of song lyrics like those of It Is Well. She remembered the promises and attributes of God, like Habakkuk, reminding God and herself, God, you are the same yesterday and today and forever. You will never leave me or forsake me. She prayed James 1, 2 through 4, that she would count trials all joy, that God would produce steadfastness in her as promised. She sought to trust in his sovereignty, acknowledging that God has full allowance to take his children home as he sees fit In the midst of this, she continued seeking to be equipped for ministry, attending classes at a Bible college. While there, she met and later married a man. They had two other sons And as of my speaking, this, this mom and her husband have served together in some sort of full-time ministry for nearly 42 years. And they're still going. Now, is that a success story? Is that a picking yourself up by your bootstraps story? No. This is the story of someone who, like Habakkuk, received incomprehensibly hard news and held fast to God by his mercy and grace alone Trusting, clinging to the truths of who God had revealed Himself to be, and waiting for that final day when tears will be no more And this is also the story of my mom. And I picked her story to help illustrate this passage to emphasize this. As I reflect on my mom's life to this point, I've recognized that there has been profound suffering. There has been hard news. And when I look at her life through that lens, two things are prominent impacts and influences on me. One, weathered Bibles. Through different seasons, there was always one Bible or another that would go from new to worn to weathered to unsightly. And what that represented was a steadfast hope that accompanies those who entrust their souls and lives in all circumstances to God. The second impact. Scars. Scars remain after trauma. After suffering. My mom is no exception, and neither are any of us. If you're suffering this morning and you are wishing nobody could see that struggle to trust the Lord, to struggle to fight bitterness and to fight doubt and everything else. Seeing my mom work through those challenges and wounds of a hard life, seeing the hard days and seasons, those were profoundly impactful. Because through those seasons, I watched Habakkuk played out. I watched questions. I watched struggles. And I watched her dependent on God's revealed nature, hoping in, resting in who God is, and depending on his mercy, new for each day, even when everything didn't make sense Whether it is the example of Habakkuk, the example of his mother, or innumerable other examples. Remember, our hope is found in the revealed God when suffering is difficult to understand and difficult to endure. And as with last week, we wait. In chapter 2, verse 1, Habakkuk has completed his response and he confidently, trustingly, vigilantly posts himself, looking out for God's response. I particularly appreciate this metaphor as I know a thing or two about being on a watch post for long periods of time. And I can tell you they are not a thrill-a-minute experience The main fight is to stay awake, to stay watchful, but to stay on your post The answers and clarity and relief we seek from the Lord in seasons of suffering may not come quickly. The relief may never fully come in this life. Even as we are walking wounded, though, we do not walk alone. Let's encourage one another as we wait for the Lord and hope in Him together, remembering that the sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing. With the glory that is to be revealed to us. Let's pray. God, we praise you that you are unchanging. Who you were then is who you are now. Because of that, you can be a rock. You can be a fortress. We thank you. Your son Jesus Christ, who is an example of complete trust in you, in suffering, and that through that suffering He gives us eternal hope in the face of our suffering. Give us endurance until the end. When farther along, we'll understand why. We'll know all about it and your purposes. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.