Good morning. Good to be with you. Isn't this wonderful that we get to come together and do this every Lord's day to praise the glorious God of our salvation? That's what we want to continue to do as we come to God's Word this morning. I invite you to turn in your Bibles to the book of Ephesians. We're going to continue a series that we've just recently begun. As you're turning to Ephesians, I trust a number of you are familiar with the name John Newton. John Newton was a famous once once slave trader, turned Christian, pastor, hymn writer. And and John Newton once shared this illustration. He was noting people's tendency, even Christians. To fret and complain about earthly material things while neglecting to focus on the great spiritual wealth that is ours and he put it this way he said suppose a man was going to New York to take possession of a large estate let's just put a number on that ten million dollars Suppose a man was going to New York to take possession of a large estate, and his carriage should break down a mile before he got to the city, which obliged him to walk the rest of the way. What a fool we should think him to be if we saw him wringing his hands and blubbering about all the remaining mile. My carriage is broken. My carriage is broken. I wonder, beloved, how's your carriage holding up this week on your pilgrimage to the Promised Land I want you to remember as we come to the book of Ephesians again. I don't know if I'll say this every week. Maybe I will. That Paul is writing this letter. He's not what we might call an armchair theologian writing for armchair theologians. Not people with merely an academic interest in philosophical matters, but he is a real man who was in prison at the time that he wrote this letter, and he was writing to real people with real problems. Including a very real spiritual adversary who is waging war against their souls and is still raging war against our souls. Paul would write at the end of this letter, for we do not wrestle against flesh and blood. But against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this present darkness, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places. Probably do not need to tell you that this life really is full of hardships. Whether those hardships pertain to your own health. Or relationships that have gone awry, or unfulfilled desires, unexpected afflictions Political unrest, perhaps concern, as I know it is for many of you with your jobs or your finances. We see so much uh around us of what's broken and wrong with this world, and it can be exhausting We're surrounded by various kinds of dangers, and it's all reflective of the spiritual forces of darkness that assault us and attack us. That's really what our ultimate struggle is against. And in the midst of our experience of those dangers and those struggles, it might not be our default setting to reflect on God's eternal promises and his purposes for his people. But that is what Paul is doing for us as we come to Ephesians chapter 1. Listen attentively as Paul reminds the Ephesians and us Of the large estate that is ours in and through the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm going to read verses 3 through 14 of Ephesians chapter 1. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world that we should be holy and blameless before him. In love, he predestined us for adoption to himself as sons through Jesus Christ according to the purpose of his will To the praise of his glorious grace with which he has blessed us in the beloved. In him we have redemption through his blood. The forgiveness of our trespasses according to the riches of his grace, which he lavished upon us in all wisdom and insight, making known to us the mystery of his will. According to his purpose, which he set forth in Christ as a plan for the fullness of time to unite all things in him, things in heaven and things on earth In him, we have obtained an inheritance, having been predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will. So that we who were the first to hope in Christ might be to the praise of his glory. In him you also When you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation and believed in him, were sealed with the promised Holy Spirit, who is the guarantee of our inheritance until we acquire possession of it. To the praise of his glory. This is God's word, brothers and sisters. Let's pray and ask for his help as we think about it together. Heavenly Father, we are in great need of your help to understand these words, to respond appropriately to them. And so we ask for your help It is the Spirit who gives life. The flesh is no help at all. So we're in great need of the Spirit's movement among us. To help us respond to you and your eternal riches of grace shown to us in Christ in a manner that would be worthy of you. We ask that you would do that now as we consider your holy word. We ask for all of this in Jesus' name. Amen. I think I told you last week that verses three through fourteen in the original language, it's all one long sentence. It's one outburst of adoration from the Apostle Paul. And I don't think it would be an exaggeration to say that the Library of Congress could not hold all the books that could be written to extol and explore and exposit the deep riches that Paul touches on so briefly in this 202-word outburst of praise. But I'm not particularly in a rush to get through these verses. We considered verse three last Sunday And this morning we want to think about verses 4 through 6 of Ephesians 1, as Paul ponders all this rich, every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places that are ours in Christ. As he ponders where to go from there, he cannot help but marvel at when and how all this blessing began. And so he says there again in verse 4, look at verse 4 again, even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world that we should be holy and blameless before him in love. He predestined us for adoption to himself as sons through Jesus Christ, according to the purpose of his will, to the praise of his glorious grace with which he has blessed us in the beloved. Why has God given us this passage of Scripture? Why has He put this paragraph before us this week and last week and in the weeks to come? It is so that we would praise God. That is where the Lord is wanting to take us in these weeks together to praise God. And specifically this morning, praise God that in his gracious delight Here's our main idea if you're a note taker. Praise God because in his gracious delight, God has chosen you for a glorious destiny. Praise God. Because in his gracious delight, God has chosen you. I'm speaking to Christians when I say that he's chosen you. I will say something to those who are maybe not sure if you are a Christian or are considering Christianity a little bit later, but right now, in his gracious delight, God has chosen you, Christians, for a glorious destiny. And let's just start with those words I just said, God has chosen you. You see that right there in verse 4? Well, going back to verse 3 briefly. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who's blessed us in Christ. With every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places, even as, here's blessing number one, here's the fountainhead from which all the blessings flow, even as he chose us in him Before the foundation of the world. It's not that we make no choice to come to Christ We certainly do, we must come, we must choose to come to Jesus in faith and repentance But what Paul is talking about here is how and when this relationship of spiritual blessing began. So as as you know, uh our family just moved here from New Jersey and we we lived there for 20 years And so there's a lot of stuff we packed with us and brought that I hadn't seen in a long time. And there's this there's this frame that Michelle made some years ago. I think it was maybe an anniversary gift. I can't remember e uh exactly when it came. uh into our home. But it's a it's a frame that has some of the key memorable dates in our relationship, in our life together. July fourteenth, two thousand two, the day that we met one another. April 3rd, 2003, when Michelle called and gave me the delightful news that she had told somebody else that we were a couple. Because I hadn't actually known that myself yet. Uh August nineteenth, two thousand three, when we got engaged, and and June fifth, two thousand four, when we got married, and the the birth dates of our children were on there as well. So These big key dates in our the history of our relationship. If you had a frame marking the start of your relationship with God, You might be able to locate a day or a period or some season, a month, some season where the Lord really you sensed him working in your life and you had an attraction and a desire to seek the Lord. And that can be a meaningful date. But in reality, what Paul's telling us here with this little phrase, God chose you in Christ before the foundation of the world. He's saying that if you've if you've pushed through the back of that wardrobe into the narnia of all the spiritual blessing that is ours in Christ, it all got started before the foundation of the world. And and Paul wants that to thrill your soul. If you are trusting in Jesus Christ this morning for your salvation, Paul is wanting you to know that God set his love upon you long before you came to Jesus in faith and repentance. He said his love upon you long before Jesus Himself came into the world to live a sinless life on your behalf and to die the death that you deserved as punishment for your sins and rise triumphant. from the grave to demonstrate that the payment for sin had finally and fully been made. He loved you long before that. His love, in fact, was set on you before the foundation of the world. Not just generally that he set his love on people, but he said his love on you, Melissa. He said his love on you, Ryan. He said his love on you, Devon. He set his love on a very specific people. Jesus would say that the Father had given him a people, and he was going to the cross to rescue that people. And what Paul's saying is That people whom the Father had given to the Son, they had been given in all eternity past. Before the foundation of the world, before there was space or before there was time. Before there was planet Earth, which we would in time come to inhabit, before solar systems and galaxies were created, eons ago, God sent his love on you, Christian. And the Apostle Paul is saying, I I want you to know this. I want you to love God for this. There's never been a time in the history of the universe when your name was not on the heart of God as one of his beloved And that's meant to be a tremendous encouragement to us This is not something that Paul feels the need at this point in his letter to pause and say, now listen, I know this is going to be hard for you, and I know some of you might struggle with this doctrine, and it may not seem fair. He does not make apology He does not defend this. Now he does, if you are familiar with the Bible, you know that in Romans chapter 9, he actually does address some objections to it. But we're not studying Romans right now. We can talk about Romans after the service if you'd like, but this is not something that Paul is telling the Ephesians here for them to argue about. It's something for them to fall down on their faces and adore God for. Praise God. That's where this is all going, Ephesians 1. 6, to the praise of the glory of his grace. Let there be no frozen chosen in this room. If you are saved, praise God and tell him so. You can say hallelujah. You can say amen. A lot of some of you have said to me in the weeks, a short number of weeks that I've been here, that you appreciate my passion. And it's like that's I'm I sometimes it's not hard. I've not this is not the first place that I've heard that. It's a little hard for me to know how to respond because my passion cannot save a soul. My passion cannot sanctify a soul. But if there is a passion that you note and observe, let this mark our gatherings. We are the loved before the foundation of the world. And the redeemed can say so. The elect can say, praise God, hallelujah. Why was I made to hear thy voice? And enter while there's room. We sang that last week because I thought I was going to be preaching on this last week and then I changed my plans. But when thousands make a wretched choice and rather starve than come Twas the same love that spread the feast that sweetly drew us in, else we had still refused to taste. And perished in our sin. But he loved us and he loved us from eternity past. Undeserving people like you. And like me, the Lord set his love upon and he chose you and he marked you out for salvation, for an eternal inheritance, and he did it. before the world began. I'm so excited, I feel already like I might start to lose my voice. He didn't just choose you, beloved. It was his gracious delight to do so. In his gracious delight, God chose you. On april twenty-seventh, twenty seventeen, the NFL held its annual draft It was held, Simon Russo, in the great city of Philadelphia that year. And you're familiar, I trust, uh maybe if you're not a sports man, I don't know if you're familiar with the idea of a draft, but th this is when the best collegiate players Uh after they have been scouted by various teams and hours and hours of video footage that scouts have watched to see. Which of these players might be able to really help them and make a difference on their team having taken them to a combine where they do lots of drills to test their skills in different areas These players, these athletes, hope to be selected by one of those teams and financially set up for life for themselves and for their families. And sometimes what happens in these drafts is that a team gets their eye on a specific player and they really they might try to maneuver. They might try to trade some of their players or some of their draft picks to move up higher so that they can get the player that they really want to get. And there's this video it from back in 2017 of the what's called they call it the war room where all of the coaches and the scouts and the You know, the general managers and stuff, they're all sort of plotting what they're gonna do. And there's this little sixty-second video of the Chiefs, the Kansas City Chiefs kind of plotting to move up in the draft to get this Player that they really had their eye on, who not too many people were very high on at the time. At least not super high, like they needed to. And that guy's name was Patrick Mahomes And so they pull off this deal. They make this deal with the Buffalo Bills and they decide they're gonna get Patrick Mahomes with the tenth pick in the draft. And there's an excitement. They're patting each other on the back and they're excited because they've got this guy. They worked really hard. That's the guy they wanted and they got him. And that has worked out well for them. If you're a football fan, regardless of what happens tonight It has worked out well for them. But beloved, I want you to understand that when it comes to God's choice of his people, it really was not like that. Nobody in this room is projected as a first round draft pick in the war room of heaven. We're not even competent to be Mr. Irrelevant. They actually have this they made up this name for the last player drafted, who usually doesn't even make a team in the end, which is this is not very loving, but this is what they call him Mr. Irrelevant We don't even have the skills to be Mr. Irrelevant. When the triune God, in his eternal council, when he sought to have a people his own, when he chose a people. He there was no natural talent there that he thought maybe I can develop this one. If he had footage, if he had video footage to watch us, the video footage that he'd have of us Paul actually tells us about that in chapter 2 and chapter 4. Dead in the trespasses and sins. We'd get video of that. Following the course of the world, following the prince of the power of the air. That is, following Satan. carrying out the desires of the body and the mind, nature, by nature children of wrath, darkened in their understanding. Alienated from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them, due to their hardness of heart, callous, giving themselves up to sensuality, greedy to practice every kind of impurity. That's what he's looking at. And and we can only I mean this you know I'm using an NFL draft. These are these these images, these illustrations are so deficient in some ways. We we cannot probe the infinite and the inscrutable depths of the heart of God. I'm not saying that the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit were in a room together. You understand? I'm trying to give you a metaphor to think about things But I can envision in eternity past the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit thinking about the eternal plan of saving a great multitude. of sinners, of people in the condition that I just described, that Paul described from chapter two and four. And I can imagine the father saying to the son, Who is the rightful heir of all the wealth and all the power and all the authority of heaven? Saying, Son, would you be willing to share your blessings with a people whom we will call our very own? And I can envision the son looking at the father and saying, oh yes, Father, it would be my good pleasure. That would be my delight. How much would you be willing to share, my son? And the son saying, all of it, I would hold nothing back. Well, what would you be willing to do in order to share my blessings with them, dear son? Whatever is necessary, Father. There is nothing I would not give for the love that you have loved me with to be in a people forever and ever and ever. I would do and I would give anything. I just wonder if that's a terribly dim reflection of what happened in eternity past So that all the blessings of heaven could be poured on your life and my life today and for eternity future It's what Paul's communicating throughout when he says that this blessing of election and predestination to adoption into God's family all came to the people of God in Christ. Did you catch that in the reading there? Verses 4 through 6. It says, He chose us in him, that is in Christ. Verse 5, he predestined us for adoption to himself as sons through Jesus Christ. And then in verse 6, he says this is also the praise of the glorious grace. And as if we didn't quite catch yet that it was in Christ, And in him, he says again, with which he has blessed us in the beloved. It's in Christ. This is gracious delight. It's an in Christ blessing. You know, three years after that NFL draft when the Chiefs were able to snag Patrick Mahomes and after they won their first Super Bowl, The Chiefs paid up. They paid that man what they thought he was due. And it cost them $450 million, they signed Patrick Mahomes. 10-year contract, $450 million. But the cost to the Lord Jesus to bring that eternal choice to fruition in our lives was infinitely higher than that. We're going to read about it and we're going to think about it especially next week. Look at verse 7 if your Bible is open. In him we have redemption through his blood. He shed his blood for his chosen ones. He was so eager to have us. Though we had nothing to commend ourselves to him, so eager to have us for the joy set before him, he went to the cross. He came from heaven to earth to save sinners, big sinners, which is really the only thing that there is. Sinners like Paul who hated Christ and murdered Christians. He came and he was willing to endure in his body of flesh. the the indescribable miseries of hell under the the undiluted wrath of God Jesus willingly came in the fullness of time to suffer all that so that you and I, anyone who would come even this day and believe upon him could be children of God And if you're here today, and as I I mentioned earlier, I said I would say something to you, if you're here today and you maybe have not put your faith in Christ. And this is all just making you weird. Like this is weird. What about my free will? And what what the Lord wants you to hear today is Not to worry about if you're chosen or you're predestined. He wants you to hear today that you were made by God and for God to honor God and give praise to God, but you've not done that. And if you're convicted this morning, if you're convicted that you have not lived your life for the purpose that God made it for you, but you see a rich love coming in this person, Jesus. The Lord is saying, come now and receive Jesus. And you can know this spiritual blessing yourself. Jesus did all of this for his beloved. And you can get in on that wonderful joy of knowing his love right now today. For all of you who have, and that's most of you I know, you can recognize afresh today that Jesus did not do this. He did not come. from heaven to earth and live that sinless life and die a substitutionary death and rise from the grave. He did not do that just to make salvation possible for everybody. But he actually came because the Father had set his affection on you, Ashley. Because he had set his affection on you, Tammy, from all of eternity. From all eternity he set his affection on you. And in the fullness of time, he came and he died for his people. This was not cold. This was not a cold impersonal choice. It was according to verse 5 actually says the good pleasure of his will. It might not say that in your translation of the Bible. Carl Russo tipped me off to this last Sunday, and you were right. Purpose of his will is an okay way to translate this, but the word is good pleasure. This is the word that when when at Jesus' baptism, when he came up out of the waters and that voice came saying, This is my beloved son with whom I am well pleased. That's this word here translated purpose in Ephesians 1 5, the the good pleasure of his will There was a great torrent in the affection of affection in the heart of our Father that springs towards his people from all eternity. Not because of anything he would foresee in us. But because of his own rich grace, and that's of great comfort to us, because if he set his love upon us, not thinking of and seeing anything good in us to commend us, then we can be confident that even though we're still flailing about and still fickle in our obedience and our affection for him. We can be confident if he set his love on me from all eternity, he will not stop loving me. Not death nor life nor anything can ever separate us because we are his and we've been his since he was him. Since he was God, we were in his heart. In his election of sinners, in his choice of sinners, God says to people who otherwise would have rejected him. People who otherwise would have gone straight to hell. And that's my best answer, though I said I wasn't going to really address the all the, that's my best answer to the fair question. Is this fair? It w what would have been fair was for God in eternity to look upon a great mass of sinners who would rebel against him and hate him and despise him and not thank him for all the blessing that they'd given him. What would be fair is for him to just let them all be condemned to eternal fire and punishment. That would be very fair. But he chose to save a great multitude. from every tribe, every tongue, every nation, for a glorious destiny That we should be holy and blameless before him as his adopted sons. In his gracious delight, God has chosen you for a glorious destiny. And you can see the destiny. I just mentioned the words, but you see it there in verse 4. It's always important. I used to say this to my former church all the time. I don't know that I've said it to you yet, but this is a good time. You should never trust anything that I'm saying because of how loud and passionate I get saying it. You trust what I'm saying if it's consistent with what the Word of God says. That's why you sit there with your Bibles open when the word is being preached. Look at what it says there, verse 4 He chose us in him before the foundation of the world that we should be. Here's a destiny, here's a purpose, that we should be holy and blameless before him. In love, he predestined us. Here's another statement for adoption to himself as sons. And maybe some of you sisters here are like, hey, what's going on here? I'm a son. Well, you know, we men have to deal with this too because we're called the bride of Christ. But what you need to know about this, this is not some male chauvinism showing up in our scriptures. It's actually just the opposite. In the in the Greco-Roman world, and Paul's original readers, they would have known this. In the Greco-Roman world, uh when you're adopted into a family as a son, you would be adopted and you'd receive a the full share in the inheritance of the father of that family. That was true of adopted sons, but that was actually not true of adopted daughters. And so Paul is now addressing the brothers and the sisters in Christ. He is speaking to men and to women. He is speaking to all the saints, all those who have come to believe in Jesus. And he's saying to men and women, you have received the adoption as sons, sisters in Christ. You have a full share in the inheritance of the Lord Jesus, your elder brother. We are heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ, provided we suffer with him. That's the part we don't like about that promise. In order that we may also be glorified with him. Romans 8, 17. You've been adopted into God's family. You've not just been saved from the righteous uh wrath that you deserve as the punishment for your sins, but you've actually been brought into God's family. You've been brought near to him. You see how that's expressed in our passage there. It says that you would be holy and blameless before him. Literally before his face. Not not far away. Not as though God would save us, but man, I can't I can't believe that you're you're in the fat Jesus died for you. Like I have to welcome you in. But there's our bedroom far away. Please don't. I don't want to see you I don't want to hear from you because you're so detestable you have it's a mess. No no he wants us before him He adopted us to himself. Did you catch? I actually stumbled over it because in the original ESV, they didn't actually use the phrase adopted to himself. It reads kind of awkwardly. He he predestined us for adoption as sons through Jesus Christ. That makes sense. But he he presses in there adoption to himself as sons Because God is love. He is not only a judge who acquits by grace. But he is a loving father. He rejoices over his people, Zephaniah says, with loud singing. He wants us to come near. The blessing that you have received, this full share in all of the inexhaustible blessings he has out of the gracious delight of his love. He has made you heirs to the throne of the universe. And we'll have much time to ponder that inheritance specifically in a couple of weeks But for now, let me just say something about one of the sweetest and most underappreciated parts of this inheritance is the right and privilege of sharing in God's holiness. He chose us in love before the foundation of the world that we should be holy and blameless before him. I wonder if you hear that and you just feel like holiness just I mean I guess it's the right thing where God is holy and I know we I'm supposed I'm supposed to be holy. That's not how you should hear holiness. Kids. Kids. As you grow up, you might hear somebody say sometime that God doesn't want you to be happy. He wants you to be holy. You should not want to hear that, kids. God, I want you to know this, kids. When God says be holy, he is inviting you into the greatest happiness that you could possibly dream of. You might not understand that right now. You could talk to your parents about that. Talk to me after the service if you'd like. But when God invites you to become holy, He is inviting you into the greatest life imaginable. This is what our loving Father is doing in the lives of his adopted children. He's not just canceling the guilt of our sin, but he is reclaiming us. And restoring us to the design that He had from the very creation of the world when He made us in His image That is the destiny for which we have been chosen and redeemed, that we might be conformed to the image of God That we would be created, as it says in Ephesians 4. 24, that we would be created after the likeness of God in true righteousness and holiness. Paul says this in another place. He calls it the freedom of the glory of the children of God. So here's what this means for our lives. Because he has chosen you for a glorious destiny, that you would be holy and blameless before him as his adopted sons. There is coming a day when you will not sin. And you will not want to sin. And all of the traces of remaining corruption that grieve us so miserably in this present age will be fully and finally eradicated. There will be a day, adopted one. There will be a day, elect one from the foundation of the world that you will be able to say, praise God, I have not sinned in a million years. Praise God. I have not sinned in a million years. Your passion For for an unbridled desire and capacity for praising God will be beyond what you are currently able to conceive of That is a glorious destiny. And I hope that you understand it to be to be so I'm in a room with people who have ambitions. You have earthly ambitions, you have career ambitions, you have maybe family ambitions, and it's not bad to have those kinds of ambitions But let it be for the children of God with that destiny that they have prepared for them, secured by the love of Christ on the cross and chosen and marked out before the foundation of the Lord. Let those ambitions we have for earthly success. Let those ambitions be like a Dixie cup Compared to the Atlantic ocean of desire that we would have to experience the freedom of the glory of the children of God. To be holy and blameless before Him. Paul wants the Ephesians to remember that. He wants you to remember that and to take all that in and praise him. And I understand that it doesn't seem maybe like the most practical thing to say. There's all kinds of practical application in chapters four through six. How do we love each other? The adopted ones, it's not just me, it's a family, it's us. The language is all us, us, us. How do we love each other as family in this predestined family for holy? How do we pursue holiness together? We talk about that at the men's retreat also, but there's lots of application coming But right now I uh the the most practical thing I can say is praise God Praise God Does that speak to us when we're struggling to know with job uncertainties, when we are facing a hip surgery, or when our marriage is really struggling? We got to deal with some trials. Our our carriages really do get broken down We got we go through trials and there's heartaches and there's unanswered questions and there's things that won't get fully resolved in this life. Maybe your boss is a jerk. Got the flu. You've been cleaning up vomit this week. Your week may be bad. This past week may have been a bad week. This one coming up might be a rough week, but our eternity is still astonishingly bright, beloved. And Ephesians 1, 3 through 14 is a gift to us because it sets before us a picture of beauty and magnificence. It lays out this this word that we say so often, and again it can be so hard for us to really grasp this word, salvation. It spells out for us the riches of that salvation so that we would make a habit from time to time of standing back and just breathing in. the deep riches of the glorious panorama that God has in his grace made you a part of and done so from eternity past And it causes us to step back and to drink all of that in and to conclude. Here's maybe the most practical word that I have for you this morning. If he planned from all eternity With the kindest of intentions to lavish you in love for an eternal destiny of holiness and great joy in his presence. If he marked your destiny out in eternity past for eternity future, then surely, beloved, surely you can trust him with your earthly good right now. And you have to drink all of this rich glory in so that you can look at that very real trouble that you have facing you. And say what no eye has seen, what no ear has heard, no mind has imagined, what God has prepared for those who love him. Try to imagine it. That's not discouraging the use of your imagination, that verse. Try to imagine. And then be floored by the reality that the living God says you can't even dream up how magnificent a plan he's working. Your carriage may be broken, beloved. But we're just a mile away from our inheritance. We're almost home. So keep on praising God. All the way home because of the glorious grace of our loving Lord Jesus. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for such wonderful, wonderful love. What wondrous love is this? Oh my soul, oh my soul What wondrous love you have showered upon us. Would you help us? Help us to praise you. Even as we sung earlier To thee, great one in three, the highest praises be. Hence evermore thy sovereign majesty, may we in glory see and to eternity love and adore. Would you help us this morning, Father, to love and adore you and praise you for such a great inheritance And even as we persevere through frustrations and trials and uncertainties, we pray that you would anchor us in that deep and eternal love with which you have loved us in Christ. It's in his name that we pray. Amen.