Good morning, brothers and sisters. Good to be with you once again to share God's word. A good text. Before we get there though, I'm going to pray one more time. So please pray with me. Then we'll dive into Psalm 27. Lord, there's none like you. That's why we need you. And that's why we need you now as we come to your word and we ask that you would be with us, that you would help us to see you clearly. And then follow you with joy and with hope. Use your word to convict us, correct us, to change us, comfort us, and to help us to look more like your Son Jesus Christ. We ask in his name. Amen. When I was a kid, I was a big fan of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles. You heard of them? I watched all the cartoons, I had the pajamas and outfits. I had the toys And my parents, being the loving parents that they are, even bought me a life-size doll of Raphael that I could have in my room And that was all good until it got dark and it was nighttime. And Raphael did not take his eyes off of me. So it didn't last very long. My parents eventually had to pick him up, had to get rid of it, because I was afraid of him. We all have things that make us afraid, don't we? Kids, maybe you fear the dark, or maybe you fear bugs. I mean adults fear bugs too, like Zakadas, maybe. Fear is a normal part of all of our lives, isn't it? But what are you afraid of Maybe your fears are a bit more rational, or maybe a bit more grown up. Maybe you fear rejection. Or you fear ending up alone and by yourself. Maybe you fear that your marriage won't make it Maybe you fear that you won't ever get married. Maybe you fear that you're gonna mess up your kids if you haven't already messed them up Maybe you fear change. Maybe you fear an upcoming move. Maybe you fear the upcoming presidential election. Maybe you fear the future. Maybe you fear an upcoming doctor's visit or an upcoming meeting with a boss. Or maybe you fear death. These fears can't be done away with by simply picking them up and taking them out of the room, can they? They require much more work, much more effort. So then that means what should we do if we're God's people and we are afraid? What should we do with our fears? In light of that, please meet me in Psalm chapter 27, which is on page 460 in the Black Bibles Around You. If you're new to reading the Bible, you can pick that Bible up and take it home with you. We're in the book of Psalms, which is around the middle of the Bible. So if you open it to the middle, you should be able to find it, more or less. We're in Psalm chapter 27 for this day. We've been going through the Psalms, this section of the Psalms for the last several weeks in the life of our church. And today we find another Psalm of David King David, the former shepherd boy who became the king of Israel. And what we will see in this psalm, that David is afraid. He's in fear. He has rational or grown-up fears. He fears enemies. He fears evildoers. He fears his foes. He fears violence. He fears the day of trouble. He talks all about all of that in the song. But more than his fears, David speaks in Psalm 27 of his God, of his Lord. And he cries out to him, and then hears how the Lord responds to him. And that response changes his view and perspective. And we pray by God's grace that that will help us change our perspective as well. Let me read the text for us, Psalm chapter 27. This is God's word. And it reads. The Lord is my light and my salvation. Whom shall I fear? The Lord is the stronghold of my life. Of whom shall I be afraid? When evildoers assail me to eat up my flesh, my adversaries and foes, it is they who stumble and fall. Though an army encamp against me, my heart shall not fear. The war arise against me, yet I will be confident. One thing I have asked of the Lord that I will seek after That I may dwell in the house of the Lord all of the days of my life, to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord and to inquire in his temple. For he will hide me in his shelter in the day of trouble. He will conceal me under the cover of his tent. He will lift me high upon a rock. And now my head shall be lifted up above my enemies all around me, and I will offer in his tent sacrifices with shouts of joy. I will sing and make melody to the Lord Hear, O Lord, when I cry aloud, be gracious to me and answer me. You have said, seek my face My heart says to you, your face, Lord, do I seek. Hide not your face from me Turn not your servant away in anger, O you who have been my help. Cast me not off. Forsake me not, O God of my salvation. My father and my mother have forsaken me, but the Lord will take me in. Teach me your way, O Lord, and lead me on a level path because of my enemies. Give me not up to the will of my adversaries, for false witnesses have risen against me and they breathed out violence. I believe that I shall look upon the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living Wait for the Lord. Be strong and let your heart take courage. Wait for the Lord. Here's the main point for our time together in Psalm 27, if you're taking notes this morning. And it's simply this: when you're afraid, seek the Lord's face. When you're afraid, seek the Lord's face. Psalm 27 is kind of like climbing up a mountain. And I kind of think of that when I read this passage, and I think that's what David's doing in verses 1 through 6. He's getting up to that mountain peak of verses 7 and 8. Where he talks about seeking the Lord's face. But he has to get there. And what we're going to do as we go over this passage together, we're going to answer questions. Kind of climb up that mountain with David as we answer the first question, why should we seek his face? Verses 1 through 6. We'll camp out on seeking the Lord's face in verses 7 and 8 and think about what that means. And then lastly, as we think through verses 9 through 14, we'll answer the question. What happens when we seek the Lord's face? So we'll start with this first question we'll answer in the text. What should why should we seek his face? Here's the answer for you before we go through the passage again. Because he, meaning the Lord, is greater than all of our fears. He is greater than all of our fears. And I think we see that. That's the point that David is emphasizing here over Psalm 27. In fact, if you just let your eyes glaze over the entire chapter, you'll see that the Lord comes up over and over and over again. The Lord is mentioned by name or referred to over 20 times. In these 14 verses. Even here, this reminds us that the Lord is greater than David's fears, which means he's greater than our fears. Look again at verse 1 of the passage. The Lord is my light and my salvation, of whom shall I fear? The Lord is the stronghold of my life, of whom shall I be afraid? David likely prayed this prayer and said these words during a time where he was fearful, where he was afraid. He could have been afraid of a lot of different things. Commentators speculate what exactly was his fear at the moment. But I don't think that that's the point of this song. I think the point of this psalm is not David's fear, but David's Lord. The God over his fear. And that's why David starts this psalm by talking about the truth. The truth of the Lord Where he says things like, the Lord is light, which is true. And I think we can confirm that truth in other parts of Scripture In 1 John, for example, the Apostles of John says that God is light, and in him is no darkness at all. No shadows, no changing. God is light. He is holy. Right? David also refers to God's salvation The Lord is salvation, meaning that he is the one that delivers his people. He is the one that saves his people. Just as Jonah cried out from the belly of the fish when he said, salvation belongs to the Lord. So the Lord is light. The Lord is salvation. But what good are these truths, these theological rich truths, if we just take them and put them on the shelf somewhere And allow them to collect dust over time. And we don't actually apply it to our hearts and to our lives. That's what David is trying to do here because notice he doesn't say the Lord is light. He doesn't say the Lord is salvation. He doesn't say the Lord is the stronghold, even though those things are all true. He says the Lord is my light. The Lord is my salvation. The Lord is the stronghold of my life. He personalized it. He applies it to himself. And that's what we should do with God's word. The sweetness of that little word, my brings God's light and his salvation near to David in his time of need. And even think about stronghold. Strongholds referring to this fortress that you can't penetrate That you cannot take over. David's saying that I have that safety and security in my God In commenting on Psalm 27, Paul Tripp says the following. He says, It's never more important to preach to yourself the theology of the word of God than in those moments when life does not make any sense. He goes on to say Theology, properly handled, should not just define who God is, but it should redefine who you are and who we are as children of God. That's how we can rightly apply these truths to our lives. Brothers and sisters, as we spend time in God's Word, as we hear from His truth, let's rightly use it to define who God is. But also redefine who we are as his children. He is our light. He is our salvation. He is our stronghold. We are safe in him. And David is declaring that he is safe even in the midst of these enemies and these evildoers and these foes that he talks more about starting in verse 2. Where he says, when evildoers assail me to eat up my flesh, my adversaries and foes, it is they who stumble and fall. Though an army encamped against me, my heart shall not fear. The war arise against me, yet I will be confident. Just think of the graphic use of these words here, that this language that David is using. These evildoers, they want to eat up my flesh. It's not talking physically, but he's saying that they want to devour him. They want to make an end of him. He says they're like an army that's encamping around me. Now again, David did have a way with words, but he also knew a thing or two about war. So in saying that they're like an army of camps around me, I'm sure David had the picture of that in his mind as he wrote it or as he said it. But he says that these enemies, these people, these foes who want to seek after his life, who want to devour him, they will stumble and fall. And David is saying that he will remain confident in the Lord. And this confidence leads David to ask of the Lord. And we'll see that starting in verse 4. He asked for his presence. He asked for the Lord's protection and he also asked for the Lord's provision. Look at verse 4. He says, One thing I have asked for the Lord that I will seek after. That I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life. To gaze upon the beauty of the Lord and to inquire in his temple. This should remind us that even though our circumstances might be real, our fears might be true, just like David's fears and circumstances seem to be real, they are not truer than our God. The reality of our Lord is even truer. That's why we can go to Him. That's why we can desire to be with Him and desire to be in His presence. Because our God is the covenant-making and the covenant-keeping God. That's why in Psalm 27, all throughout the chapter, as you look at it, L-O-R-D is in all caps. David's referring to this personal covenant-making and covenant-keeping God. And this is the Lord that He seeks to dwell in His presence This should be the truth that we're applying to God and to his word. This should be the truth that we're applying to God as we go through trials and as we face times of suffering. You can even think about memorial stones, for example. These stones that God's people would have used so that they could look at it and they could remember exactly who God is and what He did. Let me encourage you if you don't have a memorial stone in your house, in your home, or in your room, something that you can look at and remember who God is and what He's done for you and what He's like. Then today might be a good day to start that. Parents in the room. You can even take opportunities where the Lord clearly shows up for you Stop everybody. Stop everything that you're doing. Sit your children down and tell them exactly how good the Lord has been to you. We need those reminders over and over and over again. And we have those reminders over and over and over again in God's word. This is the God that David is leaning on. This is the God that David is depending on, and that's why he asks to dwell in his presence. To gaze upon his beauty, to inquire of him in the temple. Look at verse 5. He gives some more answers as to why he seeks to do that. He says, for he will hide me in his shelter in the day of trouble. He will conceal me under the cover of his tent. He will lift me high upon a rock. And now my head shall be lifted up above my enemies all around me, and I will offer in his tent sacrifices. With shouts of joy, I will sing and make melody to the Lord. Isn't that beautiful? What a beautiful phrase! What a beautiful section of scripture. David's saying, I want to see you, Lord. I want to see your beauty. Remember, in David's day, the people would have gathered all together in the Lord's house or the Lord's dwelling place or the Lord's tent. To sing, to offer praises to him, to offer sacrifices to him. That's what he refers to in verse 6. But he also says that I want to dwell there every single day of my life. I think David is also pointing to not just the temporary dwelling place of God's people, but that eternal dwelling place. Where God's presence would not be fleeting, where you would not just have to show up at one point in time, where God would be with his people for all of his days, forever and ever. There Ultimately, David would not be hidden. David would be concealed and lifted up on a rock. David would be protected from all of his enemies past, present, and future, and he'll be able to dwell with the Lord forever and ever. Again, what a beautiful part of Scripture. But let's press in a little bit. Because again, you know your Bible, you know that David did not build the temple for God's people. His son did. And again, this word tent that's used here in verses 5 and 6, that's referring to a temporary dwelling place of God's presence. This thing of God's people in the wilderness. When the people made tents and God would go visit them. God's presence was not permanent in the tent. God would show up there And David at this point had no temple to regularly meet with the Lord. So he's longing to meet with the Lord. He's longing for this meeting place with the Lord to be something that's continual. and ongoing day after day after day. But I think David perhaps feels that the Lord's presence might be fleeting from him Might be a little bit distant. And I think that because this psalm does not stop at verse 6. If it did, you would have a beautiful psalm all by itself, wouldn't you? It would almost say enough. The Lord's my light and my salvation. Whom shall I fear? I want to dwell in the Lord's presence. Amen. The end. But that's not where it stops. In fact, some commentators think that this psalm, Psalm 27, is like the combination of two different psalms that were just for some reason thrown together. I don't think that's true either. Because if you if you listen through the psalm, if you read through the psalm, you see a big contrast between verses 1 through 6 and then verse 7. It's like, where did this crying out to the Lord come from? Well, just think about your own life. You might know what's true about the Lord. You might be able to retell it and recount it over and over again. You might even share it with other people. And yet, do your fears still remain at times? Do your trials persist at times? Does your suffering linger and endure season after season at times? I think many, if not most, or all of us, would say yes. They do. They're real. And yet God is real too. I think you can relate to that if you're here this morning and you you have that same sentiment. Maybe you're you're here right now and you've sung the songs that we've been Singing like the Lord is my salvation, I shall not fear when when the oceans rise against me. Beautiful, poetic. But do you feel that internally? Or do you feel like I'm still pretty afraid? Maybe you feel that the Lord is not responding to you. Maybe you feel like the Lord is distant. Maybe you feel like the Lord's presence in your life is kind of like those tents where his presence comes and then it flees And you don't feel that he's with you right now. Or maybe you've occupied your heart and your mind too much on what you fear. Have you watched the news too much this week? Have you focused too much on the things that you're afraid of? Maybe you've thought too much about your retirement. Maybe you've thought too much even about your physical health. Maybe you've thought long and hard about how you can protect yourself and preserve your life in this world as long as you can. Or maybe you're just hurt because you've gone to the Lord in prayer. You believe all these things are true about God. You've sought after Him. And yet because the world around you seems unchanged, because your world seems unchanged, you feel like he's abandoned you. I think sometimes we can believe that if our theology is good and right, if we believe the right things about God And if we're even like David, David, where we're honest about our circumstances. We have trials, he has enemies, he has foes, we have trials of our own. We think we have the right theology and the right expression of our words to the Lord. Then that's going to clear everything up. We've learned whatever the Lord seeks to teach us, and therefore we can speed through the trial that we're in. That's not true, is it? It's not. It's not how it works. That doesn't mean we shouldn't be honest. We can learn from David here. That doesn't mean we don't need good theology and the to know the truth about God. That's what we're learning here also from David. We need both of those things. But we need to remember that since these things are true That we can then do like David does starting in verse 7, and we can cry out to the Lord. We can cry out to the Lord and ask him to answer. And that's exactly what the Lord, what David does to the Lord in verse 7. Again, starting here, this is where where David knows about the Lord starts to get applied. That's where it gets. Meat on its bones, as it were. That's where he cries out to the Lord. He's told the Lord about his circumstances. He's told him about who he is. He talks about wanting to dwell in his presence. But maybe you didn't notice Until verse 7, David does not talk directly to the Lord. He talks about the Lord. And that's not the same thing. Starting in verse 7 is when he actually cries out to the Lord, where he says, Hear, O Lord, when I cry aloud, be gracious to me and answer me. Have you prayed a prayer like that recently? Like God, I just want you to listen to me. I don't feel like you're listening. God, I want you to answer. I don't see any answers, I don't see any change. Do you care? Answer me. We talked a lot about lament several months ago as we went through the book of Habakkuk. But remember that lamenting is going to the Lord with our grief, with our pain, with our doubts, with our fears, with our sorrows, and trusting that the Lord will respond when and how he sees. fit. It's how Pastor Esau McCulley says it. We must trust that God can handle these emotions. God can listen to our cries, and as the one who's sovereign over history He gets to choose how he's going to respond. But how would the Lord respond to David's plea in Psalm 27? How is the Lord responding to your cries for help, to your pleas for mercy, for your relief? Maybe you've heard Christians say things like, God answers prayer in one of three ways. It's either a yes or no or not now. Have you heard something like that? God answers prayer, yes, no, or not now. Yeah, I think there's some truth to that But what if the Lord's response to your prayers is not an answer but an invitation? What if instead of a yes or a no or not now, the Lord's actually saying, I've got something better to Seek my face. That's the point of Psalm chapter 27. That's the point of lamenting in prayer. That's the purpose of prayer. That's the hope of Christianity. And the aim of our lives, not to go to God to get our answers, not to go to God to get our stuff, not to go to God to get relief or rest or help or hope. We go to God to get God And that's exactly what David gets in verse 8. Look at verse 8. You have said, seek my face. My heart says to you, Your face, Lord, do I seek Again, David is seeking after answers, which is good. He's seeking after truth, which is good. He wants to dwell in God's presence, which is good. And what does God say to all of that? He says, see That's an expression of intimacy. That's a desire to be with him Desire to know him. He's saying, I want you to know me. I want you to fellowship with me. I want you to dwell with me. I want you to be with me. I want you to long for me. This language of seeking the Lord's face is used all throughout the scriptures. For example, in 2 Chronicles 7, where it says, If my people who are called by my name humble themselves and pray and seek my face. And turn from their wicked ways, then I will hear from heaven and forgive their sins and heal their land. Or even in Psalm 24, like we heard about several weeks ago Who shall ascend to the hill of the Lord? And who shall stand in his holy place? He who has clean hands and a pure heart, who does not lift up his soul to what is false and does not swear deceitfully You will receive blessing from the Lord and righteousness from the God of his salvation. Such is the generation of those who seek him, who seek the face of God, of the God of Jacob. So seeking God's face is a call to holiness, it's a call to humility, and it's a call to hope all at the same time. But as we learned from John Malone through Psalm 24 several weeks ago, David didn't do that. As we have learned through other parts of the scripture, even scripture that David seems to be referring to, where he talks about these tents and he talks about hiding me in your shelter. He's referring to Moses. Well, Moses didn't do that either. Moses didn't seek his face completely. In fact, the Bible teaches that no one can see God's face and live. Again, he's light. He's holy. There's no darkness in him, but there's darkness in us. So how can it be possible? For David to even pray a prayer like that. How can it be possible for us to seek God's face? Our sins deserve death and eternity apart from our holy God. And the Bible teaches that not only that we in our lives have enemies, but that we are enemies of God naturally. And that we need an intervention. We need a mediator so that we can become friends of God. And that mediator is the Lord Jesus Christ. The light of the world who came to this dark world, though evildoers assailed him, though he was lied about, though an army of evildoers encamped against him, though he was lifted up on a cross. He did it for us. And Jesus died on the cross for the sins that we've committed against God. And Jesus rose from the grave, defeating his enemies and ours of sin and death and hell forever, so that by faith in him, we, his enemies, could become his friends. And we could walk with him through all of the days of our lives. And so that words that we heard in our scripture reading could actually be Be true of us, where it says, For God, who said, Let light shine out of darkness, has shone into our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. If you're here and you're not a Christian, you will one day face Jesus. And if you do not repent, if you do not turn from your sin, that will not be a good day for you. Because you will only see him as the just judge that he is. But today, the Bible says, is the day of salvation. And today you can put your faith in him. Today you can stop being his enemy and you can become his friend by submitting your life to the Lord Jesus Christ. You can do that today. We'd love to talk to you more about that. If you want to know more of what that means. And brothers and sisters. Do you know that you can seek God's face today? Right now, because God sought after you Are you afraid? Are you weary? Are you anxious? Are you burdened? Are you asking of the Lord His answer, among other things, is seek my face God wants to change us more than he wants to change our circumstances. God wants us to know him more than he wants us to know the answers to all of the questions that we have about life. Maybe you want to seek his face, but you're if you're honest, you don't really know what that means. It sounds good, but what does that look like? Some time ago, my son Timothy was really into Teslas, like the car Teslas. And every time we were in the car for like maybe a year, he would point out and call out how many Teslas he saw. Or as he called it, Teslas. Every time we were in a car, without fail, there were Teslas around. Now maybe that's just because people in the DMV like their Teslas. That could be true Right? But the reason why he was able to see them is because he was looking for them every single time. And I think that's a lot like seeking the Lord's face. As you look at your own life, as you look at your circumstances, as you look at your trials, as you look at your fears, are you looking for the Lord? Are you pointing out when the Lord is at work in your life and in your heart? Are you going to Him? When you open his word, are you looking for him or are you looking for answers? When you pray, are you looking for him or are you looking for a solution? When you gather with your brothers and sisters in Christ, are you looking for him or are you looking for a pick-me-up? God wants us to want Him. God wants us to seek after what is best for us, and God is what's best for us. That's why He says, seek my face. Something I think we can all do today is just take a quick stock of your recent prayers Maybe if you journal, you can look at your journal, or if you just think about things that you've prayed about over the last several weeks. Just think about what you've prayed about Maybe your prayers sound a lot like Lord help me or Lord give me. And those are great prayers to pray. That's what David even prays in the rest of the song. But add to that prayer, Lord, help me to seek your face in the midst of this right now. We can all add that to our prayer life. Because something happens to David as he seeks the Lord's face, and something happens to us as he seeks the Lord's face, as we seek the Lord's face. Second question: What happens when we seek his face? Two answers from the rest of the passage. When we seek his face, we will see his mercy. Look at verse 9. Hide not your face from me. Turn not your servant away in anger, O you who have been my help. Cast me not off, forsake me not, O God of my salvation. That seems strange. He says, seek my face, Lord, your face I will seek. And then he says, hide not your face from me. Because when he sees God's face, he's seeing his holiness. He's seeing his goodness. He's seeing his righteousness. And he's saying, Lord, I don't deserve any of this. I'm a sinner before you. I stand condemned before you in and of myself. And in the face of God's holiness should come our humility. Acknowledging our sin, acknowledging where we've strayed, understanding that there's nothing in us that would make God love us, but yet He does love us So we can cast all of our cares onto him, including the sin that we're carrying around. We should be cast away from his presence, and yet he invites us into his presence We're reminded of this as we pray during the prayer of confession, as we gather every week. But let me encourage you: you don't have to wait until you get here to confess your sins to the Lord. Through faith in Jesus Christ, you have direct access to him all the time, including right now. And when the Lord shows you your sin, that's an opportunity for him to be merciful to you If you turn towards him and not away from him. Because in doing so, we're reminded that we are unworthy and yet We are loved by God. We've sinned and yet we are saved and secure in God. We've strayed from Him and yet He seeks after us over and over and over again. And this helps us to have the right view of God and also the right view of ourselves as his children. Look at verse 10. It says for my father and my mother have forsaken me, but the Lord will take me in. Our commentators differ as far as what this verse means. Some of them think, well, I don't know that this actually happened to David. But whether this has happened to you or not, you understand how devastating it is. Abandonment from a mother or father is devastating. But God's word teaches that He's a father to the fatherless. And that we are in Christ. We are in his family. We are dearly loved children of God. That's what it says in 1 John 3. See what great love the Father has given to us, that we should be called children of God, and so we are Christian, you are his before you're anything else. You belong to him before you belong to anyone else And our God is no absentee father. He doesn't just pay the bills and check out. He doesn't just send us money on a holiday. He's not just there in body, but not there mentally. No, he's active and he's present and he guides us as his people. Look at verse 11. David says, teach me your way, O Lord, and lead me on a level path because of my enemies. Give me not up to the will of my adversaries, for false witnesses have risen against me, and they breathe out violence. He's asking for guidance. He's asking for grace because those same enemies that he mentioned back in verses 1, 2, and 3 are still there. His fears are still there. His circumstances have not changed. But since David is now seeking the Lord's face He's not after the Lord's hand. He's after the Lord's heart. Brothers and sisters, please don't misunderstand. Me, it is good and right for us to take every care that we have to the Lord, to ask him to heal us, to ask him to help us, to ask him to give us rest, to ask him to give us relief. These prayers fill the pages of Scripture. But when we're after the Lord's heart, when we're seeking his face, we will be content in his presence, regardless of what the circumstances might be. And when we seek his face, we'll see that he's merciful, but we'll also see that he's good. That's the second answer to the second question. When we seek his face, we will see his mercy, but also we will see his goodness. Look at verse 13 Where David says, I believe that I shall look upon the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living. David talks about seeing the Lord's goodness, not just eternally But in the here and now. That's why he says, in the land of the living. And that implies that when we seek the Lord's face, we will see his goodness, even if there's not good around us. Again, David's fears and his foes seem to still be active and present by the end of this psalm. The difference is his view of God and his view of his circumstances. And goodness is found in the very face, in the very presence of our Lord. That's why Psalm 119, verse 68 says, you are good and you do good. Teach me your statues. God is good to us even when the darkness of this world needs to cloud our vision of Him. It's a children's book. Some of you may know it. You may have read it. If you're going to read it, I suggest you bring a Kleenex with you. It's called The Moon Is Always Around. And in the book, the father is trying to teach lessons to his young son. His dad asks him questions when he's looking outside. Sorry, I'm spoiling the book for you, but it's still worth the read He says, why does the moon look like a banana? He says, son, the moon is always round. And that becomes a theme in his household. But then the family starts to have trials of their own A parent's greatest fear, they lose their child. The child that they were longing for, the child that they were expecting. And at the funeral, the father gave the eulogy. And he asked his son, Do you know what it means when I've been telling you for months that the moon is always round? And his son says, the moon is always round, means that God is always good. And God's goodness, like the moon, is often obscured by the darkness around. Us in our lives, by the trials that we face, by the fears that we have. Sometimes we only see glimpses of God's goodness Sometimes God's goodness only looks to us like a shadow or like even a banana. But let me remind you, brothers and sisters, God is always good to us. And when we see his face, we will see his goodness, even if it takes away. While for us to see it. Look at verse 14. Wait for the Lord. Be strong and let your heart take courage. Wait for the Lord Why in there? Well, I think because if we want to see the Lord's goodness. We need to be willing to look and wait as we look. It says in the verse here in verse 14: be strong and let your heart take courage. That doesn't mean pick yourself up, that means remind yourself of what is true. Remind yourself of who is true. And David has already done that throughout the passage. David has already gone to the Lord directly and to seek his face. And now he's saying, I am willing to wait. To see the Lord's goodness because he is good. And maybe you're still waiting right now. Maybe whatever fears came to mind at the beginning of this sermon are still there, are still active, are still present. In this psalm, it seems like David is still waiting. It seems like his fears remain. But he reminds himself Here in this last verse, and we should be reminded of what waiting actually looks like. It looks like waiting in strength and hope. Hope. Looks like waiting actively. Kids in the room. What do waiters and waitresses at restaurants do? What do they do, Audrey? They serve, right? But if a waiter or waitress is a good one, what are they doing in between those times? They're watching. They're waiting. They're seeking when they can step in. They're seeking when they need to respond. They're not just sitting back passively. They're waiting. It's active. It's present. And that's how the Lord called us to wait on his goodness. That's how he called us to wait on him. To be ready, to be sober, to be alert, so that we can respond to how he's calling us to do. to be, so that we can honor him with our response, so that we can act in faith, so that we can say and live out the truths of these psalms. Like the Lord is my salvation, whom shall I fear? The stronghold of my life, of whom shall I be afraid? If you're still waiting on the Lord, wait and hope Wait and watch. Look for God's goodness. Seek His face. If you look long enough, you will find it. So in closing, what are you afraid of? Are you still afraid? What have you done with those fears? If those fears persist, brothers and sisters, don't just seek a change. Don't just seek an answer. Seek the Lord's face and keep seeking Him Until your faith becomes sight. Lord, you are our light, our salvation, our stronghold, our strength, our redeemer And yet, fears and trials and suffering persist even now. Lord, we pray that we would be a people. Whose default, whose reflex is to seek your face. That we will long for you more than we long for changes. And we pray that you would answer that heart desire by giving us you over and over again. Lord, we pray that you would lift us up, help us to see you clearly, and seek after you continually. In Jesus' name. Amen.