Ephesians chapter 5. It's been a minute since we were in Ephesians chapter 5, November 30th, 2025, if I'm not mistaken. So let's get reacquainted with this dear, sweet letter that Paul wrote to the Christians in the first century in the city of Ephesus. I'm going to read Ephesians 5, verses 22 through 33. Wives, submit to your own husbands as to the Lord. For the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church, his body, and is himself its savior Now, as the church submits to Christ, so also wives should submit in everything to their husbands Husbands, love your wives, as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her, that he might sanctify her having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word, so that he might present the church to himself in splendor, without spot or wrinkle or any such thing, that she might be holy and without blemish In the same way, husbands should love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself For no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, just as Christ does the church, because we are members of his body. Therefore, a man shall leave his father and mother, and hold fast to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh This mystery is profound. And I am saying that it refers to Christ and the church. However, let each one of you love his wife as himself And let the wife see that she respects her husband. This is God's word. Thanks be to God Let's ask for his help as we think about these words together. Heavenly Father, we ask for your blessing. We need your blessing if we would get any help. From this time together. It is the Spirit who gives life. The flesh is no help at all But we thank you that the words that you've given to us, they are spirit and life. And so we pray that you would do a good life-giving work in our midst as we consider these words. We pray that you would sanct us, sanctify us all in the truth, trusting that your word is truth. We ask for this all in Jesus' name. Amen. How did that reading from God's Word sit with you today? I mean the one I just read. Have you approached this passage of scripture already instinctively? Like I mistakenly did earlier in the week, as a passage that is first and foremost for you and about you. Husbands. Uh was their conviction, as I read, over perhaps your shortcomings in leading your bride sacrificially and affectionately? Were there murmurings, perhaps, in your heart of ways that Your wife could perhaps be more meek and respectful and therefore enabling your leadership to flourish in the home. Wives. Uh was there some conviction, perhaps, over your shortcomings to respect and show honor to your husband as this passage calls you to? Were there murmurings in your heart? Of ways that your husband could maybe make himself more submission-worthy? Were there immediately some concerns qualifications or clarifications that you were desirous of right away in everything What about situations of of abuse? As to the Lord, he's not the Lord Maybe you're here with an unbelieving spouse and you wonder, what does this have to do with me? Does it have the same thing? Is it how does this work if I'm married to an unbeliever? Maybe husbands and wives, there was gratefulness that maybe after a season of difficulty you both feel like things are really clicking in your marriage. And you're doing better than ever. It's not all gloom and doom as we come to Ephesians 5, you know. Maybe you're happy to be married. That's great. Kids, teens. Maybe you're like, okay. I I mean I guess mom and dad need a sermon every once in a while, but like, boring. Singles, did you wish perhaps you'd been a bit more forward thinking in knowing the sermon passage? for this morning. Maybe this was a nice time to visit another local church in the area, like the ones we pray for often in our services. I don't want to suggest that all of those responses that you might have had are are bad or sinful But I would commend to you that in most circumstances, and I do want to underline most, there could be Some of you here today who are at at the edge hanging by a thread and you need to deal with something and you need to come to me or another pastor today and you should do that. For whatever reason you feel that you might need to do that. I think for most of us, in most of our circumstances. The place to begin with this passage is not you and your circumstances. How you're doing, how you're feeling. What you make of the practicality or the wisdom of these commandments, what you think your spouse needs to hear about it? That shouldn't be at the forefront of our thinking. I was guilty of this myself, as I said. I came to this passage mistakenly earlier in the week. We were on our prayer the prayer call on zoom on Wednesday morning and I think I said something to those who were on the call to the effect of well I'm about to be you know next few days I'm about to be digging into Ephesians 5 gonna be a challenging and convicting few days for me Now that again, that's not bad. As I prayed earlier, Scripture is profitable for teaching and correction and reproof and training in righteousness But that was my instinctive thought about what I was going to experience as I began to study God's Word because I had forgotten something. Something which I was reminded of as I began to study the passage, and that is that these instructions to husbands and wives don't come out of nowhere They're in chapter 5. There were no Paul didn't write with chapter numbers, but it's a good way into the letter. And he did not write this letter to help a newlywed couple move out in their first months or years of marriage. It was written, this letter that we call Ephesians was written to a group of Christians Some of whom I presume were married, and others of whom I presume were single, some of whom were old, perhaps widowed, and others who were young, children, teenagers, unmarried. And he wrote to this group of Christians in the midst of a crooked and twisted culture Broken, confusing world that they lived in. I described this in a sermon a year ago like being handed a trash bag full of puzzle pieces and not being able to see the picture and then being told put it together And that's what it was like for these young Christians in the city of Ephesus. When I say young, I mean new Christians, whether they were young or old physically. Their lives and their worlds had been upended in the best possible way by the gospel. But still they were living in this crooked and twisted world. And they needed instruction and encouragement about how to live their lives, how to walk in a way, and to have hope and confidence in a world mindful of the eternal cosmic plan that God had graciously brought them into through their union with the exalted head and ruler of the universe, the Lord Jesus Christ. And that's what this passage is about, also. We're not going to think rightly about marriage unless we put that first. And that's what I want to try to do this morning as we come to this passage of scripture. I'm going to take two Sundays on this passage of Scripture, but I'm basically preaching one long sermon. It's just going to be stretched out over seven days. So it's important if you are here now and you know that you will not be around next week, I'd very much be glad for you to listen to that sermon. If someone is here next week, I will communicate to them. You really need to hear the message from last week It's one sermon stretched out over two weeks. And we're not going to start this week with the practicalities that maybe most naturally come to mind when we read this passage, but we're going to start with the Deeper roots of marriage that yield the sweet fruits of marriage that this text commands of followers of Christ And the heart of what I want to tell you this morning is actually what I said just a minute ago. If you're looking for a main idea statement, this is it. You can't get marriage right until you put the gospel first. You can't get marriage right until you put the gospel first. And I think there are two ways that we see that specifically in this passage. So I'd like to suggest to you two roots. Two big, strong, durable roots to a faithful Christian marriage. And those roots are, and these will be the two points of our message: the mystery of Christ and the ministry of the Holy Spirit. You can't get marriage right until unless you make these two realities preeminent the mystery of Christ and the ministry of the Holy Spirit. You with me? I didn't say say amen. I'm just asking if you're with me. So as Paul concludes this passage, expounding upon the duties of husbands and wives in marriage He quotes from the Old Testament. A lot of you probably know that, but he actually doesn't say it as directly. Like he doesn't say as it's written, as he oftentimes does when he quotes from the Old Testament. He just gets right into it. But verse 31 is a quotation from Genesis 2, where Moses describes to us the very first marriage And draws out a principle that is timeless about marriage from that very first marriage between Adam and Eve. Look at verse 31. Therefore, a man shall leave his father and mother and hold fast to his wife and the two shall become one flesh. This mystery, Paul says, is profound, and I am saying that it refers to Christ and the church Now, the mystery that Paul speaks of there in verse 32 is that from its inception with Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden. The covenant of marriage was intended to paint a picture for us of the union that God would establish with his people through Jesus Christ. It's a mystery. When Bible writers, when Paul uses the word mystery, he's talking about something that was hidden for a long time, but has now been revealed. It's a mystery because Adam and Eve were married thousands of years before Jesus ever set foot on earth in human flesh But from the very beginning, from the very first marriage, the design in creating the institution of marriage was to point ultimately to this union between the Lord Jesus Christ and his bride, the church. In God's heart, in God's plan, the gospel was first. And marriage was given way back in the Garden of Eden. Marriage was intended to teach us something about the gospel. But when he calls this a mystery, referring to Christ in the church, I think he means more than just that. You see, this word mystery is a big word in the book of Ephesians. He's been writing along these lines from the very beginning of the letter. Do you remember it? I know it was more than a minute ago. It was last January when we started studying Ephesians chapter 1 But he's writing to those who are in Christ. That means they've trusted in Christ, they're believers in Christ, and they're in Ephesus. And they're seeking to understand what it means to be followers of Jesus. And he begins the letter by painting this amazing picture of God's grace that has reached out to them and how in the mystery of his purpose He is fulfilling his eternal plan to unite all things. And if we wonder how big and vast is all things, he means all things in heaven and things on earth. He's uniting all things under one head, the Lord Jesus Christ. Why don't you actually just turn there? Turn back to chapter one. I've just been paraphrasing it, but why don't you see this in your own Bible there in chapter one? Look at chapter 1, verse 7. In him. All right, kids, I'm going to draw you in for. Kids, who's in him? Who's him? Jesus, always a good answer, and it's true in this case, Jesus. In Jesus, we have redemption through his blood. The forgiveness of our trespasses according to the riches of his grace. So we have personally been rescued. All of us who have believed upon Jesus Christ, we have been rescued from the guilt and punishment of sins, praise God, but that's not all. We have forgiveness of our trespasses according to the riches of his grace, which he lavished upon us in all wisdom and insight, making known to us the mystery of his will, according to his purpose, which he set forth in Christ as a plan. for the fullness of time to unite all things in Christ, things in heaven, and things on earth. That's the puzzle box That's where this whole created world is going. All things, things in heaven and things on earth, all being united in this This wonderful cosmic harmony, all things in heaven and things on earth. And he's made us, he goes on to say in this letter, Jew and Gentile. Bitterly divided enemies have been made one, one new man through their union with Jesus Christ, and through that one new man He's now teaching the people how to live, how to walk in a way, Ephesians 4, verse 1. He's calling them how to walk in a way that is worthy of that calling. Of being rescued from sin and being included in God's cosmic plan to unite all things in heaven and things on earth. That we would know how to walk in such a way in a broken society. In Ephesus in the first century and in the DMV in the 21st century, that that our society, that our communities and neighborhoods might see something of the plan and purpose of God in putting together all of these broken pieces in a fantastic mosaic that will one day reach its completion in the new heavens and the new earth. And so it's very, very important. And I cannot say the word very enough times in this sermon right now It is very, very important. It is the most important thing to say about marriage, always, and to everyone. It's why no earthly society or Supreme Court or debased culture can legitimately tamper with or redefine it according to its own standards of morality. It's very important that you realize when Paul comes to chapter 5 and expounds upon the calling of husbands and wives, he has not forgotten all of that to move into something else more ordinary. More mundane, more practical in day-to-day. No, this mystery is profound. Husbands loving their wives Wives submitting to their husbands, this is a part of a cosmic profound mystery. I'm saying it refers to Christ and the church. That's why we can't mess with marriage. He's saying that the institution of marriage, every marriage, your marriage exists to preview that. That will help you, husbands. That will help you, wives. To be faithful to your callings, to lead and love like Christ, and to respect and submit like the church. You might not always be thinking about that. When there are dishes to be done, or devotions to be led, or decisions to be made about this or that expenditure But that's the reality. You're caught up in God's cosmic plan to be a movie trailer to the world of how he's going to unite everything together in Christ. And that's not just a good reminder for husbands and wives. I believe it is a good reminder to all of us, whether you are here married or single. That your identity in Christ is not tied to being married or single. But it's tied to being made as an image-bearer of God. and then as a fallen sinner being redeemed and remade by the power of the Holy Spirit through the work of Jesus. One of the great preoccupations of Christian culture, I might dare say. I'm not saying it's CBC culture, I'm just saying having been a Christian for 26 years now. One of the great preoccupations of Christian culture is that if you're not in a relationship, you're not really anything at all. And we're so focused. on marriage because we see how it's debased in our culture and we want to contend for it and that's right and that's good. But a person's identity, a person's worth or value in the church is not tied to their marital status. If you never marry on earth, single brothers and sisters, or if you do marry and you find out after a year or five or eight or twenty-one that it's not all that you really hoped it would be. You are a part of the ultimate marriage that every human marriage is just a faint, dim foreshadowing of. Isn't that just what Paul, by the way, as best we know, a single man expounding upon marriage Isn't that just what Paul is reveling in throughout this passage? There is a call on husbands to live in a certain way, and on wives to live in a certain way. We will get there. Lord willing, next Sunday. But throughout, do you see how he writes to all the church? All the Christians in Ephesus It's not a marriage pamphlet. He's writing to all the Christians, married in Christ ones in Ephesus, single in Christ ones in Ephesus, and he's writing to them of Christ's marriage to his bride, the church. That heavenly marriage is the root of practical obedience in their and in our earthly marriages. You see what Paul says here. Look at verse 22. Wives, submit to your own husbands as to the Lord. What Lord is that? That is Christ, who is the head of the church, his body, who is himself its savior. Wives, your role in the marriage is about your Christ. It's about your Jesus. Husbands, love your wives As Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her That he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word, so that he might present the church to himself in splendor, Without spot or wrinkle or any such thing, that she might be holy and without blemish. Love her husbands as your own body. Why? Because that's the way Christ, who is her head and your head, loves his own body. He is so united with his church, with the men and women. who make up his body that in loving the church it is as though he is loving his own body. Do you see what I'm saying? That you can't get marriage right until you put the gospel first. That's what Paul is doing in this section of scripture. He's putting the gospel first. He gave himself up for her. If you're a husband in this room who has believed upon the Lord Jesus, then you're in this her If you're a wife in this room who has believed in Jesus, you're a part of this her. If you're a single man or woman, and you've believed upon the Lord Jesus Christ, you're a part of this her. If you're a six or eight or eleven or fourteen-year-old child and you've believed upon the Lord Jesus Christ, you're a part of this her. He gave himself up for her. His love had moved him to give even before he was nailed to the cross. He gave himself up when he gave up the praises of angelic hosts, which he'd known from all eternity, and took on the form of a humble, submissive servant. Lest anyone here should think that the submission role is an undignified one. It's a Jesus role too He gave himself up to physical exhaustion and hunger and thirst, to being misunderstood and mistreated and maligned and falsely accused, and he took the form of a servant, and he became obedient to the point of death, even to death on a cross. He gave himself to have his hands and feet pierced, as we sang about earlier, to having a crown of thorns pressed upon his head, to being bruised and beaten and bloodied, enduring the punishment for your sins and my sins against God, so that all who look to Christ for salvation, so that all who trust him could be forgiven and washed and sanctified and united with him in eternal marital ecstasy. He gave himself up for her. That was the cost necessary in order to cleanse his own from the defilement and stain and filth of sin. Kids, did you know that sin stinks? I had the joy of a husband last night listening to my wife read God's word to my son. And I heard her say from Psalm 38, because they've just been reading through the Psalms before bed. I heard her read to him, words of King David, my wounds stink and fester because of my foolishness. Sin stinks. Kids, you ever open up the trash can, you go throw something away, and something's been rotting, some old food's been sitting in there, and it just like, ugh, it almost makes you want to gag. That's the way sin is. In the stomach, if you will. I'm not saying God has a stomach, but you know what I mean. Of God. Sin soils us. It makes us dirty It uglifies us. I'm not sure if that's a word. Maybe I just made it up. But here we are talking about Jesus who has sanctified and purified and is beautifying a bride. We need to understand that the backdrop of that is that sin uglifies. In the way that a five-year-old cannot really comprehend the pain of a spouse who is cheated on. All of us as humans cannot adequately comprehend the ugliness of what it is to prefer our own way above God's, ever, even one time. We do get little tastes of it in the outrage that we experience towards the perpetrator of some unthinkable act of abuse or injustice towards an innocent victim. And that righteous human indignation and revulsion that we feel is just a drop in the ocean of divine disgust. Towards every sinful act and thought and word and desire that you and I have ever experienced. And so is it not to be marveled at? Is it not to be wondered at that we could actually show up here on March 22nd, 2026, singing about our sins, they are many, his mercy is more. That is amazing. That the one under whom the whole created cosmos is being subjected to would give himself up for her. For that bride, for people like you and people like me. What must it have been like for the object of the Father's eternal adoration? to be counted as a worm and a maggot in God's sight, in order that such disgraced and damnable people like us would be counted as. would be nourished and cherished as, would be loved and delighted in as the bride of Christ. If you're here this morning and you've not put your faith in Christ, if you're visiting with us today, or perhaps you're a kid and you've heard these things again and again and again, but you've never really understood how much sin uglifies you. You can come to Jesus today, and you can be washed in the cleansing flood of his all-sufficient grace today. You can make that love your own. You can step into the goodness of Jesus' forever love today by believing upon him. There's nothing you need to do. There's nothing that you can do but receive that love as a gift to you, hearing his word and receiving it with empty hands, because there's nothing you could bring to give to him for it. And I urge you and appeal you to come today and do that. Brothers and sisters, this is what we must put first to get marriage right. If you're here and you are married, Jesus is not a part of your marriage ultimately to give you a great marriage Your marriage is here. Your marriage exists to be a picture of that great Jesus who loved you and who gave himself for you. And in this husbands and wives, we actually have a calling to our single brothers and sisters, including our children. If we don't cultivate those kinds of marriages, godly marriages, Christ-centered marriages, then we're lying to the singles around us about the very gospel that we say that we love. If you are here and you are single, this matters for you too Many of you singles, and I'm thinking of you young singles. I'm thinking of you singles with a teen at the end of your age right now. And maybe even younger, if you're hearing me. I'm not stupid and some things don't change over time. So I'm pretty confident that when young men get together with other young men, they talk about young ladies. And when young ladies get together with young ladies, they talk about young men. And I'm just commending to you, young men and young ladies, if you have desires to be married. What kinds of things are you looking for in someone that you might marry? What's most important Cute guys and pretty girls, they're fine. But I just want you to know, kids and teens That as long as God gives you life, you're gonna end up married to someone who looks like your grandma or your grandpa Chemistry is fine. Kissing is not the ultimate thing. Beauty fades. Character is what lasts. So when you get together, I want to caution you Don't be getting together talking about things and being excited about things and oo in an aw in things that in a decade or two might end up having your friends be divorced because you had them focusing on the wrong things. Young ladies, is he a man? If we could go back to Psalm 45 in that love song, is he a man who is gracious with his lips? And promoting righteousness and meekness and truth. Men, you interested in a girl who cares more about that stuff? And how you're doing on the ball field or the books. Well, there's more to be said, but I trust moms and dads, I've given you enough to continue the conversation. Husbands, husbands, husbands, the call to love your wives Is his call. It's the call that comes from him who loved you and gave himself up for you. Look to him. Look to his love for you. Wives, the call to submit to your husbands is his call. He is the Lord ultimately to whom you are submitting to. Look at him loving you. Look at him giving himself for you. Look at him submitting himself to the Father's perfect will. Look at him in the Garden of Gethsemane crying out that if possible he might be spared this cup But coming to his father saying, Nevertheless, not what my will, not my will, but your will be done. And remember, husbands, and remember wives, his commands to you are not burdensome. His yoke is easy and his burden is light, but only if and as you abide in his all-satisfying love And that means probably that the most important thing we should be talking about when we get together and we're talking about our marriages is not first and foremost, how are things with you and your spouse? But first, how are things with you and Jesus? That might be a helpful thing to talk about this week. Brothers with another brother, sisters with another sister. We're gonna talk about how things are going in the marriage, and there's a place for that. There's a whole sermon for that next week. Oh, but it might be even more foundational at the root of health to say, how is it with you and Jesus? You can't get marriage right until you put the gospel first. A heart. Have I made the point? Like, let's go. Let's go, dude. That's what Noah's saying. Let's go, dude. Let's mess up with you. A heart that is thrilled in the gospel. Is the source of the kind of long-suffering and self-denial that is required for a husband who wants to live like Christ and for a wife who wants to live like the church in relation to her Christ. And you need the ministry of the Holy Spirit to make this a reality. Okay, that's route number two, a little shorter The ministry of the Holy Spirit. Now you good Bible readers, like where's this in the text? I read that passage through the week, getting ready for church. I heard you read it. I didn't read a thing about the Holy Spirit. Great question, thank you for asking. Look at verse 18 and let me carry you into our passage that we've been looking at. And I'm gonna omit one word in verse 22 that is actually not there in the original language, but is implied and inferred and put into our English translations. Verse 18. Do not get drunk with wine, for that is debauchery, but be filled with the Spirit. And he's going to talk about some fruits or marks of being filled with the Spirit. Addressing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody to the Lord with your heart, giving thanks always and for everything to God the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ. Wives to your own husbands as to the Lord. That word submit there in verse 22. It's not to say that it's not like it's a re is the call. It's implied and assumed from what went before it. This is an expression of, this is one way in which that call to submitting to one another is being pressed specifically, and it is all part of, it is all part of the fruit of this spirit-filled life. What I've tried to labor to show you here from the text is that awestruck wonder and heart-singing delight in the mystery of Christ, that is the gospel. is the wellspring for a fruitful and healthy Christian marriage. But where are you going to get that heart-singing delight? Well Verses 18 and 19 say it's coming from the ministry of the Holy Spirit. He is the one through whom we are enabled to sing and make melody in our hearts to God, giving thanks to him always and for everything. Even Giving thanks when we're called to love like Christ and we don't feel like it. Or when we're called to submit like the church and we don't feel like it. But we can't do that in and of ourselves. We need the Holy Spirit. That is the Holy Spirit's ministry to help us see how great and wide and long and high and deep is the love of Christ. to help us experience that and receive that, not just as a doctrinal fact, but as a reality in our souls. The difference between seeing on your weather app later or earlier in the week, it's going to be 70 degrees this weekend. The difference between seeing it on your app and thinking about it and actually stepping into that beautiful warm air after this tough winter. He wants you to not just know the love of Christ. as a doctrinal fact. He wants you to grasp it, to seize it, to lay hold of it, to make it your own. And that's the work of the Holy Spirit. I was just paraphrasing again, see it in your Bible and not just it from me yelling to you about it. Look at your Bible back in chapter 3. This is what Paul prays for. Ver uh Ephesians 3, verse 16, he's praying to the Father that according to the riches of his glory, he may grant you to be strengthened with power through his spirit. In your inner being, so that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith, that you, being rooted and grounded in love, may have strength to comprehend. Not just intellectual comprehension. That grasping it, seizing it, that you might comprehend with all the saints What is the breadth and the length and the height and the depth, and to know the love of Christ that surpasses knowledge, that you may be filled with all the fullness of God I'm not fishing for the amens. But as we've sung these songs of praise to God, as we've opened up God's word, as we've thought about the love of Christ that He gave Himself up for her. If there was anything in your heart, and we're different people, okay? We express joy in the heart differently. Some of us yell like Brian Davis. And some of us are very quiet and demean calm demeanored like Thomas Terry last week. Very different guest preachers we've had over the past year. But if if you were hearing the glories of his love expounded, and there was something in your heart of a thrill, a joy, a yes, an amen, do you realize you did not put that there? And I did not put that there. That is why I get up here every single Sunday and I say, it is the Spirit who gives life. Because I can't make it happen. And you can't make it happen. It's the Holy Spirit who produces that. Oh, the deep, deep love of Jesus. Flesh can say the love of Jesus is deep. The Holy Spirit puts an O into our souls. Oh, the deep, deep love of Jesus That's what the sword of the Spirit has been given to you to produce in you, to move a little bit forward in Ephesians chapter 6 That day by day, week by week, month by month, year by year, until death brings you into the presence of your Savior, and that mystery is consummated. That you would be able to taste something day by day of the love of Christ and relish it deeply in your souls so that you would be strengthened, abiding in his love, to bear fruit. As a Christ-exalting husband or a Christ-exalting wife, or a Christ-exalting single man, or single woman And so if you want more of the Spirit's activity in your life, beg him for it. That's what Paul Paul's praying for the Ephesians, that the Spirit would be more and more active in their lives. If you feel like you don't have it as the way you want it. Join all of the Ephesians and Paul who is praying that it would happen. And we will pray and we will pray and we will pray and we will walk in the Spirit and we will labor. Insomuch as it depends upon us, with the empowering presence of the Holy Spirit, to labor to put the gospel first so that we can get marriage right. until that day when the marriage is finally consummated. John sees it and describes it in Revelation 19. Then I heard what seemed, oh, this is going to be a day. Then I heard what seemed to be the voice of a great multitude, like the roar of many waters, and like the sound of mighty peals of thunder crying out. Hallelujah. For the Lord our God the Almighty reigns. Let us rejoice and exalt and give him the glory for the marriage of the Lamb has come and his bride has made herself ready She's been given garments, the next verse says. On that day and every day until then. Your Jesus desires your beauty, Saint We could stop here and go to Psalm 45 and spend an hour. I don't think you'd be entirely thrilled with me if I did that, but Psalm 45, 11 is just wild. Because Pastor Tony set it up for you. How this is, yes, there's an earthly king and his his wedding, but this is about something bigger. Your throne, oh God, is forever and ever. The writer of Hebrews says this Psalm and that passage is about Jesus. This is a picture of Jesus' marriage to his bride. And what Psalm 45. 11 says to the people of God, to the church, is Jesus, your king, will desire your beauty. How could he possibly do that Well, he he loved you and he gave himself for you. And he gave you garments that you would not naturally be able to put on, white garments, clothing you in his very own righteousness. And every day after you've trusted in Christ until you get to that final day in glory, He is from one degree of glory to another. He is loving you into lovability. That he would bear with you and me in all of your spiritual infirmities, from the time of your conversion to the moment of your death That he should never tire of your inconsistencies and your petty provocations. That he should go on forgiving inexhaustibly, never, no never, no never being so provoked as to utterly cast you off and give up on you but actually daily producing in you by his spirit the beginnings, those first buds on the tree of beauty that he will one day rejoice in as the fruit of his own sufferings. Oh, we go down to the city. The cherry blossoms are starting to blossom, but it's just a little bud right now. Oh, but we get excited about the buds coming on those cherry blossoms. Jesus is ecstatic. He is thrilled over the first fruits of holiness that he himself is working in you by his spirit. until that day when he sees the final work without spot or wrinkle and you are brought into that consummated celebration. That's where we are headed. That's the foundation to a God honoring marriage. Submit to your own husbands as to the Lord. Husbands, love your wives as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her. Those are weighty commands. They are commands. But I hope that what we've seen this morning is that they are delightful commands. They're sweet commands. Because they come from him who is perfect love. Those who have been loved by Jesus, love like Jesus. Those who have been served by Jesus, serve like Jesus. Love so amazing. So divine demands my soul, my life, my all And we'll come to think about those demands next week, Lord willing. But next week And today, and every day in between, and every day until we all step into the marriage supper of the Lamb, let the husbands and let the wives and let the singles and let the children all say You cannot get marriage straight until you put the gospel first. Heavenly Father, we pray that you would help us to taste and see freshly that you are good. That there is blessedness to be found in taking refuge in you. We pray that you would help us to abide in Jesus, each of us in our different callings. Help us to abide in Jesus, to experience by the power of your Holy Spirit freshly today, how wide and long and high and deep is the love of Christ. That we would know something of this love that surpasses knowledge, that we would be filled with all of your fullness and be equipped to carry out our callings as husbands or as wives or as single people. For the glory of your name. Amen.