Good morning again. It's great to be with you. We missed you. And uh thank you for your prayers. Thank you for a lot of you While we were away and since we've been back, just wanting to know how we're doing, how our time of rest and vacation was, and as I think most of you know, we celebrated the graduation of our oldest. So it was a sweet time away. Thank you for praying for us and encouraging us. We we spent a few weeks uh in Hilton Head, South Carolina. My dad lives down there and it was in the midst of for us what has been uh of uh a lot of change, a lot of unfamiliarity over the past few months. It was nice to be in a familiar spot. We've we visit Hildenhead. every year and have done so for over a decade I think and so we have some fun things that we enjoy doing. It was nice to have something familiar to enjoy for a couple of weeks. And one of the things that is sort of a regularity for us now in our vacation routine is we make regular trips to uh parkers. Anyone from the south ever visit a Parker's before? Parker's is like a royal farms type convenience store, gas station And uh yeah, we we're really ambitious when we go on vacation, spend a lot of time at the gas station, convenience. Well see, the thing is they have this really great chewy ice. So if you like, you know, Chick-fil-A has that really nice good ice. Well they have this chewy ice that's really good and and uh Noah in particular really likes the ice. So we go, we make it a thing, and it's a family and And this particular Parkers that we go to is located like a a block or two from the Hildenhead Airport How we learned that was another story for another time. I I really thought that this plane was going to land on us the first time this happened. It was actually for a split second it was terrifying. We were really close And so after that we just thought this was really cool to go there. We would get some ice and we'd hang out and we would just watch planes coming in. It's not a big airport, but sometimes some big planes come in And I'm telling you, I can I cannot express to you how close this plane is flying to the top of the gas station. So we were hanging out. This was two vacations ago, I think, in 2023 And we were getting ready to head back north. We're spending one last time at Parker's hanging out and we were we were conversing and I guess we had I guess we just sort of lost sight of where we were for a moment. Because as we're talking and having our chewy ice, this huge plane came from behind us and again almost hits, I'm thinking this almost hits the gas station, and all five of us just sort of exploded like, whoa, that was amazing. And as we were as we were reveling in the the wonder of that, there was this lady who was sitting in her car I can't remember if her window was down or if she just put it down after she saw this take place, but she she put her window down and she had kind of a little bit of a condescending look on her face and just said, You you guys aren't from around here, are you? Well, I thought of that plane landing on that May afternoon in twenty twenty-three, and I thought of that amused onlooker, I'm pretty sure Lisa was her name I thought of that as I just spent time this week staring at this passage in Ephesians chapter 2 That is the focus of our attention this morning. You can go ahead and turn in your Bibles to Ephesians chapter 2. If you are using one of those Bibles that is provided, it's on page 976 And we are resuming this morning a study of Paul's letter to the saints in Ephesus. A little bit of just a reminder of the context, since it's been a few weeks. Remember that Paul was a missionary through Paul's missionary labors. In the first century, a church had been planted in this pagan city where one had previously never existed. And and that work of continuing to take the gospel to places and people's language groups that do not yet have any access to the gospel in their language, no church in their language. That work continues on in our own day. So do be prayerful about how you might participate in that work of getting the gospel to those who've never heard it before, whether maybe by some of you going to those places or sacrificially supporting through your finances. That's an important work that is continuing on in our own day. Well it happened in that day in the city of Ephesus. Paul was involved in the establishment of this church, and as was the case just about everywhere Paul went, there arose opposition to the work. And so Paul moved on. And a couple of years later, he wrote a letter to the Christians in Ephesus to ground them, to establish them. And strengthen them to walk in a manner that is worthy of the calling that they had received in Christ, and to help them to stand firm against the schemes of the devil. And Paul did so not not first, not primarily with exhortations and commands and practical tips and suggestions. But he did it first by recounting for the Ephesians the rich glories of all that they had received through their union with Christ. The phrase in Christ or in him is very prevalent in this beginning of this letter, as we've noted. And then after Paul reminded them of these glories, these spiritual blessings that they had enjoyed and received in heavenly places, he He realized that apart from the working of the Holy Spirit in them, they could not grasp or praise God appropriately for those rich spiritual blessings. And so he prays in the second half of chapter one that the eyes of their hearts. Would be illuminated to those glories, that they would know the hope to which they had been called, and the riches of God's glorious inheritance in the saints, and the immeasurably, immeasurably great power. That is at work toward them, the very power that raised Christ from the dead. And now perhaps the Ephesians Maybe maybe I don't know. I'm I can't get into the mind of Paul, but maybe Paul's thinking as he comes to the end of that prayer in chapter one, maybe he's thinking the Ephesians perhaps could have a hard time Really believing that the very power that raised Christ from the dead is at work in them. Not sure how your week has been. But sometimes I struggle to really feel or believe or think that resurrection power is coursing through my spiritual veins. It is true, but it doesn't always feel true to me. And I trust some of you can at least resonate with that. Maybe that's how The Ephesians were feeling, and maybe that's why Paul pressed in here at the beginning of chapter two to give the Ephesians and to give us who still read and profit from this letter to give us exhibit A That yes, indeed, this resurrection power of Christ really is at work towards those who believe. And so we're going to read Ephesians 2, verses 1 through 7 this morning. We are covering seven verses of Ephesians this morning. Please do let Jonathan Stockland know that. I heard he had words about the slowness of our pace In my absence last week, we're going to cover seven verses today. Hear God's word as I read Ephesians 2, verses 1 through 7. And you were dead in the trespasses and sins in which you once walked. Following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air. The spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience, among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh. Carrying out the desires of the body and the mind and were by nature children of wrath, like the rest of mankind But God, being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which He loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ. By grace you have been saved. And raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus, so that in the coming ages He might show the immeasurable riches of his grace in kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. This is God's word, brothers and sisters. Thanks be to God. Let's look to him in prayer before we think more about this passage. Heavenly Father, we do ask for your grace and blessing. We've already been reminded in our service from Ezekiel 37 of what you and you alone are able to do through the power of your own words, working by the power of your own spirit. It is the Spirit who gives life. The flesh is no help at all. And so we pray for the activity of your spirit to be powerful among us. as we spend this time reflecting upon your life-giving words. Do a good work in us. And perhaps even among us today, there may be some who are still dead. And we pray that you would for them do the miracle of giving them life through the power of your word and gospel. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Those verses that I read, I think they break down pretty simply. Maybe you even noticed as uh I read through The passage it breaks down fairly neatly into two parts, and that's how we're going to think about the passage together. Point number one, we see there in verses one through three, what we once were. What we once were. And then we see in verses four through seven, what God has made us now. What we once were, verses one through three, and then what God has made us now. If you want a a sneak preview right up front of what I'm going to say the rest of this time, we could put it this way. People are really bad. But God is unimaginably good to really bad people. That's what we want to think about this morning. Point number one: what we once were. Now this this point is spelled out very clearly and thoroughly for us in verses 1 through 3. Look again. Let me read the verses to you again. You were dead, Paul says, in the trespasses and sins. in which you once walked, following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience. among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the body and the mind, and were by nature children of wrath like the rest of mankind. Pretty grim picture When God set out to gather for himself a people who would be to the praise of his glory, He was not seeking to mend wounded people or wake sleepy people or inspire bored people Or spur on lazy people, or educate ignorant people, not even to throw a life preserver to drowning people, but he sought to raise dead people. You were dead, Paul says. And this is a comprehensive and enveloping corruption that Paul details here. We were dead. We were enslaved. And we were condemned. Not, of course, physically dead. You see there even in the passage, this is a very active deadness. It's interesting. He says you were dead, and then the the verb that's next is walking. You were dead walking. The walking dead, he's talking about. These are people who were walking. They were following, they were living, they were carrying out desires and plans and purposes. So it's clear this is a spiritual deadness that Paul is talking about. A deadness that arises from and is expressed in trespasses and sins. the the willful crossing of God's good and wise boundaries. This deadness is a deadness, it's an unresponsiveness to the life and goodness of God People can be very active doing lots of things, even doing horizontally, horizontally good things in society, but we're talking about a deadness An alienation from God. Paul will elaborate on that in chapter four. If your Bibles are open and you want to look down at verse uh verses seventeen and eighteen of Ephesians four, he speaks of uh people being in the futility of their minds, darkened in their understanding, alienated from the life of God because of the ignorance that is in them due to their hardness of heart At bottom, the root problem with man is not a lack of education, it's a hard heart. Do you see that there? It says they were ignorant. There is an ignorance in them due to their hardness of heart. We were dead, dead to God, dead to his rule, dead to his goodness, dead to his authority. Dead to his compassion and his wisdom and his kindness. And in doing so In this deadness, we were not as free as many people would like themselves to be, or at least as they would like to think themselves to be. We were not only dead, Paul says, but we were enslaved. Sinners, wickedly in their sin, like to imagine themselves as pioneers. You know, as progressive. People think that you doing you is like a new thing. We've we've gotten hold of what life is really all about. And Paul just says, no. You're not as independent and free as you think you are. You're slaves. You're followers. Marching lockstep with a world that is in rebellion against God. But following the course of this world. And not just following the course of this world, but following Satan himself, the prince of the power of the air. The power of hell was not something that we simply yielded to, but it was something inside of us. And we were actually happy to have it so. We were not taken captive against our wills. We, as Paul would say in his letter to the Thessalonians. 2 Thessalonians 2. 12, we were people who took pleasure in unrighteousness. We didn't just occasionally slip into the passions of our flesh. But we lived in those passions. It was the air that we breathed, as it were. It was our spiritual DNA. We are hardwired for rebellion. And this is all encompassing. This is everyone. You see, he says He says you were dead, and then he comes towards the end of the passage. He says we all were like this, like the rest of mankind. There may be a connection there with the you and the we To what he's gonna talk about in the second half of Ephesians 2, about how Jew and Gentile are united in Jesus, but before they could be united in Jesus, they were united in deadness. So our society is very passionate about inclusivity these days. And the Christian faith is very inclusive at this point. We were all dead in sin. Jews and and Gentiles, Muslims and and and Jewish people and Catholic people. We all of us were dead in sin. Men and women, black and white, heterosexual and homosexual. We were all dead in sin. By our very nature, we inhaled rejection of God and we exhaled self-destruction. Beneath our smiles at the grocery store and our polite greetings to the passerby on the other side of the road We were quietly enthroning ourselves as king and ruler of our own universe And deadening our souls to the beauty and the dignity for which we were made. We were made by God, we were made for God, and yet by very nature we chose to live without God. We prefer to exalt ourselves above the one who had given us life and breath and everything And so God's wrath was something deserved and appropriate such that Paul could say we were children of wrath. Just right and fitting and appropriate. We were dead, we were enslaved, and we were condemned It it is right, isn't it, to be outraged and want to see justice Done when we think about that Jewish man and woman who were savagely murdered just a few miles from us. Events like that and weeks like that, and they just get enumerated week after week and day after day in different ways at different times They are reminders that there is real moral objective evil in the world. And it is good and right to be angered by what is evil. This is one of the great assets we have as we seek to go out and bear witness to the gospel in the hard soil around us, is that everybody wants to see evil punished. They want to see justice prevail. We have that common ground with the people that you interact with who are resistant to the gospel. What they fail to understand, and what we all once were dead and guilty in, is that if God created Us, if he created all things, then he owns us and we owe him everything. We owe him to be feared and loved and praised and called upon and trusted in and served with all of our hearts and all of our souls and with all of our might. What is just, what is right, is that he would be regarded that way by the creatures who he made and who he sustains every second of every day. So when a human being looks upon his maker or her maker and dismisses him from the throne of the universe, Seeking to rule in his place, refusing to acknowledge or give him glory for the gifts that he's given to us, and yet questioning him, grumbling at him, even denying his very existence because he acts in ways that are contrary to our will, ways that we don't understand in our own finite understanding and we dismiss him and disregard him and even act like he doesn't exist. That is an outrageous evil deserving the strongest, fiercest punishment imaginable The scriptures put it this way, a fury of fire that will consume the adversaries, being Tormented with fire and sulfur in the presence of the holy angels and of the presence of the Lamb, the smoke of their torment going up forever and ever having no rest Day or night. That's what it means to be a child of wrath, and that's what we all once were. It's important that you believe that. Because it's what the Bible teaches. But it's so helpful that the Bible tells us this, especially for those of us here who maybe were raised in a home where the gospel was taught to you. And you don't really in your experience and in your feelings, you can't think of a time like I can when in the fall of nineteen ninety-nine on my birthday I l really reasoned in my head, God, this is it. I pr I know now God doesn't exist because I had plans on my birthday weekend to go out and get drunk and party. And then my mother called me and said that my grandmother had died, and I had to drive home to Philadelphia so I couldn't uh go out and party and have the weekend that I wanted. And I actually concluded that God didn't exist anymore because of that I can say I'm very aware of my former deadness. And maybe some of you grow up in your experiences that you really can't think. You grew up, you read these things, you were taught these things by your parents or at church, and and and you you believe. And you might feel like your story's not as miraculous. But listen, there are no degrees of deadness. Dead is dead. We were all dead, it says. So learn, especially those of you that come from a home where you were spared some of the foolishness and stupidity that I gave myself to. Read from scripture, this is your condition. The Bible is a better guide to what's real and true than your own feelings and experience and memory. We were all dead. And it is important that I say to those of you who may be here who are not in Christ You're not trusting in Jesus that while I've been speaking in the past tense, you were this. If you're here this morning and you've not trusted in Jesus, you are dead. You are a zombie among us. I understand that's not pleasant to hear. It's not pleasant for me to say it But it is what God's word says about you. You are not alive. You are dead. You are not free. You are enslaved. Your resistance to that and the offense that you might feel rise up in you about it is actually only evidence of it You're not enlightened. You're blind. You're not basically good. You are a condemned and unclean rebel before the God who gives you life and breath and everything. So this is what we once were. And I've chosen to not just run past it. I I we we could have lingered longer Martin Lloyd Jones, who preached through the book of Ephesians 70 years ago, he preached five messages. I said this to somebody earlier this morning. He preached five messages just on verses one through three. That was probably a pleasant month in the life of their church there in London. I wanted to linger here a little bit, though, because Paul doesn't gloss over it right away. He he he sort of takes you by the face. That made sorry that was a weird echo. He kind of grabs you like this and makes you stare at the deadness for a little while Not out of a morbid delight to shove our corruption into our faces, but but to remind us all of how vile and miserable and hopeless we were, so that There's a reason why so that the next two words would land upon us with the appropriate force and thrill and glory that they are intended to awaken. I know many of you love them Some of you texted me about it this week telling me about these two words, but God. Dead in trespasses and sins, but God. In harmony with the world and the devil. But God Sons of disobedience, alienated and darkened, feudal in mind and hardened in heart, but God, slaves to various passions and finding pleasure in unrighteousness, but God. Subject to the eternal torment of fire and sulfur day and night with no rest, but God, but God being rich in mercy. Because of the great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead, he says. He doubles, he doubles back to it, dials in here. Even when we were dead. I know I just mentioned that to you. Let me remind you again. Even when you were dead. Not like if you could just wink and let me know that there's a little something out there. You could just squeeze my hand in your coma-like condition. I'll do the rest. No, no. When you were dead in trespasses, God Made us alive together with Christ. By grace you have been saved. This is the very meaning of grace. To be dead and then be made alive. He says, by grace you've been saved and raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus. Oh, it's not it's not money or church attendance or your family connections or your meticulous Bible reading and devotion to prayer or your education that could effect this change. or release you from this damnation. It's only God. But God. It's all of God. The the deep incalculable riches of his mercy and love and grace and kindness that he called us out of the darkness of our alienation, out of the deadness of that tomb. Like another Lazarus that I've read about in the Bible, God spoke to this Lazarus just around three or four or five months after I had concluded God did not exist in the fall of 1999. God who said, let light shine out of darkness, spoke to my soul, and he raised this dead Soul to life, that I would give myself to Jesus, that I would see glory in the face of Jesus Christ. And He's done that for every one of us who is trusting in and resting in Christ. Whether you have that experience or not, if you're here trusting in Jesus and worshiping Jesus, it's because God did that for you. Like that valley of dry bones. And the Spirit saying, the Lord is saying to his people, can these bones live? We might feel that it's not so we don't know that it can happen. I don't he knows he is able to do it He brings forth his people through the living and abiding word of God, the gospel of our salvation. It's all all this glory is in Christ's glory. Did you see that too? Kids, real quick kids If you have your Bible open, look at verses 5 and 6 and 7. 5 and 6 and 7, chapter 2, and tell me how many times in those verses do you see Paul speaking of Christ. How many times does do you see the word Christ there in those in that passage Three times, three times in that little passage does he say in Christ or with Christ, but then he also says two other times he says in him. With him, five times just in that very condensed amount of space. In Christ, in Christ, with Christ, with Christ. When we were dead, and Pastor Tony mentioned this earlier to us, when we were dead, Jesus died the death that we deserve to die, so that through our union with Jesus in his death, all of our deadness has died. What a what a mighty torrent, what an overwhelming deluge of Grace, immeasurable riches of grace in kindness has come to hell-deserving sinners like us in Christ We were we were driving home a week ago today, uh having worshiped at another elementary school gym. In Chapel Hill, North Carolina, we were driving up, I forget what road that is that connects you with I-95. And we're driving up the road, and Halley gets a text message or a notification from Venmo Some friends of hers who also graduated and were down there in North Carolina, they were driving up Chapel Hill and they had decorated the you know that the way kids do that at their graduation or maybe when newlyweds are married and they kind of write on the car So they had written on the car, we graduated honk, we're graduates, and Hallie got the idea to just put her Venmo account on the like, you know, I'm open for gifts. And uh so Hallie gets this notification on her phone. Uh David Cross, is that right? David Cross is a sort of we don't know that is, but that was the man's name came up on the David Cross has given you $200. It's like, whoa, we did what we did what you just did. Like what? Like what? $200 from a stranger driving up 95? What what riches of kindness? But listen, imagine imagine David Cross making a donation to someone. Imagine if Halle, I'm not saying it, imagine if Halley was a sworn enemy of David Cross and was determining and resolved to kill David Cross. And here's a donation, $200 from David Cross. That's crazy. You see, but you wow, I just told you that a stranger gave $200 to someone that he didn't know But God has lavished eternal, immeasurable riches of grace. He has taken all the punishment of our sin upon himself, Jesus did. When we were his enemies, when we hated him, when we were conspiring, if we had the resources, we would have killed him. And he lavished grace upon us because he's rich in mercy. Our God is a billionaire in the currency of mercy. He makes the wealth of Jeff Bezos. Is that how you say his name? You know who I'm talking about. Amazon guy. His wealth is like a grain of sand compared to the Sahara Desert of God's immeasurable riches of grace in kindness. Withholding from us what we deserve and lavishing upon us what we don't deserve, immeasurable riches of grace in kindness towards us in Christ Jesus, because he was cut off that we might be welcomed in, because he was stripped so that we might be clothed, because he was tormented so that we might be comforted So that he was disgraced and shamed, that we might inherit eternal glory, because he was willing to bear a crown of thorns, that we might be crowned with everlasting glory. Because he closed his eyes in death, that we eternally would gaze on unclouded brightness Oh, you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, Paul said to the Corinthians, that though he was rich, yet for your sake he became poor, so that you, by his poverty, might become rich. Not a lot in your bank. That was nice that she got $200. That is not a promise of more in your bank account. It is a promise of immeasurable riches of grace in the coming ages. This is the biggest, grandest news of our sermon today, and maybe of our whole series of the book of Ephesians. And maybe the whole Bible in its entirety. And certainly in all the world today and all and this week and forever, you will see lots of news stories. The greatest news. Christians You who were once dead in your sins, you have been made alive in Christ. God made you alive. You've been raised up, he says, as Christ has been raised. We have been raised. As Christ was seated in the heavenly places. And his ascension and his heavenly session. So Paul says, we have been seated with Christ. Our guilt has been removed. Our debt has been canceled. A perfect righteousness has been provided and a righteous standing secured. The prince of the power of the air has been disarmed and shamed and defeated. He has no claim on us anymore. Sin has no longer dominion over us. And maybe, like I said earlier the start, maybe you don't feel it to be so. But Paul says, remember it is so. Whether you feel it or not, trust God's word and not your feelings. Set your mind. This is part of why I think Paul, in his letter to the Colossians, says: set your mind on things above, where Christ is. Fix your gaze there. Learn to live about your new status, your new identity, your new location. You're in the heavenly places. I don't think I'm gonna tell you any more vacation stories, but this little one. It's not really a story about vacation. But but we we we stay at this timeshare. uh every year and it's this it's a very pretty area and a swimming pool. It's it's a wonderful I could just picture it right now. It's just a great place to Relax, wonderful trees around and a lagoon and alligators and what is that thing called? An egret? Egrets? Oh, beautiful birds flying around and So I'm I'm sitting in my office yesterday morning with my achy back and Dark there's no there's no lights in in the basement and it's well there's there's natural there's no natural light. We have lights. Michelle's saying it Like no windows. It's a dark, it's it's dark. Uh there's light, okay, but it's dark, you know? It's it's kind of like uh it's gloomy and it's I'm tired. I'm up early because I'm we're going to visit family. And I j for some reason I just get this idea There there's this and at the clubhouse where we hang out on vacation, there's this radio station that plays Savannah ninety eight point seven the river And uh they always are playing and it's like it's it's it's kind of nostalgic because it brings back all these songs of our youth. Like it's like uh uh you know, Bon Jovi Living on a Prayer and stuff like that. So I just thought, you know what, I uh you can tune it in online. So I I I went online and I listened to, I I I hit the play button for 90. 7 Savannah the River, and it was uh it was Tom Petty, free fallen And then the next song was TLC, Don't Go Chasin Waterfalls. Not trying to have you put together a soundtrack, but. But I sat in my office again, my just kind of a little bit dreary, tired, and I, as the music was playing, and as I heard the the DJ and the the 987 the river you know and uh it was like it was a very weird I I it was almost like my I was transported there And I could see the the pool table where Noah and I spent a whole lot of time playing pool and ping-pong and I could see the egret and I could it was like it was like I was there This is there's not perfect analogies of these spiritual glories with our earthly experiences, but it was like Paul says set your mind on things above. This is the reality. You are in heaven. Fix your gaze there. Sing wonderful songs of heavenly glory. Jerusalem, my happy home. We we sang this morning. What joy in everlasting life! All is love and faith is sight. Justice rolls and praises rise at the name of Jesus Christ. Fix your gaze there Put that soundtrack on. Think of the glory that is yours. Because amidst all the other news that we process daily and weekly News of pain. News of disappointment. News of bereavement and disillusionment, addiction, hopelessness, marital friction Physical suffering, relational strife, depression being misunderstood, whatever it else that you may be experiencing, the bad news that is so full in this bad news world Set alongside all that is wearying, all that is hard, all that is exhausting. Set aside, set aside it, this news, you once were dead. But now in Christ by grace you were made alive. Chevroly Baptist Church, we are the fellowship of those who have passed from death to life. God is alive among us. The Lord Jesus is risen and in glory, and we are seated with Him in glory, even in this rather mundane-looking cafeteria. I visited some very nice church buildings while we were away. Mount Vernon Baptist Church, that is a nice building. Community Bible church in Beaufort, South Carolina. That is a really nice building. Bull Street Baptist Church in Savannah, Georgia, really nice building. But you know what? Even here in this humble temporary abode, that is ours We can look around and see evidence in our life together, in our love, in our care, in our encouragement, in our desire to be here, in our setting up, in our tearing down, in our welcoming, in our lingering In our sacrifices, in our going out to spread the gospel, we can see this is the Lord's doing. And it is marvelous in our eyes. Psalm 118, 23. There's a glory, saints, that is just we can't even scarcely imagine it, and it's right around the bend, and not even endless ages of ecstasy could exhaust its splendor. That's what Paul says there in verse 7. You've been raised, you've been seated. He says, so that in the coming ages he might show the immeasurable riches of his grace in kindness towards us in Christ Jesus. One commentator on speaking on that verse and that word ages, it's just beyond the comprehension. It's like, okay, there's this age and there's the age to come. Paul speaks of coming ages. One commentator says it this way, the plural ages is not simply a stylistic variation of the singular. But a more general conception, implying one age supervening upon another like successive waves of the sea, as far into the future as thought can reach. Your future in Christ is like standing at the ocean and watching wave after wave after wave eternally Forever enjoying more and more of the grace of God in kindness to you in Jesus. The best is yet to come in Christ, and it will always be so. There will never be able to be a time in our resurrected glory when we say, okay, it's been good, but this is getting, it will always be getting better. Because the riches of Christ are unsearchable, Ephesians 3. 8. And that that has massive implications for our lives, and we will get to them all in time as we study the book of Ephesians. But this morning I'm simply, I'm just desirous of, for all of us, myself included. That we might stand amazed and wonder at what God has done in us and for us in Christ Because Paul never got over this wonder of what happened in his own life. How he went from being A slave and a dead rebel and a persecutor of the church to being a beloved child of God and a bondservant of the Lord Jesus. He never got over that. It's been 25 years since I was transferred from the domain of darkness into the kingdom of God's beloved Son. But around around 25 years, maybe 30 it was, after Paul himself had his death-to-life experience on the Damascus Road. He wrote a letter to his young disciple, Timothy, who was stationed in Ephesus, where Paul had labored to see that church planted. And he says in 1 Timothy 1, this is now years and years, decades after he came to know Christ, he says, I thank him who has given me strength, Christ Jesus our Lord, because he judged me faithful, appointing me to his service. Though formerly I was a blasphemer and a persecutor and an insolent opponent, but I received mercy. God is rich in mercy He says, I received mercy because I had acted ignorantly in unbelief and the grace of our Lord, immeasurable riches of grace The grace of our Lord overflowed for me with the faith and love that are in Christ Jesus. The saying is trustworthy and deserving of full acceptance that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners of whom I am the foremost, but I received mercy for this reason That in me as the foremost Jesus Christ might display his perfect patience as an example to those who were to believe on him. For eternal life to the king of ages. And then he just bursts forth in worship 25, 30 years after his conversion, burst forth in worship, recounting that, to the king of ages Immortal, invisible, the only God, be honor and glory forever and ever. Amen. You see, he never got over it But there there is a danger. I've known this danger in my life. There's a danger that internally we can just begin to move on from it. We can get so familiar with what I've just been talking about for the last 40 minutes That it ceases to dazzle our souls and fill us with awe and wonder. Like that Lady Lisa. Who had this momentous plane fly right over who ha her head. And she thought nothing of it. But oh you're not from around here, because we who are from around her, we kinda we know that. We're used to that. We can be like that with the gospel God forbid, beloved, let it not be. I hope you will happily and worshipfully join me in this resolve that you would labor to tune your heart to the radio frequency of the heavenly glory that is coming to you in Christ because God, when you were dead in your trespasses, made you alive. And that would be a great thing to talk about. This is not the most practical sermon, although I think thinking about God raising you from the dead is very practical and can change your world this week. I understand I've not given you a lot of practical guidance today, but one practical thing you could do this week could be to talk it to each other after the service or this week. What do you do? How do you uh work in your soul, work out your own salvation? Paul says, how do you Do that. How do you keep that fire for the gospel burning in your daily and weekly lives? That would be a good thing to talk about But I hope that you will happily and worshipfully join me in this resolve to sing as long as God gives breath in our lungs. I stand amazed in the presence of Jesus the Nazarene and wonder how he could love me, a sinner condemned and unclean. If if the gospel That in Christ we have been once dead, now made alive, if it can satisfy the souls with endless ages of fullness, of joy. then surely it can do a whole lot of good to our souls right now while we wait to be joined with that heavenly choir So let's hold high this this gospel as the message of first importance and may nothing eclipse its majestic grandeur in our souls and in our families and in this dear church that He has called us to be together. Oh Father, we do pray. We pray that you would help us to never lose a sense of the wonder and the glory of what you have done for us in Christ Help us to labor against the impulses in our soul to become too familiar with being a dead man or a dead woman raised. Help us to stand in awe and be amazed of the wondrous love that you have shown to us in Christ. And may our observance now of the Lord's Supper be a continuation of our attention on this gospel of first importance. We ask for all of this in Jesus' name. Amen