Good morning again. Go ahead and open in your Bibles to Ephesians chapter four Uh if you don't have a Bible and would like to use one around you there that should be provided in one of those seats around you, you'll find our sermon passage this morning. Beginning on page 977, it's going to move on to page 978. Uh we are continuing a study of the book of Ephesians. We've been away from Ephesians. For a few Sundays, we're going to be jumping into the middle of a passage here that I began to preach from a few Sundays ago, so I'll bring you up to speed as we go. But I'm going to read for us this morning verses 7 through 16 of Ephesians 4. I'll read it to you and then pray and we'll take a look and see what the Lord has to say to us from this passage today. Ephesians 4, beginning in verse 7. The Apostle Paul writes this: But grace was given to each one of us according to the measure of Christ's gift. Therefore it says, when he ascended on high, he led a host of captives and he gave gifts to men. In saying he ascended, what does it mean but that he that he had also descended into the lower regions, the earth? He who descended is the one who also ascended far above all the heavens, that he might fill all things. And he gave the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists, the shepherds, and teachers to equip the saints for the work of ministry, for building up the body of Christ Until we all attain to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God, to mature manhood, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ So that we may no longer be children, tossed to and fro by the waves and carried about by every wind of doctrine. by human cunning, by craftiness and deceitful schemes. Rather, speaking the truth in love, we are to grow up in every way into him who is the head, into Christ. from whom the whole body, joined and held together by every joint with which it is equipped, when each part is working properly, makes the body grow so that it builds itself up in love. This is God's word, brothers and sisters. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you for your word We ask that you would sanctify us in the truth of your word. We pray that you'd be pleased to do that by your spirit. We know that it is your spirit who gives life. The flesh is no help at all. And so we pray, Father, that your spirit would be active among us in this time. That you'd be pleased, perhaps, even to uh raise some who may be here in spiritual death. That you would give them new life in Christ. And that for those who have found that new life in Christ, that you would uphold us and strengthen us and encourage us in our living wholeheartedly for Christ, as we study your word together. We pray for this in Jesus' name. Amen. Back in June of twenty fifteen On a Sunday morning, it was actually June 28th, 2015. I'm weird like that, and I remember things like this. I met a young man uh named Kenny. It was a Sunday morning He was visiting one of the gatherings of my former church in New Jersey. He was visiting for the first time. And I asked Kenny a few questions after the service just to get to know him a little bit, hear a bit of his story and found that he had just moved to the area. He subsequently moved very quickly out of the area. I think I only met him one more time after this initial conversation. But he shared with me in that conversation that over the past Uh several years of his life, he had experienced a number of ups and downs in his relationship with the Lord, and he was convicted that he needed to get serious about his faith. He said to me Something along the lines of, I don't think this was an exact quote, but something along the lines of one thing that's very clear to me, uh uh during those times when things have been good in my walk with Christ, discipleship has been a big part of that. And when things haven't been good, it's because discipleship has been lacking. And then he asked me a question that that had a significant impact on me I I guess it continues to have an impact on me because I thought of Kenny after all those years this week as I opened up God's Word to study Ephesians 4. But he asked me this question. He said, So how do you guys do discipleship at joy? The name of my former church. It's a question that's r really simple in a sense, but also really profound and really important. Insomuch as it touches on the very heart and essence of the work that we're called to engage in as Christ's church. You see that even on the front of your bulletin that our our church exists to make disciples of Jesus and to be disciples for the glory of God. And we draw that Mission statement really from the marching orders that Jesus gave to his disciples right as he ascended to heaven. Go into all the world and make disciples, right? Make disciples of all nations, baptizing them. In the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, and teaching them to obey all that I've commanded. And so Kenny asked me this question, and it was like one of those things. Pastor should have a good answer to that question. But I I was sort of taken aback a little bit, like, like, how do we do that? And and and it was very Providential timing, his question, because uh not exaggerating, literally the next day After this encounter, I was beginning actually a four-week study leave in which the elders had decided that I would take four weeks to study the subject of discipleship And to think about our vision for discipleship and how we were going to do that at Joy. And during that four weeks of study, I read a dozen or so books I wrote a report. I wrote out, I actually checked this yesterday on my computer. I wrote 65,000 words for our elders. uh summarizing for them what I had been learning in these four uh month uh four weeks. And after all that study, and now after ten more years of learning and ministry experience, I still feel like I have a lot to learn. I was looking over some of those notes Some of those 65,000 worst thing, and I'm not sure if I really see it that way anymore. So I'm still growing and learning myself, even as I think we all are. But even after all those years and all those books and all the learning I'm still not sure there's a better answer to Kenny than the roughly 150 words, a lot easier to digest than my 65,000. The roughly 150 words printed right there in verses 11 through 16 of Ephesians chapter 4. I think we could say that verses 11 through 16 of Ephesians 4 are Jesus' vision of discipleship in the local church. Churches may differ, they do differ, on their application and implementation. of this vision, different forms and structures and vehicles by which they might seek to obey these verses But I'm convinced that all we need for life and godliness and faithfulness is found right here in these verses. Now you may have noticed, smart people that you are, you might notice the word disciple, discipleship, is not even in the passage that I read. But the idea, I believe, is. It's what this whole passage is about. The idea of the saints, that is not some special category of Christian, but all Christians, Christians. being trained, being taught, being equipped, we could say, I think legitimately, being discipled to reflect or resemble the Lord Jesus himself, obeying all that he's commanded, being fully mature in him. That's what this passage is all about. It's at the heart and essence of this thing that we call discipleship. And that's what we want to think about this morning as we study God's Word. But in thinking about this I want to make sure that we're not approaching this subject in just an abstract, you know, philosophical way, as if the goal is to come up with a good answer to Kenny's question. Now, in writing this letter to the Ephesians, Paul was not writing abstract theology. I've said that before. He's not writing Ephesians to develop a ministry philosophy document. Like I was working on back in the summer of 2015. Paul was seeking to strengthen and encourage Uh young Christians who were living in a culture where stormy winds of spiritual dangers threatened to toss them to and fro. You see that there in verse 14 of our passage. There was the danger of these young Christians being uprooted from their sincere and pure devotion to Christ because of these Winds that were blowing. Think if you've ever been out on a windy day and you have maybe a receipt in your hand and and then it blows out of your hand and you're trying to track and run down that receipt, trying to step on it, you know, to keep it from getting away from you We can be like that. Our souls can be like that in a world that is full of such destructive and deceptive forces. And those forces are all around us today. just as they were in the city of Ephesus in the first century. There are gale-force winds around us. One of the words we use today is influencers. Perhaps you'll tune in to a television show later today, maybe a football game, maybe that memorial service that I referred to in the pastoral prayer. Just notice the ads that you're exposed to. The videos that you'll perhaps click on this week, the messages that you'll receive, crafty, subtle, deceptive. There's a dangerous delusion, Paul says in Colossians 2, of plausible arguments Sometimes professing Christians make them. We have this whole thing called progressive Christianity as people Blow winds that toss vulnerable and unstable Christians to and fro with every fad and false idea That's what's at stake as we think about the discipleship ministry of the church. And the big lesson that I shared a few Sundays ago when we started looking, when we specifically focused on verses 7 through 10. Was this? It's still the main point. It was the main point, whatever that was, I think three Sundays ago. It's the same main point now And that is that the exalted Christ has gifted his church everything she needs to fulfill his cosmic purpose Now you don't need to try to scribble down everything. I see note takers and I like note takers. I'm not against you note takers, but if you're struggling to keep up with me, I'm happy to send you my notes afterwards. The goal of this sermon is not for you to get good notes, but for you to worship Jesus with me from the text. If taking notes helps you with that, praise God. If you're struggling, don't worry about that and just worship God with me from this text. But I believe Ephesians 4:7 through 16 is about how the exalted Christ has gifted his church with everything that she needs to fulfill his cosmic purpose. And when we looked at this passage a few weeks ago. Especially from verses 7 through 10, I said we sort of got a heavenly picture of that with the exalted, the ascended Christ having conquered his enemies. and gather the spoils of victory and then distributing those gifts to his loyal and faithful servants. And we we consider that heavenly vision. And I said that in verses 11 through 16 We have what I described as the earthly embodiment or the earthly outworking of that heavenly vision. And that's what we want to focus on this morning. Keying in our attention to verses 11 through 16 of Ephesians 4. And to think about these verses, I want to answer two questions that I would say emerge from thinking about this Passage, question number one, what's the goal that we're after in Christian discipleship or Christian ministry? What's the goal that we're after? And then secondly, how do we attain to that goal? What's the goal we're after? How do we get there? That's what I want to think about with you for a few minutes this morning. So, what is the goal? What's the aim? What are we after? Well, it's stated a few different ways in this passage. Look there at verse 13, I think is where we get maybe the most clear idea of what we're seeking, what we're after, what we're in pursuit of. Paul speaks of leaders being given to equip the saints, and he says there in verse 13, until here's what we're after, here's what we're seeking. until we attain to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God to mature manhood to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. That's one of my favorite, I'll just give it one of my favorite phrases in the whole Bible. And that's what we're after. The measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. In verse 15, he speaks of growing up every way into him who is the head, that is into Christ. Verse 16, he speaks of the body growing so that it builds itself up in love. So the aim of Christian discipleship is Christ himself. It's the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. Christ's aim for his people, for his churches. I say it's Christ's aim because in verse 7, he's the one who gives this grace. He's the one who has gifted the church. He's the one who's given these leaders, as we're going to see in verse 11. Christ's aim for his church is not just to have a big crowd, it's not just have a nice building or lots of engaging activities and events. And I'm not suggesting, I'm not saying that those things are bad things. It would be great if in six months there were 250 people, uh members of Chevrolet Baptist Church, instead of 107. I'm all for growth. Love it for us to have a nice building of ours Activities and events and programs. I'm not saying those things are bad. Don't hear me saying that at all. But Christ's goal is that the church grow to maturity in Christ. His aim is that the church be mature in Christ. And you see that it's an inescapably corporate thing I mean this paragraph is just full of the right the body language, each part, even joints and all the whole body growing. It's as though Paul, we are individuals. But it seems like Paul has a hard time distinguishing between the personal individual growth from the collective corporate growth of the whole. His vision, his aim for his people is to be a bright and shining and vivid display of the glories of his son That's the holy aim of the love that we members of Chevely Baptist Church have covenanted to walk in together when in our membership covenant we confess and have committed to caring for each other and watching over each other. And encouraging and admonishing one another as occasion requires. And I just want to make sure that what that all the purpose of all that, the goal and destination of all that, caring and watching and encouraging and admonishing is that we all become more like Christ together. It's not just as our culture wrongly talk about false doctrine and waves blowing in our culture. To love people is not merely to unconditionally give people acceptance and affirmation of a person's lifestyle no matter what it is. That's not the kind of love we're called to pursue, but an affectionate, and especially in this culture, it's a courageous pursuit Of each other's progressive movement towards conformity to the image of Christ in all of life, in every way, into him who is the head And as we keep going in Ephesians, you're going to just see that in every way. In our relationships with each other, in our homes, husbands loving like Christ. Women submitting actually like Christ submits to the Father, but respect and submission. And we're gonna see it as it relates to parents and children and in the workplace. It's an all-of-life kind of thing. To be omnichrist-like is what we're after. Not not like Christ in every single way. Okay, I don't think any of us is going to ever attain to the point where we can uphold the universe with the word of our pa of his pa of our power, the way Jesus does. But like Christ in his moral excellence and beauty, in his character To be loving like Jesus. To be joyful like Jesus. To be a peacemaker like Jesus To be patient like Jesus and to be kind like Jesus and good like Jesus and faithful like Jesus And gentle like Jesus and self-controlled like Jesus and resilient like Jesus and content like Jesus and pure in heart like Jesus, merciful like Jesus. Not arrogant or rude like Jesus. And I just I wrote that and I thought, let me make sure I don't mean Jesus is arrogant and rude, and we're not to be like that. You understand what I mean, 1 Corinthians 13. Not arrogant or rude Because Jesus Himself is not arrogant or rude. Not insisting on your own way, like Jesus. Not irritable or resentful like Jesus. Bearing all things, believing all things, hoping all things, enduring all things, like Jesus. Giving of your money and your time and your talents to meet the needs of others like Jesus. Counting others more significant than yourselves, like Jesus. Looking carefully how you walk, making the best use of the time like Jesus, giving thanks always and for everything, like Jesus. Never any corrupting talk coming out of your mouth like Jesus. Ever zealous and devoted to the Father's glory like Jesus. That's what we're after And let me just say very clearly, what maybe doesn't need to be said, but I want to say it clearly, that this this aim, mature manhood, the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ, it's not boring. This is not bland. I mean, how could it be? Do you recall the scriptural call to worship that we heard earlier from Psalm 45? Which in the book of Hebrews, the writer of Hebrews says is clearly a reference to the Lord Jesus Himself It says Jesus has been anointed with the oil of gladness beyond all his companions. Jesus is the gladdest, most joyful being in the universe. I remember that was actually something that was very compelling to me when I was inquiring about the Christian faith some 25 years ago. What stirred in my heart wasn't first the miracles of Jesus. It wasn't first that I was certainly I've come to believe this, obviously. It wasn't first a conviction of guilt over my sin. I read the teaching of Jesus. I observed the life of Jesus in Matthew and Mark and Luke and John, and I thought, this man's way of living is the way of living that I want to live. This is a much better way of living than living for me, which is the way I had been doing for twenty two years And if you are, if you're here today and you're a guest thinking about the Christian faith, I would commend to you to earnestly and carefully consider the life of Jesus. And consider whether his way of living is a better way of living than the way that you've been living, which is living as if you are the center of the universe. But that living for Jesus actually, living his way, would actually be a better way to live. And as you would maybe be convicted of that, what you would see quickly is that you are incapable of living that way and that you have failed to live that way And that's where the good news that we've been singing about and celebrating is so important, that Jesus came and he actually gave his life. He laid down his life and he suffered the punishment of God that we were all due for our sins so that we could be restored to him and that we could begin with his own spirit living in us that we could begin to live the way he's lived If you have m questions about what that what that would mean to trust Jesus like that and live for Jesus like that, I'd be glad to speak with you after the service and I won't yell at you. But any number of people around you would also be glad to speak with you about that. This is a splendor. Ephesians 5. 27 uses that word, like being presented to him like a bride without spot or wrinkle in splendor. So, ladies, if you're a little bit perturbed by this whole manhood talk there, like I'm growing up to the measure of a man, well, we men are going to be presented like a beautiful bride. So we're all in this together, brothers and sisters. But it's amazing to think about. Basic nobodies that we are, specks of dust, Psalm 103 speaks of us as grass, and rebellious specks of dust at that. But so loved by the King of Kings that he set his heart on putting his own glory into us. That is the destiny. That is the aim where the exalted Christ is leading his people to. And it's assure we're gonna get us there. Did you see that little nugget in verse 13? Until we all attain. Not in hopes that we may possibly attain. It's going to happen. He's going to get everyone that he has saved, everyone that has trusted him. He's going to bring them into this glory in the twinkling of an eye. When the trumpet sounds, we will be changed. And all that struggling and all that longing that we find unfulfilled, that spirit warring against the flesh, and the flesh warring against, all that will be done, and we will be like him because we will see him as he is. Oh, that day when free from sinning, I shall see thy lovely face. That is a glory that we are anticipating, but it's a glory that even now he is working in us. That's the emphasis of this text. He's working in all of us, even now, from one degree of glory to another until we arrive at that blessed day. That's what we're aiming about. I'm sorry, that's what we're aiming at. And he's using the whole body. He's using all the saints to bring that about. That brings us to our second question. What is the aim? Okay, question one: What is the aim? What's the goal? It's the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. It's resembling and reflecting Christ. How does that happen? How do we get there? How do we attain to this corporate Christ-likeness, this measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ? Well, the answer that we get in this text reminds me of a story that I recently heard about the missionary J. O. Frasier. Not sure if you ever heard that name. He's not as well known as like William Carey or Adam Iram Judson, but J. O. Frazier was a British missionary in the early 20th century. He went to the Lisu people of China. And he initially, when he arrived there, he had some initial success. He saw conversions, he saw idols being forsaken. But then quickly he watched all the people that he led to the Lord. He saw them all fall away and return to their idols. And he was deeply discouraged, even bordering on depressed. But he had a prayer group back home in England. His mother, his pastor, a few other friends, and he wrote a letter to this prayer group. And he said, as he recounted some of the discouragement that he'd been experiencing, he said, I'm not asking you just to give help in prayer as a sort of sideline. But I'm trying to roll the main responsibility of this prayer warfare on you. I want you. This is what he wrote to his prayer supporters. I want you to take the burden of these people upon your shoulders. I want you to wrestle with God for them. Now, in saying that he was rolling the main responsibility onto his prayer supporters, certainly you understand he wasn't removing himself from his own responsibilities and work to bring the gospel to this people group. But he was recognizing that it was going to take more than his own efforts as a preacher and a missionary to see that that work would be accomplished. And that's what Paul is doing here, I think, with the Ephesians. This is what I'm wanting to do right now as I preach on this passage to you, the members of Chevrolet Baptist Church. And of course, we're glad to have guests with us as well. I'm wanting to roll the main responsibility for the discipleship ministry of Chevrolet Baptist Church onto all of you, the members of Chevrolet Baptist Church. You are the ministers of Chevrolet Baptist Church. When there's weakness, Or need, or deficiency, or immaturity in this church, which I probably don't need to tell you members, there's some of that. It's our problem, not the pastor's problem. I mean it is our problem, but it's our problem too And y'all have lived this out. You have done this. This is not a rebuking word. There's ministry happening in this congregation today, like this morning in the Sunday school hour when the kids were being taught. Which would not have happened without the initiation of members saying, we need something for the kids. Right, Susan? Katie? We'll have a gathering this evening at Landover Hills Baptist Church where children will be trained, which was initiated not by the pastors of this church. But largely, praise God, by Jeremy and Kesset Brokey, and now an army of members helping them to help the kids to devote it to hide God's word in their hearts. And will it be lots of people over at Landover Hills this evening at 5:30. This is this is this we have a partnership with Safe Families and their ministry because of the largely the initiative of the bookers. And we have youth Sunday school class, uh not Sunday school, but youth small groups that are starting. And lots of men that didn't start because the pastors came up with an idea So this is happening in wonderful ways. And this is the way Paul speaks of how this measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ stuff is actually gonna take place in a congregation. He's what he's saying basically is Christ has given the church leaders who equip the people of God to speak the word of God into one another's lives until we attain to the glory of God. Verse eleven. He and he is the exalted Christ He gave, these are the gift spoils. Again, going back to the sermon a few weeks ago, verse 8, he's given gifts to men. These specific gifts that Paul speaks of in verse 11 are people gifts. He gave the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists, the shepherds and teachers. To see, Christ has given leaders to his church The apostles and prophets being those who laid the foundation of the church in the first century through their authoritative revelation of the scriptures that are now preserved for us. We have no need for apostles and prophets like this anymore because we have the word of God written and established for us. Evangelists Who had a particular role, whether in the first century or ongoing, there's some debate about that, whether this office of evangelists is still a thing, but I think the sense either way is that they are the ones who bring the good news of Jesus to new places, reaching new people. I think we might actually think of missionaries today as those who are evangelists in that sense. But then we also have the work of shepherd teachers. I think that's one person being described, not two. A little some weird Greek grammar stuff, but you could even see it in your English Bibles where it says. . the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists, and then it says the shepherds and teachers, not the shepherds and the teachers. . I think that shepherd teacher is one office. Charged with the ongoing task of knowing and feeding and leading and guarding Christ's beloved sheep to the green pastures of maturity in Christ through their godly example and through their faithful instruction in God's Word. And these leaders have been given to equip the saints, you see, verse 12. They've been given to equip the saints for the ministry of building up Christ's body to this mature manhood. It's the unity of the faith and of knowledge. So that we're not blown around by false teachings and ideologies. But we're being guarded from those strong winds because we know the truth. We know the truth of God's word. We believe the faith. The faith that has once for all been delivered to the saints, that faith centers on Jesus. He's the one in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. The truth of Christ is the message of first importance that Christ died for our sins, that he was raised for our uh justification according to the scriptures? And so we're guarded, as the word is being taught, we're guarded from those strong winds. And now, instead of being tossed to and fro, we all That is, the saints who've been equipped by the gift leaders, we're all speaking the truth in love. Do you see that there in verse 15? Speaking the truth in love. Not I think when people hear this phrase speak the truth in love, they're like, I got some hard, I got a hard thing to say to you, and you're not gonna like it, but I'm gonna say it in love. Well, there's a need for rebuke in the Christian life. That is true. But when he says speaking the truth in love, he's referring to what he's already spoken of in Ephesians 1 as the word of truth, which is the gospel of your salvation. He's going to refer to it in verse 21 of this chapter as the truth as it is in Jesus. Speaking the word of truth, speaking God's words, especially his gospel words. in Jesus, we all are speaking those words to each other, and then we are growing up into him who is the head. So that's how the body is discipled. That's how the body is growing up into Christ with each part, each member working in this way, even with joints, even see how tightly knit together this is. So that the whole body grows and builds itself up in love. Becoming a Christian, then In a sense, is a call to ministry. I have quite, I'm a pastor, I get together people. Some of you I think have asked me this. How were you called to ministry? And I know I understand what you mean. The specific ministry that I've given to be an equipper of the ministers. But yet what this passage is teaching us is that if you've come to Christ, how were you called to ministry? You put your faith in Jesus. You trusted Christ. We're all called to the ministry. The ministry of speaking God's word into the lives of others for our progressive and collective growth in Christ-likeness. Every one of Christ's people has a part to play in that. Every one, every member of Christ's body is needed, and every member of Christ's body has need. And if you just heard, if you've been in that Sunday school class and you just heard, like, hey, I think that's what the Sunday school class is, that's exactly right. That's exactly what the Sunday school class is all about. Let me give you another passage of scripture that that addresses this same idea Just so you can see that's not just this one passage here. But if your Bible's open, we want to move a few pages to uh 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. 1 Thessalonians chapter 5 I think you see again that there's a web of relationships and truth-speaking, skilled, careful, wise truth-speaking, that that's just meant to be normal in the body of Christ. Listen to what Paul says in 1 Thessalonians 5. 12. We ask you brothers. Okay, who were the brothers? Who are the brothers? The church, yeah, the Thessalonian church. Not some special class. This is not a word to just Tony as a pastor of Chevrolet Baptist Church. This is a word to Christians, we ask you, brothers, to respect those who labor among you and are over you in the Lord and admonish you and to esteem them very highly in love because of their work. So there's again this acknowledgement that there are leaders who are given to oversee and who are there. Ephesians 4 speaks of them being equippers, their leaders, highly esteeming them worth because of their love. Be at peace with each other. Look at verse 14. Now we urge you, brothers. Here's a ministry that you're called to, church Admonish the idle. Encourage the faint-hearted. Help the weak. Be patient with them all. See that no one repays anyone evil for evil, but always seek to do good to one another and to everyone. Do you notice in that passage how Paul expects, I don't like using this phrase, but I think you'll understand what I ordinary Christians I mean not clergy, not with a particular office or title. I'll tell you why I don't like ordinary in a in a few minutes, but He's expecting the ordinary Christians, he's rolling the ministry onto them all. And they he's expecting that they can discern Different problems with different people and then give different remedies based on their assessment of the different there are some people they're idle They need to be admonished. There's some people who are faint-hearted, they need to be encouraged. There's some people who are weak, they need to be helped. We all move slower than we might want, and so we need to be patient with them all But he's expecting that there's the skill involved, that you're going to get to know somebody. If you try to admonish somebody who's faint-hearted, that's going to really be hurtful. But if you're just trying to encourage someone who's idle, that's going to be harmful as well. And he's expecting that the Christians know how to do this with each other. And if you're sitting there like, how in the world am I going to know how to do that? We're literally teaching a Sunday school class right now to teach you how to do it We're equipping you in that way. And I understand because of kids and schedule, you can't all be over there. I hope there's more people in that library uh next Sunday morning than there were today. No condemnation if you can't make it. We're happy to give you the book. We do have it is based on a book. uh called side by side, but we're literally equipping you to do that because the this ministry is that important. So encouraging by the way to see so many young people in that class. Youth keep going to that class. That's a wonderful way for you to learn and train yourself for the responsibilities that we hope one day you'll come into when you become a member of Chevrolet Baptist Church. But this is Jesus' strategy for discipleship. It's not necessarily a particular programmatic structure. It's not a 12-week curriculum, it's not a 12-week class. I mean we can those that those are a part we obviously are not against that, we're doing it. But it's not first and foremost a structure, it's not a curriculum It's not a small group, those small groups can be useful. It's not a series of events and activities. It's a people with a mindset. A tightly knit, joined together people. Persevering in speaking the truth of God's word into one another's lives in a whole host of different contexts. I just observed a context last night of one member of this church gathering with a few uh youth in this church, playing basketball for an hour and a half, and then when the basketball time was done, opening up the Bible and reading a portion of the Bible and talking about that with those youth for 10 or 15 minutes. It's happening in all kinds of ways. Play dates and coffee meetings and going for a walk and after this service, it's happening all the time. But as God's people persevere in speaking God's word Depending upon the activity and the empowering presence of God's Spirit, God is working to grow this church up so that we attain to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. Do you believe then? I'm simply asking. And your aim your responsiveness tells me that you do, and I love to hear that responsiveness. Do you believe, and I'm I'm speaking to the members because you have made a particular commitment. We would welcome anyone if you're interested in thinking about membership. Glad for you to talk to me or Tony up here. I'm trying to be exclusive when I say this, but this is such a tightly knit together group of people. We've got to have an idea of who that people are, and the most obvious way that I can see do it is it's the members of Chevrolet Baptist Church. Do you believe it's your responsibility to see that Chevrolet Baptist Church be a healthy church? And are you working to that? And how are you working to that? Those are good questions to be thinking about. It's not insular and world-neglecting to be thinking about that. Jesus said that this kind of body, equipped by leaders, speaking the truth, resisting false teaching, growing up in every way into him who is the head, Jesus' vision is that that kind of people are the salt of the earth. And the light of the world. So what we need today, ours is a day that is calling, most assuredly, for Daniel's and for Esther's. who would have a holy boldness to follow Jesus and stand firm and advance, not to shrink back, but shout on as they sometimes I'd love to start singing that song. I think it's called I Know That My Redeemer Loves. Shout on. Pray On. We're gaining ground. Glory. Hallelujah. We're marching on, and we need that kind of Daniel and Esther to keep us going. And such saints, this passage is teaching us, are nurtured and built up in the nursery of Christ's church. It's his cosmic plan to fill the world with his own image by filling it with his redeemed and being renewed image bearers Well, let me conclude with two thoughts semi-briefly about how this vision for ministry should shape our our life together. I mean I hope I've already said some of those things, but let me just put two specific points on this and I'll try to do it briefly. First, consider how this way of thinking, this vision for ministry shapes the way you come to church. If the Apostle Paul is rolling on to you today the ministry of Chevrolet Baptist Church, If I'm not the minister when I stand here, but I'm the equipper of the ministers for the ministry of building up the body to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ Then it's right for you to come to this gathering to be encouraged. You should do that. You should come to be encouraged. But you should also be coming, thinking about how you can be and are being equipped to encourage others. To come to these gatherings with the mindset that you are a soldier coming off the battlefield to receive tactical instruction so that when you go back into the battlefield, you aren't blown to smithereens by the enemy. Because we do have an enemy. Ephesians 6 is going to talk about that very clearly. We wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities and powers and spiritual forces of wickedness. in the heavenly places and they are intent on devouring you and me and our life together. And so we need to listen to God's word like our lives depend upon it. It's hard to do that in this day and age of distractions where these these things and I have one so I'm not condemning them, but they have so dulled our attention span. That we can be sitting here one second thinking, I love Jesus, he's amazing. And then the other sec, what am I going to have for lunch? And oh, I wonder if the commanders are going to be able to win without Jay and Daniel. And we're all over the place. But we need to come to the gathering of the church as if our lives and the lives of other people depend upon it To turn the phone off. It's as though the living God, when a preacher gets up here, would say, Turn the phone off and listen to me. I have a message for you. I love you. I died for you. I'm bringing you to glory. I'm the good shepherd. I have taken people to that glory far weaker than you. And I will pick you up and I will carry you over my shoulders and I will lead you there. But I need you to look to me and listen to me. And we need to hear that And we need to hear it and receive it so that we can spread it, so we can share with others, assuming that those who are around you are going to need to hear these words. God's words, not my words, God's words, in the singing and in the praying, and in the preaching and in the scripturing. We're going to need to hear these words and encourage each other with these words as we move to that destination of glory. So that's number one. How are you gonna relate to coming to church? Secondly Consider how this vision for ministry should shape how you view your brothers and sisters in the church. Mike and Hannah and Liana and Sade. Who are they? I don't mean they, those four, in distinction from the rest of you. I just those are the four that I saw. Now we would say that, well, they're there are brothers and sisters, they're fellow Christians, and so they are. But I what I what I'm wanting to point you to is they're not just our fellow brothers and sisters. They are that. They are people destined for glory. For the glory of attaining to the measure of the stature of the fullness of the risen and reigning king of kings. And we all Just singled out those four, but I'm talking about all of us. We all have the inestimable pleasure and privilege of helping each other along to that unspeakably wonderful destiny. We all still, we say, until we all attain, right? Verse 13, we all still have some childish ways to put off We all still have some weights and sins which cling so closely. And sadly, and this is what I'm really trying to get at when I say this, we we all Sometimes focus a lot more on the childish ways and the sins and the weights that are clinging than we do the glory that people are moving toward. And we can become critical and unthankful and annoyed. When really we're talking about image bearers, fellow redeemed image bearers who are moving to glory. That's what I meant when I said I don't like ordinary Christian. There's no ordinary Christian. I think it was the C. S. Lewis said, if we could see what we're going to one day become, we'd be actually tempted to fall down and worship each other. If we could see the glory that he's going to one day bring us into. So what a taste of heaven on earth it is. What a compelling witness it is to a watching world, a hopeless and twisted and corrupt generation that we live around. When 107 ministers corporately looking to our head, the chief shepherd of the flock, and then moving out towards each other thoughtfully and deliberately and tirelessly. I love the way Paul put described his own heart for ministry. I will most gladly spend and be spent for your souls. Imagine 107 of us, and again, it's happened in a whole lot of ways. Don't get me wrong. Imagine 107 of us souls. Eagerly spending ourselves and being spent to help one another grow into a brighter and clearer, purer reflection of that loving Lord Jesus until that blessed day when we see him face to face. Maranatha. Come, Lord Jesus. Heavenly Father, we pray that you would help us Help us to discern how you want us to respond. How you want us to move out in love to encourage, to speak truth, to be equipped, to invest, to spend, and to be spent, and to do it gladly, knowing that we have a wonderful, wonderful privilege together of marching onwards. eternal glory. Pray that you give us wisdom for that. Pray that none would feel condemnation if they feel that they've been lacking in that To the degree that there might be conviction, we thank you we can come to the table and eat and drink and be reminded of your forgiveness. We pray that you would grant repentance where it's needed, that you would grant encouragement to persevere where that's needed. And that we all together would be built into the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. We pray for all this in Jesus' name. Amen.