Well, it is a great honor and joy to be with you. I have long felt a kindred spirit with Chevrolet Baptist Church. And it's exciting to be here and worship Jesus together with you. I send I bring to you greetings from Cities Church in St. Paul, Minnesota. Cities Church is a plant of Bethlehem Baptist Church. As I know you are a plant of Capitol Hill Baptist Church, and I think we have a lot of similarities. Jonathan has been a friend for some years And we have had similar endeavors here in going with a plant group from an established, enjoyable, secure church, and going out by faith, like Abraham. And enduring in that and persevering. And so I have long felt that kindred spirit. It's an honor to be with you. And I understand, if this is right, uh Larry said that there was not a record of a sermon yet in the history of Chevrolet Baptists that is from Hebrews chapter 11. And so I feel So honored and excited to get to bring you the first sermon in your young history from Hebrews chapter 11. And this, of course, as many of you know is some call the Faith Hall of Fame. I had the opportunity a few years ago to visit the Baseball Hall of Fame with my son's baseball team. I have twin boys. They're 15 now. They were 12 at the time. And their summer team Planned all spring, raised money. We went to Cooperstown, New York to play in this great Cooperstown tournament, and we visited the Hall of Fame, Baseball Hall of Fame And got to go through that famous plaque gallery. Maybe if you're a baseball fan, you know what I'm talking about. There's a little plaque Of each player who's made it into the Baseball Hall of Fame, you go into the gallery and you can see all the greats, see the most recent ones. One thing that I did not realize as a lifelong baseball fan about the Baseball Hall of Fame is how far off the beaten trail it is It's not like it's in Manhattan and people can be there for some other reason and oh yeah, let's let's drop by the uh the baseball hall of fame quick. My wife and I did that at the portrait gallery here. Oh let's let's go by there, went in and out It's way off the beaten trail. It's four hours north of Manhattan, up to this little tiny town called Cooperstown. And this is all that's there. And so to go to the Baseball Hall of Fame, you get away from normal life. You don't just end up there by accident. You get away from normal life and you go to remember and learn about and gawk at these larger-than-life figures who did what most humans could never do. And Hebrews chapter 11 sometimes is called the Faith Hall of Fame or the Hall of Faith. Or whatever preachers want to call it, some cute name. But I want to say this morning that it's not a lot like the Baseball Hall of Fame. The people that we hear about in Hebrews chapter 12 are really normal. Hebrews chapter 11, Hebrews 11. Means to draw us into the normalcy of their life, their imperfections, their weaknesses, their sins And their need in the humility of faith to trust a God who knows the future, makes promises, and takes care of them So, as much as we may want to play up Hebrews chapter 11 as these great heroes, they are very normal, flawed, sinful humans that a gracious God. Helped through this weak expression called faith. Faith is not impressive, it's not an earning virtue. As we'll hear, it's a peculiarly receiving virtue that receives strength and grace and promises from outside ourselves. So let me pray for us here in this Hebrews 11 message. Father in heaven, thank you for this, dear people. What a joy to meet faces, to hear names here at Chevroduch. After years of praying for this church and following my friend Jonathan in this effort and the others from Capitol Hill Baptist who have labored and have endured by faith in the planting and establishing of this church. So Father, would you encourage our hearts this morning? From Minnesota, here in Maryland, would you strengthen our hearts in Jesus? Would you clarify afresh what it means to have faith? in the one who died for us and rose again in triumph and saves us, as we have sung about. Draw near in your word now by your spirit. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen Hebrews is probably the most sermon-like book that we have in the Bible Especially in the New Testament. It's very much like a sermon. You can read through the whole thing in about 40 minutes, 45 minutes, and it has a sermonic climax. Hebrews chapter 11 is like that. Maybe you've heard a sermon where there's a refrain as you get to the climax of the sermon, about 75-80% of the way through, and his refrain is by faith, by faith, by faith. He's building up to the big climactic moment, the big amen moment. And you know where that's coming at? That's chapter 12. Verses 1 to 3, where Jesus is the climactic man of faith, the God man. As the whole string of these Old Testament heroes, weak as they are, sinful as they are, walking by faith, leads to Jesus as the climax. And along the way, as Hebrews is narrating this by faith history, he makes four editorial comments. This is significant for editors Like Jonathan and me. We love editorial comments. And most of them are very short. Verse 6 is a short one. Verse 32, verse 38, where he kind of steps out of the narrative And he makes comments right to the audience, but there's an extended editorial comment in verses 13 to 16. That's our passage this morning. So we're going to linger in this extended editorial comment where I think Hebrews tells us exactly what he wants us to get from chapter 11, this climactic chapter of his book. And I see here for us in verses 13 to 16 three distinct, distinct but connected realities. That's what we're going to focus on. Three distinct but connected realities. One is obviously about Christian faith. What is Christian faith? And if you're here with us this morning and you have that question, maybe at a very basic level, what's Christian faith? This is a great chapter, and I hope a great message for you to clarify what is Christian faith. Not just faith as we talk about it in general out in the world, what's Christian faith? And then we're also going to look at what is obedience. Abraham obeyed by faith. How does obedience relate to faith? And then finally, as we have celebrated, sung about, prayed about. God's people are strangers in this world. We're aliens in a sense, wherever we are, if you're in your country of origin or not. There's a sense in Christ that we are aliens and strangers because of the reality of Christian faith and the obedience to which it calls us. And this chapter, Hebrews 11, calls us not only to ask what these realities are and what they mean, but what are they like? What's the experience of them? And one of the reasons Hebrews chapter 11 perceives the way it does is it means to draw us in. I mean, he could just start with a definition, Hebrews 11, verse 1, give you his definition, move on. But what Hebrews 11 does, it draws us in, it spins the diamond of faith. And in doing so draws us into it to experience that faith. So we're going to ask this morning, what are these realities like? What is the experience of Christian faith like? And what is it like to obey? Not from fear, not from duty, but to obey from faith. That's how we want to live the Christian life. We want to obey from faith. And then lastly, what's it like to live as strangers and exiles in this world where we're seeking another homeland? Rather than simply being at home here. So there's our focus. And it's an admittedly a very experiential focus this morning. Which I think Hebrews 11 means to pull us into that. What's it like to have saving faith? What's it like to obey from faith? And then third, what's it like to live in this world as strangers and exiles? So let's look at this passage as we look at those questions. Number one, what's it like to have saving faith? And I hope here that those who have it will be clarified in it and deepened in it and secure in it And those who don't have it will feel freshly clarified about what it is and what I want. And that God might even be pleased to give it in the talk of it, which he often does. Look at verse 13. The first half of verse 13. This extended editorial comment. We'll go back and pick up the paragraph before and after. I want to put it in context. The main focus here will be verses 13 to 16, and let's start with the first half of verse 13. All these, this chapter of Sinners Who Had Faith. All these died in faith, not having received the things promised, but having seen them and greeted them from afar. Hebrews 11, verse 1 is probably the closest thing to a definition of faith in Hebrews, maybe in the New Testament. Faith is the substance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen. However, the chapter just keeps going He doesn't just give the definition and move on, moves on. He wants to see the many splendored reality of faith Pick up a bit here from Noah. Pick up a bit here from Moses. Pick up some here along the way from Abraham, from the patriarchs. And the first part of verse 13 has a particularly important contribution to make on how we as Christians think about what Christian faith is. And there's two pieces to this. Faith One sees God's promises from afar. Say more about that in a minute. And then greets them. That's the second thing. See them from afar in verse 13, and then greet them as they come from afar towards you through this word called promise. There's a reality in the distance. It comes to us in a promise, and we greet it in faith. Verses 1 to 7 in this chapter so far has emphasized that faith is a seeing of what is not yet visible. Faith hears God's promises and sees them with the eyes of the soul. And so faith sees spiritually what cannot yet be seen in the immediate surrounding and concrete world. With our physical eyes. And so there's a kind of distance for now between the reality promised, and it's bridged by faith. We're connected to the coming reality through faith And because this seeing is a response to God's promise, faith is tied repeatedly in this chapter to this word receiving. This is so important. Sometimes in our doing mentality, our achieving world, we can think that face the kind of doing. I gotta do faith. I gotta build it up, I gotta strengthen it, I gotta do it. But faith, this is from the Baptist theologian Andrew Fuller. He said faith is a peculiarly receiving virtue. Faith receives promise from outside ourselves. There's a promise coming toward us from God, and we receive it in faith So faith does not merit God's favor, but instead it receives a word about his coming favor. It sees his promises that are still for now invisible and distant. And then it it greets them. This is really important. This I think is one of the most important words in this chapter. This little verb in our English, greet. Faith not only sees God's promises from afar, but greets them. Or welcomes them. When something's coming from afar, somebody you love is coming, what do you do when that person arrives? Greet them. And greet is really thin language for the reality here. Welcome is even better. This same language is used elsewhere for kissing. Someone comes, you embrace, you kiss, you express glad reception. Faith receives the promise with delight, not with disgust or disinterest It's really important. There are many people who claim to be Christian who receive God's promises. It sure seems like in a very disinterested way, with apathy. I guess it's true. Better believe it. Honestly, not very interested, but if I'll believe it. This faith is not mere assent to just say, okay, 2 plus 2 equals 4. I'll ascend to it. This faith is a greeting of God's promise. It's a warm embrace in the soul of God's promise coming to us. Look at the language in verse 6. Faith Look to the reward, as we just sang. We will fix our eyes on him, our soul's reward. Him being the reward is not icing on the cake, like, oh, I believe the true thing, and oh, it just happened. He was a reward at the end. Faith sees him as reward. With delight, not disgust or disinterest. Verse 10. Faith looks forward to this great city that is to come that Jonathan prayed so wonderfully about. The whole point of the chapter then is that this saving faith perseveres. It endures. It keeps seeing, it keeps greeting, it keeps looking forward and keeps desiring and keeps tasting right now in part, in little ways. Of the fullness of reward and joy that is to come. So then, our question: what's it like to have saving faith? What's the experience of saving faith? On the one hand, to live according to faith is not to have the promises yet. It hasn't all become reality yet. Once you have the promises, you no longer walk by faith, you walk by sight We sing about we walk by faith and not by sight for now. A day's coming when we will walk by sight. Indeed we will It's Jonathan prayed about again. And we sing now. We walk by faith and not by sight. So faith. Faith is not yet content with the here and now. There is a holy discontent in Christian faith. There is more that we want that's not here yet. We taste it in part, but not in full. But also in faith, there is a foretaste of the goodness of God's promises. We want the promises. Faith hears God's word and sees them as true with the eyes of the soul and embraces them as desirable. Saving faith is not indifferent to the things promised or apathetic toward the things promised. Rather, there's a kind of eagerness in faith, a kind of desire, a thirst to drink, a hunger to eat, a foretaste of the full satisfaction that's coming. Faith says to God and to Jesus, I want you You matter. I want you to be there at that new heavens and new earth, that coming city. Faith wants Jesus there. Faith doesn't isn't content to have him purchase it and then let's just have our favorite things from this world apart from him. Faith says, I want you, Jesus, and perseveres in that want, even as imperfect and embattled as that desire can be. It keeps wanting in the ups and downs in life of life. One practical thing here about us as Christians, with faith that we have in some measure now, not perfectly, Is to think about how our lives now are setting us up for indifference to Jesus five years from now or delight in him five years from now. You can ask yourself. What are the inputs? And in the New Testament, there is special talk about faith coming by hearing. The ear is the main organ of faith reception. Amazing thing. Holes in the sides of our heads. What? We're so used to it. We don't ask about it. Amazing. These holes inside of our head that words can come in and be received by faith and go into the heart and change our lives from the inside out. And what you are hearing day by day, what you click on, watch, listen, the conversation coming in. The sum total of what's coming into the ears and how the heart is greeting it or not greeting it Is conditioning how you will delight in him in the future or be indifferent to him. You might have a seemingly vibrant Wonderful faith right now, and you're conditioning yourself for indifference to Jesus five years from now. And so we think very practically about the ongoing perseverance and feeding of our faith. So faith, verse 13, sees God's promises coming from afar. And greets them and continues to want them, which leads to our second question. What's it like to obey from faith Now we're going to get in the context here. We ask this because verses 8 to 12 and 17 to 22 tell us about the external observable actions that are taken in faith. So faith has real-world value here. Abraham obeyed and he went out to live in a foreign land. Sarah received power to conceive, and she gave birth. Became a mom. Abraham reached out his hand and he took the knife to sacrifice his beloved son of promise Isaac and Jacob and Joseph invoked blessings for future. They spoke words into the world over their offspring, over their heirs, and they gave them future direction. So, having some working sense of this experience of faith, what's it like to obey by faith, to act, to live out faith in the world? Well, we get a first piece of that from Abraham. This is verses 8 and 9. Get our word obey right here from Abraham. By faith, Abraham obeyed when he was called to go out to a place that he was to receive as an inheritance. And he went out, not knowing where he was going. By faith, he went to live in the land of promise, as in a foreign land, living in tents with Isaac and Jacob, heirs with him of the same promise. God had said to Abraham, He commanded him, Genesis chapter 12, verse 1: Go from your country and from your kindred and your father's house to the land that I will show you. There's a command from God. And Abraham got that 3,000 years ago in a way that we don't get in the same way today in the New Testament. And Abraham heard that word from God and obeyed. This is very important. This relates to that experience of saving faith. God didn't only command obedience of Abraham. He kept talking. And he made promises. And he's lavish. The promises just cascade out. So he gets the command: go from your country. In verse 1, and then God adds promises. Listen to all the I will And the shallows here. The wills and shalls. This is beautiful. This is our God. He is a God of wills and shallows of promises to be received in faith. He says to Abraham, I will make of you a great nation. I will Make of you a great nation. And I will bless you and make your name great, so that you will be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you. And him who dishonors you, I will curse. And in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed. So this God is not a God of command and obey This is a God of promise and believe and obey Verse 10 tells us how faith led to obedient. I want to pick up that piece. So God's promise, believe the promise. How do we get from believing the promise to obey? And Hebrews 11 here fills in a missing piece for us between faith and obey. What was it like? Abraham obeyed. See this word, look at verse 10. You've got your Bible open. This word for in verse 10. It means because. It's given us the reason for it. Abraham obeyed because He was looking forward, that's faith. He was looking forward to the city that has foundations, whose designer and builder is God. In other words, God didn't just command it, and Abraham obeyed it. God made commands. He did. And he made promises to move the heart. He's not just looking for him to obey externally. He's given promises to move and change the heart. And Abraham looked forward because of these promises, and he believed. He believed that God's promises would be a better future. Than what he had without God. And that led him to obey because he believed that something better was coming when he obeyed We still use a language like this today. We talk about looking forward to something. If you say you're looking forward to something, you mean you want it. It's coming tomorrow, coming next week, coming next month. I want this to happen. I'm excited about it. I desire it. I anticipate enjoying the event. I'm looking forward to the event. How about Sarah then? Pick up another piece of this from Sarah. This is the first part of verse 11 We hear that she obeyed, and the second part describes how it happened. This is the second part of verse 11. By faith, Sarah herself can received power to conceive, even when she was past the age, since she considered him faithful who had promised This is very different obedience than Abraham's. Abraham's. Abraham, go out. Move. Stay there. Sarah obeys by welcoming God's work in her womb and preparing for a child, silly as it looks, at age 90. All sorts of big and little obediences here for Sarah to bring a child into the world and to do so in her old age. So how did her obedience come from faith? This is so important. Other than that word greets, or right with that word greets. This word consider Is so important in Hebrews 11. We get this one three times. It's in verse 11. We're going to see it again in verse 19. Back with Abraham. It's reinforced. It's going to come again with Moses in verse 26. We won't get there. We'll see it again with Abraham in verse 19. This word consider is so important in realizing how faith Gives rise to obedience that honors God. This idea of considering gets at, we might call it doing the spiritual calculus. Doing the supernatural math, if you can talk that way. Counting the cost, Jesus talks about it that way. Rehearsing those promises. Pondering the promises, letting them take root in your soul, and then obeying out of promises that are considered. Promises that are pondered, they're reflected on, they're rehearsed. So here's how it works in in human life. There's a normal course of action, a normal course of expectation. 90-year-old women don't prepare to have babies. That's your normal human course. But faith considers in Sarah's instance I am not telling any 90-year-olds here among us today to prepare a nursery in your home. This is a unique circumstance in redemptive history, but it's a model of faith for all of us. God's word comes to Sarah. Faith considers the promise of God. It is not simply move like natural humans with the patterns of the world God's promises come. We receive them. We look to the rewards. We're doing the spiritual math, doing the calculus. This is okay. When a word comes from God, he's not expecting you to immediately obey it without thought. He wants you to receive it and consider it. Sit in it. Do the spiritual calculus. Hear the promise of reward. Think about the delight. Don't be disinterested. And then from the joy, obey. From faith, obey. Look to something better than you would have without the promise. So Sarah heard God's promises like Abraham, and she too considered God to be faithful. She believed that God would do what he said. She wanted him to do it. And believed it would be better that he do that. And so she acts from faith. Faith changed how she lived. Her faith led her to obey. Here's the last part now. Back to Abraham. I know it's complicated. We're still under number two about what's it like to obey from faith. Here's the last piece from Abraham in verses 17 to 18. Verses 17 and 18 tell us about Abraham's further obedience by faith. And verse 19 tells us how it happened. Alright, look, we're going to look for that word consider again, which is significant. By faith, Abraham, when he was tested, offered up Isaac, and he who had received the promises was in the act of offering up his only son, of whom it was said Through Isaac shall your offspring be named. Again, another unique, inimitable circumstance I promise you, God is not telling anyone in this room to sacrifice their own son. Unique story in redemptive history. Clarify. Next, he considered that God was able even to raise the dead, from which, figuratively speaking, he did receive him back. This considering, this pondering is not frowned upon. This is precisely what God wants. So, like Sarah, Abraham considered God's promises. Naturally speaking, it makes no sense to offer up Isaac, as God had clearly told Abraham to do. And he clearly told him the offspring's coming through Isaac. Now Abraham's considering, right? God said, My offspring will come through Isaac. And God said to go offer him up. So what does the considering produce? Here's what God said, Genesis 22, 20, 22, 2. Take your son, your only son Isaac, whom you love, and offer him as a burnt offering. So they go on a journey. Abraham has some servants with him. And he tells the two young men that he brought with them on the journey. This is Genesis 22:5. He says, Stay here with the donkey. I and the boy will go over there and worship and come back to Eve. He doesn't tell the servants, we're going to go over there, and I'll just come back. He says, We will go, we will come back to you. And Hebrews sees the expression of Abraham's faith here And Hebrews draws out a lesson for us. That Abraham believed that God would provide a rescue. He didn't pick between commands. He obeyed them both and believed God was able to raise up from the dead Isaac if he so needed. Which, figuratively speaking, he does. He stops Abraham. As he obeys and raises the knife, he stops him. So again, faith leads to obedience. Faith takes God at his word. Faith considers the truthfulness and faithfulness of God and God's goodness, and that God's plan is better than our own expectations, and faith leads us to act differently. than we would, apart from faith. Does the spiritual mass. And God's glorified in that He's okay for the pausing. He's okay for the considering. He's okay with the seasons of discerning his will and finding his leading and guiding in faith. Which I'm sure it was like for many in this room in pondering several years ago, leaving a wonderful, safe church to come start from scratch and do a new work. It's an amazing thing. It's an Abraham-like step of faith So, what's it like today to obey from faith? In short, we see something better than the world sees. And we act accordingly. Hearing God's promises, we consider differently than unbelievers consider. Our minds and our hearts do different calculus. We don't just float through life with its givens like unbelievers do. We don't just see with our physical eyes and then do with our spiritual bodies. We see. And pause. And seek to see with the eyes of faith and to act from faith. And sometimes that means an otherwise inexplicable step. Like going out from a really safe big church to start something fresh or To move from a city where you've been 20 years to come answer God's call in a new place. So faith gives us a foretaste of God's promises. Our souls consider the world and life differently because of God's word, and we obey from the heart. That's number two. Last one here. What's it like to live as strangers? What's it like? What's the experience like? And now we finish with the rest of verses 13 to 16. Remember, we already saw in verses 9 and 10 that Abraham went to live in a foreign land. He was looking forward to the city that has foundations, whose designer and builder is God. And now we pick up more of the story here In this very important editorial comment, most important comment in the chapter outside the narrative. All these died in faith, not having received the things promised, but having seen them and greeted them from afar. Now we pick up. And having acknowledged that they were strangers and exiles on the earth, for people who speak thus Make it clear that they are seeking a homeland. If they had been thinking of that land from which they had gone out, they would have had opportunity to return. But as it is, they desire a better country. Literally, they desire something better. That is, of heaven. Literal They desire something better of heaven. Therefore, God is not ashamed to be called their God, for He has prepared for them a city. So here's the piece we pick up now that we didn't have earlier. Men and women of faith not only see God's promises, And greet them, welcome them, but they acknowledge. That word acknowledge, or you could say confess Say it. Acknowledge it. Confess it. They confess themselves to be strangers and exiles on earth Make no mistake, Christian faith makes us strangers and exiles any place on the planet To hear God's promises and to embrace them is to be a stranger in this world and in this age. You are no longer, if you were in Christ, you are no longer of the world. Now you are different. Now you are comparatively strange. But Hebrew says these examples of faith also acknowledged it. They confessed it. They recognize it. They said it out loud. Didn't try to camouflage it. I'm not of the world. I'm different. I'm gonna pretend like I'm the same. Maybe nobody will notice. They acknowledge it. They confess it. And verse 14 says that people like that, we would call them Christians. People like that make it clear that they are seeking a homeland. They are not at home in this world as we have sung, as we have prayed. And they don't expect to be at home in this world. And they don't pretend to be at home in this world This age and its patterns and its assumptions are no longer theirs at the most fundamental level because of faith They are Christians, and by definition, they seek a homeland other than where they were born or where they live right now. This week, weekend, yesterday, my wife and I visited the National History Museum, U. S. History. And I love U. S. history. I was a political science major in college and have a general fascination with history. History is his story, right? History is how God had events unfold in the world. I love history. It was cool to see the U. S. History Museum. But also on Friday, we went to the Museum of the Bible. And that was a different. History. That was a different focus. And honestly, I enjoyed both of them. In some sense, both of them are my people. I was born in America, live in America, American history tells the story of my people in some ways. But the museum of the Bible, Abraham, Jacob, Moses, David, Ezra, Jesus. These are my people. And I didn't have the experience walking through those museums the last few days. This was fresh. Either last night or this morning, as I came back to Hebrews 11 and prepared to talk to you this morning. They're both my people. But Abraham As the father of the faith is deeper than George Washington, father of the country. We can hold those intention. And the Christian faith calls us to that deeper story, that deeper faith. In verse 15, Hebrews looks his audience right in the eye, as it were. He's telling the story, he's doing the narrative, he knows where they're at, he knows their temptation. Their temptation in the first century is to go back into the Judaism from which they came. Many of them were Jews. They had embraced Jesus. They had learned over time that friends and relatives and associates weren't embracing Jesus like them, and they were feeling social pressure. Just abandon the Jesus piece. Just come back You're Jewish, come back to us, come back without the Jesus piece. That's the temptation for them to go back from where they came. And so he puts his finger right on their temptation in verse 15, this social pressure to go back. And he says about these fathers of the faith. If they had been thinking of that land, a really good translation here would be reminiscing. You got that idea of reminiscing? You don't just remember it, but you kind of You remember the good old times, like nostalgia. You reminisce, you greet the past with welcome. If they had been reminiscing of that land from which they had gone out, they would have had opportunity to return. How many times are people like us, I say this as someone who's lived the last ten years in a church plant Where we went out from a really awesome, famous, healthy, safe mother church. How often were we tempted to go back to the comforts of Mother Church? But in Hebrews 11, they don't go back. They didn't reminisce about the past. They didn't daydream on the comforts of their former life before God had spoken and they believed and they obeyed. They didn't constantly consider the old or pine for the former times. For them, the return would have been to Judaism. I ask you this morning, what would the return be for you? And it's easy for Chevly. I'm not mainly asking about Chevly as a group. Well, let's go back to Capitol Hill. That's not what I'm talking about. What would the return be from you? For you? What did God save you from That you feel the temptation to reminisce about. That you want to go back to. That you might feed thoughts from the past. You might greet them with welcome. And as you do, you're weakening your will, you're preparing yourself to consider and go back. Maybe it's just modern, normal American life. There were some breaks when you came to faith, and you're getting worn down over time. I'd like to just reminisce about being a normal American, apart from this faith piece and its inconveniences. What would that be for you this morning? Whatever it is, God is saying to you this morning, don't go back. Don't settle for an earthly homeland when God has prepared a better city. In Christ, the best is ahead. It is not behind. Don't let nostalgia play tricks on you. God has prepared something better for you, a new Jerusalem A better city and country and people and nation and society that is to come. The heavenly one that has foundations whose designer and builder and center is God Himself. So what's it like to live as strangers and exiles today? And to do so in this metro of all places. This is what people scroll their devices, the news takes over the devices, politics takes over the news, national politics takes over everything. People from all over the country are watching things happening in your metro all the time. Simply put, our hearts as Christians are not at home in this world and even in this country. Love it as we do. I love it. Apart from a missionary call, I wouldn't choose to live anywhere else. I do love this country. But God has lit the flame of faith in our souls. And now we no longer want all the world wants. We no longer do all the world does. We're not at home with its movies and it shows what it affirms What it denies, its values, its priorities, its proportions, its distractions, and entertainments and pastimes, and investments of attention in its way of talking In its dreams, in its topics, in its unexamined use of technology We do not think and feel and live like everyone else. Or do we? Being strangers and exiles doesn't mean only that we give Christian takes on what the world's thinking about and talking about and what's trending in the world. We gotta find different feeds. We order our lives around God's word. And his people, rather than the world's authorities and agenda, and algorithms. We set the patterns and pace of our souls through Scripture. Through prayer, through meeting together in the life of the church. Or do we? If you ask How do I live as a stranger in exile in this luxurious 21st century American life? Wisdom requires our walking intentions all the time. There's no easy formula. There's no easy program. God has hemmed us in to be constantly needy of the Holy Spirit. There's not easy fixes The answers are not in the absolutes, but more in the proportions, in the rhythms of our lives, how we are conditioning our souls. But what Hebrews 11 makes unmistakable is that the Christian faith is not a layer that you add to normal human modern American life. But it is new life from the inside out. And it brings joy enough to obey even to the point of looking like strangers and exiles. Let me end with this amazing statement in verse 16. I don't know of anything like verse 16 elsewhere in the Bible. I asked for ChatGPT to help. Is there any other place in the Bible that talks about God being ashamed? And ChatGPT couldn't find one. The closest thing is Hebrews chapter 2. It's also in Hebrews. This is related to the theme. The audience is feeling shame from their Jewish community. They're being ashamed to try to get rid of the Jesus piece. Hebrews 2, verse 11 talks about Jesus not being ashamed to be our brother. It's beautiful. That's the Christological Jesus not ashamed. Verse 16 talks about God not being ashamed. And I'm not sure of any other place that talks like this. Look at verse 16. We finish here. Therefore, God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he has prepared for them, for us. City. What is the opposite of shame? Honor. Honor. Do you mind put it like this? For those who desire the heavenly city, God is honored to be their God. Don't you want that? I want God to be honored, to be my God. I know you want that too And verse 16 says, he will be honored by those who desire him and take him at his word, welcome his promises, embrace his son. And confess themselves to be strangers and exiles on the earth. And they desire something better. Than what they already have. They desire something better. A better country, a better land, a better city than human hands and constitutions can build. And not only is that desire an aspect of faith, but that desire profoundly honors God. God is not honored when we're indifferent to him. God is not an honored. God isn't honored if we're apathetic. Toward him. He's honored by souls that seek him and greet him and welcome him and desire him. And he says, in effect You would let me dare to finish this way. If I can put words in the mouth of God. These are not his inspired words, these are my theological paraphrase that I'll end with. God would say to us, I am honored to be their God because they desire me. Not their world, not their empty promises. They seek a fatherland, a home with me. Not on earth in this age. They see me My city, my people from afar. And they're not uninterested or unimpressed, but they greet it. They welcome it. Embrace it. Kiss it. They want me, and that honors me. They enjoy me and that glorifies me No, I am not ashamed to be their God. I am honored by such hearts of faith. And they will not be disappointed, because I have prepared for them that something better that they desire. And let's pray. Father in heaven, as we move now toward the table, thank you for your son. Who purchased for us. Not just forgiveness of sins, precious as that is, forgiveness of sins gets the barrier out of the way so we can draw near to you, know you, experience you, feast on you, welcome you. Thank you for your son and his work on our behalf. Thank you for the power of the Holy Spirit that takes dead hearts and gives the gift of faith. And so, Father, even this morning, in clarifying faith, in pondering faith, in considering it, would you build and strengthen our faith? Father, would you be the one, even as we come to the table, to be the one we increasingly desire, and would you be honored in your people's desire, their want, their welcome of you and your promises? In Jesus' name we pray. Amen