My name is Tony Merritt Jr. I know most of you knew that already. But what you should know is that my name, my first name, not Anthony, it's not Antonio, it is just Tony. And if I ever write a memoir, that'll be the title, just Tony. But why is that my name? Well, because my parents named me Tony. And why Tony? And not Anthony or anything else Well, it's because that's my dad's name. Hence the junior part, the suffix at the end of my last name. That is actually on all of my government documents, by the way. So I bear my dad's name, and I bear our family's name. Kids, teens. It's a privilege that your parents get to name you Now I don't know what you think about your name. Maybe you like your name and you're not too sure about your middle name, so you don't tell anybody. But that's a great privilege that they get. I think the new parents among us can attest to that. Maybe they named you what they named you because they like the sound of it. Or reminds your parents of something special about their relationship. Or they found it online on a list of popular names and they chose it However they decide it, they get to name you. And yes, we are defined by much more than our names But if you were introducing yourself to anyone at any point, regardless of how accomplished you are or how lowly you might think you are, you will start with your name In our passage today in Exodus chapters 3 and 4, what we'll see in part is a naming ceremony. Where God introduces himself to Moses. He tells him his name and therefore defines himself for Moses. And we'll also learn through this, with God's help, that we are defined not by just our names. We are defined more by our relationship to this God that appeared to Moses. If you haven't already, please meet me in Exodus chapter 3. If you're using one of the Bibles around you. I believe that's on page 46, so very early in your Bibles. If you don't have a copy of God's Word on your own, feel free to consider that Bible that you're using a gift from us to you. Follow along with me, please, as I read the text. I want to read chapters three and four, and then we'll talk about it. This is chapter three, starting in verse one. This is the word of the Lord. Now Moses was keeping the flock of his father-in-law, Jethro, the priest of Midian, and he fled his flock to the west side of the wilderness and came to Hebron, the mountain of God. And the angel of the Lord appeared to him in a flame of fire out of the mist of the bush. He looked, and behold, the bush was burning, yet it was not consumed Moses said, I will turn aside to see this great sight. Why the bush is not burned? When the Lord saw that he turned aside to sit turned aside to see, God called to him out of the bush, Moses, Moses. And he said, here I am. Then he said, do not come near. Take your sandals off your feet, for the place on which you are standing is holy ground And he said, I am the God of your father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. And Moses hid his face, for he was afraid to look at God. Then the Lord said, I have surely seen the affliction of my people who are in Egypt and have heard their cry because of their taskmasters. I know their sufferings, and I have come down to deliver them out of the hand of the Egyptians, and to bring them up out of that land to a good and broad land, a land flowing with milk and honey To the place of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Amorites, the Prejudicites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites. And now, behold, the cry of the people of Israel has come to me. and I have also seen the oppression with which the Egyptians have oppressed them. Come, I will send you to Pharaoh, that you may bring my people, the children of Israel, out of Egypt. But Moses said to God, Who am I that I should go to Pharaoh and bring the children of Israel out of Egypt? He said, But I will be with you, and this shall be the sign for you that I have sent you. When you have brought the people out of Egypt, you shall serve God on this mountain. Then Moses said to God, I come to the people of Israel and say to them, The God of your fathers has sent me to you, and they ask me, What is his name? What shall I say to them? God said to Moses, I am who I am. And he said, Say this to the people of Israel. I am has sent me to you. God also said to Moses, Say this to the people of Israel: The Lord, the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, has sent me to you. This is my name forever, and thus I am be to remembered throughout all generations. Go and gather the elders of Israel and say to them, The Lord, the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of Jacob, has appeared to me, saying, I have observed you and what has been done to you in Egypt. And I promise that I will bring you up out of the affliction of Egypt to the land of the Canaanites, the Hittites, Neamorites, the Prejusites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites, a land flowing with milk and honey And they will listen to your voice. And you and the elders of Israel shall go to the king of Egypt and say to him, The Lord, the God of the Hebrews, has met with us And now, please let us go for three days' journey into the wilderness that we may sacrifice to the Lord our God But I know the king of Egypt will not let you go unless compelled by a mighty hand. So I will stretch out my hand and strike Egypt with all the wonders that I will do in it. After that he will let you go. I will give this people favor in the sight of the Egyptians. And when you go, you shall not go empty, but each woman shall ask of her neighbor. And any woman who lives in her house for silver and gold, jewelry, and for clothing, you shall put them on your sons and your daughters. So you shall plunder the Egyptians Then Moses answered, Behold, they will not believe me or listen to my voice, for they will say, The Lord did not appear to you The Lord said to him, What is that in your hand? He said, A staff. And he said, Throw it on the ground. So he threw it on the ground, and it became a serpent, and Moses ran from it. But the Lord said to Moses, put out your hand and catch it by the tail. So he put out his hand and caught it, and it became a staff in his hand. That they may believe that the Lord, the God of their fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, has appeared to you. Again the Lord said to him, Put your hand inside your cloak. And he put his hand inside his cloak. And when he took it out, behold, his hand was leferous like snow. Then God said, Put your hand back inside your cloak. So he put his hand back inside of his cloak, and when he took it out, behold, it was restored like the rest of his flesh. If they will not believe you, God said, or listen to the first sign, they may believe the latter sign. If they m will not believe even these two signs, or listen to your voice, you shall take some of the water from the now and pour it on dry gr ground, and the water you shall take from the now will become blood on the dry ground. But Moses said to the Lord, Oh my Lord, I am not eloquent, either in the past or since you have spoken to your servant. But I am slow in speech and of tongue. Then the Lord said to him, Who has made man's mouth? Who makes him mute or deaf or seeing or blind? Is it not I, the Lord? Now, therefore, go, and I will be with your mouth and teach you what you shall speak. But he said, Oh my Lord, please send someone else. Then the anger of the Lord was kindled against Moses, and he said, Is there not Aaron your brother the Levite? I know he can speak well. Behold, he is coming out to meet you, and when he sees you, he will be glad in his heart. You shall speak to him. and put the words in his mouth, and I will be with your mouth, and with his mouth, and teach you both what to do. He shall speak for you to the people, and he shall be your mouth, and you shall be as God to him. And take in your hand the staff with which you shall do the signs. Moses went back to Jethro, his father-in-law, and said to him, Please let me go back to my brothers in Egypt to see whether they are still alive. And Jethro said to Moses, Go in peace. And the Lord said to Moses and Midian, Go back to Egypt, for the men who were seeking your life are dead. So Moses took his wife and his sons and had them ride on the donkey, and they went back to the land of Egypt. And Moses took the staff of God in his hand. And the Lord said to Moses, When you go back to Egypt, see that you do before Pharaoh all the miracles that I have put in your power. But I will harden his heart, so that he will not let the people go. Then you shall say to Pharaoh, Thus says the Lord, Israel is my firstborn son. And I say to you, Let my son go that he may serve me. If you refuse to let him go, behold, I will kill your firstborn son. At a lodging place on the way, the Lord met him and sought to put him to death. Then Sephora took a flint and cut off her son's foreskin and touched Moses' feet with it and said, Surely you are a bridegroom of blood to me. So he let him alone. It was then that she said, a bridegroom of blood, because of the circumcision. The Lord said to Aaron, go into the wilderness to meet Moses. So he went and met him at the mountain of God and kissed him. And Moses told Aaron all the words that the Lord, all the words of the Lord, with which he had sent him to speak, and all the signs that he had commanded him to do. Then Moses and Aaron went and gathered together all the elders of the people of Israel. Aaron spoke all the words that the Lord That the Lord had spoken to Moses and did the signs in the sight of the people. And the people believed. And when they heard that the Lord had visited the people of Israel and that he had seen their affliction, they bowed their heads and worshiped. Exodus 3 and 4. You're taking notes this morning. Here's the main idea for our time together. Since God is who he is, we are his by faith. Since God is who he is, we are his by faith And for the rest of our time together, we'll focus on Exodus 3 and 4 by asking and answering two main questions. Question number one, who is God? And question number two, who are we? Who's God and who are we? Starting with question number one: Who is God? The short answer: God is who He is. God is who he is. That's what the Lord says to Moses when he asks, What is your name? I think the words of Pastor Tim Chester are fitting here when he says. If you were to ask an Israelite who was God, they would likely just tell you the story of the Exodus In other words, if we want to know who God is, we need to know that He doesn't give us a blank canvas to work with. He instead gives us a tapestry. So as God unfolds the tapestry for Moses here in Exodus 3 and 4, here's what we find. One thing we find is that God is holy and majestic. We see that in the earlier part of Exodus 3, the first several verses, where this chapter starts out with Moses tending to his flock and then ending up at the mountain of God. He sees a burning bush that was not consumed. How is that possible? Because the one who rules over all things can do whatever he wants to do Even manifesting himself to a lowly shepherd outside of Midian on this mountain of God. God can do things like that because he's holy and majestic. That's why Moses hid his face from the holiness of God. That's why Moses was soon told by God: take off your sandals, because where you are standing is now holy ground. When God shows up, he can turn humble things into holy things. Moses heard this from God How? Because he's holy and majestic, he can do that. But also, this teaches us something else about the Lord, about the Lord God, is that God hears and he speaks God hears and he speaks. Which is why he tells Moses that he's the God of his father. Pointing to uh Moses' father's faith, the Levites that we met in Exodus chapter 2. And the father of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob pointing out their faith, who he reiterates over and over again throughout this section. And in doing so, God reiterates what He said, what is said about God at the end of Exodus chapter 2, verses 23 to 25: that God actually hears and sees his people. And God told Moses that he has come down to do what? To save and to send I think those are the next two things that we learn about God. He's holy and majestic. He hears and speaks. He saves and sends. God says he's come down to deliver his people out of Egypt and bring them into a broad land, a land flowing with milk and honey. And he would save Moses and then use Moses as his servant. He would send him He says in verse 10 to Moses, come, I will send you to Pharaoh, that you may bring my people, the children of Israel, out of Egypt. And then that ended the conversation, right? Like in verse 11, where he asked the Lord, Who am I that I should go to the Pharaoh and bring the children of Israel out of Egypt? So God engages with him. Verse 12, his answer to the who am I question? But I will be with you, God says. And this will be the sign for you that I have sent you. When you have brought the people of Egypt out, or the people out of Egypt, not if, but when, when you have brought them out, you shall serve God on this mountain. Then Moses said to God, If I come to the people of Israel and say to them, The God of your fathers has sent me to you, and they ask, What is your name, what shall I say to them? Now maybe to give Moses a little bit of credit is a decent question The name of a God would have mattered a lot in the ancient Near East, especially in this very polytheistic culture that you have in Egypt, that Moses would have been brought up in. The Egyptians had lots of different gods and goddesses. They had lots of different roles and functions, like Ra, the god of the sun, who was also known as the creator god But those little G gods, they just sit on the shelf somewhere and collect dust. That's not the God that came to Moses out of the bush Look at verse 14. That's why God says to Moses, I am who I am. Say this to the people of Israel: I am has sent me to you. Verse 15: Say this to Israel: The God, the Lord, the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of Jacob has sent me to you. This is my name forever, and thus I am to be remembered throughout all generations. What does this teach us about God? God is who he is. God is who he is. That's the next thing that we learn. Now if you translate that, that would be Yahweh. God says to Moses, I am who I am. I am Yahweh. Tell them that I am, or Yahweh, has sent you. And what does I am who I am mean? That seems like a very wooden statement. It means God was, God is, and God will always be. He has no starting point, he has no ending point This guy doesn't sit on a dust and collect or a shelf and collect dust. This guy doesn't have a limited and specialized job description This God doesn't have a beginning nor does he have an end. This is the eternal Lord over all things. And while names might describe different aspects of God, there's not a single one of them that can capture the tapestry of who God is. And that is why God is the one that does the defining. Because if we would define God on our own, if we had that blank canvas, we would create a God in our own image, and that would be a God far too small for us. God defining himself as Yahweh means that he is true. And what is true about God has always been true about God, will always be true about God forever and ever. He is the same yesterday and today and forevermore. The writer of Hebrews says in Hebrews chapter 13, verse 8 But listen, it says Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today and forevermore The writer of Hebrews, you know, whoever that was, seems to be saying that Jesus Christ is the I am. I mean, that's what we just heard Sarah Adams read to us from John chapter 8. That's what Jesus says about himself. Before Abraham was Abraham, the father of the faith. Before he was, I am. That's why the Pharisees wanted to kill Jesus because they knew exactly what he was claiming. He was claiming to be the eternal an everlasting God. Not constrained by others, doesn't conform to others, not contained by others And I think we had a picture of that in the burning bush. Just think of this burning bush. The same bush that the text says an angel of the Lord appeared in. Angel as in messenger, which some believe could have been the preincarnate Christ appearing in the flame But this flame was burning on its own. And the Lord doesn't stop the conversation to ask: okay, Moses, you have a lot of questions. Can you get some wood to stoke the fire? He doesn't need Moses to do that. Why? Because God is who he is. And since God is who he is, that also means that he's faithful. Another thing that we learn. So God is holy and majestic. He hears and speaks. He saves and sins. God is who he is, and God is faithful That's why he says in verse 17 of chapter 3: I promise, God says, I will bring you up out of the affliction of Egypt. He guarantees to Moses that this mission will be successful. He says they will listen to you. Pharaoh will let you go, and you won't leave empty-handed. He makes and keeps promises. If you've read the rest of Exodus, you know that all those things happen as he said it would happen. He's faithful But how is God able to make and keep promises like that? Because He's also sovereign God is sovereign. He knows the ends from the beginning. He knows all things. And he does all things according to his will, which he knows from the beginning to the end. Now, if you're like me, maybe hearing this passage, you think that you would love to have a back and forth with the Lord like Moses did. Right? And you would love to have this step-by-step assurances that everything is going to be fine Hey, you're afraid about following me, you're afraid about obeying me this area. Let me tell you step by step how it's going to happen. We would love those guarantees, right? Surely those guarantees would make it easier for us to follow Jesus, right Surely those guarantees would make it easier for us to trust in the Lord. Surely that would have been enough for Moses, right? Chapter 4, verse 1. Moses says, But behold, they won't believe me. It's like, bruh, really? They won't believe you? You're still talking about you? And God is talking to you out of the midst of the flame? But Moses is like, yeah, I don't think they'll believe me though. You don't understand, Lord. And the Lord doesn't quench up the flame and move on and find somebody else. Why not? Another thing we learn about the Lord because he is patient and long-suffering. And aren't you glad about that this morning? He is patient and long-suffering Because you would have been done with you a long time ago. But not God. He's even patient with Moses. In chapter 4, we see that he shows him a bunch of signs, like turning a staff into a snake and then into a staff again. Making it a new staff with which he would use all throughout the rest of the book of Exodus. He was also foreshallowing the plagues that the Lord would use to bring his people out of Egypt. He made his hand leprous and then back to normal. Like, why would he do that? He said, if they don't believe, take water from the now, it will turn into blood. Why would he do that? I think also foreshadowing the signs that are to come, but also to show that this God has the power over all creation So he shows Moses all of these signs. Now, by a show of hands, some participation, be honest, we're in church. Raise your hand if you have ever asked the Lord to show you a sign. Like Lord, I know you want me to share the gospel. Show me a sign. Lord, I need to make this decision. Show me a sign. I know you say in your word that you're with me, but I'm not so sure. Show me a sign so I can know that you're with me. We think that if we just have these signs, whatever they are, that will make obedience to the Lord look easier. Right? It should have been easier for Moses, too. Right? Chapter 4 verse 10, Moses throws up another objection to the Lord. He says, I don't talk real good. Moses says he was slow in speech and tongue. Now a lot of people think maybe Moses had a speech impediment or stutter or lisp or something like that. Maybe, we don't know, but what's super ironic is that for someone so slow of speech and tongue, he certainly had a lot to say to the Lord. I think this is really less about Moses and his ineloquence and more about his lack of faith. But God is still patient. He says, who's made your mouth? I made it. I will be with you. I will teach you what to say. But then Moses' lack of faith is clearly on display in verse 13 of chapter 4, where he says, My Lord, please send someone else. After all these signs and wonders, after all these words of assurance, after this pep talk, God still, Moses is still like, send somebody else And then verse 14 says, the anger of the Lord was kindled against Moses. I can picture that flame getting a little bit brighter at that point I was angry with Moses. I think he had the right to be. But he still bears with him. He sends Aaron to go with him. He says, I will still be with your mouth. I will still give you the words. I'm going to speak to you, and then you are going to speak to Aaron. I will be with both of you. And he even tells Moses, I think this is around verse 17, take the staff with you. In other words, you'll need it. But a quick aside, a couple of things I think we can learn from this section, especially this latter section about God being patient and long-suffering. Don't be surprised when the Lord objects to your objections. His response to all of Moses' objections, like, I will be with you, is gonna be okay. He says the same to us. And secondly, yes, God is patient, but don't abuse his patience. He's patient, but also righteous See a glimpse of that in verse 14, and we'll talk a little more about that later. So God is who he is. What about us? Who are we? Question number two. Who are we? Short answer. We're a lot like Moses. We're a lot like Moses. Moses had a regrettable past. He moved far away from where he grew up He eventually got married, had kids, and started working. That might sound like many of us here, right? But it goes deeper than that. Let's think about that dialogue, that back and forth between Moses and the Lord, and all of his many objections. Where did you hear yourself? Where did you hear your own voice? When have you said things to the Lord like, who am I? Or I won't know what to say. Or Lord, who are you again? What's your name They won't listen to me. I don't speak that well. Please send somebody else. I've done that. Maybe you have as well How often do we, like Moses, dress up our disobedience with questions? How often do we, like Moses, instead of beholding the Lord in all of his goodness, Beholding the tapestry of God's grace to us, how often do we, like Moses, instead turn the camera of our lives? Away from God into selfie mode and we look at ourselves. I think some of us feel seen in the person of Moses. We in a lot of ways are a lot like him. So then why would God choose Moses of all people? This is the God of all gods. If he is who he said he is, all that he claimed to be, then surely he could have found somebody better than Moses to use, right? Kids, teens, you ever been part of a group project in school or maybe playing a board game or an activity or doing a sport? But you had the opportunity to actually choose who you wanted to work with? Who you want to partner up with, who you want to be your teammates. If you have the choice, you're probably not going to choose the D student. Unless that D student is a good friend of yours, which that's a different story, you're probably not going to choose the person who doesn't understand the rules of the game that you have to explain over and over again You're not going to choose the one that has no idea what a basketball is to play basketball. You're going to choose the best. And as we have seen about Moses, if we were picking, we would not have chosen him. He was not a first-round draft pick. So then why would God choose Moses Same reason he would choose any of us, so that he will get the glory and not us. So that he will prove to be faithful everywhere where we prove to be faithless. Maybe you think it's a little bit harsh to define Moses at this point as faithless. I mean by the end of it, he took the staff with him, right? And you know, he just had some questions. He just wanted to, you know, make sure, okay, if I'm gonna really do this, like you need to show me a few different things before I step out on faith. Right? It's like, yeah, that's okay. Maybe he just had a little bit of faith. Maybe But throughout the entire passage, as Moses addresses God, even after God tells him his name, he doesn't call him that In your Bibles, he doesn't call him L-O-R-D, as in Lord Yahweh, all caps. He calls him Lord, so capital L, which translates to Adonai, which is still a term of respect, but he doesn't even call him by his name And yes, Moses did ask his father-in-law, Jethro, if he could leave his job and go back to Egypt. That shows a little bit of faith, right? But look back at chapter 4, verse 18. What exactly does Moses say in this conversation? Moses goes back to Jethro, his father-in-law, and he said to him, Please let me go back to my brothers in Egypt to see whether they are still alive. That's it. No burning bush. No promises, no assurances. No they will be freed from Egypt. No miracles, no signs. He doesn't even believe they're still alive. And I think the faithlessness of Moses makes sense out of verse 14 in chapter 4. So God's anger. And I also think it makes sense out of that dodgy bit that we heard about, the circumcision, starting in chap in verse 24. We've probably heard that in like, what was that about? Well, let's talk about it now. Verse 24, chapter 4. Our lodging place on the way. So Moses is on his way. The Lord met him and sought to put him to death. And Sephora, his wife took a flint and cut off her son's foreskin and touched Moses' feet with it and said, Surely you are a bridegroom of blood to me. So he let him unone. It was then that she said, a bridegroom of glove, because of the circumcision. What I mean by dodgy An English phrase. Maybe y'all heard it while you were in the UK last week. Just means interesting. Strange. What is going on here? Moses is on his way to Egypt, right? But the Lord sought him to put him to death. How? Well, many people think it was some kind of sickness that had Moses bedbound. He was bedridden. Maybe it was a disease or something. We don't know. Whatever happened to Moses, we do know that Sephora, his wife, saw it, and somehow she knew exactly what to do about it. And what does she do? She urgently circumcised her son. Gershim. Gersham's mentioned in chapter 2, by the way. Now, why would she do that? In Genesis 17, the Lord told Abraham, so the father of the faith, that anyone who was not circumcised within your household shall be cut off from the people of God. Demonstrating that the act of circumcision was a demonstration of faith. And Gersham, it seems like, up to this point, was not circumcised Why not? I asked myself a lot that a lot this past week. I looked up some books this week. A lot of people say a lot of different things. I'm gonna just tell you what I think that makes the most sense and that's most consistent to the text. I think Gersham wouldn't have been circumcised because Moses was the one that lacked faith. Because on the eighth day, when a child is named, on that very day at their naming ceremony, they would have been circumcised. That seems to square well with the rest of the passage in Moses' back and forth with the Lord, his argument, his debating, his lack of faith. I think we can infer if Moses truly believed that God who was who he said he was, he would have gone home and circumcised his son Gershem. But his wife knew exactly what to do about it. And I think that points to her faith. She calls Moses a bridegroom of blood And by this act of faith, by this woman, it seems that this faith was applied to Moses. Let's think about it. He was on his deathbed. How did he get well? It wasn't anything that he did His wife demonstrated faith, and it was applied to him. How do we know it worked? Verse 26. So he, God, let him, Moses, alone. Moses' life here was spared by the work of another. And I think that shows us another way that we're a lot like Moses, that we are in desperate need of mercy We are in desperate need of mercy. But that also shows us something else that we can learn about God. That God is a merciful Savior. Because our sin against God, our unbelief against God, the ways that we have continued to go our own way Put ourselves on the throne or put other lowercase G gods on the throne of our lives and our hearts. All that is rebellion against God. We've made ourselves in various ways the God of our own lives while putting the great I am on some shelf somewhere in a back room. And yes, God is patient as we've learned about. He's long-suffering, but our sin makes God angry. There's a picture of that here in Moses And our sin deserves death. There's another picture of that. God is also righteous. He wasn't doing something wrong here by putting Moses on his deathbed And yet there's another picture of the beauty of God's work in the gospel, because while we were dead in our sins, On our deathbeds, incapacitated, God sent his son to die on the cross for us The great I am, the Lord Jesus Christ, did much more than manifest in a bush. The eternal God put on flesh, and he manifested himself in this world among us. God saw our sin and our suffering and came down to dwell with us to live the perfect life, but then to die the death that we should have died on the cross. So that by the shedding of His blood We could be forgiven. The Lord Jesus Christ Himself was cut off so that we could be brought in by faith. And Jesus rose on the third day, proving that he is who he says he is, that he truly is the great I am, so that all of us, though faithless. Helpless, in desperate need of mercy, can find in him a wonderful and merciful Savior. Not because of our works, but because by faith his works are applied to us. If you're here this morning and and you don't believe yourself to be a Christian, maybe you have a lot of questions like Moses. And there's a place for questions, but you need to know that the kindness of the Lord, the goodness of the Lord, should lead to repentance. And you can repent in faith today. Yes, he is patient, but he is calling you today to turn in faith to him. We'd love to talk to you about what that means if you want to know what it means to be in Christ. Where to the sisters here among us? Sisters in the faith. Moses, it seems, from that passage, has a wife or had a wife who interceded for him. And God used her faithfulness in his life. And God wants to continue to use your faithfulness, whether you're married or not, to bless those around you So even when you feel weary, dear sisters, or unnoticed, or misunderstood, or forgotten, your faithful intervention matters. It matters to your friends. It matters to your family. If you're married, it matters to your husband. You have children, it matters to your children. It matters to this church family, but most of all it matters to God. Brothers and sisters, remember that the Lord not only spared Moses, He saved him. Not only did he save, spare us from the penalty of our sin, he saved us And he brought us into his family by faith. And I think that's what the circumcision is supposed to always be about, pointing to faith. Colossians 2:11. In him, in Jesus, you were also circumcised with the circumcision made without hands, by putting off the body of the flesh, by the circumcision of Christ, Paul says. So if you feel like your faith is waning this morning, maybe you're looking at yourself and your works a little too much Look again to the Lord Jesus Christ and allow him to strengthen you. Will he actually strengthen us though Yes. Because another thing that we learn from this passage about God is that He is a good father. And the most important thing that we learn about us is that we are His by faith. I think that's what we can infer here and we can gather here from verse 22. When God tells Moses to say to Pharaoh, Israel is my firstborn son. Let my son go that he may serve. You refuse to let him go, behold, I will kill your firstborn son. There's a lot of foreshadowing going on here, foreshadowing some of the plagues that will come later on, used to free God's people. But do you hear the possessive language that God is using here? The Lord is saying that those lowly slaves, those forgotten slaves, those burdened people, they are mine. They're my firstborn sons. They're entitled to all the riches that I can give to them This language is repeated in Hosea chapter 11, verse 1, where it says, Out of Egypt the Lord says, I have called my son, referring to his people, Israel. That included Moses, the faithless shepherd, who was spared by the faithful shepherd. But then if you go to Matthew 2, verse 15, After Jesus, so young Jesus, two-year-old Jesus, gets to escape out of Egypt with his family, fleeing Egypt because the king, King Herod, had died. It says in Matthew 2. 15, this happened to fulfill the scripture that says, out of Egypt I have called my son. Talking about Jesus. So Jesus, the Son of God, was delivered so that he could deliver us, making us sons and daughters by faith Think this is what Paul gets at in Galatians 4, where he says, And you are sons, because you are sons, God has sent the Spirit of His Son into our hearts, crying, Abba Father, so you are no longer a slave. But a son, if a son, then an heir by faith through God. Brothers and sisters What the Lord wanted Moses to know most, what I think the Lord wants us to know most today, the most important thing about us. It's not the family that we were brought up in. It's not the greatest accomplishment that you've ever done. It's not the greatest sin that you've ever committed. It's not how righteous you've been this last week. It's not how righteous you will try to be this Next week, it's not how accomplished you are, it's not how incompetent you are. It's not your great faith, it's not your small faith. The most important thing about you is that you belong to God. And since God is who he is, we are his by faith. So then how should his children live Should behold him. One application point this morning. We should behold him. Now beholding God, it's kind of abstract and super like Christianese, right? Like what does it mean to behold God? My dad and I, like I mentioned, we share the same name. But there's lots of other ways that my dad and I are alike, meaning that I'm like him I kind of walk like him. Sometimes when I open my mouth, my father comes out and I just can't help it. We have similar personalities. We like some of the same sports, some of the same music. How does that happen? Some of it happens naturally, but I think a lot of it happens because I followed my dad everywhere he went. I watched him. I studied him. I wanted to be with him and I wanted to be like him. And I think that's a very small picture of what it means to behold God. Being with him, studying him, following him around, wanting to be more and more like him. But you might think we don't get to see God. How can we behold him Moses saw a burning bush, still struggled to believe. Even the disciples saw the risen Lord Jesus Christ. But in Matthew 28, 17, it says, When they saw him, they worshiped him, but some Doubt it. But notice Exodus 431, where it says, and the people believed When they heard that the Lord had visited the people of Israel and that he had seen their affliction, they bowed their heads and they worshiped So I think another way that we can behold God is by hearing him and believing him So keep reading his word. Keep hearing his word preached. Keep memorizing scripture. Keep spending time with him in prayer. Follow the Lord wherever he leads. And spend time with your siblings, your family, and the faith, beholding your heavenly Father together. Brothers and sisters, may we, as his children, behold him, become more like him. And gladly bear the family name that he's put on us. Let me pray. Lord, we want to behold you. We want to believe you. We confess that that's hard at times because we don't see you But we know that by faith you see us. We know by faith you saw us, and therefore you sent your son to die and rise for us. Lord, strengthen our faith today. Help us to behold you. Help us to become more like you. Help us to know who you are so we can know who we are. And help us to remember and believe the most important things about us is that we belong to you. In Jesus' name. Amen.