Good morning, brothers and sisters. Good to be with you to open up God's word so that we can hear from him and rejoice in his word and respond to his word by faith. I do want to mention before we pray once more briefly and then get to our time in God's Word that we have Easter invitations. Because Easter is approaching us. They will be on the outside table on your way out if you want to grab one or a few. This might help you be a helpful tool as you seek to share the gospel with neighbors, co-workers, and friends. We encourage you to take some and to invite them. And this is also your standing invitation that you all are invited to enjoy to join us. East Lord's Day, but also Easter, which is April 20th. So we encourage you to grab that. Let's go to the Lord one more time before we go to his word. Oh Lord, we need you to speak to us. And we need your help. So that we can rightly understand and apply your word. We pray you would use your word to convict us. We pray you would use your word to correct us. We pray that by your grace you would use your word to change us so that we can look more like your son, Jesus Christ, as a result. And we ask in his name. Amen. So last night I counted and there are roughly twenty-five Bibles in my home. Children's Bibles, old Bibles that I've written in for many years, some are my wife's Bibles or our kids' Bibles, different translations, different sizes. Different shapes, different binding on the outside, some study Bibles, some Bibles that actually belong to CBC, which I'll bring back eventually. And that doesn't include the ESV app or the Bible app that gives us access even right now to the Bible And I don't share any of this for you to be impressed with me, but I share this to remind all of us of the wealth of access that we have to God's Word, even right now. In fact, you can look to your right or to your left and you can probably find Bibles that are provided. Maybe you came to church with your own Bible. Or maybe if you go home and count, you might have a lot of Bibles at home as well. But our access to God's word is only as good as we respond to God's word. That these words don't just stay sitting on a shelf collecting dust, but they are opened. They are read, they are understood, they are believed. So my question is: how do you respond to God's word? Is the Bible to you like a museum artifact that's interesting, maybe informative? You might glance at it for a few seconds and then you'll keep on moving. Or it's just interesting, strange collection of stories about people in the ancient Near East that doesn't really matter for us today. Or, even as Christians, has the Bible become more for you about the information that you get from it and less about the God that you get to know through it Well, in our passage today, we're going to learn about a people who did not have access to God's Word for many years due to their exile. But in our passage, they hear the word, they rejoice in the word, they respond to the word. And they obey the word. So if you haven't met me already there, please turn in your Bibles to Nehemiah chapter 8. And if you're using one of those Bibles provided around you, that's on page 403. Where we last left off in Nehemiah, we were in Nehemiah chapter 7, where there was a great a homecoming celebration for God's people. The walls were rebuilt. The exiles were allowed to come back home to Jerusalem. And it ended, Nehemiah chapter 7 did, with those people settling in their towns. And that should be where the story ends. They weren't there, they rebuilt the walls, they went back there. But that's not what the where the story ends because God's intent was to do more than rebuild some walls and welcome some people back to an ancient city. The Lord wanted to restore his remnant people to write fellowship with him and then to write worship of him That's the whole point of the book of Nehemiah. Chapters 1 through 7 is about restoring that right fellowship. Chapters 8 through 13, it's about restoring that right worship. So now that their fellowship was restored. They needed to gather to worship. In order to rightly respond to the Lord in worship, they needed to hear God's word. And that's what happens in Nehemiah chapter 8. I'll start reading the passage for us. I'm going to read Nehemiah chapter 8. Starting in verse 1, I'll read through verse 8 for right now. This is God's word. It reads. And all the people gathered as one man into the square before the water gate. And they told Ezra the scribe to bring the book of the law of Moses that the Lord had commanded Israel. So Ezra the priest brought the law before the assembly. both men and women, and all who could understand what they heard on the first day of the seventh month. And he read from it, pacing the square before the water gate, from early morning until midday In the presence of the men and the women and those who could understand. And the ears of all the people were attentive to the book of the law. And Ezra the scribes stood on a wooden platform that they made for the purpose. Besides him stood Manasiah, Shema, Ananiya, Uriah, Hilkiah, Mashaiah on the right hand. And Padiah, Meshael, Malkaijah, Heshuim, Hasbadinah, Zachariah, Meshulim, on his left hand. And Ezra opened the book in the sight of all the people, for he was above the people. And as he opened it, all the people stood. And Ezra blessed the Lord, the great God. And all the people answered, Amen, Amen, lifting up their hands. And they bowed their heads and worshiped the Lord with their faces on the ground. Also Deshua Bani Kerubai Demin Caub Shabbatha, Odiah, Messiah, Haledah, Azariah, Josebad, Hanan, Thaliah, the Levites, Helped people to understand the law while the people remained in their places. They read from the book of the law of God clearly, and they gave the sense so that the people understood the reading. We'll stop right there for now, but if you are taking notes this morning, here's the main point for our time together in God's Word. That God's people rejoice as they are strengthened to obey His holy Word. God's people rejoice as they are strengthened to obey his holy word. We'll cover that in two points. Point one, God's people rejoice in his word, verses one through twelve. And then point to God's people obey his word, verses 13 through 18. Point number one, God's people rejoice in his word The book of Nehemiah, which we're studying, began with Nehemiah, this governor And spiritual leader in Judah, actually not in Judah. He was in Persia. He was a cupbearer to King Artaxerxes. He told our Xerxes of the trouble that his people was going through, about the ruins in Jerusalem. Nehemiah prayed, he asked of the king, and he was sent by God to Jerusalem to help the people rebuild. And they rebuilt the walls in Jerusalem. Through opposition and even in unity, in only 52 days. The walls were rebuilt, the exiles returned, the people settled, and now they could rightly worship the Lord together. And so they gathered, as we saw or as we heard in verse 1 of Nehemiah chapter 8. And according to chapter 7, these people who came from near and far to gather were over 50,000 people. And there were already people there who moved there specifically to help to rebuild the walls. But as all of these people gathered, they made a request at the end of verse 1. Look there. They told Ezra to bring us the book of the law of Moses. Now both Ezra and Nehemiah, they returned to Jerusalem to help God's people in this spiritual and physical restoration But Ezra got there around 13 years before Nehemiah did. That's why they overlapped. That's why they're contemporaries. And Ezra, as it says in our text, was a scribe and also a priest of God's people. So they asked him, this teacher of the law, to bring us the book. And that's exactly what Ezra did. And the law of Moses, so the law of Moses that's described here, that centers on the story of God rescuing his people out of Egypt. The Exodus. God rescued his people out of slavery. He brought them through the Red Sea. He sustained them and provided for them in the wilderness. And then he would bring them into the promised land. So all the people gathered so they they could hear about that, because they hadn't heard about that in many years. What people? Men, women, and all who could understand, the passage says to us. And that would have included kids and teens So, kids and teens, that's part of the reason why you're here right now with us. Because you can hear, you can understand, and that also means you can rejoice in God's word and you can obey God's word. As well, with the help of his spirit. So Ezra brought the book, and the people listened attentively. Look at verse 3. It says, The ears of all the people were attentive. Now, how would you know that? They were quiet. These thousands of people were listening as they heard from God's law. The passage also says that Ezra was lifted up on a platform so that people could see him, so that people could hear him. He had several men standing on his right. And also standing on his left, as we saw in verses four and six, these Levites would have helped him in the reading of the law, but they also would have helped in the explaining and the teaching of the law. So Ezra had a platform and a pulpit, and he was above the people. And that was practical, as I just explained. But that also was to show that the people were supposed to be under the authority of the law of Moses, under the authority of God's word. And that's kind of what's happening right now. Someone today, me, is opening the word, trying to explain it and proclaiming it to you all. But I proclaimed the word to you this morning as someone that should be under the authority of God's word. That's why you have your word open in front of you. And that's why we encourage you even now to please be in prayer for all of us, pastors, small group leaders. Sunday school teachers, children's ministry teachers, youth leaders, as we teach God's word. God's word says that we who teach will be under stricter judgment So when we ask you to pray for the preaching and the teaching of God's word, we sincerely mean that. Please continue to pray for us that we all will be under the authority of God's word. So the people listened with attentive ears. And then what? The passage says they worshiped Look at verse 5, where it says, the people, they stood up as the word was being read. From morning till midday, maybe five or six hours, most commentators think. It's a long time to be standing up and listening. But then they also have a worshipful response in verses 6 through 7. Ezra blessed the Lord. He he read the text. He explained what it meant. And the people shouted, Amen! They lifted up their hands. And at other points, they bowed their heads in worship. Which reminds us of a couple things. One, this time together, right now, even right now, should be an act of worship to the Lord And secondly, as we are in God's Word, we can worship Him with our response. Whether that's physically, maybe lifting up our hands, or audibly by saying amen. Amen. Alright, good job. Making sure you were listening. So worship in Nehemiah 8. This revival that was starting was sparked by hearing and understanding God's word. That's what did it. There was no show. There was no program. They heard and they responded to God's word. Now maybe you're here and you're thinking this is all very strange. This is a strange way to respond to a book. To stand when it's opened? To say amen after some things are said, to bow down and to worship But we as God's people know that God's word is living and it is active, as Hebrews 4:12 tells us. And God's people do not worship a book, we worship the God of the book. And the God of the book, the God of the Bible, is a God who speaks to his people. He uses his word to give his people clarity. He uses his word to teach us about his character. And he uses his word through the power of his spirit to bring about correction and even conviction. And we see that even in the passage. That's why the people started to weep in response to God's word. Look at verse 9 in Nehemiah chapter 8 So Nehemiah, who was his governor, and Ezra, the priest and the scribe and the Levites, who taught the people, said to all the people: This day is holy to the Lord your God. Do not mourn or weep. For all the people wept as they heard the words of the law. They wept. They were cut to the heart. They heard things about the Lord and commandments that he's commanded his people. That they strayed from, that they broke, and they wept. But Ezra, Nehemiah, and the others told the people that this was not the time to weep, this was not the time to grieve, that would come later. Nehemiah chapter 9 is where they repent of their sin. But now would be the time for them to celebrate and to rejoice because the joy of the Lord is their strength. Look at verse 10. Then he, Ezra, said to the people, Go your way, eat the fat and drink sweet wine and send portions to anyone who has nothing ready. For this day is holy to our Lord, and do not be grieved, for the joy of the Lord is your strength So the Levites calmed the people, saying, Be quiet, for this day is holy. Do not be grieved. And all the people went their way. To eat, to drink, and to send the portions, and to make great rejoicing, because they had understood the words that were declared to them. Brother or sister in Christ, if you're reminded today of your own sin, of the ways that you fail to follow God's word Remember that because of the Lord Jesus Christ, you cannot outrun his mercy for you. So grieve over your sin. Yes, turn from your sin. Yes. But as our sister Faith Booker shared with me the other day about this passage, even grief over your sin is a reminder of God's mercy towards you. Use that to turn to Him in faith. Any godly response to his word, any hearing, understanding, and applying of his word, any rejoicing in the war in the in the word, and rejoicing in the Lord as a result of the word All comes from the Lord, which is why these responses should be something that we rejoice in. So again, if you're grieved today, but you can hear and understand and apply God's word by his spirit, rejoice. Because the joy of the Lord, as the text says, is your strength. He will help you. He will strengthen you. And this theme of God's people rejoicing. Rejoicing in response to this worry is what I think captures the main point or the main emphasis of this chapter. Right? So joy is referred to in verse 11. They were called to celebrate verses 9 through 12. In verse 12, it says they went away with great rejoicing. Even in verse 17, after the festival of booths, there was great rejoicing. Why did they rejoice? Verse 12 says, because they understood God's word. Verse 17, as we'll talk about soon, says they rejoiced because they obeyed God's word. That's why Ezra and Nehemiah and the Levites, they were there. Because they wanted God's people to hear the word. To understand the word, to rejoice in the word and rejoice in the Lord, and then to put it into practice to obey God's word. And maybe you've also noticed in reading or hearing Nehemiah 8 that this sounds strikingly similar to what's happening today. To why we gather, to what we do when we come East Lord's Day. We gather around God's word. God's word is read. God's word is explained. And right now, people by God's grace are understanding God's word and God's using his spirit to apply God's word to his people. Now we can plan services, but we can't do all of that. We can organize services and I can preach a sermon, but I can't bring conviction to your heart The Lord can do that, and the Lord does do that by his grace. And so our gatherings are rallied around God and His Word. God's word read and sung and preached and prayed and even later on today seen as we take the Lord's Supper together. So may the Lord help us to be people that don't grow bored or tired with rallying around God's word. And that he would use it in our hearts. And notice that these people had the right posture as they heard God's word. Did you catch that? They had attentive ears so that they could listen and so that they could respond. They also had tender hearts. That's why they responded in worship. They they shouted Amen and they even wept over their sin And with this humble posture, they didn't just examine the words that they heard. They didn't just examine the word. They allowed, by God's grace, God's word to examine them. The question, what is your posture this morning towards God's word Do you have attentive ears? Or are they more selective? Do you have a tender heart? Or a hard one? What's your posture? Some years ago I used to regularly go to the chiropractor. And after going to the chiropractor, he would give me an adjustment, but he would also send me with homework to do. You need to go home. You need to make sure you're doing these stretches. You need to make sure when you get out of bed, you don't just roll out and go about your day that you stretch, that you pay attention to your posture, etc. And he could immediately tell if I walked into his office and I hadn't been doing that. He could see a slouch in me. He could see a leaning towards one side or another that I didn't even notice. And if you've ever been to the chiropractor, you know that's what it's like. You don't just get adjusted and then leave and go on about the rest of your life. There's a posturing that we need to have. Or else we're eventually, naturally, going to slouch. Brothers and sisters, if you feel like your posture towards God's word is off today. Allow the Lord to adjust it for you. If you are distracted, ask for the Lord's help to help you be more attentive. If your heart is hard and you know it, maybe just in one specific area of your life, ask the Lord to soften it. Those are prayers that He loves to respond to on behalf of His people. And whether you've been a Christian for 20 years or for two months, we are called to be humble students of God's word. And if and when you understand God's word, we can rejoice in God's word and in the God of the Word. Remember, Nehem and people in Nehemiah 8, they gathered after many years, and they had not heard things about the Lord, like the Lord is gracious and merciful, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness. Or they heard story after story after story that they'll explain in Nehemiah chapter 9 of God being faithful even when his people were unfaithful. Don't we need to hear all of that? Don't we need to remember all of that? Because we all are prone to wander, we are prone to forget, and we are prone to slouch When it comes to God's word. That's why we need to hear from His Word. And that's why we gather to hear from His Word together so that we can pursue the Lord as He asks us to. So the people rejoice because they understood. The people would also rejoice because they obeyed God's word. And that leads to point two. Point number two God's people obey God's word Larry was saying this in his opening comments. Rejoicing in God's word or lifting your hand up to his commandments, that seems strange. Until we know that God's word, God's law, is good for us because he's good for us. And there's a reason why God's word is referred to as his law and as his commandments and as his statutes all throughout the scriptures. Because he wants us to hear it, understand it, and obey it. Because he wants us to apply it in our lives. That's the appropriate response that he wants us to have. For many years I've used something called Google Docs. Maybe you've used it or used something similar. I use it for work. I've used it in the past as a student. I use it in the past as a teacher. If you're familiar with Google Docs, you know that documents can be shared by the owner of the document, right? And then the owner can give certain access to that document, right? You can be a suggester of the document so you can look at it. You can make suggestions, but you don't necessarily change it Or if you're collaborating or something, you can make someone an editor where they just get to edit the document outright. And then there's also viewer access. Where you can look at it, where you can read it, where you can understand it, but you don't change it. It is as it is. And since God is the owner of his word, he does not give us editing privileges. He doesn't even want or need our suggestions. He wants us to view his word, to hear his word, to read his word, to understand his word, and then apply his word, and then obey it. And that, by God's grace, is exactly what happens on this second day in Nehemiah chapter 8, starting in verse 13. Look there with me. Where it says, on the second day, the heads of the fathers' houses of all the people, with the priests and the Levites, came together to Ezra the scribe in order to study the words of the law. So they heard God's word, but they wanted more. They wanted to study more and they wanted to go further. They wanted to go Deeper. These fathers were like, we need more of God's word. We need to understand it and apply it to our lives. Maybe they heard passages like in Deuteronomy where it says, Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one. You shall love the Lord your God with all of your heart, soul, mind, and with all of your strength. And these words I command you shall be on your heart. You shall teach them diligently to your teet your students, your children, excuse me. You shall talk of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise. It's a good reminder for us fathers, right? It's a good reminder for us parents or grandparents. Or children's ministry teachers, or small group leaders, or campus outreach workers. We go to God's Word to hear it and to understand it And to obey it, and then to share it, and then to teach it, and then to help the little ones among us to understand it. To help those who are younger in the faith to understand it and rightly apply it to their lives. We're called to go to God's word to feed ourselves, yes, but also to feed others as well with God's word. And so they did. These fathers went to God's Word. And look at what they found in God's Word, starting in verse 14 And they found in it written in the law that the Lord had commanded by Moses that the people of Israel should dwell in booths during the feast of the seven months. And that they should proclaim it, and should publish it in all of the towns in Jerusalem. Go out to the hills and bring branches of olive, wild olive, myrtle, palm, and other leafy trees to make booths, as it is written. We'll stop there. Nehemiah 8, verse 2 says the people gathered during the seventh month, which was an important month for God's people. It was a month of celebration, it was a month of worship. They were called to remember God's faithfulness to them and preserving them through the wilderness by having these celebrations, like the festival of trumpets, or the Day of Atonement, or the Festival of Booths. Which is also known as the festival or the feast of tabernacles. You can read about all of that in Leviticus chapter 23. But here's what it says in verse 42 about the festival of booths. Or the Feast of Tabernacles says you shall dwell in Booth for seven days. All native Israelites shall dwell in Booths That your generations may know that I made the people of Israel dwell in booths when I brought them out of the land of Egypt. I am the Lord your God. So the point of the festival was to remind God's people of God's faithfulness to his people and preserving them, sustaining them, and satisfying them in the wilderness. And kids and teens in the room. What did God provide for his people in the wilderness? Hooper? Food? What else Water, shelter. He also provided himself. He was with them in the pillar of cloud He gave them food, he gave them water in the desert. The fathers of these houses, they heard about this, they learned about this, they realized, hey, we're in the seventh month. They said, this is what God's word says, and so they immediately obey it. Look at verse 16. So the people went out and brought them and made booths for themselves, each on his roof. And in their courts, and in the courts of the house of God, and in the square at the water gate, and in the square at the gate of Ephraim. And all the assembly of those who had returned from the captivity made booths. And lives in live lived in booths for from the days of Jeshua, the son of Nun, to that day, the people of Israel had not done so. And there was great rejoicing. And day by day, from the first day to the last, he read from the book of the law of God. And they kept the feast seven days, and on the eighth day there was a solemn assembly according to the rule. So they heard God's law. They followed it and they celebrated the feast of boobs. The text says they hadn't done so since the days of Jeshua, or since the days of Joshua, the son of Nun. Joshua, the one that came after Moses to lead God's people into the promised land. So that was many, many generations from this time. Maybe they heard a little bit about the festival, or maybe they didn't know about it at all. And yet they heard it and they obeyed it Now, in a few minutes, we'll talk about how the Lord Jesus Christ fulfilled the law, even that law, in the festival of booths. So no, you don't need to search for branches after church and make tents to live in them. But I think we're meant to be encouraged and challenged by their quick and childlike obedience to the Lord. Especially for many of us who are here who have followed the Lord for many years. And do you remember when you would hear passages from the Lord, when you would hear things like, deny yourself, carry your cross, and follow me from the Lord Jesus Christ? And that just struck you. You're like, oh, I need to do something about this. Or me, when I would hear passages like, let your light shine before men so that they would see your good deeds and glorify your father in heaven. I would hear that and I would not wonder what that means in the Greek. My first thought. Nothing wrong with languages. But what I would wonder was, how can I let my light shine before men today? How can I put this into practice? Now we need wisdom in following God's word. We need wisdom to rightly understand it and to rightly apply it to our lives. That's all well and good, and that's all absolutely true. But as we grow in the grace of the knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ, he does not want us to lose our childlike faith and our zeal to obey his word. To know what it means and say, okay, this is what we're gonna do. The text says, deny myself. I need to deny myself. And I need help with that, but that's what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna deny myself. For example. Or I'm going to forgive. Or I'm going to share the gospel. Or I'm going to love my neighbor and I'm not going to ask like the teacher in the law and who is my neighbor? I'm gonna love my neighbor. That's what the word says. Now, truth is that all of us have failed in various ways in trying to keep and obey God's word and his law. Right? Things we haven't done that we should have done, or vice versa, or broken his law in word and thought and deed. And God's people breaking his law is why they were in exile in the first place. And our sin Going against God's word, God's ways, and God's law is what exiles us from fellowship with God And the Lord gave his people the law and the prophets to teach people his ways. And while we're seeing revival here, while they're hearing and applying right now in this passage, which is very encouraging. You read more of Nehemiah, you know that they didn't keep doing that for very long. They eventually failed again. But what hope is there for any of us? Our hope is that the story of the Bible is that where God's people failed, God's Son prevailed. And our hope is in the Lord Jesus Christ, the one who says all scripture, all of it, is about me. And this is where all scripture finds its ultimate fulfillment in, and that's in the Lord Jesus Christ. Just think about these people were making booths. In tense to try to remember God's faithfulness to them in the wilderness, this feast of tabernacles. But the word became flesh. And tabernacled with us, as it says in John chapter 1. And why did the word come He came to fulfill God's righteous law. He came to die in our place on the cross. He came to rise from the grave. And he came to offer us living water. And that's why Jesus went to this same festival in John chapter 7. Read the whole chapter later. It's really interesting there But during this festival, this feast of booths, the people will pour out water offerings. It will be a reminder to them that yes, the Lord did give them water, even in the desert. And then on the eighth day, there was no more water offerings. It was a solemn assembly But what we heard in our scripture reading this morning is that on the eighth day, on the day when there was no more water to be given out, Jesus came and he declared before all of them, if anyone thirsts, let him come to me and let him drink. Whoever believes in me, as the scripture has said, out of his heart will flow rivers of living water. What is he saying? He's saying even that is about me. It's not about the booths. It's about you finding your satisfaction and your fulfillment in me Because the Lord Jesus is the one that satisfied God's wrath on the cross because of our sin and God and raised him from the dead so that now if we put our faith and our hope and our trust in him, he will give us that living water. That word that doesn't run out. Whether you're in a great time right now, you're on the mountaintop, or whether you're in the valley, whether you're in a season of plenty, or whether you are in the wilderness. The Lord sent his son Jesus to satisfy his wrath, to give us living water, so that we can have that living water that will never run dry, not any single day. Until we see him face to face. We will have no more competing desires. We will have no other hungers. We will have no other thirsts. You're hearing you're not a Christian. You might appreciate God's word. It's great. Maybe you tried to obey God's word on your own. Maybe you tried and failed, and maybe that discouraged you. But you need to know that your sin deserves judgment, and yet Christ has already satisfied that judgment The question is, are you thirsty? Do you need living water? Do you need forgiveness? If so, turn to the Lord Jesus Christ today by faith. Brothers and sisters, those of us who know and love the Lord Jesus Christ, what's competing for his affection in your heart What other wells have you been going to? Have you found out that they don't satisfy? That they're empty? Are you thirsty Go to him over and over again and find your joy and your hope and your satisfaction in him. He says he will give it, and he's given it to us. And as you seek to follow the Lord Jesus Christ and obey his word, remember that you're not trying to do that in your own grits or your own strength. Because the Lord Jesus has sent his Holy Spirit to us to live in us, to dwell in us, to remind us of Jesus, to remind us of his word, to help us to apply it. We learned about that a couple of weeks ago in Ephesians. The Holy Spirit is the down payment of our inheritance that we have. So you are not alone as you seek to love the Lord and respond to his word in obedience. God has given us his Holy Spirit. He's given us his people. He's given us his word. So he wants us to hear and understand and obey and apply, but he doesn't want us to do that all by ourselves And by God's grace, we don't have to. That leads to a few points of application as we think about how we can rejoice in God's Word. Four points as we close. Here regularly. Here regularly. Which means if you're already convicted, like I didn't read our Bible this morning I was memorizing Ephesians and I kind of stopped a week or two ago, like me, talking about me. Start again. Go to his word. You don't know where to start? Start in Ephesians. That's what we're studying as a church. Or start in Nehemiah. Pick up in chapter 8. Before coming to church, read the passage. Pray for understanding. If you're like I'm reading this and I don't understand it, then at least pray for the preacher. I hope they understand it. They're supposed to be teaching us. Become gather eager to hear the words Lord on the Lord's day. Hear regularly and be encouraged by his word. Secondly, understand collectively. Understand collectively. So we go to God's word, we seek to understand it and to apply it. So maybe you can think of these questions in your own time of Bible study. You read a passage and you think, what does it say? What does it mean? How does it point to Christ? And how can I apply this to my life? What does it say? What does it mean? How does it point to Christ? How does it apply to my life? And in that order, because we immediately jump to ourselves, we might misunderstand and misapply God's word. But if you do get to a passage that you don't understand, you are not alone in that. So study God's word together. Get to a point where you don't understand a passage. And instead of looking up a YouTube video, call a friend. Reach out to a pastor. Reach out to a small group leader. Reach out to someone who will help you. And you know what? You're also not alone in your understanding because if you misunderstand God's word, you can also pray to his spirit, and he will reveal it to you. We're called to understand God's word collectively. We're called to hear and learn and apply God's word in community. Thirdly, obey humbly. Obey humbly. Again, the Israelites who had just built their homes, if you look at the end of chapter 7. They built their homes and they settled in them. And then these fathers went home and said, We need to build tents. Imagine that conversation at home. Right? But they did it. It's what it says, it's what it means. This is how it applies to me. So with God's help, I'm going to follow it. And this at times is a challenge for us as we mature in the faith because we might overthink it. Or we might put ourselves in the posture of an expert in the law. Instead of positioning ourselves as students of the law, may we quickly respond to the Lord in childlike faith and trust that He's with us as we seek to apply His Word to our lives. Lastly, Rejoice continually. Rejoice continually. Now maybe you're you're alright with receiving God's word and you're alright with even sharing God's word with others. But how often do you slow down and you rejoice and you praise the Lord and you thank the Lord for allowing you to understand his word? We get to do that as we share God's word together, as we even sing songs together. But you can do that right at home. You can read a passage and you can pray and you can praise the Lord. Or you can have fellowship with another brother or sister in Christ and really have no agenda but just brag about the Lord. Isn't he faithful? Isn't he good? What are you encouraged by in the word? This is what's encouraged me in the word. We can rejoice continually as we hear and understand and apply his word. So how are you responding to God's word today? Along with the access that we have, which is great. May our response to God's word be great, and that we would receive God's word, that we would rejoice and delight in God's word, and that with God's help and by his grace we would apply and obey his word. Let's pray. Hear and understand and apply and obey and even rejoice in your word apart from your help. So we are reminded once again how desperately we need you. Yet even in that we can rejoice because you've given us all that we need in you. Lord, help us to go to you, go to your word, go to you in prayer, and never grow tired, never grow weary. Help us to apply and to understand your word. By your grace, help us to have the right posture towards you and towards your word. And we thank you, Lord, that you desire us to have the right posture and to hear and understand and obey and rejoice in your word even more than we do. And so we need you. And so we ask for your help. Trusting that you'll give it. In Jesus' name. Amen