My wife and I had a chance yesterday to attend uh a a parenting seminar at First Baptist Church of what is one of the most difficult phrases I've ever heard to say. Upper moral ruro. It's difficult. I d I haven't I tried to spit that out during the pastoral prayer. But we we were over there yesterday for a parenting seminar And it was it was a good tune-up for me and Michelle, uh, especially in the midst of our move and just to reset and recalibrate in the area of parenting, it was challenging. It was convicting. The author of the book, uh The Disciple Making Parent and Parents, I would commend that as a good book. I don't have any books to give away this morning, but it is a good book if you're desiring some encouragement. in the area of uh parenting. Uh the book's author, Chad Bettis, was there and he went through for a good chunk of the time about uh An hour and a half of the time was him working through seven commitments of disciple-making parents And uh uh we could certainly, as I sat there, we could think about ways in which we've seen the Lord graciously working in our lives, but as I said, it was It was challenging. There was some regrets I was feeling, particularly with a senior and a junior in high school and feeling like those these days and years are slipping away. And in the midst of some feeling, not discouraged, but just but but pierced with some conviction about ways that I could be growing, I was cheered by the seventh commitment We went through a whole lot of here's here's how you can be faithful to disciple and to labor for the spiritual good of your children. Then principle number seven was this: pray like none of this is going to work. And I found that very refreshing. The author was, of course, not intending to stifle diligence in the work of parenting. That's what the whole morning was about, but it was a call to us To remember that we cannot make anything happen in the lives of our children apart from God's blessing and God's power. Unless the Lord builds the house, Psalm 127, those who build labor in vain And these are words that are not just applicable, though it was applying to us as parents yesterday in upper that place, Marlborough. That's a word for all of us in every area of life. That's a conviction that the Apostle Paul I believe had in his soul throughout his labors. Pray like none of this is going to work. Paul worked hard in the ministry of the gospel. He traveled thousands of miles across the known world, bearing witness to Jesus You could open up maybe later uh this morning or this afternoon to 2 Corinthians 11, the end of 2 Corinthians 11, and you could see some of the ways that he labored and the things that he endured in the work of spreading the gospel. He expounded upon the riches of the gospel. He was a brilliant man, inspired by God to write powerfully about the work of Christ. For the people of God. He gave himself to exhorting and warning and comforting the people of God. But Paul prayed like none of that would work. He gave himself to regular, constant, vigilant prayer, and we're coming in our study of the book of Ephesians to one of those places Where we see Paul's commitment to prayer. So if you've not turned in a Bible to the book of Ephesians, you can go ahead and turn there. Ephesians chapter 1. You can find that on page 976 of those Bibles that are provided for you. We've been studying, we've started to study the book of Ephesians a couple of months ago, and we spent several weeks looking at verses 3 through 14, which I think at one point I said was like a Mount Everest of Praise to God for all of the blessing, all the spiritual blessing that God has provided for his people in Christ. And that articulation of all the blessing that God has bestowed upon God's people leads Paul immediately to pray. It's as if Paul knows, even in expounding upon and reminding you of all these glories that have come in Christ, I need to pray for any of it to land upon you the way Paul was hoping it would all land upon them, and so he gave himself to prayer. So I'm gonna pray now as we prepare to read God's word, and then I want to encourage you to listen attentively. As we read Paul's prayer for the Ephesians in Ephesians 1, 15 through 23, let me first pause, let us pause and pray and ask for the Lord's help. Heavenly Father, we thank you for being able to be with each other. We thank you for being able to direct our attention to your word, and we pray now that you would do a good work in our souls as we read this prayer. As we think not only about what it means and seek to understand it, but as we seek to be doers of your word, we pray that you would be pleased to work in us. What is pleasing in your sight through Jesus to whom be glory forever and ever. Amen I'm going to read Ephesians 1, verses 15 through 23. For this reason, because I have heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love toward all the saints. I do not cease to give thanks for you, remembering you in my prayers, that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, May give you the spirit of wisdom and of revelation in the knowledge of Him, having the eyes of your hearts enlightened, that you may know what is the hope to which He has called you. What are the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints? And what is the immeasurable greatness of his power toward us who believe? according to the working of his great might that he worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places. far above all rule and authority and power and dominion, and above every name that is named, not only in this age, but also in the one to come. And he put all things under his feet, and gave him as head over all things to the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills all in all. This is God's word, brothers and sisters. Thanks be to God. The big takeaway that I I would like to impress, I'm hoping that the Holy Spirit will impress upon your souls as we think. Just about the first part of that prayer, verses 15 through 17, is is this Every Christian is in constant need of God-centered encouragement and prayer That's the big takeaway. I think it's a very big takeaway. I think this is very big for the ongoing health and life of our church. Every Christian is in constant need of God-centered encouragement and prayer That's what I'd like to show you from the passage this morning. Again, we're mainly focusing on verses 15 through 17. Look again at the words there in verse 15. For this reason, Paul says, because I have heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love toward all the saints. I do not cease to give thanks for you, remembering you in my prayers. So clearly, Paul is thanking God and he's praying for Christians. And these Christians we see here are not they're not particularly weak or pitiful or needy. It's not as though these Christians are in some grievous error requiring rebuke. Right? Like the way we see as Paul writes to the Galatians or the Corinthians, these are faithful Christians. Even faithful Christians. That's why I said every Christian. Is in need of God-centered encouragement and prayer. These were faithful Christians, and it was demonstrably so Paul says that he'd heard of the faith in the Lord Jesus that marked the lives of these saints and their love for all the saints. These were not people Who were faking it. They were people who had embraced Jesus, the Savior of the world. They had embraced him as their Lord, their ruler, their master. And it is it's vital, I never want to take this for granted whenever we come together. It's vital that we all remember who Jesus is and what it means to be a Christian. Jesus is God's one and only Son, eternally existing in the fellowship of the Father and the Holy Spirit, the triune God dwelling together eternally, and Jesus came, he took on bodily form he became a human and he came from heaven to earth to rescue a rebellious people from the wages of their sins. God is the good ruler and creator of all things, and he made all humans to live in thankful, humble, obedient worship of Him. But all of us have failed to give God the glory and honor that He is due, and we deserve to be punished eternally for that. But in his love, God sent Jesus into the world. And Jesus came willingly into the world, living the life of perfect holiness that you and I have failed to live. And he completed that obedience to his father by dying in our place the death that we deserve to die. Jesus on the cross bore the condemnation that was due to us in his death on the cross, and then he rose victoriously from the dead on the third day. so that he could give to all those who would repent of their sin and put their faith in him, so that he could give them eternal life. being adopted into God's family and the hope of being made heirs according to the hope of eternal life. So if you're here this morning and you're investigating, even as Jonathan mentioned earlier, if you're here thinking about Christianity, that is the message of first importance. That is what we want you to hear today, and we want you to respond today, even in faith and repentance. If there's any way that I could help you to think about making that commitment and turning from sin and trusting in Jesus. We would love to see that happen for you today. We know, as I've just said, that salvation is by grace alone. It is received by faith alone. It is not anything that we do. But the faith that we have in Jesus immediately sets us to working for the glory of our God. So Paul would say a little bit later in the next chapter of Ephesians, in Ephesians 2, familiar words I trust for many of you. By grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing. It is the gift of God, not a result of works, so that no one may boast. For we are his workmanship, Paul would say, created in Christ Jesus for good works Not created in Christ Jesus by our good works, no, no, no, God forbid. But saved by grace through faith and created for good works to live a life of humble obedience submission to Jesus who has so richly loved us This experience of receiving the grace of God, of even just getting a taste of how richly we have been blessed by God in Christ. What that does by the working of the Holy Spirit in us is produce in the heart of every Christian a yielding to his good rule, a desire to live in a way that would honor him who has so richly lavished us with his grace and his kindness. As Paul would put it later in chapter 4, to walk in a manner that would be worthy of that great calling to which we've been called. And really, the chief way that we show that love to Jesus and that desire to honor Jesus is through our loving everyone else who has tasted that grace in the Lord Jesus Christ. So Jesus told his disciples, even before going to the cross and dying for the sins of his people, Jesus said in John chapter 13, A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another. Just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another. And then Jesus said, by this all people will know that you are my disciples if you have love for one another. Love is the defining mark of those who are Jesus' people. And it's not just love for some of the brothers But love for all the brothers, love for all the the one another, all the saints, you see it says there in Ephesians 1. I see your love for all the saints This is a love that is not contingent on having common interests or experiences with the other people that you're called to love. It's not having a common skin color or a common socioeconomic status or a common age or a common stage of life Or common musical preferences. This is a love for all the saints. What has brought us here is the fact that we have been saved by Jesus' grace. There's really not anything else that would bring this group of people together, I don't think. I trust that we have different musical tastes, we have different sports teams, allegiances, we have So different we we have all kinds of different everything. We we it wouldn't be a political rally we'd all be caught at, wouldn't be a concert we'd be caught at or a movie. What brings us together is the grace of Christ And so, what we feel in our hearts when we have tasted that grace, and when we look around and we see other people have tasted that grace, they become the excellent ones in whom is all my delight. You know that grace too? Oh, let me love you, let me serve you, let me sacrifice for you. And these Ephesians were marked by that. Faith in the Lord Jesus and love for all the saints. And there's a whole lot more that I could say about that love, about its its diversity, its unity in diversity, and the many expressions of That love in the life of a congregation, we'll have, Lord willing, occasion to speak much of that in the weeks to come as we study Ephesians. But for now, I'm simply saying this to make plain That Paul is not shaming them when he tells them that he's praying for them. It's not because they've made a mess of their lives and have shown themselves to be spiritual idiots and now Paul needs to pray to get them out of a bind. That is not what he's talking about. He has heard the report about them, and it's a good report. It's a good report about their faith and how that faith is working itself out, how it is expressing itself in love for all the saints. He recognizes that God has been working in them and that they've experienced the reality and power of the gospel breaking into their lives. And so Paul's heart is moved Not only to thank God for what he's hearing that God is doing in the lives of the Ephesians, but also to communicate with them. The thanksgiving that he has to God for what he's doing in the lives of the Ephesians. Did you track with what I just was saying? This is bringing us to the second part of that summary sentence that I gave you. Every Christian is in constant need of God-centered encouragement and prayer. So he says, for this reason, okay, I've heard. I I've heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus And your love toward all the saints. And so he says, I don't cease. He's constantly. That's why I said constant need. He says, I'm constantly giving thanks for you. It doesn't mean that you should feel guilty about sleeping tonight because you can't be doing it constantly then, right? You understand that constantly here means it's regular. He's regularly giving thanks for them He's not giving thanks to them. Did you see that in your Bibles there? He's giving thanks to God. It doesn't say that, but we know he's addressing this to God. He's giving thanks to God for them. And that's part of what I mean by God-centered encouragement. He's not thanking the Ephesians. When somebody becomes a Christian There's a lot of we we pretty excited, but we don't go to that person who's become a Christian and say, thank you for choosing Christ. We ever to be clear, I called you earlier to make a decision and come to Christ. We all do that if we are Christians. But we don't thank each other. Thank you for being on Jesus' team. We thank God. We say praise God when we hear a Christian is born again. Because it is God's work. And when we see the grace of God working in the lives of Christians, we also give thanks to God because it is God, Philippians 2. 13, it is God who is at work in his people. to will and to work for their uh for his good pleasure. So Paul is thanking God For what he's seeing God doing in the lives of the Ephesians. The glory all goes to God, but the encouragement does go to the Ephesians. He could just praise God for what he's doing in the lives of the Ephesians, but he thinks it's important in this letter to tell the Ephesians that he is thanking God for what God is doing in their lives. Because every Christian is in constant need of God-centered encouragement Uh you've probably heard the phrase, if you see something, say something. Okay, you've heard of it. If you see something, say something. Now I believe the origin of that phrase was i in the post-9-11 days, that was a a a slogan that was used to uh help people be alert and attentive and e ready to report any kind of suspicious uh terrorist-like activity. If you see something, say something. Well, I I think that's a mark of Christian living, actually. I mean I I don't mean about being concerned about terrorist activity, but I'm I'm which we should be. But I'm talking about it's a mark of Christian living. When we see the evidence of God's Almighty Grace working in the lives of his blood-bought people, that we would say something. To God, giving praise to God for what we see God doing, but also telling the people that we're seeing him working in, I see God working in you, and it's encouraging, praise God. That's what he's doing here with the Ephesians. He mentions at the end of the letter you'll see him mention a man named Tychicus as a as a beloved brother and faithful minister. Paul address him as a faithful minister. You see Paul do that in all of all of I mean you see that you'll read that Paul you'll all the time he's doing that Epaphroditus and Phoebe and read Romans 16. He's just on and on commending the lives of other Christians, but giving praise to God for it. We need that kind of encouragement. I I I I'm benefited by that kind of encouragement. I d I hope you are too. I mean is there anybody here today who would say they're suffering from over encouragement? I'm just too encouraged. Uh Truett Cathy, who uh founded Chick-fil-A. Sorry, because now you're all thinking about having some fries, but they're closed today anyway. Truett Cathy was once asked, how do you identify someone who needs encouragement? And his he answered his own question. He said, that person is breathing. We need encouragement. And one form, encouragement takes many shapes and forms, even in the New Testament. If you're interested in reading on this subject of encouragement, a book that I would recommend to you is called Encouragement. Adrenaline for the Soul. The author is Mark Chamsky. I would commend it to you if you want to think more about that subject. But one expression of encouragement is what we could say is the encouragement of affirmation or I think I used this word earlier, commendation. When we take note of the evidence of God's grace at work in the lives of other people and then say so. We see something and then we say something. That's what Paul does here with the Ephesians, and it is encouraging to hear when someone takes note of how God is working in our lives. I I asked Cait Caleb is not here right now, Caleb McConnell, but I asked him this morning if I could share this and he said that he would be glad for me to share it, so I'm going to now share it. You don't all have to run up to him afterwards and said, Hey, I hurt. But oh you could actually do that. Maybe that would be a good application of the sermon. I was out to dinner, Michelle and I were out to dinner earlier in the week with Jonathan and Shannon, and they were just asking us how we're getting along with the transition and how we're connecting with people. We were just talking about encouraging things in the body of Christ, and I I forget how Caleb's name came up, but I just this Caleb McConan is so encouraging. Praise God, Caleb McConnell is so encouraging because he's every he is he's not here right now because he's serving the children. And he's always seems to be serving. He's going to be serving the children, I bet later tonight at Iwana. And he when I go to the the basketball courts at the sh at the community center to see the kids playing. Caleb is there. Caleb has no kids. He is there watching the kids. He is there hanging out with parents. He's he is such an encouraging member of the body of Christ. And we started to talk about this and Jonathan stopped us that why early in the What I call good gossip. I don't know if that's the right thing to say because gossip is really I mean it's a it's an evil thing, but to taste say something about another person that's good, that's lovely, that's wonderful about that person Jonathan stopped us as we started into talking about how encouraged we'd been about Caleb and he started pulled out his phone and he started recording what we were saying. And then he sent it to Caleb. And Caleb said, I don't remember the exact quote, but Caleb was encouraged. And I don't think that's pride Right? That he would be encouraged about the grace of God that is at work. In the same way, Paul isn't seemed to be concerned that these people that he commends are going to be puffed up and inflated with pride when he praises God for how God is at work. It's encouraging when we take note of evidences of God's grace and when we tell other people what we are seeing. It does not take any special skill to see what is wrong with people and to criticize them. That comes very naturally. But to see people, people still in need of change, people still who, as Paul's gonna say later to the Ephesians, people who still are in need of ways in which they need to put off the old self with its practices and to put on the new self. People still in need of change, people still growing in that process of sanctification, but to see people bearing the fruit of the Spirit and exercising the gifts of the Spirit and praising God for it and telling people what you're seeing That is a virtue to be eagerly and actively pursued. Let there be all kinds of good and godly gossip spreading around in the conversation of God's people, even as We seek and pray for more of the Spirit's work in one another's lives. And that leads us to the final observation to note from these verses Again, summary statement, every Christian is in constant need of God-centered encouragement and prayer. So let's let's think a little as we close about this God-centered prayer. This is a great prayer. We're going to spend two more weeks thinking about this prayer, Lord willing, but let's just touch on a little bit here Look again at your Bibles in verse 15. For this reason, because I have heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love toward all the saints, I do not cease to give thanks for you. Remembering you in my prayers, and now he's going to tell them what it is that he's praying for them. That the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory. May give you the spirit of wisdom and of revelation in the knowledge of him. So every Christian, even the faithful ones, right? The Ephesians are commendable. They're living in a way that honors the Lord. Even faithful Christians are in need of prayer. Paul is praying for the Ephesians. They who have obtained such lavish spiritual blessings in Christ. Paul's summarized some of those blessings in verses 3 through 14. Their lives are bearing good spiritual fruit, but Paul says, I'm praying that you would know God. Isn't that something? Clearly, they've come to know God. They have received these rich spiritual blessings through their faith in Christ. They've been sealed with the Holy Spirit, verse 14 says. They're bearing the fruit of love. But Paul said, I'm praying that the spirit of wisdom and revelation would fill you with the knowledge of God, that you would grow in knowing God. I think what we can conclude from that is that none of us have have spiritually arrived. I think that may be liberating for us. We are all works in progress, and so we never move beyond this prayer. It's God-centered prayer. It's prayer being directed to the God of our Lord Jesus Christ. the Father of Glory, and it's God-centered prayer in that these saints who have come to receive every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places would experientially grasp and live in light of all the blessing that they have been lavished with in Christ. They know this, but they still need to know this and grasp it and live in light of it more and more. It made me think as I was thinking about this, it made me think of that video that circulated many years ago. I think it was right here at a out of Washington right here. Um Not literally like in the gym here, but uh it was a Washington DC subway, I think, and there was a a violinist named Joshua Bell. Have you seen this video that circulated many years ago? World famous violinist And he just showed up at the subway station and pulled out like I think the violin was like how much money was the it was a lot of money. It was like either 3 million or 300,000. It was a very expensive violin And he pulls this out and for 45 minutes he played some of the most beautiful music by one of, again, the most skilled violinists in the world, and he just played the violin. in in the subway station. And what you see and there's video of this and you just see people just walking by. Nobody seems to care. Nobody's thinking about it. Nobody's perceiving The musical glory that is on display there. Few people you see them, they like drop a dollar in in the violin case. And very few people s pause and stop, you know, for maybe like 30 seconds to listen and then they walk away I think we can be that way a little bit with our apprehension of the glory of the spiritual blessings that are ours in Christ. And so we need the Holy Spirit to make the eyes of our hearts sensitive, to give us the capacity to understand and to embrace and to treasure. what we would be otherwise unable to grasp. And so Paul prays here that God would graciously work through his Holy Spirit. To give these believers, these faithful believers, more knowledge of God. That God would give them the spirit of wisdom and of revelation in the knowledge of Him. He's not suggesting that these people don't have the Holy Spirit, right? He's just told them in verse 14, they've been sealed with the Holy Spirit But he's praying for the Spirit's ministry to bless them freshly with wisdom so that they would know more and more the God whom they have come to know in Christ. And I just I think it's fascinating that this is what Paul is burdened to pray for these Ephesians. They were, and I remember drawing this out for you a few times earlier in our series, these readers were they were like us, they had many practical and pressing needs. They they were a minority in a big wicked city. They were being called to live a holy life, even surrounded by moral filth and immorality We speak sometimes of the sexual revelate revolution and and how how how wretched it is to see our culture swimming in moral decay And that's what these brothers and sisters of ours back in Ephesus in the first century were living in. And now they've been called out of that and called to belong to Jesus and live in holiness. And perhaps they would have had questions: what are we going to do with our families? How are we going to bring up our children in this environment of immorality? What about our the friends that we have? They're still living in those ways What about our employment? Is that going to be endangered because of our devotion to a new Lord, the Lord Jesus? And each of those areas is important. And it would be entirely understandable to pray about those various matters. Paul says, you know this, right? Paul says that we should bring, this is in Philippians 4, we should bring all of our needs to him. Right? In everything, by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, make your request known to God. Pray about everything. But here, Paul is instructing us. He's not he's not praying for their health. He's not praying for their employment. He's not addressing any of those practical issues. They are important. But he's praying that they would know God in the midst of it all. It reminds me of the prayer of King David. He lived on the run for his life, many, many years. His life was being threatened. Psalm 27 is one of those times people are threatening his life, and he prays in Psalm 27, one thing have I asked of the Lord. That will I seek after in the midst of your deepest distress. What is that one thing you are longing for God to do? His one thing is that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord and to inquire in his temple. Your greatest need. Not saying it's your only need. Look around in this room. We have needs. We have needs that we have concerns about our finances. Or our jobs, or marital friction, perhaps, or parenting struggles, or the desire and need for uh safe travels or health concerns. It is appropriate to pray about all those things. In fact, I was just reading my devotions this morning in Romans 15. Paul basically asks the Romans at the end of this epic letter, Romans, he basically asked the Romans at the end of chapter 15 to pray for his travels, that he would make it to them and then on to Spain safely, without trouble. We can pray about all these things. But the greatest need, your greatest need personally, CBC's greatest need, actually not a building of our own. I know that's a concern of ours. We should pray about it. The greatest need that we have is to know God better. For the Spirit of God to freshly impress upon us all the good that is ours in Christ. so that we would live gladly and boldly and humbly and contentedly in light of that in all the circumstances of our lives. That's what Paul prays for. And he tells the Ephesians that he's praying for it And we'll think more about those specific as he fleshes out that knowing God and he speaks then of Of a hope that they've been called to, and the riches of God's glorious inheritance in the saints, and the immeasurable greatness of his power toward those who believe. And Lord willing, we'll think about those specific prayers next Lord's day. But for now, I hope you're convinced that every Christian is in constant need of God-centered encouragement and prayer And we get to play that, but we get to engage in that good work for each other. Certainly we can do that for those Christians outside of our own local congregation. But certainly we're called to that and we commit to that as brothers and sisters in Christ, that we would be committed to giving each other God-centered encouragement and God-centered prayer, because surely we're all in need of it. Anyone here run a marathon? Anyone any all right. She was tentatively raising her hand. She didn't want to didn't want to boast, but praise to God, okay. Running a marathon, I know this not from experience, but from observation and reflection, okay? It requires great determination. And this I ran for like literally, Katie Jones can attest to this, I ran for 60 seconds and my knees were killing me for two weeks. But she's helping me, I'm getting better. Okay, so it's observation, not experience Uh running a marathon requires great determination and discipline and physical strength. But uh as much as training and hard work and determined willpower are involved in pushing an individual across that finish line after 26. 2 miles of intense demanding physical exertion, the marathon runner cannot make it solely based on earnest resolve. On that day of the run, as the run is taking place, no matter how hard they have worked and prepared, they need something outside of themselves to run that race. They need water. So along the route, they have water stations, right? And and people spread out along the way to provide those little little Dixie cups of water for the runners as they run and they they grab them as they are going. And I trust that you thoughtful people know where I'm going with this illustration. As we press on in this journey towards the Promised Land What a day we sang of earlier in the service when we shall rise and meet the Lord, and sin and death will be destroyed, and we will feast in endless joy when Christ is ours forevermore. As we press on towards that wonderful, glorious destination, with the manifold discouragements that are around us and the seemingly endless array of temptations to grow faint-hearted, our gracious and kind Father in heaven, the God of all encouragement, has positioned us Along the route to provide the cold water of prayerful encouragement of one another as we run that race that is set before us. Prayerful encouragement is water in the souls of the life of God's people. It it keeps our hearts beating and our minds clear and our hands inspired and eager to serve, and it keeps our feet vigilant and earnest in continuing to spread the gospel and our hearts stable and steadfast, even in the midst of tribulation. And it's my hope and prayer that we'll all play our part faithfully. And to that end, let me just offer you very briefly, in closing, four quick immediate takeaways for application. Number one, before you leave this morning, encourage someone with how you've seen the grace of God at work in them. Maybe that'd be a time I you know when we when we pass out the elements of the bread and the cup in a few minutes, be a time for you perhaps to just look around the room and consider the grace that you have enjoyed from your brothers and sisters in the Lord. And I and I and let me uh say something specifically to the kids and the teenagers here. Even if you kids and teenagers are not yet at the point where you're ready to take the Lord's Supper and be members of the church at this time You could still, as your mom or dad are holding that cup and bre and bread, you could still look around the room and you could be thinking about people who have encouraged you and you could think about going and telling them about how they've encouraged you. But before you leave this morning, take note of the grace of God at work in somebody and tell them that you've noted that. That's number one. Number two, every day this week, would you pray? That uh for yourself personally and for our church collectively, that we would grow and excel in this grace of commending one another To encourage each other about the good works that we see God growing in us. Just pray that in your own life and in us collectively, we would be marked that. Pray that every day this week. This month, it's wonderful. This is the uh last Lord's Day of a month. We're going to be starting a new month in a couple of days. We got a members meeting coming up after the service. This month, would you commit, members, I'm talking the members of the church specifically right now, would you commit to praying through the member directory and commit each day of the month? There's grace if you can't get it on day double up. I have to do that. If you get the if you got if you got a text from me this week, I was making up for some lost time. But every day this month, pray through the member directory and reach out to just one other member and let them know that you have prayed for them and what you have prayed for them. So many texts this week we got as you were praying for us with regard to Noah's appointment, and I'm grateful for your encouragement, I'm grateful for your prayers. Many of you texted to say, we're praying for you, and I'm thankful for that Let's even go a step further, not just when there's a specific need that is mentioned, but just in our praying. Let's even go a step farther and not just say, I am praying for you, but here's what I'm praying. That's what Paul says. I'm praying for you, and here's what I'm praying for you. And then number four, come back next Sunday. thoughtful about who and how you might give some encouragement. Because if you're breathing, you need it. And we've been given so much of it in Jesus. There's even yet more encouragement to be had at the Lord's table, so uh I'm gonna pray and then we'll go there in remembrance of him. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we do thank you for being at work in us to will and to work for your good pleasure. There would be, as Jesus teaches in John 15, there would be nothing good in us. We have no capacity or ability to do good apart from you. So we thank you for the Holy Spirit. We pray that you would increase us in the knowledge of you, and that you would help us. to walk in a manner that would be worthy of the great blessing and glory that you've been pleased to lavish upon us in Christ. Even as we remember Jesus' death now, by eating and drinking, in remembrance of him, may we be continuing on in our worship of you. We ask all of this in Jesus' name. Amen.