Good morning, brothers and sisters. Good to be with you once again to share God's word. Good to sing with you as we've sung this morning. Let me encourage you, in case you don't normally do this, take these bulletins home. And sing these songs at home. Sing them at your dinner table. Sing them with your family. They are good. They are rich for a reason. And we hope you are encouraged by God's word and singing God's word even beyond our gathering. Let me just mention one more time. Next Friday evening, our Christmas service at the Chevrolet Legion. If you haven't grabbed any of these, they are on the welcome table on your way out. So please grab some Please prayerfully invite some people to come. Even if you think they won't come, might be a good opportunity to spark up a gospel-centered conversation with them. So we encourage you to grab some. Invite some of your neighbors and friends, coworkers, family members, etc. We also encourage you to come as well. Let me pray for us one more time before we get to Nehemiah chapter 7. Lord, help us to rejoice in you right now. The fact that you've come to us, and in your word, you say that you will come to us again. That you've ransomed us and that you will ultimately ransom us again. Help us to hope in you. Help us to trust in you. And we pray that you would use your word right now in our time together in our hearts. Convict us of sin. Correct us, to change us, to conform us to the image of your Son Jesus Christ. We ask in his name. Amen. And some of you know two of our children were born overseas. During the time that we lived in London, so it was an intense three years to the kids born in three years. Some of you have experienced that, that's a lot, among other things. But over the years I've been asked many different times after sharing that with people this question. So does that mean that they're British? The answer is no. They don't make it that easy for us, I guess, maybe after the American Revolution Might be some saltiness still there. So it's not that simple. It would take a lot more time than we spent there for them to become naturalized citizens But that meant shortly after they were born, we had to take pilgrimage over to the US Embassy in London so that we could get their Social Security cards So that they can get their American passports. We had to bring our documentation proving that they belong to us. So then therefore they were also citizens of the United States of America. So they Just like us, when we were living over there, were citizens of another country living far from home. That was our time there. And some of us here know exactly what that's like. Living in a place right now that's very far from wherever you will call home. Maybe that's another country, maybe that's another city, maybe that's another state. Maybe you're generally fine with that, but sometimes don't you miss home? Maybe occasionally there's a longing for home. You want a familiar scent, or even a familiar language. Culture, customs, way of doing things, food, or even the people that you miss that often make you feel like home. The same must have been true for God's people in Nehemiah. Because remember, these people were scattered abroad for many, many years. And there was a city that they had heard about for many years. They hadn't physically been there, but they heard about it from their family members, from their friends. And they heard that they could now return to this city of Jerusalem. So many of them may have missed a place that they've never been to. And I think that's actually true of all of God's people. All of us, as God's people, are citizens of another country of another nation. We long for another city that will be coming to us. We've heard about it. We even sing about it. We've never been to it yet. And often in this life we feel like something's missing. We long for home. So how should God's people live when they're longing for home? If you haven't turned there already, please meet me in Nehemiah chapter 7, which in the Bible is provided. That's on page 402. If you don't have a Bible of your own, we encourage you to grab that copy Keep it for uh yourself and please read God's word so you can learn about God, about his ways For yourself. Today we'll be concluding the first half of the book of Nehemiah. This cupbearer, turned spiritual leader, turned governor of Judah that was sent by God and by King Alaxerxes. To lead God's people back to Jerusalem after the walls were rebuilt. So God's people worked to rebuild the walls in Jerusalem. And the walls were rebuilt, as we saw last week. They were rebuilt in record time. Only 52 days, because God's hand was with them, because the Lord was helping them. But God's plans were much bigger than rebuilding walls. And he also didn't just want to restore one city. He also didn't just want a group of people to get together. He had bigger and grander plans than that He wanted his people to be restored to right fellowship with him and also right fellowship with each other. So the Lord would facilitate that And in Nehemiah chapter 7, it's all about the people who would form this fellowship. So the people who would now inhabit the city since they could start returning to Jerusalem. And it's also about what would be needed to help to facilitate this fellowship now that they were back in God's presence. So if you're taking notes, here's the main idea for our time together. You can write this down. And it's the following. The Lord will restore his remnant people to gather in right fellowship and to gather in his presence The Lord restore his remnant people. That's the main idea of Nehemiah. But he's restoring them to gather in right fellowship and also to gather in his presence. We'll cover that in those two main points. Point number one, which by far will be the longer point. Restored fellowship as God's people. That's what God aimed to do here, to bring about restored fellowship as God's people. Look at Nehemiah chapter 7, starting in verse 1. I will read the first four verses. This is God's word. Now, when the wall had been built, and I, Nehemiah, had set up the doors, and the gatekeepers, the singers, and the Levites had been appointed. I gave my brother Hanai and Hanani, the governor of the castle, charge over Jerusalem, for he was a more faithful and God fearing man than many And I said to them, Let not the gates of Jerusalem be opened until the sun is hot. And while they are still standing guard, let them shut and bar the doors appoint guards among the inhabitants of Jerusalem, some at their guardposts and some in front of their own homes. The city was wide and large, but the people within it were few And no houses had been rebuilt. We'll stop there for now. The walls were rebuilt. We saw that in chapter 6. But Nehemiah here also set up the walls and then appointed people to serve in different positions to help to guard the city. These servants would be essential in the fellowship that would now be established in the city. If they would have just built the walls and then left them there, then that fellowship would not have been able to actually happen. Remember God's people had lots of enemies. There were lots of threats. There were lots of opposition. So these servants served vital roles in this city. Servants like Ananiah, for example. And Anayah, if you remember from Nehemiah chapter 1, that was his brother that showed up who told him exactly how the conditions were in Jerusalem to begin with. Nehemiah states here that he was a more faithful and more God-fearing man than many. It's a good place to part for some quick application. Good reminder for any brothers here who aspire to be pastors or any couples here who aspire to serve overseas in the mission field or anyone who wants to serve in various ministries or if you just want to be a faithful and present. Leader in your home in your sphere of influence. The blueprint's right there. Fear God and be faithful to God. Start with that and allow the Lord to do the rest. And in verse 3, Nehemiah wisely delayed the opening of these gates until the sun was high to prevent the enemies from being able to attack. Again, they had lots of enemies. So now we see Nehemiah's wise leadership. He had a shepherd heart, and he also delegated responsibility well among God's people. He put some people at the gates, somewhere in front of their homes. He knew where to put them because he knew them where well enough to know where they would serve best. Another quick word to anybody in any sort of leadership role, in church, at home, at your job, two things. Don't leave your people behind. Look out for them. They're in your care. Secondly, set up the people in your care to succeed. Nehemiah put them in place where they could serve well. Set up the people in your care where they need to be in order to thrive. That's what Nehemiah did. So this rebuilt city needed to be protected. And it also needed to be re-established. Look back at verse 4 of Nehemiah chapter 7. The walls had been rebuilt, but it says that the city was wide and large. The houses had not been rebuilt. That meant a couple of things. It meant that God's people here succeeded where they previously failed miserably You remember we talked about several sermons ago that there were exiles from Babylon that arrived in Jerusalem in 538, many years before Nehemiah, nearly a hundred years before this actually. They began rebuilding, they faced opposition, and they stopped rebuilding the temple. They stopped for nearly 20 years The Lord had to send prophets like Haggai to go to them and say things like the following: Is it a time for you yourselves to dwell in your paneled houses? While this house, God's house, lies in ruins. So God's people had stopped the work on the temple and they were working on their own homes. But here we see the exact opposite, where God's people are prioritizing the rebuilding of the walls of the city, so then now they are able to rebuild their homes. That's a good thing. Here's another thing we see. Another thing we see that there were many more of God's people that needed to be restored to God's place, to God's city. A lot of people came to help to rebuild the walls, but there were more of God's people out there that needed to come to the city. And that's exactly what the bulk of the rest of the chapter, Nehemiah chapter 7, is all about. God's people being restored to fellowship with one another. and God's people who are not there being brought back home. Look at verse five. Then my God put into my heart to assemble the nobles and the officials and the people to be enrolled by genealogy. And I found the book of genealogy of those who came up at the first, and I found written in it, These were the people of the province. who came up out of captivity of those exiles whom Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, had carried into exile. They returned to Jerusalem and Judah, each to his town They came with Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Azariah, Rahamiah, Nahamani, Mordecai, Basha'an, Mizpareth, Bigva Now if you think I'm going to read all of the names, Nehemiah chapter 7, you're mistaken for this morning. Just so you know, that'll be another day. But we see here that God's people were defined by their genealogy. That's the main Word that's used there, or their family connection, their family history. That's not a new idea for God's people. In fact, the Bible contains lots of genealogy. Over 20 of them in books like Genesis or Exodus or Numbers or Ruth or Ezra. And even here in Nehemiah, you have these lists of genealogies The purpose was to record the history of God's people, but ultimately to show that God was the one that keeps his people and he preserves his people in order to keep his covenant. So then you see in Nehemiah chapter 7, for example, or in books like the book of Numbers, if you see these lists of genealogies and you don't know what to do with it, They should remind you of the fact that God is the one that preserves his covenant. He keeps his covenant, and he's the one that preserves and keeps his people They should also remind us that our God, the maker of heaven and earth, cares for people by name, which means he cares for you by name. So Nehemiah prayed and he consulted with the Lord and decided to refer back to another genealogical list that was already recorded. Verse 5 says, it was those who came up at the first. And that's talking about that first exile that I've already alluded to, when God's people came out of exile from Babylon, and they were able to go back in 538 BC. So this list, starting in verse 7, that takes up the bulk of Nehemiah chapter 7, is nearly identical with that of Ezra chapter 2. So the people needed to prove that they were part of Israel's family tree, that they were connected. And if they were connected, then they would be able to go into the city. Maybe you know a bit about your own family history. Kids, maybe you've done an assignment or project at school where you've had to make a family tree of your own So you go start with yourself and then you work backwards. There's mom and dad and there's grandparents and their parents and their parents and you go back as far as you can. Now, if you think about any family tree, those names, they represent stories, they represent histories, they represent connections and characteristics, the good, the bad, and the ugly. All of them. All of that comes to mind even just by looking at people's names on a list or in a tree And we don't have that same connection with those names I just mentioned, or even the names in this list here. But the legacy here is that these people are identified with God's people. That's the point. And that legacy could be traced back hundreds of years. So may we, as people of faith, have that same kind of legacy Where people don't remember much about us when we're gone, but they remember that that man, that woman, was a person of faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. So who's on this list? Well, it includes people of Israel. So lay people, people who had no outwardly title. They were not any of these servants who are listed here by name. But their families are remembered by name. That's verses 8 through 38. And then you have priests who are mentioned starting in verse 39. And these priests would have served different roles. They were responsible for teaching the law to God's people. They were responsible for leading worship. They were responsible for maintaining the temple. They were a subset of the Levites, and they were also responsible for offering sacrifices in the temple to God. And then it also mentions Levites, verse 43. Those Levites, they served as priests for Israel. And they would have come from the descendants of Aaron. So Moses and Aaron. They came back all the way from there. They helped to manage the temple. Excuse me. They helped to manage the temple. They sang psalms during the temple services. They performed construction to maintain the temple when necessary. They served as guards and gatekeepers of the temple. They helped perform purification ceremonies. And they even helped Israel in political and educational matters. So these people had big role among God's people. And then you have Singers, the sons of Asap That's verse 44. There were 148 of them. Asaph was a musician and a prophet referred to in 1 Chronicles. And these descendants also would have been welcomed back to do what? To help to lead God's people in singing praise to God. Verse 45, the gatekeepers. They would have been guarding the gates. They would have been guarding the city. They would have been ensuring that whoever's coming in are people who actually belong here. They come as citizens of this city. They want to worship Yahweh. Then you have temple service, verse 46, 46 through 56. And they have responsibilities that included cleaning the temple, preparing sacrifices, fetching water when necessary, chopping wood when necessary, maintaining the temple's upkeep They worked under the authority of the Levites and under the authority of the priests. And then you have Solomon's servants. If you look down at verse 57, Solomon's servants are mentioned there, 57 through 59. Kids and teens, why do you think Solomon would be mentioned here? What Solomon do you think they're talking about Any guesses? Abram? Solomon the son of David, who did what? He built the original temple. That's exactly why he's mentioned there. That first temple that was destroyed by Babylonian invasion in eight in 586 BC. That's the reason why the exiles were exiles. Their temple was destroyed. The people were scattered. They were going to Babylon. They were allowed to come back in 538 BC So these sons of Solomon's servants that went all the way back to the first temple that was destroyed, they were descendants of Solomon's servants. And even they were allowed to come back. Even they were allowed to come to this city in Jerusalem. What's interesting about these servants of Solomon is that they were not Jews, they were Gentiles. But even these Gentile servants would be included in this list with the people of God. So we can also assume that they too were people of faith in the one true God. This should also briefly remind us that the Lord is no respecter of persons. God does not show favoritism, and neither should we. Not just in our views of people themselves, but also in the people that we welcome to join in the fellowship of God's family Now look at verse 60. Again, going through all those people who would have come back. You have a summary statement there in verse 60. All of these temple servants and the sons of Solomon's servants, they were 392. Okay, so all these people have come back. All these people are welcomed. Unfortunately, though, there are others who did not receive that same welcome, who could not find their name on their list, who could not trace themselves all the way back to that family tree. Look at verse 61. I'm going to read verses 61 through 69 here. The following were those who came up from Telmalah. Teharashah, Cherub, Adon, Emr, but they could not prove their father's house nor their descent, whether they belonged to Israel. The sons of Delilah, the sons of Tobiah, the sons of Nekoda, 642. Also of the priests The sons of Hobahiah, the sons of Hakos, the sons of Barzaal, who had taken the wife of the daughters of Barzaal the Gileathite, and also and was called by their name These sought their registrations among those enrolled in genealogies, but it was not found there, though they were excluded from the priesthood as unclean The governor told them that they were not to partake of the most holy food until a priest with the Urim and the Thrum could arise. Verse 66. The whole assembly together was 42,362. Besides, their male and female servants of whom were 7,337. And they had 245 singers, male and female. Their horses were 736. Their mules 245. Sixteen their uh camels were fo were four hundred and thirty s thirty-five, and their donkeys six thousand seven hundred and twenty. So let's go back for a moment, for a moment, to these people who could not identify themselves, these people who could not assemble. They did not belong. You had priests who could not prove their direct connection. They were still allowed to come in, but they could not serve as priests. The Urum and the Thurum that was mentioned there, these were small objects which were used back then those days to cast lots. So that meant We're not sure of your connection. You say that you're priests. We do believe that you're part of God's people, but we don't know if you're part of that priestly line. We're going to cast lots. We're going to take this before the Lord before we can make you part of the priesthood here. But you're welcome. Here. But again, there were others, those who were not priests, who had no connection, they could not prove that they belonged to God's people. So they could not enter into Jerusalem. Again, as we think of those numbers there, God knew exactly how many people were there. Those people came back. They came back with all of their possessions. That's why they had horses and mules. Remember, they were coming out of exile in Persia. They were leaving their wealth behind, many of them, going to a city that they only heard about. So they sacrificed a lot to be there. And yet not everybody was able to enter. Question. Do you belong to God's people? If so, how do you know? How would you prove it? Maybe you say, of course I belong. My family belongs Look up their names. Look up their names. They are part of this church or that church. Our family's always been Christian. Or you might say, of course I belong. I'm sitting here, right? My parents bring me to church every week. Or I give money to the church. Or I do really good things. Or maybe you just appeal to somebody else in your life who was a strong Christian who you listen to. You don't really outwardly oppose them. You like them, and you're like, hey, I'm with them. They say good things. But that's not how it works. That's not how it works. As Jonathan Lehman noted in his sermon on Matthew 1, nearly a year ago to date. So if you haven't heard it, I encourage you to listen to that. It's an excellent sermon. He says something to the effect of this. I might be misquoting you, but let me summarize. The genealogies in the Bible, they end with the Lord Jesus Christ. God's people would not ultimately and continually be defined by nation of origin, by passport, by citizenship, or even by family ties. But when you think about it, they ultimately, God's true people, have always been defined by one thing: not by their family connection, not by the country that they were born in. They've been defined by faith. Faith in the promised Messiah. But since the promised Messiah came, the Lord Jesus Christ, everybody from then on would be defined by faith in that promised Messiah. In the Lord Jesus Christ. Because the Lord would send his people because of their sin into exile, into captivity. He would also send people to help to re-establish the temple to re-establish the city of Jerusalem. For what? So that he could re-establish fellowship with his people. So that he could preserve his covenant with his people So that he can preserve their line. And that line would have an end. And it would find its end or its beginning in the Lord Jesus Christ. Who would come to this world through that same line of the people of Israel? Who would be born to live a perfect life? Who would die on a cross outside of the city of Jerusalem? To take on the wrath of God for the sins that we deserved, for the sins that we committed against God. He will be crucified, he would die, he will rise from the grave, so that all who turn from their sin and put their faith in the Lord Jesus Christ Can be forgiven of their sins, cleansed of their unrighteousness, regardless of what their family has done, regardless of what they've done in their life, regardless of where they come from, regardless of where they were born, regardless of what their family Tree looks like Jesus has come so that we could be grafted into God's family tree forever. And once we are grafted into God's family tree, we are citizens of heaven. And our names will never be blotted out of that list. We will never be blotted out of the only list that you have in the Bible after Matthew chapter 1. Which is the list in the Lamb's book of life. That's what it says in Revelation chapter 3, verse 5. It says, the one who is victorious will, like them, be dressed in white. And the Lord Jesus says, I will never blot out the name of that person from the book of life, but will acknowledge that name before my Father and before his angels. So the question is, is your name in that book? If your name is not in that book, That can be so today by turning from your sins and putting your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Regardless of what your family believes, regardless of what you've done in your life, Regardless of anything like that, even if your family is a mess, God says you can come and you can join my family, but only one way, through faith in my son Jesus Christ. We'd love to talk to you more about that today if you have questions about what that means. But we hope that you would give your life to Jesus by faith today. If your answer is yes, and again, if you've given your life to Jesus, your answer should be yes I didn't ask you how your week was. But have you given your life to Jesus? If so, he says, I will never blot out your name. So your name is on that list. What a glory. What a wonder. How gracious our God is to us. But that should remind us that we actually have two family trees, don't we? We have our natural family tree and we have God's family tree And our natural family tree comes with stories, it comes with names, it comes with tales that we'd rather not pass on. It comes up with things that we forget. It comes up with names that we've forgotten. But the story of God's family tree tells of his continued faithfulness throughout the ages. And he will remain faithful to his people. As you think about your family and your family history, it may not be shaped the way that you want it to be. It may not even be shaped the way that you'd hope it to be Remember, God's family tree is in the shape of a cross. And by faith in Him, you can actually start a new layer of that family tree where your family tree can connect to God's family tree. So pray, especially during this season, that more and more of your family, even in your household, would turn to faith in the Lord Jesus Christ He is gracious, and he can redeem even those who are far from him We should remember also that we as God's people, we have dual citizenships, don't we? We have our natural citizenship, we also have our heavenly citizenship In some countries, you can have a dual citizenship indefinitely. Others come with rules and stipulations, meaning you can only have it for a certain amount of years And at some point, so if your children when you turn 18, you have to pick one. I'm gonna have allegiance to this nation and not that nation. I'm gonna have this citizenship over that one. The Lord has made us and placed us where we are and where he's placed us for his good purposes. And the Lord is not threatened by any earthly ruler or any earthly kingdom. But he calls us as his people to live in light of his kingdom while we're living on this earth. But wherever the kingdoms of this world conflict with the Lord's kingdom, we have to choose allegiance to Him over whatever that kingdom is. Which might mean I need to pick up this passport and be willing to drop that one. My citizenship in heaven means more than my citizenship in anywhere in this earth. I mean, what did Jesus say about this? Talking to his disciples, about taxes? Whose face is on that coin Caesar's. Give Caesar's what is Caesar's. Give him that. But give to God what belongs to God. We belong to God. His image is imprinted on us. The Lord Jesus has saved us. So give your taxes to the government, but give your full allegiance to the Lord Jesus Christ. This should also remind us of the fact that many of us are from different backgrounds. We have different family histories. We have different cultural backgrounds. We have even different nations of origin. But he's brought us together as his people. Like right here. Right now So that should help us to welcome each other as we have been welcomed by the Lord from all different backgrounds Because that's where this is headed. Think about Revelation chapter 5. And they sang a new song Saying, worthy are you to take the scroll and open it from the seals, for you were slain, and by your blood you have ransomed people for God. from every tribe and every language and every people and nation. And you have made them a kingdom of priests to God. And they shall reign on the earth That means that we don't need to dissolve our cultural differences. We don't need to dissolve our language differences. Our different languages and cultures and backgrounds and the ways that the Lord has made us and wired us, He wants us to use that and bring that to bear Here with one another, because he's redeeming people from every nation, tribe, and tongue, which means all of us here have a lot to offer to our brothers and sisters in Christ. But did you catch that Revelation 5 says that he has made us a kingdom of priests? Nehemiah wasn't a priest Remember last week he couldn't even enter into the temple because he wasn't a priest. And only those here in Nehemiah 7 who could prove their family connection to priests could actually become priests. But the Lord Jesus Christ is our high priest, and we have direct access to him, which means that we can minister to our family in Christ right now without a title. It means we can go directly to him when we sin and when we stray, and we don't need an intermediary to do so and receive his mercy. It also means that we can offer our lives to him, our whole lives, as living sacrifices. And that he, by his grace, will accept that from us So God's people were restored to fellowship. But what would this fellowship require from them? That brings us to point two: restore fellowship in God's presence. Restore fellowship with God's people. That was point one. That was all of point one. Point two, restore fellowship in God's presence. Look at verse 70 of Nehemiah chapter 7 again. Now some of the heads of the father's house gave to the work. The governor gave to the treasury a thousand darcies of gold, basins, thirty priests' garments, and five hundred menas of silver of silver. And some of the heads of the father's house gave to the treasury of the work, twenty thousand darcy of gold and two thousand two hundred minas of silver. And what the rest of the people gave was 20,000 darcies of gold, 2,000 menus of silver, and 67 priests' garments. So the priests, the Levites, the gatekeepers, the singers, and some of the people, the temple servants, and all Israel lived in their towns. And when the seventh month have come had come, the people of Israel were in their towns. We see from these verses that restored fellowship in God's presence required two things. Required sacrifice and it required service. Sacrifice and service. Notice here that the people are now giving towards the work. The heads of households, the priests, they are all giving to the work or to the treasury of the work. As in the temple treasury. But you might think, I thought the work was already done. They rebuilt the walls. Did they acquire debt? Like what are they doing? What is this work? Again, remember that God wanted to restore fellowship. That took effort, that took time, that took organization. But in order for that fellowship to maintain and continue, that work needed to be funded. And that work was not just having some walls together that people could go back to. That work would actually result in God's people rightly worshiping him together. That's what God's work was. As our pastor back home often says, the water of life is free, but the plumbing is expensive. So as we think about God's work, again, He's still working. Jesus is still building his church. He's using us in part of that effort, in a very small part in that effort. We should pray that the Lord will continue to provide for us as a church as we seek to make disciples here and as we seek to support God's work abroad. We should pray that the Lord will continue to help us as we aim to serve those in our community and even our members who are in need. As we provide as a church for those who serve the church in full-time ministry, as we provide counseling for members who are in need, who are going through very hard times that they need to work through. As we support gospel work and gospel workers overseas and even locally in campus outreach If you haven't done so in a while, the ending of this year will be a good time to evaluate your giving towards God's work here at CBC and beyond. To maybe make it a matter of prayer But pray and ask the Lord to help you to give generously and also to give sacrificially. But notice in verse 73 The people from the genealogy were mentioned again, these titles or these labels that were given by people that are mentioned all throughout Nehemiah chapter 7. They are the main emphasis Why are they the emphasis? Why are they the point? I think that's because the point is worship And they, the Levites, the priests, the gatekeepers, the singers, what would they be helping to facilitate once God's people gathered? They were helping to facilitate worship They were helping to facilitate the worship of God's people. But remember, many of them left from Babylon, they left from Persia, they left, they did not know where they were going to, they had to establish time, establish effort. They had to give a lot of money in order to be near God's people. So that was very hard for them, and that was hard on them. Some of us can relate to that in some ways, I think. Right? Some of you here have declined promotions because it would take you away from the church. And you were committed to stay here. Right? Some of you have been here for a long time and you find it hard seeing so many people come and go, as natural as normal as that is in a DMV, it's still hard to see that. Isn't it? Some of you here know that you will only be here for few years based on your job or based on your school. And so maybe you found it really hard to settle, to lean in, as these people did in verse 73. They returned and then they settled in their towns. We're called to sacrifice. We are called to settle. However long the Lord has us here, and yet that's challenging at times That was hard for us when we lived overseas. Far from family, being very lonely, trying to understand the culture and the customs and going from very a lot of sun to a lot of rain. Feeling homesick. Maybe you feel homesick right now. Maybe you feel even out of place in this church. But the funny thing is. After time, those same things that were hard, the Lord used his people over there to minister to us, to love us. And now we miss them. And if you lived in a few places, you know that too, right? Like it's almost as if your heart is in a few different places around the world. You have home with your family, and then you have home with your church family. And that's because what the Lord allowed us to learn during that time, and I think the Lord wants to continue to teach us, is that wherever God's people are, that's where our home is here. Now that's not all of it, but that's a big part of it. So however long you are here, you and your family, Allow your church and your church family to be a bit of home here for you. Lean in. Spend time. Even if you don't think it's going to be a long time Because eventually, should the Lord move you on from here, you'll look back and you'll miss your family here But that's hard. That takes sacrifice. God's people needed God's people, or they needed each other to sacrifice for the sake of God's work. But service was also required. And again, that's foreshadowing, looking forward to the rest of Nehemiah, because the rest of the book of Nehemiah is about this re-established worship. Where God's people gather around God's word. And then they rejoice in that. And then they confess their sins. And then they renew their covenant. And then, like many of us do. They turned back to their sin and they needed to be renewed and they needed to turn back to the Lord. That's kind of like our lives are And even think about it here. It says the seventh month. The people were gathered in their towns. What were they gathered for? Because there were festivals coming up. Festivals of worship, like the festival of trumpets, or even like the Day of Atonement Or the festivals of tabernacles, or the feast of booths, which we will learn about in Nehemiah chapter 8. So they would gather again. Why? To worship the God that restored their fellowship with him. And family, we are God's Sons and daughters who have been redeemed by the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. He has restored us to him, and he has restored us to each other. And we live scattered all over the DMV, but we gather weekly to worship him together in his presence because he is here with us when we gather. And that requires sacrifice and it requires service. So praise the Lord for all the ways that you all sacrifice and all the ways that you serve for the sake of this church and for the sake of our worship together. Because our gatherings are a glimpse and a shadow into what we will experience in full when the Lord gathers us together again when we're in His city, the New Jerusalem. In glory. Revelation 21, 22. Where John says, I did not see a temple in the city, in the New Jerusalem, because the Lord God Almighty and the Lamb are its temple. The city does not need sun or the moon to shine on it, for the glory of God gives it its light, and the lamb is its lamp. The nations will walk by its light, and the kings of the earth will bring their splendor into it. They will give, they will sacrifice. On that day no gates will be ever shut, for there will be no night there. Remember, they needed to stand guard to make sure that no one would enter who didn't belong. That won't be the case in this city. The glory and honor of the nations will be brought into it. Nothing impure will ever enter it into it, nor will any one who does what is shameful or deceitful, but only those whose names are written in the Lamb's book of life. A city full of God's glory. A city with no need of a temple because the Lord is there. A city with no need of a light, with no need of guards, with no need of gates. Who's welcome there? All of those whose names are in the Lamb's Book of Life. Brothers and sisters, once we're there, we will finally be home. May we long for that city. And in the meantime, may we be a glimpse of that city for each other. As we live as citizens of His kingdom, as we long for His kingdom to come. Let's pray. Lord, we thank you for your redemption. And while we thank you, we also long for your final redemption. Where that city that we've heard about, that we sing about, that we know a little bit about, will be a reality. And the greatest reality being that you will be there in full, but no need of light, no need of a temple. No need of sacrificing. No need to ask for forgiveness of sin. No need for gates. But only you Lord, we are not there yet. We ask you to help us to endure as we long for that day. But we thank you because the redemption that you've already purchased is for us, is on purpose, and has a purpose. And we pray that we as your people, Would stand in the gap, that we would love one another and serve one another, and we would be a city within the city for one another. In Jesus' name. Amen.