It's the last Sunday of 2025. And it's been quite a year, hasn't it? It's been a year of joy, a year of laughter, lots of sweet moments It's also for many of us been a year of some grief, some sorrow, some pain, some loss. We've had highlights and lowlights, right? But also for every single one of us it's have been a year of waiting. Waiting Maybe you are waiting for 2026 because you're so done with 2025. Like, let's be done already. Because maybe you're still waiting for prayers to be answered. Maybe you're still waiting for recon for reconciliation in some relationship. Maybe you're waiting for things to just get better. Maybe you're waiting for this feeling of sadness that you have that you can't even explain to just go away. But 2026, and I'm no prophet, but I'll tell you this: 2026 for all of us will be another year to the Lord Terry of waiting. Maybe you're waiting for some great things to happen, to graduate from school, or to get a promotion, or to get a new position, or to buy a new home But maybe you're still waiting or you'll still be waiting in 2026 for things to improve in some way. Now, our waiting is a matter of our hope, right? We hope things will go a certain way in 2026. Waiting and hoping are synonyms. And if you're familiar with the faith, then you know that our faith is one of waiting So, in a real sense, even though Christmas is over, then you're wondering why do we sing Christmas songs today? Why are these trees still up? God's people are in a continual Advent season. We're in a season of waiting. But what are we waiting for? Or to put it another way, who are we waiting for? In your copy of God's word, please meet me in the book of Philippians. Today we're going to focus on Philippians chapter 3, verse 20 through chapter 4, verse 1. If you're using one of the Bibles that are provided around us, that's on page 982. You don't have a copy of God's Word, then consider that Bible you have in front of you as a late Christmas gift from us to you. You can go ahead and take that home with you. The Apostle Paul wrote this missionary support letter of sorts to the church in Philippi. Paul wanted to thank this church for their support and also encourage them to continue to rejoice in Christ despite all of their suffering. And even despite the cloud of death that was over the Apostle Paul's life, or the sting of suffering that remained in his life. The main reframe of this brief letter is summed up in one word. Rejoice. Rejoice. Paul is rejoicing in Christ despite his suffering and despite what may come. And as we read in the letter, we'll know that Paul wasn't sure what was going to happen to him. It's like none of us are sure what's going to happen to us tomorrow, right? But how can Paul have any hope in the midst of uncertainty? How can any of us have hope in our uncertainties Or, in other words, what was Paul waiting for? And for us, what are we waiting for? Let me read the passage. Philippians chapter 3, starting in verse 20. This is the word of the Lord. But our citizenship is in heaven, and from it we await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Who will transform our lowly body to be like his glorious body by the power that enables him even to subject all things to himself? Therefore, my brothers, whom I love and long for my joy and my crown, stand firm thus in the Lord, my beloved. That's the passage for us. If you're taking notes, here's the main idea for our time together in God's Word this morning. And here's our hope. Christ, our Savior and King, will soon return for his weary people Christ, our Savior and King, will soon return for his weary people We're going to walk through the passage by asking and answering three questions. I'll give them to you as we get there. So we'll start with question number one. I've mentioned this question already Who are we waiting for? Question number one: Who are we waiting for? The answer that we have in this passage from the Apostle Paul is the Savior, Jesus Christ. The Savior Jesus Christ. And Paul makes it clear from the passage who this Savior is. It almost seems a little bit redundant. He says the Savior, and then he says, the Lord Jesus Christ. The Lord Jesus Christ, Paul says, in Philippians chapter 1, verse 13, is the reason why he's writing this letter, not from the penthouse, but from prison. Jesus Christ, Paul says, in Philippians chapter 1, verse 20, will be honored in his life or in his death. The Lord Jesus Christ is the one that Paul says in chapter 1 of Philippians that he longs to depart and to be with. And Paul also says in Philippians 1. 29 that Christ is the one that grants believers the privilege to suffer with him. But why would be why would Paul be willing to give his life for Jesus? Well, it's because Jesus first gave his life for Paul. So kids in the room. There's I know that we're we're small in numbers today, but there's some kids around. So that means I'm I'm counting on you to respond. And we do a very, very quick sword drill. You know what a sword drill is? Where you go to a passage in the Bible and you find it. I know y'all can do it. I've seen you in kids' Sunday school do it. Matthew chapter 1, verse 21. Matthew chapter 1, verse 21. Can somebody find it? Matthew chapter 1, verse 21. According to the angel in that passage speaking to Joseph, what did he say about the meaning of Jesus' name? I knew I could kind of wanted them alone. Jesus will save people from their sins. That's the very meaning of his name. That implies That people like us needed to be saved. Right? And as Paul says in Philippians chapter 2, that Jesus Though he is God, he did not grasp for power when he came to this world In fact, Jesus coming to this world was not an upgrade for Jesus. It was a downgrade He condescended, he came down, and he wraps himself in flesh Paul says he humbled himself and he took on the form of a servant, and he was obedient even to the point of death and death on the cross. That's about Christ's first advent, his first coming. Here's what R. G. Lee states about Christ and his first coming and his humility. What deep descent from the heights of glory to the depths of shame, from the wonders of heaven to the wickedness of the earth. From exaltation to humiliation, from the throne to the tree, from dignity to debasement, from worship to wrath. From the halls of heaven to the nails of the earth, from the coronation to the curse, from the glory place to the gory place No room for him who made all rooms, no place for him who made and knows all places. Oh, deep humiliation of the Creator, born of the creature, woman But in his descent was the dawn of mercy. Because we cannot ascend to him. He that's Jesus descends to us. That's what Christ has already done for us. Christ descended to this world because all have sinned. And our sin severs our relationship with the holy and righteous God. And God, in his holiness and in his righteousness, he must judge sin. But God in his love sent Jesus, his son, to save us from our sins by dying on the cross and rising from the grave, so that we, by faith in him, can be forgiven. And that's what Paul talks about in Philippians 2:9. Since Christ has already done this, therefore, Paul says, God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that's above every name. So that the name of Jesus Christ, every knee will bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father All of this means that the Christ in the manger was the Christ on the cross But the cross, Christ on the cross is the risen, ruling, and reigning Lord of all Christ came to die for our sins and rise from the grave. But do you know this Christ personally? Before I was a Christian, I would have told you similar things. Yes, Jesus did come to die on the cross for our sins. But in my mind, I had not myself, I had those sinners and those sins. All those people I thought that I was better than. Maybe you think that. Or maybe you think that Jesus did come to the world to die for sins, but you think of that just in a general sense. Right? Like it's like that's that's cool, that's happened. I'm willing to accept that and that was really nice of him, but you're unmoved by that The Bible teaches that all of us have sinned and fallen short of God's glory. That Jesus died on the cross not just for those people over there and their sins, but for my sins and your sins. Jesus did something about that sin, which means we turn to him in faith. That's the only thing we can do about our sin. Apart from doing that, we will receive God's judgment. But Christ has already done the hard part, and you can turn to him even today, even this last Sunday of the year, you can turn to him by faith. And then therefore welcome and long for his second coming. Paul says here that we are waiting a savior from heaven But I just told you that Christ has already come, and that Paul already talked about the first coming in Philippians chapter 2. So that means that Paul has the second advent, the second coming of Christ in mind. Christ in his first coming was barely noticed by the world around him. But the Bible teaches that at his second coming, every eye will see him. Jesus in his first coming, he came humbly to save and to give his life. But he will return again to mightily rule and reign and rescue his people. But Paul still calls Jesus Savior in this passage in Philippians 3. 20. Why? Because Jesus is coming back to save. That's still part of his job description. Jesus first came to save us from the penalty of our sins, but Jesus will come again to save us from the effects of our sins. Namely, our suffering and the thing of death. Paul himself was acquainted with suffering, And the sing of death. Again, he was writing this letter from a Roman prison. He talks about that imprisonment for the sake of the gospel in Philippians 1:12. He refers to his own death throughout the letter. In Philippians 1:21, he says, For to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain. He also says in chapter 2, verse 17, that his life is being poured out as a liquid offering. It's talking about his death. But Paul is not just thinking about his death. He's also thinking about that day when Christ will return and will rescue him and all of those who long for his appearing. That's why Paul talks about that day a lot in the book of Philippians. Philippians 1, verse 6, for example. And I am sure of this that he who began a good work in you, Paul says, will bring it to completion when. at the day of Jesus Christ. Chapter 1, verse 10. So that you may approve what is excellent and to be pure and blameless For what? For the day of Christ. Philippians 2, 16. Holding fast to the word of life, so that in the day of Christ I may be proud that I did not run in vain or labor in vain. And even in Philippians 4 5, Lord willing, we'll get there next week. Paul says the Lord is at hand, which means that the Lord's coming is near. So we are called to eagerly await for the day of Christ's second coming. As you think of the last year, and you've just not even your own year personally, you think about the world around us. Have you ever looked around and wondered, like, what is going on here? Like there's another shooting. There's another tragedy. There's more injustice Or you look at your own life and maybe there's people that you know, there's another doctor's visit that seems troubling. There's another diagnosis. We heard about peace on earth and goodwill towards men, but we look around and we're like, where's the peace? Where's the goodwill? What you and I have seen and felt in 2025 is the long-ranging effects of sin on the world. So as you see sin and suffering in 2026, and again I'm no prophet, but you will see some of that, regardless of whatever your New Year's Eve tradition is. We can respond with the very last prayer of the Bible, the Apostle John, where he says, Come, Lord Jesus, come. Maybe you're wondering as we're talking about the second coming. You're like, okay. But when is it gonna happen though? When is Christ returning? Just so you know, I have no charts that will pop up behind me. I have no YouTube channel where I'm gonna give you the dates and times. You should unsubscribe for those channels if you are subscribed. But the Bible's answer is summed up in one word. Soon. Jesus is coming soon. Because he's already come once. He died. And he rose again and he ascended into heaven. And that means that he can return at any point. But Jesus says that no one knows the date or the hour. And the concern that Paul has in this passage is not the timing. Notice he doesn't give a timing here. Because no man knows the dates of the hour or the hour. What's important here to Paul is the fact that yes, Jesus is returning And the Bible teaches that Jesus has not returned yet, not because the Lord is being slow in his promise, but because he's being patient. In other words, if you're here and you're struggling to believe in the first or even the second coming of Christ, part of the reason he hasn't come back yet is because he's being patient with you, that you would turn and believe. And brothers and sisters, here if you're discouraged for from praying for loved ones and family members or friends who you long to come to Christ and you're like they're too far gone, or you're discouraged in your evangelism. May the Lord's patience encourage us to persist in sharing the good news of the gospel. And we don't have to wait until 2026 to start doing that. And notice Paul isn't nervous when he's talking about the coming of Christ. He's eager for it. And we're called to wait eager for the recoming for the return of Christ. That's what the word await translates to. Eagerly waiting. It's a certain hope that we are looking forward to. Kids, it's like that Christmas gift that's under the tree. It has your name on it. You can shake it, you can hear it, you know that something good is in it. But you just can't open it yet. And yet, you know the giver of the gift is so good that they wouldn't give you anything that you wouldn't like, that wouldn't be good for you. Well, the Bible teaches that God is our good Father. And he gives good gifts to his children. And he delivers on every single one of his promises. That's what we've been learning about as a church this year, right? In the book of Ephesians, for example, we've learned that God has predestined us as adopt for adoption as sons through Christ Jesus from before the foundation of the world. Or even in the book of Exodus, that even those lowly slaves who groaned for their deliverance, their groans were heard by God. And God heard and remembered his covenant. And then acted in accordance to his covenant. And just think of the many years and the many people who were waiting for the Messiah to first come. Waiting for their deliverance, waiting for their redemption. And guess what? He did come Which gives us confidence and hope that he will make good on his office promises and he will come again But while we wait for Christ and his second coming, there will be a lot of those who will tempt you to settle for a knockoff. Or an off-brand savior. You know what I mean by off-brand? Like it's not quite the real thing. It's not leather, but it's pleather. It looks like the Jordan logo, but he's not jumping up as high as he normally jumps. From a distance, you can't quite tell the difference, but you get up close and you'll see that's not the real thing. There are a lot of off-brand saviors in the world who want us to put our hope and trust in them, aren't they? That might be a celebrity who can do no wrong in your eyes or in the world's eyes. Or a YouTuber or an influencer who wants you to like and subscribe so that they can do all of the thinking for you. Or a politician who wants all of your loyalty and all of your allegiance all the time. Or a movement that wants your whole future. Whoever they may be and whatever they may claim, they're just a knockoff. Don't put your ultimate hopes in any of them Christ, our true Savior, is really coming back, and he will come back to do what no one else could ever do. He's going to come back to transform us, he's going to come back to rule over all things. Question number two. What will he do? What will he do? The answer is: he will transform us and he will rule over all things. Look back again at Philippians 3:21. Who, talking about Jesus, will transform our lowly body to be like his glorious body by the power that enables him even to subject all things to himself. Notice that Paul says that he will transform our lowly bodies. Oh, what does Paul mean by that? He means our humble bodies, our weak and tired bodies, our frail and wounded bodies Paul is talking about the fact that all of us, however strong we may appear to be, we're frail and we're mortal. Paul is pointing out the fact that in a falling world, we can get tired and we can get weary and we can get worn down. And isn't that true of all of us? Everything from seasonal allergies to chronic pain can wear us out. Or maybe weakening bones or even a forgetful memory. Or an unexplained illness. Or worsening eyesight. Or aches and pains when we get up out of the morning out in the morning. We're not as springy as we used to be. Or even catch a cold and see how that puts you out. We are so frail. If we aren't feeling the immediate effects of this fallen world, we don't have to look far to see it. Paul says in Romans chapter 8 that all of creation, the entire world is groaning and waiting for our adoption as sons and daughters, the redemption of our bodies. We're weary. We're tired. But when Christ returns, beloved, he will redeem, renew all things. Paul says that he will transform our lowly bodies, in other words, our tired and our weary bodies, to be like his glorious body. You might be thinking, what does that mean? It means that our bodies Our lives, our minds, our hearts will be free from the effects of sin forever We will also be free from the sting of death forever. Sin has infected in the entire world, but the great physician will cure it all when he returns. And when Christ returns, beloved, there will be no more doctors' visits. There'll be no need for a follow-up. There'll be no concerning lab results. No unwanted thoughts. No mental struggles. No tragic accidents. No funerals to plan and none to attend. Our bodies will be free from the from sin, from decay, and even the threat of death. And if that weren't enough, the Lord Jesus is going to rule and reign over all things. He will set everything under his control and he will make all things new. Now, I know some of us, as we think about the second coming of Christ, we might think of that scary book, the book of Revelation. Maybe the book that we kind of avoid because there's a lot of interesting things in there. But at least read Revelation chapters 21 and 22. Maybe read that before the end of this year. Here's a few verses from Revelation 21. Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth. For the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and the sea was no more. And I saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven. From God prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man He will dwell with them and he will and they will be his people and God himself will be with them as their God He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more. Neither shall there be mourning nor crying nor pain anymore. For the former things have passed away. And he who was seated on the throne said, Behold, I am making all things new Jesus, our heavenly Savior, will come back and He will transform us and transform the world. He will rule over everything as our mighty King. And again, that's something that only King Jesus can do. Because only King Jesus has lived a perfect life without sin. Only King Jesus took the full wrath of God on the cross for our our sins against him. And his sacrifice was accepted by God the Father. Only Jesus rose victoriously from the grave and is right now at the Father's right hand. Only Jesus is currently ruling right now and reigning and praying for the endurance of his people. And only Jesus will come back and place everything under his feet. Nobody anywhere else has that on their resume, beloved. Put all of your hope in the Lord Jesus Christ. Whatever your 2025 was like, and with whatever may come in 2026 in Christ, you have a glorious future ahead of you. Free of sin, free of suffering, free of shame, and everything, all things under the control of the Lord Jesus Christ. But these realities are ours in Christ's right now. And yet we still long to see them fulfilled. And waiting is hard, isn't it? It's hard for any of us. It's hard in a waiting room It's hard in traffic. It's hard waiting on the Amazon Prime truck to show up at your house. We all struggle with waiting. But with all that troubles us in this life, the Lord Jesus wants us to have peace to know that He is preparing a place for us. Currently, my screensaver on my phone is John chapter 14, verses 1 through 6. It was pretty down a week or two ago. I couldn't really explain, fully explain why. And I don't know if you've ever experienced this yourself. It seems to be like a cap to your joy. Like, okay, I can get to this point, but I can't seem to break the ceiling for some reason. You ever felt that way? It was really sweet for me to dwell on the words of John chapter 14, 1-6. Specifically the first few verses there, where Jesus says, let not your hearts be troubled. Believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house there are many rooms. If it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you? And if I go to prepare a place for you, I will come again to take you to be with myself. For where I am, you will be also. Christ has gone to prepare a place for all of his people. And that means he's going to come back for us. We can hold on to these promises like the gifts that we know have our names on it. Because we know that Christ has given us these gifts. So again, in a real way, we always live in a season of Advent, regardless of what those calendars say. Because we as God's people are longing for our full deliverance, our full salvation for Christ to return and make all things right. So then how should we wait? How should we wait? That's question number three. How should we wait We should wait as citizens of heaven. We should wait as citizens of heaven. Now, I really think this waiting as citizens of heaven is kind of the bookends of this passage. Talks about that in chapter 3, verse 20, but we are citizens of heaven. And then in chapter 4, verse 1 talks about standing firm thus in the Lord, meaning in this way, is in for these reasons. So we are called to wait as citizens of heaven. But let me read Philippians 3 starting in verse 17 this time Brothers, Paul says, join in imitating me and keep your eyes on those who walk according to the example that you have in us. For many of whom I've often told you and now tell you, even with tears, Walk as enemies of the cross of Christ. Their end is destruction, their God is their belly, and they glory in their shame with mindset on earthly things. But our citizenship is in heaven, Paul says. So being a citizen of heaven is contrasted with being an enemy of the cross. And unlike enemies of the cross, those who have not come to the Lord Jesus Christ, citizens of heaven have a glorious future to look forward to. We have the promises now that our God is in the heavens and He's still doing all that He pleases in the world. We glory not in ourselves and not in shameful things, but in Christ our Redeemer. And our minds are not just set on things of this world, because we know everything here is temporary. Our minds are set on heavenly things. Our minds are set on Christ Himself. That means citizens of heaven live differently than citizens of the earth. And our lives, our example should be a model to follow. Here's a few things or a few ways that can look like by way of application. What is the difference for us as citizens of heaven? What does that look like? First leaf, number one, citizens of heaven have different priorities. We have different priorities. As we look at ourselves, we prioritize Christ and our allegiance to Him above any other earthly allegiance. And remember, this is coming from the Apostle Paul, who knew a thing or two about citizenship. Paul was a citizen of Rome, which would have been the most valuable citizenship in the world at that time. He was also a citizen of the city of Tarsus. He was also born into the right family. He was born in the tribe of Benjamin. And that family did the right things. They did the right religious things. He was circumcised on the eighth day. Paul talks about this in Philippians chapter 3. And in his zeal as a Pharisee who would have memorized parts of Scripture, Paul says his zeal was second to none because he persecuted Christians before he came to Christ. But Paul said in Philippians 3 that he counts all of that, all that he once boasted in, as rubbish, as loss for the sake of knowing Christ. Because our heavenly citizenship must be prioritized over our earthly citizenship One thing I'm looking forward to in 2026, and if no one else here is, I know that Hugh Feik is, is the World Cup. Right here? The World Cup is coming and it's coming to North America where footballers, and yes I said football, because they actually use their feet. They'll come from all over the world to compete. Many of these players have dual citizenships though Meaning they have ancestry in one nation, or they were born in another nation, or they become naturalized in one nation. One way, shape, or form, they become citizens. Of more than one country at the same time. But as you should know about the World Cup or the Olympics, you can't compete for two different countries at the same time, can you You just can't. That means each athlete has to choose which nation they are going to represent when they get to the Olympic Games. Which nation they're going to give their allegiance to. While the other one doesn't completely go away, but it's secondary. And often when we talk about our heavenly citizenship, Sometimes I think we often talk about it as if our heavenly citizenship and our earthly citizenship are on equal playing field. Depending on where I go, depending on what I need to do, I'll lead with one or I'll lead with the other. But being citizens of heaven means that whenever the priorities And the goals and the ambitions and the desires of our earthly citizenship is at odds with our heavenly citizenship. We need to put that to the back. And prioritize our citizenship that is in heaven. Because that's the only one that's gonna last. And our heavenly citizenship affords us all of the rights And the privileges and responsibilities as being children of God. So citizens of heaven have different priorities. Secondly, citizens of heaven have different postures. We have different postures towards others. Did you notice Paul's posture towards the enemies of the cross? He didn't war with them. He wept for them. And he was imprisoned because he was laboring for them to hear the gospel and be saved and be redeemed. So our chief concern is the spread of the gospel as God's people and seeking to do good wherever God's place us, however long He has us there. This is what Paul also says in Acts 17, verse 26. And he that's God from one man made made from one man every nation of mankind to live on all the face of the earth. having determined allotted periods of their boundaries, of their dwelling places, that they should seek God, and perhaps feel their way towards Him and find Him. Yet He's not actually far from any of us. So we are called to remember that what allows one access into this nation, this heavenly nation, and to this king, is not our place of birth or our family origin. It's faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. That's the way we get in. And I think Paul is talking about that even with the word that's used for citizenship there. The word is translated as commonwealth. And Commonwealth nations are voluntary associations of nations that are ruled by one sovereign. And that kind of describes the church globally. Because there are people from every nation, tribe, and tongue who are worshiping the same Lord Jesus Christ that we are worshiping. And around the throne and glory. There will be people from every nation, tribe, and tongue worshiping the Lord Jesus for all eternity King Jesus, the King of Kings, is calling people from all nations to turn to him and to worship him and to join his kingdom That's why we've been given the charge to make disciples of all nations. That's why we as a church pray and we give to the work of the gospel, not just here, but also the spread of the gospel abroad. That's why we are called as God's people to live on mission with Him. For some of us, even in this room, that might mean leaving this country to go to another country to spread the gospel. Some of us have already done that. For most of us, that means taking the gospel to all nations, including the nations that are already sovereignly put here. Why? Because not even a United States passport, as valuable as that is, will be accepted into the kingdom of heaven. He's only looking for a heavenly passport. So may our posture towards the world around us be that of a humble posture towards all of our neighbors wherever they're from, since we ourselves are called to live as strangers and exiles here. And may we also have a missional posture, praying and laboring for others to become citizens of heaven Number three, citizens of heaven have a different perspective. Specifically, we have a different perspective on our suffering. We're called to suffer humbly. And we can only suffer humbly as we remember the sufferings of our Lord Jesus Christ and the glory that awaits all of his people. Because Jesus came to the world and he suffered. Not just when he went to the cross. The Bible says he was a man of sorrows, acquainted with grief. The bread of heaven experienced hunger in this life. The Son of Man did not have a place to rest his head The righteous Lord was treated unjustly. The prince of peace was arrested, scorned, beaten, and mocked and crucified. The eternal Son of God was pierced for our transgressions. Jesus suffered for us, but he invites us to share in his sufferings That's what Paul said in Philippians 1. 29. It's been granted to us to believe and also to suffer. For Christ's sake. In chapter 3, verse 10, where he speaks of his desires to know Christ and the power of the resurrection. Yes and amen. And then Paul says to share in his sufferings. Becoming like him in his death. Now unless you're super duper spiritual, that should sound a little bit crazy. It's like why would anybody welcome suffering? It's hard, it hurts, we don't like it. We don't even like waiting. Why would anyone sign up for that? Should Christ can share his blessing, his love, his mercy, his grace, his righteousness with me, but his sufferings Can we just leave that gift unwrapped? Can we just uncheck that box on the terms and conditions? Let me just tell you, it's not that way with the Lord. We can't opt out of suffering in this life. But the fact that we can share in the sufferings of Christ means that our suffering is never ever wasted. Because the Savior that calls to share in his suffering is the same Savior that will share his glory with us. John 17, 22. Jesus in his prayer, he says, the glory that you have given me, I have given to them. That they may be one as we are one. I in them and you in me, that they may be perfectly one, that they that the world may know that you sent me And love me even as you and love them even as you loved me. Jesus is saying, I want them to share in my glory, not just my sufferings. That all means that our crosses that we bear here on this earth will not compare and do not compare to the future glory that is ahead of us. Some years ago I went to the Miami Open of Down in Miami. Now I was happy to go to this pretty prestigious sports event. I wanted to save some money, so I thought, let me just eat a little bit before I leave the house. And I did. And then I show up to the event with my ticket in hand. And each gate I went to, I kept getting these surprised looks. And I was constantly redirected. Like, oh, you shouldn't be coming here. You need to go over that way to the next gate. Oh, this is your ticket. You should be going to that gate. Until I finally got to the third one, and they were like, oh, see your ticket goes to the the the suite where you get floor seats And I went there, and guess what? There was food from like every cuisine you could imagine. I didn't know what was included with my ticket So I thought, let me just stash them away for myself. But I did not know that all of those other glories were included with our ticket. What am I trying to say? Suffering is included in this life, beloved, but do not forget the fact that glory is on the other side. Glory is on the other side. Jesus' path was that of suffering and then glory. And that's the same path that he calls us to live on. So lastly, number four, as citizens of heaven, we are called to have a different position. We're called to take a different position. Chapter 4, verse 1. Where Paul says, Therefore, in light of all this, my brothers, whom I long and long for, my joy, my crown, stand firm thus in the Lord, my beloved. Stand firm in the Lord. Now, when we hear of that phrase, stand firm in the Lord, which we'll talk a little bit more about next week. I think we can often picture this singular person, this soldier, with his armor on, with his weapons at hand, ready for battle. I don't think that's the picture that Paul has in mind. I think the picture that Paul has in mind, and a clearer picture, is that of Roman soldiers with the Testudos formation. Or the turtle formation, with their shields creating a wall, a barrier, in front of them and above them. So they're not just protecting themselves, they're protecting the ones on their right and the left and even the ones behind them. As citizens of heaven, we are called to have different positions. And that means we don't just look out for ourselves in this life. We look out for our brothers and sisters in Christ Longing that they too will make it to the end. Recently in our small group we talked about that We were talking about a sermon where where Pastor Larry was encouraging us to have a plan so that we don't drift away from the faith, which is encouraging and we should have a plan. But we soon figured out that our plan is not that special. It's ordinary stuff. Like going to God's word and praying. Like regularly showing up together with God's people. Like having accountability with others so that they can help us, encourage us, and even correct us when that's necessary. That's how we endure. We do that not just by ourselves. There are no long-ranger Christians. And if there are, they don't last for very long. We are called to take up a different position where we help each other to endure and stand firm in the faith. And as we stand firm in the faith, we're helping those around us to stand firm in the faith. As you're showing up here even this morning, And you're like, there's not a lot of people here. But the fact that you showed up is an encouragement to somebody else. That's part of what it means to take your position To take your stand, to say, I am going to follow the Lord Jesus Christ, and I'm going to help my brothers and sisters around me to do the same. As citizens of heaven, we are called to stand firm together. But we're called to stand firm as we wait. What are we waiting for? Who are we waiting for? We're waiting eagerly, patiently the return of our Savior and King, the Lord Jesus Christ. We're waiting for He to make everything right and everything new. We're waiting for all of our suffering and all the effects of sin to be gone and done with. Are you waiting for that day? Are you eager for that day? Let's pray together. Oh Lord, we confess that the details of your second coming for many of us in a lot of ways are mysterious. But Lord, we thank you that the fact that you are coming back is not a mystery. It is very clear. You've come once and you will come again. Oh Lord, help us today, in each and every day that you give us. Have a posture of hope. Have a posture of waiting with eager anticipation. So we can say, like the Apostle John, come, Lord Jesus. Help us to stand as we wait. In Jesus' name. Amen.