Good morning once again, brothers and sisters. We're going to pray once more before we go to God and his word in Psalm chapter 30. Let's pray Lord, you are holy, you are good, you are just, you are righteous, you are Lord over all. And you have a word for us this morning. And we pray that we would receive it in faith, that we would hear your word, believe it. Do what it says and live out its implication as your people. Use your word this morning to convict us, to correct us, to change us, and help us to look more like your son Jesus as a result. In his name we pray. Amen. Last weekend my family took what should be the last trip that we will take this summer. We went up to New Jersey and I preached that Marinath Grace Church. I just prayed for that church in New Jersey and their pastor Jeremy Leon. But one question I've asked myself often over this summer in these trips is: what's the distance between where we are and where we need to be? So from my from Miami, which we went to uh in June, to Bowie, our home where we live now, it's around 16 hours. And lots of patience. It'll take us to get from there back home. In our case, in this New Jersey trip, it was much shorter. A couple hundred miles, a few hours. Including several bathroom breaks, lots of snacks, maybe a movie or two, a playlist to fill in the time, and eventually we made it there But what's the distance between where you are today, right now, and where you would like to be? Again, I'm not talking about geography here. What I'm asking about is your life. So maybe thinking about your marriage, perhaps. Maybe the marriage of your dreams not quite dreamy right now. Maybe the job that you prayed and longed for and hoped for, you now want to get out of. You've been looking up new jobs. Maybe there's issues with your physical health and you just don't have the answers that you want to have. You don't feel well. Issues with your family or certain relationships. Maybe there's a great distance between where you are and where you want to be, and a road trip won't fill in that gap. So then what do we do? How do we fill it? In our text for this morning, we'll see that the distance between things that grieve us or lament and praise should be filled with God and his faithfulness. Please turn to Psalm chapter 30 if you haven't done so already. Today we'll cover this Psalm being the last of our summer series through the Psalms. We start it in Psalm chapter 23 And left off last week in Psalm 29. And as we've gone through these Psalms or this section of the Psalms, we've seen a lot of things about God. We've seen the Lord as our Good Shepherd. We've seen the Lord as the King of Glory. We've seen him as The trustworthy God of our salvation. We've seen him as the gracious redeemer, our light and our salvation, the strength of his people, and last week as the flood king. The God over all the nations, but also the God who is just and will judge righteously. So the Psalms taken together are like shining the light on a diamond and seeing these various Views of the glory of God in lots of different ways. But the Psalms also do that with the human heart. We get to see all of the good and even the negative and all the trials and hardships and things that are praiseworthy and things that are lament worthy. We get to see sorrow and defeat and joy and hope, despair Faith, lament, and praise, all in the book of Psalms. And in this Psalm, we'll see a lot of that happening as well. And Psalm chapter 30 has an inscription over it which reads a psalm of David. Again, King David is the one who wrote this psalm, inspired by the Lord. And it also says a song at the dedication of the temple. So quick word on that word, temple there could also be translated to mean house or palace. And most commentators believe that David here was referring to The house or the palace that he was able to establish after he was anointed as king. You can read in 2 Samuel chapter 5 if you want to know a little bit more about that section of Scripture And many commentators believe this because, as many of us know, David was not the one to build the temple. Kids in the room. Who did? Elijah? Solomon, David's son. Okay? And other commentators and pastors like Spurgeon believe that David was also speaking here prophetically of the temple. meaning the dwelling place of God and his people forever and ever. I think he's probably talking about both there. Either way, we'll see from God's word this morning that the Lord fills in the gap for his people. To bring us from lament to praise in Him. Let me read the text for us, Psalm chapter 30. This is the word of the Lord. And it reads. I will extol you, O Lord, for you have drawn me up. You have not let my foes rejoice over me. O Lord my God, I cry to you for help, and you have healed me O Lord, you have brought up my soul from Sheol. You restored me to life from among those who go down to the pit. Sing praises to the Lord, O you his saints, and give thanks to his holy name, for his anger is but for a moment, and his favor is for a lifetime. Weeping may tarry for the night, but joy comes with the morning. As for me, I said in my prosperity, I shall never be moved By your favor, O Lord, you made my mountain stand strong. You hid your face. I was dismayed. To you, O Lord, I cry, and to the Lord I plead for mercy. What profit is there in my death if I go down to the pit? Will the dust praise you? Will it tell of your faithfulness? Hear, O Lord, and be merciful to me. O Lord, be my helper. You have turned for me my mourning into dancing You have loosed my sackcloth and clothed me with gladness, that my glory may sing your praise and not be silent. O Lord my God, I will give thanks to you forever. Amen. Our main idea for this morning, if you're taking notes, our faithful Lord brings his people from lament to praise. Our faithful Lord brings his people from lament to praise. What we'll do for the rest of our time is that we'll walk through the passage. And we'll see from lament to praise in David's life, and how the Lord brings him for lament to praise. We'll focus on then, secondly, the greater David, and see how this passage is fulfilled in the Lord Jesus Christ. And then lastly, we'll focus on a few applications and see how we can apply this text to our lives directly. Again, point number one, from lament to praise in the life of David Now, this psalm has 12 verses in it, but verses 1 through 5 and 6 through 12 are kind of the two halves of this psalm. They're two sides essentially to the same story. And those sections kind of mirror one another with verses 6 through 12 giving more clarity and more detail to what's in verses 1 through 5. To both sides of the same story, telling the same story of the Lord's faithfulness, bringing David from lament and grief to praise. And as you'll see, maybe you've already heard it already in this psalm, David kind of toggles back and forth between lament. and praise between mourning and thanksgiving. It doesn't break down so neatly verse by verse. There's not like an aha moment and then it just stays there Kind of like our lives. Just scan over the passage for a bit. We'll look at some of these verses together. Look at verse 1 where it says, I will extol you, O Lord. But then in verse 2, I cry to you for help. And then down in verse 8, I cry and plead for mercy. Verse 10: O Lord, hear and be merciful to me, O Lord, be my helper. Verse 12: I will give thanks to you forever. There's a lot going on in this psalm and in David's life at this point. He's crying out to the Lord for help. He's praising the Lord. He's asking him for to intervene. He's begging for mercy. And he's also giving thanks to the Lord. Brothers and sisters, as an aside, when do you go to the Lord most frequently or most intently Maybe it seems more appropriate to you to go to the Lord when there's times of hardships, when you are begging for mercy or for help in your time of need. But maybe you're a little bit slower to go to the Lord just to praise him, just to find something to thank him for. We can go to the Lord for all of these reasons, and David does so also in this psalm. He gives the Lord his sorrow and his grief. He gives the Lord thanks, and he also gives the Lord praise. Because the Lord is the one that brings him from lament to praise. Look again at verse 1, the second half of that verse. You have drawn me up, and you have not let your foes rejoice over me. Look at verse 2, where David says, You have healed me In verse 3, it says, You have brought up my soul from Sheol, the place of the dead. You have restored my life. Or in verse 7, you made my mountain stand strong. Verse 11, you've turned my morning into dancing. You've clothed me with gladness. David is giving glory to where glory is due. It's like a group project, if you will. Kids and teens who are still in school, you may know what this is like, where you do a group project and you work really hard and you have a slacker in the group. Hopefully you're not the slacker in the group But yet you turn your project in and they get to slap their name on the group project as well, right? Some adults can testify that group projects in the real world kind of work like that sometimes as well Well, David's saying here, I don't want to get any glory for any of this. I want to slap the Lord's name over all of my life. And one thing we can do today is that we can take some time to count the ways that the Lord has been faithful to us, even if things have been hard for us as of late. And there's evidence of that sitting right here in this room. By God's grace, many of us can say, Lord, you have saved me from my sin. You have saved me from death. Some of us can say you have healed me. Some of us can say you have restored my marriage. Some of us can say you have delivered me from an addiction. Some of us can say, you have sustained me day after day, trial after trial, and you have not left my side. We have ample reason to give the Lord thanks and praise this morning. The Lord deserves our praise for all that he's done, and that's why David praises him so often. Throughout this psalm, even in the midst of hardship. Look again at verses 2 and 3. If you just glance over that, David's referring to needing help. He's referring to being healed. In verse 3, he's referring to the place of Sheol, the place of the dead. Whatever was going on in David's life, it seems that he was near death. That's also echoed in verse 9. What profit is there in my death if I go down to the pit? Again, the specifics are unclear. Commentators speculate, but regardless, David found ways and reasons to praise the Lord even in the midst of his hardship and even in the face of death. And in fact, he also invites God's people, all of God's people, to join in as he praises and rejoices in the Lord. Look at verse 4 again. Sing praises to the Lord. Owe you his saints, and give thanks to his holy name. David here does what he does in many of the Psalms, where he goes from the singular to the plural. Where he's saying this is not just about me, this is about the Lord. Yes, the Lord has been good to me, but the Lord has also been good and faithful to us. Brothers and sisters, when we gather each Lord's Day, we're trying to do the same thing. Go from the singular, not just about me, to the plural. What is the Lord doing in all of our lives? What is he doing in all of our hearts? We do that as we read scripture together. We do that as we sing. As even we sit here and hear God's word being preached together. Remembering that the Lord is working in all of the lives of his people in the midst of their trials, in the midst of their hardships. So as you are here and as you're looking around the room, maybe as you sing or even as you're thinking about one another, find someone that you might want to encourage. Or find someone that you might need encouragement from, even before you leave today. That's why we gather together. Look at verse 5. He goes on to say, for his anger, God's anger is but for a moment, and his favor is for a lifetime. Weeping may tarry for the night, but joy comes with the morning. This text seems to take a sharp turn there emotionally, doesn't it? Where David's now referring to anger. And he's saying that the Lord at some point was angry with him Many people speculate that this is based on 1 Chronicles chapter 21, which I encourage you to read later as well. But this was an example of pride in David's life and pride in his heart. Specifically because David did not believe that he could take over as God commanded him. He wanted to get a population count. Let me just count the numbers and see if this was actually a war that we can win. He was prideful. And if you read 1 Chronicles 21, it says that the Lord did not like that, and the Lord judged David and his people for that. The Lord was angry with David, likely because of pride. Look at verse 6. This is an example or reference to possibly this pride that David would have had at some point in his life. As for me, I said in my prosperity, whence things were going well, I shall never be moved. Beloved, God is not indifferent towards pride. The Bible says he opposes it. And pride is challenging because it's the sin with a thousand different faces. Pride can show up in lots of different ways. You don't have to be loud and boastful to be prideful. Maybe you can be very quiet, introverted, and reserved, and inwardly very proud. That's hard. And when we see moments of our own pride, it's hard to deal with as well. There was a moment of pride a few days ago where my wife looked at me and said, you should probably talk to your son. Pride. The Lord does not like any of it. But that's an opportunity for us, as we see pride in our own hearts, to humble ourselves afresh before the Lord. And David even says here that his anger is for a moment. But his favor is for a lifetime, and that's good news, isn't it? That's good news He's referring to this favor again in verse 7. He says, by your favor, O Lord, you made my mountain stand strong. Isn't that a contrast from verse 6? He's like, I'm standing. And then he's like, no, Lord, you're making me to stand in verse 7 as he's referring to this time in his life. Then he says, you hid your face. I was dismayed. Again, likely referring to this time period where the Lord was angry with his pride. That all together, that section of scripture, verses 5 through 7, all sandwiched together, that sounds pretty strange. How can God be angry with us and yet show us favor? How can a night of weeping be followed by a morning of joy? These beautiful paradoxes in this section and all throughout God's word fit together because the Lord is merciful. And this doesn't mean we should minimize sin in any way, but this should remind us to run directly to the Lord when we do see sin in our hearts and our lives, because He is merciful. Some time ago there was an example of that in our household. I won't name names, but one of our children did the exact opposite of what that child was instructed to do with some dishes. You might drop them. They said, no, I won't. And they eventually dropped them. And that child was ashamed, was embarrassed, and ran away From their mother. It's right to be embarrassed. It's right to be ashamed. Maybe that child was overwhelmed with guilt at that point But that was an opportunity to tell that child, you are running the wrong way. Going away from your mother is the wrong place to go. Brothers and sisters, when you find your sin or when your sin finds you out Or when others point it out to you, don't run away from the Lord. Run towards him. He's merciful. He will not only forgive us, but he will help us. In our time of need, we don't need to run away. We can run towards him to receive his love, to receive his mercy over and over and over again. And that's what David does as he cries out, starting in verse 8. To you, O Lord, I cry and I plead for mercy. What profit is there in my death? If I go down to the pit, will the dust praise you? Will it tell of your faithfulness? Hear, O Lord, and be merciful to me. O Lord, be my helper. The Lord, uh the David, the king, here is crying out to the Lord once again, asking for his mercy, even in the midst and face of death Some of us may have a hard time watching the news during this season. It's selection time. It's intense. And there's a lot of other stuff going on in our world around us. Many of it is related to death. Many of it grieves us. There's so much violence. There's so much pain. And some of us might even try might even have a hard time trying to sort through it. Like what what side should I be on in this matter? Say political violence as it relates to former President Trump. What side should I be on? Or protests in Bangladesh that I referred to. What side should I be on? What's actually going on here Or Sonia Massey in that shooting in her own home. How should I think about this? Should I land somewhere? Brothers and sisters, we do not need to choose a side in order to grieve the loss of life We can mourn and grieve without being political analysts, without being government experts, without knowing everything related to foreign policy When things cause us to grieve like death, we should mourn because death should grieve us. And death should remind us that things are not the way that they should be Some of us don't have to look at the news as we think about death. Death has come very close to us lately. Maybe personally or relative. Or maybe we've had some moments where we've been reminded of our frailty or our mortality. Brothers and sisters, let's not quickly overlook death. It is good and right to mourn. It is good and right to lament. It is good and right to grieve. Again, these things should remind us that things are not the way that they should be And things will not always be this way by God's grace. Our grief will not last forever, and neither does David's grief here in this psalm. Look at verse 11. He says, you have turned for me my mourning into dancing. You have loosed my sackcloth and clothed me with gladness. That my glory may sing your praise and not be silent. Oh Lord, I will give thanks to you forever. Again, that toggle effect of David going from lament to praise, from grief to glory, from mourning to dancing all in one song Maybe one experience from David, maybe a multitude of experiences. Either way, we can all relate to this, can't we? And I think sometimes we think of mourning and grief, or we think of, say, sorrow and joy as two separate lanes in our lives that should never meet. I'll have sorrow one day and then maybe I'll have joy the next week. But that's not how life is. Often sorrow and joy kind of mixes and mingles together Maybe even on the same day, sometimes in the same hour. And those moments should be marked. So when David has times to lament, to cry out to the Lord, he cries out to the Lord. But when there's times to praise the Lord, He's willing to do that. He's willing to throw off the sackcloth or the lament clothes that people would have worn when they were lamenting to the Lord. Throw it off, not as if he's not going to ever lament again, but to say now is the time to praise, and I will gladly praise the Lord in this moment as long as I can Brothers and sisters, if you are lamenting right now, you are in the right place. If you are rejoicing today, you are still in the right place. As it says in James 55, verse 13, if any is anyone among you suffering, let him pray. Is anyone cheerful? Let him sing praise. That's what happens when we gather every Lord's day. There are people who are lamenting and are grieving and who struggle to get out of bed. And there's people who are rejoicing and overwhelmed with the Lord's goodness. And nobody checked you on the way in and asked, are you grieving today? Please sit in the back. That's not how it works. Are you rejoicing today? Then sit up front. We want to see you. No, we are all mingled together with joy, with sorrow, with lament, and with praise, so that together we can help one another to look to the Lord over and over and over again. Our gatherings together here in the flesh allows us to look to the Lord together, regardless of what's going on in our lives, in our hearts. And It allows us to look to one another, to encourage each other, to weep with each other, to pray with each other as needed. To go from lament to praise or praise to lament whatever is happening in our lives and hearts, as David does in this psalm And as much as we can learn from David, we should know that there's a greater David, the one who eventually sat on that throne that Solomon filled, and who sits on that throne right now. And whose reign will never, ever end. So let's focus now on the Lord Jesus Christ, from lament to praise in Christ. Because it is the Lord that brings us from lament to praise. And it is the Lord Jesus Christ who experienced times of lament even in his own life. Jesus Christ, God in the flesh, came to this world of sin, of wickedness, of darkness, and he didn't avoid it. He didn't stand on the outside. He didn't just clothe himself in a little bubble where he couldn't be affected by the sin in our world or by the sadness in our world. He himself was without sin, but he was surrounded by sinners. He himself grieved over even the loss of his friends. He himself looked out over Jerusalem and grieved because they were sheep without a shepherd Jesus came for those of us who have been acquainted with grief and sorrow from our own sin and even ways that we've been sinned against. From suffering that we see in this world and also suffering that we experience in this world. Jesus, though, lived a life of purity. Of complete obedience, of complete reverence to the Lord, free of any sin, free of any deceit of any kind. And yet he still had enemies. He had foes that plotted for his death. These enemies rejoice over him by mocking him By beating him, by spitting on him, by putting a scarlet robe over him, by putting a crown of thorns on his head, by hanging him on a cross as a criminal between two other criminals. Jesus Christ, the Son of God, came to this world to save sinners. He died on the cross, not for any crime he had, because he had none, but for our crimes against God. We deserve to die in his place, but he died in our place so that we could be reconciled to God and have peace with him Today, and for our salvation and peace with him each and every day, forevermore. And on the cross, the Father hid his face from Jesus. We sing a song about that. On the cross, Jesus took the full wrath of God. Jesus was buried into a pit. He went down to the place of the dead. And weeping endured for the night. But on the third day joy came with that morning. Because Jesus was restored from the pit. He was restored from the grave. And he lives forever and ever. If you're hearing you're not a Christian That's why Jesus came. That's why we gather. That's why we can have hope in the midst of any storm. Not because we figured it out, but because we are resting in his everlasting arms. If he's mighty enough to save, he is mighty enough to keep us and help us to endure any storm. If you're here and you're not a Christian, You will face death one day. You will face the grave one day. In fact, you will face Christ one day as your judge if you do not repent today. But you will face him as your wonderful, merciful Savior. You turn from your sin and place all of your faith in him. We love to talk to you more about that if you have questions about what that means. And brothers and sisters. Reflect on the words from Romans 8:32, where it says, He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things? Isn't that good news? That even death is just a doorway for us to go to the lover of our souls. We don't have to fear anything in life, and we don't even have to fear death. In the words of the late Tim Keller, he says, if you do not believe in God, death will take away everything meaningful for you. But believe in the gospel and fear no darkness. Jesus suffered for us, and Jesus is now Glorified, ruling and reigning. He is now clothed with gladness so that we as his people can be clothed in his righteousness, and so that we can endure, because he helps us to endure. Each day, every day, until we see him face to face. That is our hope because Jesus Christ Himself is our hope and is the hope for his people. He brings us from lament to praise. What does that mean for us in this life today? As we long for our redemption, as we long to see his face, as we grieve through these various trials, as we go through these hardships. Point number three, from lament to praise in our lives, a few points of application What David models in Psalm chapter 30, just like he does in many of the Psalms, is what we try to commend to you as we gather each Lord's day, that we can give everything to the Lord in prayer. Our sorrows, our confusion, our thanks, and our praise. And now I'll cover the three points of application here. Point number one: give your sorrows to the Lord Give your sorrows to the Lord. That's what David does in this psalm. Look at verse 5. He talks about weeping that may tarry for the night. We love to quickly go back down to that next verse, joy comes in the morning, but there was times where he was weeping and grieving Verse 8, to you I cry and to you I plead for mercy. Verse 10, hear, O Lord, and be merciful to me. Be my helper. David is clear and direct with the Lord with his sorrow, and we should be clear and direct with the Lord as well. Part of the challenge at times is that we don't often give ourselves enough space and time to really sort out how we're doing and how we're feeling. Jared a few weeks ago was talking about the fact that sometimes people ask him how he's doing or his wife will ask him how he's doing and he says fine when he's really not fine I resonate with that. Sometimes my answer is fine because I really don't know how I'm feeling or doing. I haven't processed it yet I haven't sorted it out. May I I'm just kind of frustrated because I really don't know. So then I say I'm fine Or if someone asks me what's wrong, and I'll say nothing. Not that there's nothing, but because I haven't given myself the time and space to actually figure it out and go to the Lord with it. So let me encourage you, if you're anything like me, don't numb your frustrations, your confusion, or even your pain. With been binge watching a show on Netflix or doom scrolling or just doing something else that takes your mind off of it, go directly to the Lord with it. Maybe you need to adjourn, for example, sit and reflect on your thoughts. Give them all to the Lord, however messy they may be, and the Lord will help you sort them out. The Lord will hear and understand those prayers. Or maybe if you'd like to be a little bit more active, go for a walk. Maybe record your thoughts. Maybe put some headphones in your ears so people don't think that you're crazy and just talking to yourself. Just put it on and talk to the Lord. Give him all of it and let him sort it out because he can sort it all out. And I think this should help us as we go to one another with our prayer requests, as we share burdens with one another, as we should. Speak specifically, as specifically as appropriate to how you are doing and how you're feeling. So instead of saying that you're struggling, say what you're struggling with. You will be guaranteed to find on the other end not someone who's judging you, but someone who understands and may have even been in that same place that you are right now. We can give our sorrows to the Lord. Secondly, though, we must also give our thanks to the Lord. Point two, give thanks to the Lord. Again from Psalm chapter 30. Verse 4, give thanks to his holy name. Verse 12, I will give you thanks forever And that makes sense, right? A heart that is grateful will find ways to praise the Lord and thank the Lord for what He's done. So, what has the Lord done for you? If you are in Christ, if he's done nothing else, he's given you his son, his righteousness, his promises. So if you're struggling to find reasons to be thankful to the Lord, start at the cross and then work on from there. This is something that you can perhaps do together as a family over meals, and you don't have to wait for Thanksgiving to do that. Or maybe with your roommates or friend as you go out for lunch. Name reasons specifically why you are thankful to God. And in fact, look around the room, and some of those reasons of why you are thankful to God are sitting right around you or right next to you. The Apostle Paul often says things in his writings like, I thank God for every remembrance of you. Thankful for his brothers and sisters in Christ. So we should find ways to pass on that thankfulness to our brothers and sisters. Send a text message. Pick up the phone and call them. Or if you see them in person, just say, I'm thankful to the Lord for you. That doesn't have to be Christianese. That can be sincere and heartfelt. It could be a little bit awkward, but it is worth it to share with our brothers and sisters. Right now. The Lord has been good to us. We have lots of reasons to thank him, including for the people that are in this room right now. Give your sorrows to the Lord. Give your thanks to the Lord. Thirdly, give praise to the Lord. Give praise to the Lord. Again, verse 4. Sing praises to the Lord, O you his saints, and give thanks to his holy name Or verse 12, where it says, that my glory may sing your praise and not be silent. Verse 11: You have turned my morning into dancing. David's response to the Lord's faithfulness to him is to respond with his whole being, to encourage his brothers and sisters to jump in, but also to respond with everything that he has. And that's why the Lord calls us to sing. Colossians 3:16, let the word of Christ dwell in you richly, teaching and admonishing one another in all wisdom, singing psalms. And hymns and spiritual psalms with thankfulness in your hearts to God. God's people are a singing people. And when we get together, we we sing things that don't make sense apart from the Lord. Grab your bulletin for a second. Turn over to holy, holy, holy. Look at line three or verse three. Holy, holy, holy, though the darkness hide thee, though the eye of sinful man thy glory may not see. Isn't that a reality in our lives? That the darkness hides our face from God's goodness and glory? That we look at other people who are not following the Lord and his ways and they are far from him, and that grieves us? But it says, only thou art holy. There is none beside thee. Perfect in power, in love, and in purity. Those words are all true. It's not just a catchy hymn. These are the glorious truths that we get to reflect on as we gather each Lord's Day. But we also should reflect on that as we scatter. So let me encourage you to add singing to your family devotional if you have not done that already or add it to your personal devotional time. Doesn't matter if you don't like if you don't like the sound of your singing voice, the Lord loves it. And singing is good for you. It's good for us And I think, yeah, we understand the singing part. But what about dancing? David says, you've turned my morning into dancing. What do we do with that? Now, being at VBS, I've seen that a lot of you have some moves But should we start a dance ministry here at the church? Or should we sometimes like we might tend to do when we get to passage In the scriptures that are a little uncomfortable, should we kind of maneuver the Hebrew to say, well, David couldn't have meant dancing? He was exaggerating. I don't know if you've read 1 and 2 Samuel. David danced before the Lord. I think he's actually talking about dancing here But again, what do we do with that? I think we should think of it this way. How do you respond when a child is born? How do you respond when your team wins the championship? How do you respond when you finally get that promotion or when you go to a wedding and they say you may now kiss the bride? You respond with your whole being, don't you? You respond in a way that's appropriate, don't you So maybe we should ask ourselves, am I responding to the Lord appropriately Given all that he's done for us. Am I praising the Lord with my whole being? So let me encourage you as we sing. As we sing separately and even together, if tears start to form in your eye, just let them flow. If you want to lift a hand or two, raise them up. If you want to say amen or hallelujah, just say it. It's alright. And if you feel moved to move, then move. Even if that's just a gentle sway, holy, holy, holy, right? Like that's all good because the Lord is worthy of all of our praise, all that we can give him. He brings his people from lament to praise. Just think of Psalm 1, for example, where it says, Blessed is the man who walks in the way of the Lord. And then you have all of the Psalms in the middle of that talking about us trying to walk in the ways of the Lord and trials and hardships and times of victory and times of defeat. Lamenting and thanking the Lord. And then think about Psalm 150, which over and over and over again says, praise the Lord. Even with the Psalms, we see that as we're along the way, the Lord brings his people from grief, from mourning, from lament to praise. Because when we're with the Lord in glory, there's only going to be time for that. Not lamenting, not grieving, not mourning, not frustrations, only praise Because our trials would have ended, our suffering will be over, and the Lord will be before us in his glory, and we will get to praise him with all of our being, with all of God's people, forever and ever and ever. And as we long for that day, let's remember that the Lord is faithful to bring his people from Lament to praise. Let's pray together Lord, we do thank you for being good to us, for being faithful to us. For being our shepherd, our king, our lord, our guidance, our help, and our hope Lord, we ask you to help us today. You help us help us to endure in hope. Help us to, in our times of lament and even grief, know that that's not the end of the story. Help us to endure as we long for the day for you is to bring us into your presence, where we will praise you forever and ever. In Jesus' name. Amen.