Last week we began a three-part sermon series on the topic of marriage. Not everyone here is married, of course, and yet we thought about the fact that Marriage exists. God has given marriage to humanity both for the married and the unmarried because the ultimate purpose of marriage is to point toward another marriage. It doesn't finally exist for its own sake, to but to point to something else. Therefore, my prayer is that as we reflect on the topic of marriage, it will prove useful for you whether you're married or unmarried. And last week we thought about God's blueprints for marriage and creation. This week we'll think about marriage in the fall and how sin impacts it. And not next week, but the week after next, we will think about marriage and redemption. That's the plan. Last week I began by quoting from Paul David Tripp, in which he mentions the fact that the address, the home address that God has ordained for marriages. Is a fallen world. That means remembering that you are a sinner and that you are married to a sinner. And that's what we'll be drilling deep on today as we look at Genesis 3. Let's reflect on that for a moment, though, first. To be clear, you and your spouse, if you are Christians, you are You have been declared to be saints. That means in the courtroom of heaven, your covenantal status, your legal status, as it were, is Holy One. Saint. That's not by any merit of yours, though. We just saying, forbid it, Lord. That I should boast save in the death of Christ my God. In other words, the righteousness, the status I possess in heaven isn't in me. It's in him. It's vicarious. It's the fancy theological word that theologians use. It means it's from outside of myself, because in myself. That is to say, my person yontologically, phenomenologically, substantively, remains in this world on earth a sinner. So my legal covenantal status is saint, but but who I am in so many ways remains a sinner. Think of John Newton. You you know him. He wrote Amazing Grace. He reaches the end of his life. He reflects not on his hymns or his pastorate, but he he says, My memory is nearly gone, but I remember two things that I am a great sinner And that Christ is a great Savior. And as we're leaning into marriage And what marriage is, it's crucial that we recognize both aspects of our identity, sinner and saint You'll have a hard time loving in a marriage specifically A Christian, married or single, you'll have a hard time in your discipleship generally, unless you grasp both your heavenly identity as a saint And your earthly identity in so many ways still as a sinner. Let me illustrate what I mean by telling you about two friends of mine. An older man named Mark, some of you know him, and a younger man named, I'm gonna call him Joe. And Joe and I were talking and we were reflecting on the fact that both Mark And Joe are driven, hardworking, principled, hold myself to a high standard, men. Right? They're intense, both of them, in wonderful Christian ways. Yet those strong standards make Joe, the young man. A little harder to be around, a little more judgmental, a little less compassionate, a little more severe with others And yet, as we reflected on it, Mark, by contrast, had all the same standards in how he lived, and yet. . . He exudes compassion and grace toward others. He's applying a set of standards to himself, and yet he's exuding compassion and grace. toward others to spend our time around Mark. You make a a mistake or something with with Mark and you find him kind of making excuses for yourself. Well of course. I mean that that he kind of explains it away for you. At times even when you think he probably shouldn't, right? And as Joe and I reflected on it, we thought, oh, I think this is I think this is Christian maturity. In many ways, aspiring to a standard of holiness and intense living in your own life, even as you exude grace and show compassion to others. You don't apply it to them in quite the same way. Well, friends, marriage is one of the primary vehicles God has given us to Learn what it means to aspire to be a saint, even as we show compassion to sinners. Because of course, you want to live with somebody who simultaneously aspires to be a saint, but shows a whole lot of compassion to a sinner. It's you. Okay, how then do we sin in our marriages? How specifically does the fall impact our marriage? The goal of today is to do a little exploratory surgery. Exploratory surgery is not fun. Who likes it, right? But that's how you extract the sin so that you might aspire to be a heavenly and earthly. Saint. Turn to the first chapters of Genesis. Last week we looked at chapters 1 and 2. This week we'll look at chapter 3, starting in verse 1. And I'm going to continue to refer to this and then succeeding passages, so I'd I'd suggest keeping your Bibles open this morning. And you know, let me let me say again: marriage is one of these topics where It's especially makes one's especially nervous to preach about. Because I don't come to you as a righteous man. I come to you as a sinner. And as I said last week, in many ways, I preach better than I am. I remember one time Shannon said, you're not listening to me. And I'm like, that is a strange way to start a conversation. Let that one linger for a second. But again and again we we sin, don't we? Well, how do we sin? Let's read verse one Now the serpent was more crafty than any beast of the field which the Lord God had made. And he said to the woman, Indeed, has God said, You shall not eat from any tree of the garden? The woman said to the serpent, From the fruit of the trees of the garden we may eat. But from the fruit of the tree which is in the middle of the garden, God has said, You shall not eat from it, or touch it, or you will die. The serpent said to the woman, You surely will not die. For God knows that in the day you eat of it, your eyes will be opened. You will be like God, knowing good for an evil When the woman saw that the tree was good for food, it was a delight to the eyes, and that the tree was desirable to make one wise She took from its fruit and ate. And she gave also to her husband with her, and he ate. And the eyes of both of them were opened, and they knew they were naked, and they sewed fig leaves together and made themselves loin coverings. Let me point to six maladies that this text helps us to identify. Maladies that impact our marriages as well. I listed them in your bulletin. I forget what page. Six maladies. Kids, do you know what the word malady means? It's a disease or disorder. I I have a high I have high schoolers practicing SATs and so SAT vocab words are In my head. So kids, come to Chevrolet Baptist, we'll preach you God's word and prepare you for the SAT. Malady number one. We don't take God at His Word for our marriages. The fall occurred after all due to a failure to take God at his word. They rejected what he said. Consider Satan, verse 1 again. Indeed, as God said, you shall not I mean, is that really God's word? Is that what he meant? But does God really have your best interest in mind? Maybe God's lying. Maybe God doesn't really know what he's talking about after all. Verse 4, you surely will not die. Many of you may have heard me use David Helm's illustration before. I use it all all the time from this text. He talks about you have the line of God's word, right? And then you have Satan Who kind of goes under that line because he he takes away from God's word. He's like the theological liberal or secularist who says, well, he didn't really say that. And then you have Eve who goes above God's word, above the line of God's word. She adds to it. He said, don't taste it or even touch it. Well, he didn't exactly say, don't touch it. You see, we add to God's word when we think we are, as it were, wiser than God, that we need to hedge it around with various protections. As I said, that's the legalistic pharisiacal approach. And then the question the text poses, is there a man here who will step up and say, no, here is the line of God's word, we must stand on it? and point her to righteousness. Apparently not. Look down at verse 17. A little later. Verse 17. And to Adam he, God, said, Because you have listened, Not to me. Listened to the voice of your wife and have eaten of the tree of which I commanded you shall not eat of it. Brothers, are we listening to God's word? Are we listening to other voices? Satan and then Eve and then Adam decided that God is not trustworthy, and so his words could be safely ignored. In fact, they decided it was wise. To ignore God's word. And that is what we so often in our sin do decide that it is wise, wiser to not listen to his voice. But to listen to some other voice. And so, married folk, I wonder what it is you do in your marriage. Do you add? to God's word, or do you take away from God's word? We tend to do both, don't we? Sometimes we add or take away. How do we how do we take away? Well. Did God really say you have to be completely faithful to your spouse? I mean, surely You know, certain natural impulses, natural desires. It's not that bad, is it? You know, you you kind of need somebody who understands you more, who gets you better. A little fantasizing won't hurt anybody Husbands, did God really say you should live with your wife in an understanding way? Did he really say you should lay down your life? for your wife like Christ does the church. Make yourself vulnerable for her. Be be the first to sacrifice yourself for her. I mean listen, last time in this fight you got in, you apologized first, right? Well, this time she should be the one to apologize first. Why don't you just wait around for her to come to you and apologize first? That'd be the wiser thing to do. Wives, did God really say you should joyfully affirm and even encourage your husband's leadership in marriage? I mean, hypothetically, yeah, that's true, right? But look, the guy's a sinner. He can't be totally trusted. You need to protect yourself. You need to be careful. Maybe step back a little bit And then, of course, we, as I say, we add to God's word. We take away and we add. We get angry and we get frustrated that our spouses do not live up to our demands, our Expectations, we begin to judge them, unlike Mark, more like Joe, we judge them by our own standards. He knows perfectly well how I feel about the bathroom sheet. She knows that when I get home, I need at least 30 minutes of some loan time here. It's been a tough day. I need to recover. She gets that. I've told her that. Friends, we need to take God at His Word. His word is the word that matters. And if you're not married, friends, you know this surely applies to to you too, how easy it is to take away from God's word in our, say, lust. Did God really say I can't And how easy to add to God's words when it comes to family members and friends and fellow church members. I've told them what I expect. He knows how I feel. We must fight for faith to trust that God and God's word is the true interpretation of reality. The true interpretation of our own hearts and lives, the true path of life and joy. So, friend, who are you listening to this morning? Malady number two. We lose sight of our joint job descriptions and commission So we talked about the husband and wife partnering together in dominion in creation. Together they're called to subdue and rule the earth. He has the job of leading. She has the job of helping him to lead, yet notice the reversal of marital roles exemplified in the fall itself. God Who was to rule over Adam, who was to act as head of his wife, and together they were to rule the animals. Well, in the fall, it's completely reversed. The animal, the serpent, comes and deceives the wife, who deceives the husband. To rebel against God. What's the woman's failure? Well, her job was to help the man reflect God's commandments and rule in creation. And when questions arise, a serpent's here saying something, when questions arrive, she should seek refuge, she should seek counsel from her husband. But of course she doesn't. She's independent. She's autonomous. She's self-reliant. And I think this is especially easy for women to do when their husbands make mistakes and show themselves to be sinful. It's easy for women in those circumstances to strike out on their own. He can't be trusted after all. And the problem is she puts himself out from under his protection. Sisters, what are some of the ways you can do this? Something to ask yourself. What's the man's failure? Well, he doesn't lead and protect as he should. He doesn't nourish her as he would his own body, as he should, use Paul's language. Instead, he capitulates. He follows. He avoids conflict. Notice the text states in verse 6 that Eve ate the fruit, she gave it to her husband with her. It seems Adam seems to have been present when this whole thing transpired down. Now, certainly there's wisdom in backing off in different times in different ways. I'm not saying you should call to correct every error. Nobody wants us to live with that. But how easy it is for men to do this in their relationship with their wives, especially when wives resist that leadership. You're trying to lead in some area, your hand gets slapped, you're not going to do that again, and so you just avoid. And then we make jokes with our buddies about keeping mama happy. And we abdicate. Just leave things. To circumstance. And notice they don't lose just sight of their individual job descriptions, they lose sight of their partnership and their call to work together for God's sake. Why? Because they weren't listening to God. So, friends, how are you? And your spouse planning on managing a day, an evening, how you're spending your money, how are you instructing your children? How are you balancing life's opportunities with the call to hospitality? Are you partnered together? Are you seeking God's glory together? Each playing your respective role? Or are you both striking out on your own? This is my Saturday. She can do, I'm not bugging her. She can do what she wants. This is my day. This is my evening. Are you doing it together? Shannon and I have learned over the years that my passivity hurts her. My absence hurts her and the kids. Often life becomes unglued. Emotions and perspectives go. Ways they shouldn't when I'm not leading. And and we've also learned that when she strikes out on her own Also, things don't go well. It does not serve the marriage or the family. So maybe I've been away on a trip, she's been having to do it on her own. I come home, I see a situation, I immediately jump in. Well, at that point, she's sort of been leading and she's been having to take care of things, and I I insensitively come in and say, Well, we've got to do it this way. And so then she gets frustrated with me. I then get frustrated in her. Don't you know I'm I'm the leader here Both of us at that point clashing trying to do it our own way. What's a better way? Well, maybe it's if I'm away. I come in and I stop and I listen and I watch and I ask. Hey, what would be helpful for me, sweetheart? What would be best in this moment? I'm taking initiative so that I can lead, but I'm doing it knowing that God has made her my helpmate I want to know what she knows. Marriage malady number three. We're separated from God, so we endlessly self-justify. The result of Adam and Eve's disobedience is that their relationship with God is broken. Verse 8. Look there. They heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day. And the man and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God among the trees of the garden. Then the Lord God called to the man and said to him, Where are you? He said, I heard the sound of you in the garden, and I was afraid because I was naked So I hid myself. Adam doesn't feel free to be in God's presence For the first time in his life, he has a fear of the Lord. That doesn't draw him to God, but pushes him away from God. He's ashamed of his nakedness. Adam and Eve can no longer live freely in his presence or in relationship with him because they feel shame. We all feel shame. So what does Adam do? Well, he he hides behind a tree. Indicating, suggesting that the fall accepts uh or impacts not only our hearts but also our brains. Adam, did you really think you can hide from God from behind a tree? My kids and I, when they were little, we'd play hide in the seat in the backyard, and sometimes I'd hide behind a tree. The girls would quickly find me. Adam, really. You're gonna cover yourself by hiding behind a tree. Come on And we may think his foolishness is funny. We do the same thing, though, don't we, with God? We try to hide our sin and our shame from God, though he sees it all, even though we know he looks on the heart. And like hiding behind trees, we hide behind our self-justifications. Yes, I know I snapped just now, but it's been a long day. I'm a little tired. Should I understand that? Okay, I could have put a little bit more into the romance department, but I'm really busy at work providing for our family, don't you know? Never mind the idol of my ambition. So our relationship with God is broken by sin, and we want to do everything in our power to cover up that reality with some excuse. And this pattern characterizes all of us, friends, married and unmarried. Married. We chronically justify ourselves. And this is related to the fourth point. Look there. Malady number four. separated from one not just God but one another and so we defend and we demand. When the vertical is broken, the horizontal becomes broken as well. So they they see their sin I'm sorry, they see their nakedness before one another, and they blame one another. Verse 7, the eyes of both of them were opened, and they knew that they were naked. And they sowed fig leaves together and made themselves loin coverings. And what a striking contrast that is to chapter 2's Naked and Unashamed. Now, last week we did not discuss that particular phrase from chapter 2 about them both being naked and unashamed. Well, why do you think Adam and Eve were naked and unashamed. Well, is it because they had perfect bodies. And there's nothing to be ashamed of when you have a perfect body. Well, John Piper made the observation that even if you have a perfect body If you're with an unrighteous person, a blamer, an accuser, you're still not safe Jesus also quotes this about being naked and unashamed. In other words, it's still relevant after the fall. So how is it possible to be naked and unashamed? We'll come back to that in a moment. Right now, notice that they're covering themselves with leaves, and they're assigning blame. Look at verse 11. God said, Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten of the tree which I commanded you not to eat? The man said, The woman you gave me to be with me, she gave me the fruit of the tree, and I ate. Notice he's got guns. Aimed in both directions. God, you gave her to me, and she gave it. You gave me her, and she gave me the fruit. He's shooting in both ways. Then the Lord God said to the woman, What is it you have done? And the woman said, The servant deceived me, and I ain't. She too fails to take responsibility for her actions, blames the serpent. When you first heard that we were going to spend three weeks on marriage, I wonder if you got really excited For your spouse. She needs to hear this. I hope he'll listen Well, consider what maladies three and four together mean for the standpoint of marriage. It means we're constantly defending and demanding Just as they try to cover themselves with leaves and hide among the trees. So we can relate to our spouses by hiding behind any number of excuses, defending ourselves, while also demanding that they adopt those same defenses. Singles, you do the same. First is the defensive posture I'm afraid to be naked and unashamed spiritually and morally speaking Because I know something is wrong with me. And I don't want her to see it. I don't want them to see it. So I reply. I didn't do anything wrong just now. I didn't lose my temper. My tone was fine. You can trust me. I have the answers. You don't need to tell me. I know what I'm doing. Smarter than that guy. I have a better job than him. Respect me. Yes, I feel weak and ugly compared to her. But I don't want to tell you that because you'll criticize me. It's a defensive posture. There's a demanding posture. So, as I say, not only do we hide behind justifications and boasts and excuses, we want our spouses to do the same. We insist on them being righteous and strong. and beautiful. I know you're a little hurt, but it's your fault. I told you so. Ahead of time. Listen to what I said. I've been doing my quiet times. Have you? I don't see you reading your Bible every day like I've been reading my Bible every day. I went the extra mile in serving the kids. Where have you been? Don't come to me weak and ugly and broken and sinful. I want you to dress yourself up. I'm dressed up. Don't you dare be impatient with me. You can see the Joe character in all of these things, can't you? Not the Mark character. And notice in all of these things, my identity is not bound up in God. I'm not living by the gospel or by his justification of me as a saint. Instead, I'm relying on my own Devices. I'm defending myself and then I'm trying to show you that I measure up. Notice, however, I'm afraid to get naked. Really, genuinely. I'm not talking about clothes Naked. I'm still hiding behind a tree, covering myself with fig leaves. And cover all of that shame over. Demanding the same thing of you. I'm being legalistic, which means I want you to be legalistic. I want you to live by the same law by which I am measuring. myself. In fact, my happiness in marriage will begin to depend on whether or not you're living up to my demands, my expectations, what I expected when I got married. You remember how last week, at the beginning of the first talk, I said the most important thing going into marriage, the most important thing to know is the gospel. I mean by that. Well, friends, it's the gospel which lets us come out from behind the tree. Lets us take off the fig leaves. The stupid manufactured fig leaves we create to cover our sin and our shame The gospel allows us to recognize that Jesus' work of atonement covers us. You know what that Old Testament word atone means? Like a sacrifice for sin that atones for our sin. Atone means to cover His sacrifice, his blood is what covers our sin and our shame. Not the fig leaves, not the tree, or whatever we come up with. He came, he lived a perfect life. He became a sacrifice on the cross. He paid for sin. He rose again, defeating it. So that we can be covered of our guilt, from our guilt and our shame. Jesus, nothing else, covers us Do you want to be naked and unashamed? Christ alone covers us for our relationship with God Christ alone covers us in our relationship with our spouses. Christ alone covers us in our relationships with other people No longer have to cover yourself with your boasts or your workout plan or anything else you might concoct to look good morally. emotionally, physically, any other way. So do you want to improve your marriage? Do you want to fix your marriage. Do you want singles to prepare for marriage or other singles help your friends in their marriages? Let me start here. Is your relationship with God and other people, even your spouse Secure in the gospel, in Christ's covering. Are you confident in God's love for you? And his embrace of you, even in your ugliness and sin. While we were yet sinners, Christ Died, atoning, covering us. He passed over, covered us One way to assess whether or not you have such confidence, I think, is to ask how willingly you confess your sin to God and to your spouse. And to other friends. Are you willing to show a trusted Christian friend Are you willing to show your spouse the ugliest, most shameful parts of you? Like the real stuff. Because if you're not, maybe you still got the fig leaves on? Maybe you're still behind the tree? What are you relying on to cover you? You or him? Think of David in Psalm 51. I know my transgressions, my sin is ever before me. Have mercy on me, O God, according to your steadfast love, according to your abundant mercy, blot out. White piece of paper, ink, blot it out. Blot out my transgressions. Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity. Cleanse me from my sin. David can face his sin honestly because he is confident. God's mercy. He is confident. Of God's steadfast love. And likewise, friends, I'm asking you to evaluate yourself and your marriages with regard to your sin and failure Maybe this afternoon, this evening, maybe next weekend, I would encourage you to plan some time alone. Take a few hours with your spouse. And look for ways to come out from behind the tree. Look for ways to take the fig leaves off. Show them. I'm not talking about clothes. Show them the ugliest parts of you. You're willing to do that. Or to ask them What is it you've seen in me that makes it hard to be married to me? And then listen And you can have the confidence to listen, not defend, not demand, because your boast, your justification isn't in the fact that you really didn't do it or it wasn't that bad or you're overplaying it Your confidence is in, it's covered, Christian, through the gospel. Okay, so I can listen, I can hear, I can accept, I can repent. Singles? Do you have a trusted Christian friend? Do you have a pastor that you can go to? And somebody who's mature, lives in the gospel, and have a similar conversation Step one of building a strong, gospel-centered marriage is right here, getting undressed yourself, just like on your wedding night. Step two is letting your spouse get morally and spiritually undressed letting him or her expose nakedness and shame. So how can we be naked and unashamed? It's not by having a perfect body is by a Christ-like covenant love. It's a love which covers a multitude of sins. It's a passover sin Love. Do you see how marriage then points to Christ and the church? Do you see there is only one way to be naked and unashamed with your spouse In fact, I think the Lord in his strange mercy brings us into marriages where our bodies get less attractive Get more ugly as we age, so that even there, with these aging bodies, we practice, I love you. Unconditionally. Malady number five. The wife dominates, quarrels, and dominates. In response to Adam and Eve's sin, God pronounces a curse upon them, and God's curse consists of handing them over to a distortion of their roles as husband and wife. Look at Genesis 3, verse 16. To the woman he said, I will surely multiply your pain and childbearing in pain you shall bring forth children, your desire shall be for your husband, and he shall rule over you And to Adam he said, Because you have listened to the voice of your wife, and have eaten of the tree of which I commanded, you shall not eat of it. Cursed is the ground because of you and pain you shall eat of it all the days of your life. Thorns and thistles it shall bring forth for you, and you shall eat the plants of the field. By the sweat of your face you shall eat bread till you return to the ground, for out of it you are taken, for you are dust, and to dust you shall Turn. Okay, so in this curse on the woman, God makes two declarations. First of all, the woman will only have children with great physical pain, and that in many respects is equivalent to his curse on the man for the dirt. This is her area of producing productivity. The area of producing will be cursed. This is his area of producing productivity. It will be Cursed. And then second, God says, your desire shall be for your husband, and he shall rule over you. Does this mean sexual or emotional desire? Well, presumably she had those things before the fall Helpfully there's an almost identical statement. A couple of chapters later, look at or next chapter, chapter 4, verse 7, look there. Chapter 4, verse 7. God says to Cain, if you do well, will you not be accepted? And if you do not do well, sin is crouching at the door. Its desire is for you. You must rule Okay, so sin wants to control Cain. Sin wants Cain to do its bidding. God says, Cain, you must not allow it. Or have its way with you. And likewise, a woman's desire for a husband seems to be a desire to control her husband, in contrast to God's original design for marriage. And response, The husband will exert his authority, often in an ungodly manner So instead of a harmonious complementary relationship as God intends, you have a pattern of struggle for control, a carnal control at that. According to God's curse, in which he hands her over to sin, there is a sinful tendency in women, I think it's teaching us to control their husbands. And is with any other sin, this will look differently from woman to woman. Some women, women, struggle with this in a very forthright confrontational, wear it on your sleeve kind of control. When your husband leads and initiates in your relationship, your natural response is resistance You're quick to speak your mind, quick to let him know where he's failed, quick to take control when you perceive any weakness or inadequacy on his part. I know of women for whom the label emotionally abusive is the right label. On the other hand Some women struggle with a desire to control their husbands through a more subtle manipulation. You are passively aggressive. It may be that on the outside you are following your husband's initiatives, but all the while there is a current of resentment or a begrudging attitude Or maybe if you are not confident that you are going to get your own way on a particular decision, you just refuse to give your input. Let them fail. Just stay back. Be quiet. Let him learn the hard way. And maybe when he seeks to faithfully lead you in a direction that's difficult for you, you play the martyr in hopes that he feels guilty. You're even a little happy when he fails. It looks different for different women. It'll be helpful for you to do some self-examination. Where wives are you seeking control? Uh years ago my family I was away on a trip and then I was back and then things were kind of chaotic. In the home, and we had a we had a particularly hard Sunday. I was teaching Sunday school, and then we had church, and then we had people over after church for lunch, and then we we had evening. service and by the the girls were much younger then and and and by the end of the day they they were kind of melting down and everybody was exhausted and my wife in a Maybe a slightly hot moment said, we are not doing that again. Spending our day that way And I, even less sanctified, responded without compassion, with a little snark, said, Oh, so is that how you're going to lead our marriage through ultimatums? And she, the humble, godly woman she is, said, No, you're right. I don't want to do that I have a godly wife. What about the husband? Number six, malady number six. The husband abuses or abdicates. The curse on the wife makes your role as a husband more difficult. Now there is a struggle for power And as a woman seeks to control her husband, the husband responds by exerting his authority in so often unbiblical ways, sometimes abuse Sometimes abdication. Abuse is the worst sin. Abdication, I, in my experience, believe is the more common, frequent every day Sin. Brian Chapel in his book Each for the Other points out that the common pattern of abuse of marriage is actually long periods of male passivity Interspersed with brief episodes of rage. On the one hand, the husband forces his wife into action by not leading Or responding to her needs, but after a time he's filled with shame and resentment, and then an explosion occurs. You may have never reached these extremes, brothers, but the temptation is there for all of us. And to use our authority and our headship in a way that is not for their good, but is for their harm. A brief word on abuse Abuse, particularly from a person in authority, a position of authority or headship As I heard my former pastor say again and again, is a particularly heinous sin because of the way it lies about God. And how God uses his authority in our lives. Not only does it undermine Dehumanize the person that you are supposed to lead and protect and nourish. Brother, husband, it undermines and dehumanizes you. You are acting like an animal, not as a God imager. You are not imaging God in that use I remember a couple of nights before I got married, I went to Pastor Mark's kitchen and I said, Got any final advice for me? Any final words of wisdom, brother? And he said, Jonathan. When you marry her, you will be the number one picture of God's authority in her life. Only use your authority to be a blessing. And never, ever to hurt her. We also see the curse on the man in Genesis 3, 17 to 19, that the responsibility to subdue the earth will now be carried out with great difficulty. And although this is not directly explained in terms of his relationship with his wife, there is a general truth here that The efforts of life are subject to toil and frustration, including marriage. Therefore, leading a spouse in the joint stewardship of ruling the earth is not going to come easily. And the sinful response of many men will be to quickly say it's too much work. And so we drifted into passivity Brothers, every one of us in this room is going to lean one way or the other, kind of almost a temperamental tendency to lead towards too much aggression. Or too much passivity. And you should know yourself. We should know ourselves. Because we lie about God in both ways And let me offer a final word to those of you who whose marriages were broken by a faithless spouse Or have witnessed a maybe a broken marriage in your parents as a child To those of you who have been on the receiving end of such betrayal, receiving end of faithlessness from a husband or a father or a spouse. Maybe it was abuse, maybe it was infidelity, maybe it was abandonment. The first thing I would say to you is, I'm so sorry. And the second thing is, God's on your side against that abuse, against that infidelity, against that. Abandonment. God is with you against that. He hates that And the next thing I would say is to take confidence that God will do justice one way or another. If he is not already, one day he will balance all imbalances. He will right all wrongs. He will restore everything to its proper place, which includes punishing all acts of betrayal So much does he hate what happened to you, and so much is he a good and just God who promises to make all things right. And the next thing, friend, I would say to you is that if you belong to Christ, one day, believe it or not, in spite of that betrayal you have known and experienced, one day you too will rejoice. You will see how this did not happen because he was asleep and say, Whoops. Instead, you will sing, Whate my God has ordained is right. And you will see that all things work together for good to those who love him and are called according to his purpose. I can't explain to you how he will do that. I can't see it. Living by faith. That God really is that good, He really is that powerful and sovereign. And that in spite of whatever betrayal and harm and hurt you've known You will, if you are his, one day look and just think, my goodness, he is good. Even in that And I rejoice. One day, friend, those will be your songs of praise. We're not there yet. That brings me to the final point in the outline. What is your hope? What is our hope? What is our hope in a world of fallen and broken and still sinful marriages and broken marriages and abandoned marriages? Our hope is that Jesus covers our sin. Our hope is that God the Father sent God the Son to win a bride for himself Dying on the cross, paying for her sin, rising again Our hope is that our marriages on earth are, as John Piper put it, momentary, not permanent. But they point to a permanent marriage, a perfect, permanent bridegroom Jesus Christ, whose marriage to the church is perfect, permanent I told you last week that even the physical intimacy of marriage, an act which so much controls this world, so much controls us. will give way to an even greater intimacy and pleasure as God dwells with his people forever. That's why Jonathan Edwards could call heaven a world of love. What awaits us there? Hard to imagine. What are you living for, friends? You live in for this world, are you living for that world of love? Even in our broken marriages and aspiring marriages. Praise God that those of us who are in Christ's sin does not have the final word. We can face up to our sin in the context of a restored relationship with our Heavenly Father. We can come out from behind the trees. We can take the leaves off. We can say, here I am. My boast is in Christ. In all my shame and ugliness, my boast is in Christ. He covers me. And I am extending that same grace and forgiveness to my spouse. and not requiring her, him, to be something that I know I'm not. Our boast is in heaven, in the Lord Jesus Christ. And we pray that he would do that in our marriages, and if we're single, that he would be doing that in our lives even today. Let's pray Lord Jesus, thank you for being the perfect bridegroom. Thank you for coming and cleansing us from our ugliness and our shame and our sin. Thank you for drawing us to yourself perfectly. Thank you for loving us. Help us to so love one another As we love one another as you have loved us, so we will show the world that we are your disciples. In our marriages and in our church, we can show That we are disciples, as we love one another, as you have loved us. In your name. Amen.