Well, good morning. It's good to see everybody here this morning. You probably picked up this morning. My name is Ryan. I'm an elder at this church. I don't preach often, but I enjoy preaching when I have the opportunity. You also may have gleaned already this morning that the sermon this morning is about wisdom. And wisdom is all around us. It's everywhere. It's at the finger at our fingertips these days. It's actually resting in our pockets right now. You can pull out your phone and you can open up your dictionary app and you can put in wisdom and get a quick definition of what wisdom is. You can also get innumerable podcasts and videos and social media posts that aim to espouse wisdom. Some of its modern wisdom, some of its ancient wisdom. That's just wisdom from life experience. There's whole websites that are devoted to famous quotes, which is a very popular form of dispensing inspiration and wisdom. Uh I can easily get sucked into YouTube videos and my family knows Instagram videos uh among, you know Scared cat videos and jumping dogs. I like to uh videos of inspirational quotes and speeches The most recent one to catch my eye was one, it's very short. I don't know if it's uh taken out of con how it's taken out of context. I'm sure it's taken out of context. I don't even know if it's AI it may be AI, but it purports to be Denzel Washington. And his voice, which is amazing. I would love to have Denzel Washington's voice, or I'd love to be able to use AI and preach in Denzel Washington's voice. What I'm saying this morning would be much more interesting if it was coming from Denzel Washington But the the video is eight of the smartest quotes ever said. And very intense ambient music is playing in the background and then Denzel's very Intense voice comes on and says, eight of the smartest quotes ever said. One, we suffer more in our imagination than in reality by Seneca. 2. It's never too late to be what you might have been, by George Eliot. 3. Our life is what our thoughts make it, by Marcus Aurelius Four and five and so on, you get these nice quotes of Denzel dispensing wisdom And I can imagine you love a good short pithy quote of inspiration to get you thinking and examining yourself. One of my favorite quotes that kind of plays and rattles around in my head is a quote from uh John Wooden, the famous UCLA basketball coach, probably the greatest basketball coach that ever lived. And He said, don't judge yourself by what you've accomplished, but rather by what you could have accomplished given your ability. I think that's sage advice. It makes me examine myself and makes me think, am I making the most of my time and my talents? Well, our sermon text here this morning is about wisdom. But it's more than sage advice that will help us examine ourselves. It will force us to examine what is true wisdom and if we are truly wise. So before we look at our text this morning, please join me now in another word of prayer. We ask the Lord to help us learn from his scripture this morning. Father, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, so we submit ourselves to you with reverence in our hearts, believing and knowing that by your scripture The Word of God brings life. Lord, we want to understand this morning's text. We want to walk away changed. Help us. Change our minds, change our hearts, make us more like Christ. This morning we pray in his name. Amen. So this morning's text is James chapter 3, verses 13 through 18. If you're looking at one of the uh Bibles around you, um the chair Bible, we might call it a pew Bible if we had pews. The Black Bible around you, it's on page 1012. If you don't have a Bible at home and you're interested in reading the Bible, take that one with you. It's our gift to you. We would love for you to have it. So if you look with me on page 1012 and James chapter 3, verses 13 through 18, this is God's word. Who is wise and understanding among you? By his good conduct let him show his works in the meekness of wisdom. But if you have bitter jealousy and selfish ambition in your hearts, do not boast and be false to the truth. This is not wisdom that comes down from above, but it is earthly, unspiritual, demonic. For where jealousy and selfish ambition exist There will be disorder of every vile practice. But wisdom from above is first pure, then peaceable gentle, open to reason, full of mercy and good fruits, impartial and sincere, and a harvest of righteousness is sown in peace by those who make peace Now, as we've gone through the book of James, uh Tony has helped us remember that the context, the broader context of the Jane of James every Sunday. James the Apostle is writing to the saints or the church that is dispersed so that they might mature and endure in their faith in Christ. So maturity and endurance is always in the background of the book of James. And so Tony every Sunday has been using a formulation, uh, and I'm gonna I'm gonna borrow that from Tony this morning when we talk about our main Point. Because we need to remember that the whole book is for us to mature and endure in our faith in Christ. So the main point of our sermon this morning is faith. And Christ matures and endures through true wisdom that produces good fruit, leading to a harvest of righteousness. Let me say that again. Faith in Christ matures and endures through true wisdom that produces good fruit, leading to a harvest of righteousness. The outline of our sermon this morning is just going to track the outline of the structure of the text. So I have four observations. One is wisdom's challenge, that's verse 13. Two is fake wisdom. Verses 14 through 16. 3 is true wisdom, verses 17 through 18. And four, wisdom's harvest, verse 18. The fundamental structure of their text this morning is really a contrast between heavenly wisdom and true wisdom, or earthly wisdom, or fake wisdom. So, another way we can express the main point of our text this morning is true wisdom produces a harvest of righteousness, while fake wisdom produces disorder and discord. So, first observation this morning is wisdom's challenge. So, the text this morning starts with a rhetorical question. James likes to use rhetorical questions. He uses them a lot in chapter 2 Rhetorical question is a meant to challenge, it's meant to unsettle, it's meant to get the audience thinking. And we see this throughout the book. So if you look uh just you know the chapter before, we're gonna go through a few of those rhetorical questions. So look at James chapter 2, verse 3 and 4. Starting in verse 3, it says, And if you pay attention to the one who wears fine clothing and say, You sit here in a good place, while you say to the poor man, You stand over there or sit down at my feet. Have you not then made distinctions among yourselves and become judges with evil thoughts Yeah, of course. That's exactly what they've done. They've made distinctions. And actually, in those distinctions, they are judges with evil thoughts. Verse 2. I mean I'm sorry, verse 5. Has not God chosen those who are poor in the world to be rich in faith and heirs of the kingdom, which he has promised to those who love him? Well, yes, God has chosen the poor to be rich in faith. James is now needling those who are rich and those who would prefer the rich or favor them over the poor. He's trying to show them that their favoritism does not reflect the will of God or the character of God. And we have more questions in verses 2, I mean verses 6 and 7 in chapter 2 to help them understand that it's improper. To uh show favoritism to the rich. I mean, look at verse 14, chapter 2, verse 14. It says, Is it good, my brothers, if someone says he has faith, but does not have works? Can that faith save him? Well, the answer is obvious and it's a challenge. No, that faith cannot save them. Actually, last week we learned that, or two weeks ago, we learned that that was actually fake faith. Faith without works. Last week we also uh see a series, uh last week we saw rhetorical questions about the tongue and how what we say reflects what's in our hearts. And so James uses some some nature metaphors to get us thinking about our hearts, like what comes out of our hearts. So look at chapter 3, verses 11 and 12. It says, Does a spring pour forth from the same opening both fresh and salt water? And a fig tree, my brothers, bear olives, or a grapevine, produce figs. Well, your heart cannot but produce both good and evil. Our heart devoted to God. We cannot both speak what is good and evil, or we should not and ought not do that. So these questions were to help us to understand and examine our heart and how our tongue reflects what is really in our hearts. And our text this morning, James continues with a rhetorical question to set up a lesson on wisdom. So if you look at verse 13, chapter 3, verse 13, it says: Who is wise and understanding among you? So, like we've just seen, this is a confrontational question. This is a question that's meant to get under the skin of the audience. So James is writing to a scattered church that have been tempted to fracture. So we've seen already seen already seen as we look through James uh a rich and poor divide, we've seen a face versus work theological divide. We'll see in chapters 5 and 4 or 4 and 5 that he addresses quarreling and coveting and worldly living. Last week we learned about the threat of the tongue, how misplaced words are dangerous, and that is especially true for teachers, remember? Not many of us should want to teach because we'll be judged more harshly. So a misplaced word is dangerous. And that is especially true for teachers and those who want to be teachers and those who would be wrong-headed or selfish in their teaching. So you can actually imagine as he asks this question, even though it's rhetorical, with this group of Christians, maybe he says, Hey, who is wise among you? Some of them might say, Hey, actually, I think I'm wise. Like, look at me. And those would probably be the wrong-headed teachers and the rich who would say that. Or you can imagine maybe they would have enough sense not to do that, to raise their hands, right? But those who would be on their side might say, oh, hey, hey, look at Joe. Look at his fine clothing. He's very rich. He's wise. And what's James's answer to that? Well, James's answer to that, if you look again at verse 13, it says, who would be wise and understanding among you? By his good conduct, let him show his works in the meekness of wisdom. James says that if you are to be wise You are to show it in the meekness of wisdom. This means not just speaking knowledge or profound statements But it means displaying in your life through your actions a series of acts that show a course of living that can only be categorized as wise. Wisdom is displayed, not merely spoken. Words might change the mind and the heart, but the changed mind and the changed heart are proven by works. One commentator explains: people are naturally desirous of the reputation of possessing an understanding superior to that of others. So let him who would be thought wise show his wisdom, as well as his faith, by his good works. That is, say, a have a holy and useful conversation that is commendable by his works with meekness and wisdom True wisdom is always accompanied with meekness or the government controlling the passions. For the government of controlling the passion. So meekness is always displayed in wisdom This is not innate to us. This meekness or the government of our passions, gentleness that characterizes wisdom, is not natural This has to be first born in us, as we read in Titus, through the washing and the regeneration and the renewal of the Holy Spirit. So that is through faith in Christ. But it also has to be sustained in us through prayer. James 1, 5 says, if anyone lacks wisdom, let him ask of God. So remember when Tony last week exhorted us to speak prayerfully? He was encouraging us to watch our words, and one way we do that is we speak prayerfully Because the tongue is a restless evil, and we must pray over our words because they can set a course for our lives. Our words can set a course for our actions. We must pray over our words constantly, which is also the means to pray over our relationships, our interactions with other people moment by moment. Our tongue, our words can often be the enemy of good works born from the meekness of wisdom Here we also need to understand that the goal of wisdom is for believers to live rightly in community with one another and to demonstrate their good works. Jesus said on the Sermon on the Mount, he said, let your light shine before others so that they may see your good works and give glory to your Father in heaven Wisdom, like faith, is not tucked away in the mind or in the heart, but it is lived through humble works. James is addressing saints in the church, but this is true if you are want to be wise in any context. If you want to be wise at work, at school, on an athletic team, at home, on a community organization, wisdom is demonstrated through good works. This is the challenge of wisdom. So does your life testify that you are actually indeed a wise person? The fracturing behavior that is displayed in the church that James is addressing is profoundly unwise. And that leads us to observation number two. Observation number two: fake wisdom. So James introduces a new way of looking at an old concept here. The old concept that you might be familiar with is just the term folly. Might just call it foolish behavior. So kids, I want to ask you guys a question. Many of you may have attended Mike Clauser's fantastic holiday picnic. Thank you, Mike Clauser and Sarah. And let's say you're there and you eat two burgers, two dogs, and a whole container of potato salad. And you're out running around and you just that's like too much, and you find yourself laying on the ground and you're regretting those decisions. Right? And then, of course, one of your buddies or friends comes up to you to antagonize you just a little bit with a whole plate of cookies and challenges you to eat the plate of cookies on top of the two burgers, two dogs, and the potato salad. Should you eat the cookies or not? Any any takers? I'm listening, yeah, yeah. Uh what what do you think? Maybe? Okay. Well, I would submit to you: if you eat those plates of cookies, that would be foolish. That would be folly Right? That would make you sick and feel even worse. But that's not exactly what we're dealing with here in James. We're not Looking at making wise decisions for your particular place in time. Although we can go to God in prayer and seek wisdom throughout the scripture for answers for our particular place in time. That's not exactly what we're looking at here So if you look at me at verse 14, look it says but and I just want to just look at but real quick just mention like it's a contrast, right? He just told us That if we're to be wise, we should display that in the meekness of wisdom. And now he's going to tell us something different, right? But if you have jealousy, but if you have bitter jealousy, And selfish ambition in your heart, do not boast and be false to the truth. So James is introducing a contrast. I'm not wise, you're not wise, if you are harboring bitter jealousy or selfish ambition in your heart or mind. You may think you're wise, but if you're entertaining it, bitter jealousy, selfish ambition, ambition at all, you're a liar. Look at what James says: it says, do not be false to the truth. That is a harsh word, I think. I think it's a challenging word. And then where where do you think this is coming from? I mean, this is James talking to Saints. Well, I think James has either observed the bitter jealousy and the selfish ambition in the church. He's heard reports of it, or both. So look at also look at verse 15. It says, This wisdom is not from above. So bitter jealousy and selfish ambition. Somehow he's calling it wisdom, right? This wisdom is not from above. Does James really need to say that to Christians, Christ followers? That bitter jealousy and selfish ambition is not heavenly wisdom? Yes, he does, apparently, right And it's interesting that he says that it's not from above because James is kind of introducing a new category of wisdom here, right? I would call it fake wisdom. Fake wisdom. And in my mind, it actually seems to be a little bit of a troll of the churches in modern parlance, right? You think you are wise, but if you have these things in your life That is not wisdom that comes down from above. It is fake wisdom. So there's true wisdom and there is fake wisdom. Two weeks ago, Jonathan Lehman helped us understand that there is faith that does not reveal itself through works is fake faith. And we see the same thing here. Wisdom that makes room for bitter jealousy or selfish ambition that does not reveal itself through good work is fake wisdom. So if you look at the second half of verse 15, it's a kind of wisdom that is earthly, unspiritual, demonic. In a nutshell, it is the opposite of true wisdom, true wisdom that comes down from above. Since this wisdom is earthly, unspiritual, and demonic, it is fake wisdom. So here, bitter jealousy and selfish ambition, these terms, they kind of work in tandem. So kids, I want to ask you again: have you guys ever seen or ridden a tandem bike? Anybody tandem bike? Any kiddos? No, I'm getting nothing. Okay, how about adults? Seen or ridden a tandem bike? I have never, I've seen them, never ridden them. I actually been on the internet and put in tandem bike and to look at images and I had no idea that there were like racing tandem bikes. I guess that's a thing. Is that in the Olympics? Does anybody know? Okay, no? No one knows. Okay. Maybe it is. I guess you can do that. It sounds terrifying to me. Um but a tandem bike works in two people on the bike and they are working together. And these terms are concepts that work together. To produce as what one commentator put has as one commentator has put it a fierce and unholy zeal against brothers and sisters in the church, a spirit of ambition and contention. It is a jealousy and ambition that operates against the glory of God and the good of others. This tandem notion can be understood as a type of zealousness for a particular outcome, a particular position that you might hold, or prestige, or even influence. There is a good zealousness and there's a good ambition. You know, it's good to be zealous for conversions. I am, you can say I'm ambitious. to preach the gospel in our community or to be jealous to see the baptismal waters stirred. That's good and right Jealousy and ambition. But the zealousness and the jealousness and the ambition that we see here that James is addressing It's the kind that creates partisan factions and threatens the unity of church Remember, he's already addressed the sin of partiality and favoritism to the rich. He's already addressed false doctrine, arguing that you can have faith without works. Look at verse 16. James is taking on fake wisdom because of what it produces. Look at what it produces. It for where jealousy and selfish ambition exist. There will be disorder in every vile practice. So this kind of reminds me of uh of the common refrain in the book of Judges. In the book of Judges, you commonly hear this refrain as it tells the story of Israel consistently failing to follow God. It says, in those days. There was no king in Israel, and everyone did what was right in his own eyes. If you study the book of James, I mean the book of Judges, you look that every kind of vile practice is found in the book of Judges. You will see the people of God consistently being unfaithful to him. Fake wisdom is the kind of wisdom that stirs people to do what is right in their own eyes. It produces discord, disorder, and folly It focuses on individual desires and preferences. And fake wisdom always seeks company. It creates factions and parties. It is partisan The fruit of fake wisdom is not individual folly of a person who won't listen to good instruction. It's community fruit that causes, as one commentator put it, the church to seriously question its directions. And even its heart and soul. So it's important right now for us to examine ourselves as a church. We should not think At CBC, that we could not succumb to the disastrous fruit of fake wisdom. Over the last four or five years, you probably have observed or heard Of many churches fracturing and splitting up. This is often due to societal, cultural, and sometimes even theological issues arising out of the culture at large. Factions formed over views of racism, uh COVID policies, political commitments. And so I'm kind of being purposely broad there because I understand that a lot of these things that can disrupt church life are very nuanced. I know that ZILF, but ZILF for a particular outcome or outworking of a nuanced issue, especially a political commitment, can easily And I would say often imperceptibly turn to bitter jealousy and selfish ambition in the church. Remember what Tony taught us last week. The tongue can spark a fire. And factions and partisan positioning can blaze through a church. So I don't want us to think that CBC is immune from discord or disorder. We've enjoyed an incredible amount of unity over the years. It has been an incredible blessing. But if we think that we're immune from that, then we won't hear this warning of scripture, nor will we hear the beautiful instruction of what true wisdom is. So I would like to move to observation number three, true wisdom. So if you look at verse 17, It says, but wisdom that is from above, so now we're looking at actual wisdom that is from above, true wisdom. It is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, open to reason, full of mercy and good fruit impartial and sincere. So true wisdom is first pure. That is, it is innocent. It's modest. It's perfect. True wisdom has no mixture of motives. It is sound and it's complete. It's always operating to point to the beauty, the righteousness, and the perfection of God and his moral law All other qualities of heavenly wisdom flow from and through its pure nature I don't think purity or being pure is a necessarily a hard concept for us to grasp, but I do think it's an intimidating concept. So many of you, kind of like me, might be thinking if true wisdom is beyond me because it is pure. And I'm far from that. I'm far from being pure. But I want you to understand That I know where you're coming from, but let me first first say that James is writing the book to the saints. These are saints. It's in verse one. He says to the saints. You are a saint if your faith is grounded in the person and work of Christ. And it is God's will for you to be conformed to the image of Christ. That is Romans 8. 29. I would encourage you to write that down. Romans 8. 29. And to always remember. In times of struggle, times of difficulties, times of challenge, that it is God's will for you, as his saint, to be conform to the image of Christ. So do not despair. Brothers and sister, I would encourage you, if you're looking to live a wise life, a life that springs forth with pure motives, Then memorize and commit yourself to the two great commandments, which is the first, love the Lord your God with all your heart, mind, soul, and strength and to love your neighbor as yourself. Let those principles be living in you, constantly reminded, constantly praying that those things would come out of your life. Let them be the animating principles of your life. If you keep them At the top of your mind, and if you are seeking God and loving people, your motives will be right. And you can be confident that good works will be demonstrated in your life through the meekness of wisdom. Look again at me at verse 17. So flowing through pure through and from purity. True wisdom is peaceable. Gentle, open to reason. Some translations may say submissive or compliant, full of mercy and good fruit. It's impartial and sincere So these qualities all may sound actually pretty familiar to you. I want you to consider how closely they track with the Beatitudes. So looking at the sermon on the mouth. Matthew chapter 5 verses 3 through 12. So if wisdom is first pure, so Matthew chapter 5, verse 8, blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Peaceable. Matthew chapter 5, verse 9. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the sons of God. Open to reason Matthew chapter 5, verse 3. Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of God. Those are those who know their need of God. Full of mercy. Matthew chapter 5, verse 7. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy. Good fruit. Matthew chapter 5, verse 6. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be satisfied. All of these qualities. Of true and heavenly wisdom are God-centered. Again, look at what Jesus taught. It says, blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God So true wisdom is wisdom that is focused on God. It's looking heavenward. By looking heavenward, it's positioned to see God. And all his attributes, and then upon seeing God, will flow out of that life things that are peaceable and gentle and open to reason, submissive, merciful. fruitful, just, and sincere. So I want to just take a moment to and just say something a little bit about sincerity or sincere to being sincere. Uh this is a term it can also be synonymous with genuineness. I think it can be meese easily misunderstood and misapplied and kind of our cultural moment these days It's a term that can often be taken to be mean be true to yourself. So when we think about that, it's sincerity or being true to ourselves, we often are tempted to sanctify our feelings. And to feel free to give vent to them. Wisdom indeed is sincere and genuine. That means it is without hypocrisy, but remember it is not about the self. It's a wisdom that is God-centered, that looks heavenward. It's not about strongly held feelings or convictions. It's not jealous for its own way. We can be sincerely or we can sincerely express fake wisdom. The charge here is not about wisdom, is somehow we are to be true to ourselves But actually, as Christians, we are to be true to true wisdom. Consistently express the qualities of true wisdom So in our lives, we want to build in purity and peace and reason and submission and mercy and fruitfulness and impartiality Now let me commend at this time point that this is a great verse. Verse 17. I mean, write it down. Memorize this verse. This is a verse that I would think that you would be very beneficial to us if it's at the tip of our tongue. So for example, in my life, one of the verses that, and I'm not a great memorizer of scripture. I constantly struggle with that, but But the Lord has helped me, and one of the ways, uh one of the verses that is always at the tip of my tongue is Galatians 5, 22-23. And that's the fruit of the Spirit. And many of you might be very familiar with that. Like the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. Against such things, there is no law. So love, joy, peace, patience, etc. , are on repeat in my head as I go through my day. I am constantly asking God, make me patient. Make me gentle. Those two are especially on the forefront of my mind because I'm not particularly patient or particularly gentle, and I need a lot of help with that And what I've noticed is that when I am constantly praying that the Lord will bring forth this fruit of His Spirit in my life He brings fruit forth the fruit of the Spirit in my life. And in some ways, that's just him reigning in my worst tendencies. So if we take James 3 verse 17 and we put that top of our mind if we memorize that, then we can constantly be ready to pray that true wisdom would be manifest in our life. For example, Father, I know that anyone who lacks wisdom Should pray and ask you for wisdom. So Father, give me wisdom. Make me pure, wholly devoted to your law and to your glory May there be no mixture of motives in me. Kill any thread of selfish ambition or bitter jealousy I want to be at peace with my neighbors, co-workers, family, friends, brothers and sisters in Christ. Give me a gentle spirit as I walk according to the law of liberty. If I'm at odds with another person or frustrated in my circumstances, may I be submissive to reason and seek many godly counselors. You have mercifully saved me. May I be quick to extend mercy to those who have put in my life Lord, I confess that I can be judgmental and quick to speak my mind. Give me the wit and the conviction to avoid partiality, favoritism, and may I sincerely conform my thoughts to And actions to my Lord Christ, in whose name I pray. Amen. Brothers and sisters, the daily outworking of prayer in our life is essential. And if we want wisdom to be manifest in our life, we want people to say, that person is wise because I see good works. in the meekness of wisdom in his life, then we must constantly, daily be renewing our hearts through prayers So it might be truly wise. And that leads us to my last observation, number four, wisdom's harvest. Look at verse 18. A harvest of righteousness is sown in peace by those who make peace Now this stands in stark contrast to the fruit of fake wisdom, disorder, and every vile practice we saw back in verse 16. When it uh discussing the harvest of fake wisdom, uh the pastor David Platt wrote, In a home that is marked by self-centered ambition, you will have disorder and evil. In a church that is filled with men and women driven by self-centered ambition, you have a recipe for disorder and evil. There is danger in all of our families and our churches whenever we pursue selfish concerns or partisan causes to the neglect of the good of others And so we need to be on our guard. Such wisdom produces anger, bitterness, resentment, divisions, and divorce Such wisdom robs us of love, intimacy, trust, fellowship, and harmony with others But we can explain the harvest of true wisdom like this. In a home that is marked by true wisdom. You will have peace and good fruit. In a church that is filled with men and women marked by meekness of wisdom, you have a recipe for pure devotion, gentleness, and reasonableness. There is good fruit in all our families and our churches whenever we sincerely pursue righteousness, impartiality, and peace. Such wisdom produces patience, joy, love, affection, intimacy, fellowship, and unity. So true wisdom produces a harvest of righteousness. And produces peacemakers who are always working the soil of home life, of church life, of work life, community life with peace. Now, I do want to be clear here that a peaceable life does not mean that we overlook sin or we refuse to advocate for our convictions. That we trust that will glorify God and build other people up. So the very book of James is a testimony that true wisdom can be confrontational. To be pure in our devotion to God is to uphold what is true and holy. However, we must do this with gentleness. And for the upbuilding of the church and other people, we cannot confuse our preferences or even our sinful positions with righteousness and wisdom. So if you have an issue at home or at work or at church or with other people, I just want to uh and you feel like you need to address those things. And you want to do it wisely. Well, so I would just say a couple things to that. First Humbly go to God in prayer and pour over the scriptures to grasp the truth of any matter that you're concerned about. Second, seek mature and godly counselors. Ask them their perspective, and ask them where you might be wrong. Be humble. Third, always be gentle, merciful, and open to reason. Again, be humble Do not let your passions or your convictions be an excuse for selfishness or be the seedbed for bitter jealousy and selfish ambition. So in conclusion, I want to go back to wisdom and the quotes that catch my attention on Instagram and what have you. Denzel's eight smartest quotes that were ever said, they're all very thought-provoking, and they personally challenge us, right? They personally challenge me to do better or to be better in some way. And that's good as far as it goes. We should always be wanting to better ourselves and do good and whatever our hands find to do. But those that that kind of wisdom and inspirational quotes dispensed in podcasts and videos, those things will not bring life. The truest wisdom in this world, the truest wisdom this world has ever seen, is Jesus He's the embodiment of true wisdom. He was first pure. Amen. He was totally devoted to the Father His motives were never mixed. He said, I can only do what the Father has sent me to do. He humbled himself to the point of enduring the cross. He was the ultimate peacemaker because he made peace between us and his holy, righteous, and good Father. It is his mercy that brings us to God. He is utterly impartial. He is just. His love is sincere for all people. He wishes none to perish. He died for the church. He died to make us a community. He brings us here every Sunday for fellowship To encourage us to mature and endure in Christ He has opened the way for all of us to worship a holy God. If you don't consider yourself a Christian, if you don't understand Jesus, if you don't know why we're here every morning, why we would pour over the scriptures and think long and hard. about the challenge of true wisdom and whether or not our lives actually demonstrate that we are truly wise. And come see me after the service. I'd love to talk to you about Jesus. You can talk to Jonathan, who is up here as well, or just ask a friend or neighbor around you. Are you a Christian? Do you know Jesus? Help me understand. Because knowing Christ is the first and crucial step to living a life of true wisdom. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we want Our lives to reflect good works and the meekness of wisdom So in doing that, we together, we together as individuals We together as a church cast our lives and our souls upon you because of the work of our Lord and our Savior, Jesus Christ. Help us this week to examine our lives Help us to think about what is fake wisdom and what is true wisdom. Help us to conform our lives to true wisdom. May we die to ourselves so that true wisdom might come alive in our lives. Help us to guard ourselves from bitter jealousy and selfish ambition that can so imperceptibly grow in our hearts. May we have the attitude of Christ. We do not consider equality with God something to be grasped, but humbled himself. taking on the form of a servant to the point of death on the cross In pursuit of him. May we be blessed by the expressions of love Maybe be best blessed by the expressions of peace and mercy and reasonableness. That will flow out of our lives. And that make us happy to follow Christ May others be blessed because of the good work of wisdom in conforming us to the image of Christ. That you are doing with regeneration by the Holy Spirit. We pray all of this in Christ's holy, wonderful, incomparable name. Amen.