Good morning, church. Christ is risen. Amen. All right. Amen. He's risen indeed We thank you for being with us this Easter morning as we celebrate the resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ. In case you don't know me or in case you don't recognize me, My name is Tony, and I'm one of the pastors here at our church, and we are thrilled that you've joined us this morning. If you are a guest, And you're in the area, I'd welcome you to grab one of those Bibles that are around you, the Black Bibles. Inside of that opening flap, you'll find a connection card And we'd love for you to fill that out. If you're visiting us, maybe you can put down a prayer request or some information we can follow up with you during the week. We would love for you to fill that out and you can hand that to me after our service today. But right now we're going to get into God's word. So before we do that, I'm going to pray once more briefly. Oh Lord, help us. Be with us now in the hearing of your word, and we pray that you would help us to be doers of the word, that we would be believers of the word. And that we would live the life that you've called us to live, the life that you've given us in Christ. But use your word to convict us, correct us, and change us so that we would look more like Him as a result. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. So in 1961, the then Soviet Union went to outer space. And having done so, one of their astronauts was believed to have come back and to have said the following. I went to outer space, and there was no God there Nat quote was ascribed to Yuri Galgorin, one of the first astronauts to go into outer space And that quote started to make its rounds, and it emphasized the sentiment of that Cold War era, and also a sentiment that I think still lingers with us to this day We can't find God, therefore, we don't really need God. In other words, there's no God to find, so we can carry on and do what we were already doing. Do you resonate with that sentiment this morning? Maybe you're here as a kind visitor or family member who accepted that invitation to come to church on Easter Or maybe you just think it's the thing to do on Easter. You go to church. But really, you're pretty skeptical about all of this resurrection, empty tomb talk. Or maybe you're here as a Christian this morning with some serious doubts. Maybe you doubt God's love for you Maybe you doubt God's goodness. Maybe you doubt his faithfulness. Maybe you doubt that he actually hears your prayers and actually cares enough about you to do something about those prayers. Maybe you've come this morning looking for God. But if we can't reach God by going to outer space, then how can we reach God? How can we find God? In our passage this morning in John chapter 20, we'll discover that it's God who actually does the seeking and the finding. Please turn there if you haven't turned with me already. John chapter 20, that's on page 906 of those black Bibles that are provided. If you don't have a Bible of your own, we welcome you to take that as an Easter gift from us to you so that you can have a copy of God's Word. We also encourage you to keep that Bible open throughout the duration of this sermon because I'll be referring to it often. In the last few weeks, we've walked through this Gospel of John Written by the Apostle John, as he recounted several different things in the life of Jesus, specifically during the last week of his earthly life His prayer for his disciples in John 17, his arrest and betrayal in John 18, his trial in John 18 and 19, and then his crucifixion. And where we last left off, Jesus was crucified. And he died. And a soldier went to check to make sure he was dead, and he pierced his side. And then he was buried in a borrowed tomb outside of Jerusalem. So the disciples were scattered, fearful of the Jewish leaders, perhaps retaliating against them, finding them. And all of their hopes in this Messiah were buried in that garden tomb. Or so they thought. They too did not know where to find God. But we'll see in our passage that God found them. Here's our main point for this morning. If you are taking notes, you can write this down. Jesus, the risen King, reveals himself. So that we will believe and have life in his name. I'll say that again. Jesus, the risen King, reveals himself. So that we would believe and have life in his name. And for our time together, we'll break down that main point or that main idea in a few points as we go through the passage together. Starting with point one, the risen king. John chapter 20, starting in verse 1. This is the word of the Lord And it reads, Now on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene came to the tomb early, while it was still dark, and saw that the stone had been taken away from the tomb So she ran and went to Simon Peter and the other disciple, the one whom Jesus loved, and said to them, They have taken the Lord out of the tomb, and we do not know where they have laid him. You can stop there for right now. So Mary Magdalene went to the tomb, likely with other women, this Sunday morning to tend to the body of Jesus Last they heard Jesus was buried in a tomb outside of Jerusalem, but they did not know if he had a proper burial. They did not know if the spices were properly prepared to preserve his body. And at sundown on Friday, the Sabbath would have started, which meant Friday night through Saturday, they couldn't do any work. They couldn't tend to Jesus' body. So they got up early on Sunday morning to make sure that he was taken care of. But they got there, and the stone was rolled away, and they discovered that there was no body, because Jesus was not there As a quick decide, these women were the first to see that the stone was rolled away and that the tomb were empty. And this was during a time where a woman's testimony would not even be considered as valid. So if this were all made up, there would be no reason for women to be the first ones to go to the tomb. I think that brings validity to their testimony that the tomb was indeed empty. So then Mary told the other disciples so that they could witness this. Look at verse 3 now in our passage. So Peter went out with the other disciple. The other disciple was John the Apostle. And they were going towards the tomb. Both of them were running together, but the other disciple outran Peter and reached the tomb first. Now I just imagine Peter reading or hearing about this later and rolling his eyes, right? Verse 5: And stooping to look in, he saw the linen cloths lying there, but he did not go in. Then Simon Peter came following him and went into the tomb. He saw the linen cloth lying there. And the facecloth, which had been on Jesus' head, not lying with the linen cloth, but folded up in a place by itself. Then the other disciple, who reached the tomb first, also went in, and he saw and believed. For as yet they did not understand the scripture that he must rise from the dead Then the disciples went back to their homes. We'll stop there for now. So Peter And John, they went to the tomb to investigate themselves. They heard what Mary said, and they went to go see themselves. And they did not find Jesus there. They found linen cloths. And there are lots of details in those verses about linen cloths. But why? I think it notes that Jesus' body was not stolen. Right? Because there was a theory, a rumor around that about that time, called the swoon theory, which says Jesus wasn't risen from the dead. Someone just went in and stole his body. But they left all the cloths behind. Again, it doesn't make sense to do that if that were the case. But why the cloths? So, bodies that were buried in these tombs, these were really temporary burial places. They're supposed to be lying there on this bench for a year or two until the body started to decompose. And at that time, their bones would have been taken and put in an ossuary or a chest. But there was no chest necessary for Jesus because he was not there. And disciples believed that he wasn't there, but it doesn't seem like they believe that he was risen from the dead. Look again at verse 9. For as yet they did not understand the scripture that he must rise from the dead. Now, possibly John saw and believed. Because he says he went in and saw and believed. So that's possible. But not collectively. They did not understand the scriptures. Possibly referring to Psalm 16, verse 12, or Isaiah chapter 53, where it's talking about this Lord that would eventually be raised. They'll be brought to life. So they believe that something happened, but they did not know what happened to Jesus Maybe you're here this morning and you'll admit, yes, something did happen to the body of Jesus. Otherwise, we would know where his body is today, right? There'd be a burial somewhere, a vis a grave that we could visit. But what have you done with that question, friend? What happened? Was this all some elaborate plot by the disciples? Does the swoon theory hold up? Or did something else happen? Was scripture actually fulfilled? Did he rise like he said he would? I think that's something for you to wrestle with this morning. But Mary wasn't satisfied with what she initially saw. She saw, and she didn't see Jesus there, and it says in our passage that she goes back to the tomb. Which leads us to point two. And we'll see in this section that the risen king reveals himself. To Mary, to the disciples, and even to doubting Thomas. Look at verse 11. But Mary stood weeping outside of the tomb. And as she wept, she stooped to look into the tomb. And she saw two angels in white sitting where the body of Jesus had lain, one at the head and one at the feet. And they said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? She said to them, They have taken away my Lord, and I do not know where they've laid him. Let's stop there. So Mary saw, and so did the other two uh disciples, John and Peter, but they ran off, it seems, at this point. Mary goes back into the tomb and she sees two angels serving as witnesses that Jesus was not there That the one that she was seeking was not there to be found. And we'll see in the rest of this passage that Jesus is the one that starts to seek after her. And in fact, Jesus is the one that seeks after us. He calls us. He seeks after us. And then he sends us out. Let's look at verse 14. Having said this, she, Mary, turned around and saw Jesus standing. But she did not know that it was Jesus And Jesus said to her, Woman, why are you weeping? Whom are you seeking Supposing him to be the gardener, remember they're in a garden, this is the garden tomb. Supposing him to be the gardener, she said to him, Sir, if you have carried him away, tell me where you have laid him, and I will take him away. What a bold statement that is. Right? He says if he's not there, then I'm gonna go get him and make sure that he's buried properly. What faith Mary Magdalene had. That's verse sixteen. Let's look at verse sixteen now. Jesus said to her, Mary. And she turned and said to him in Aramaic, Rabboni, which means teacher. So Mary couldn't find Jesus in that tomb, but the risen Lord Jesus came to her in that garden. And notice that Mary didn't recognize him until Jesus called her by name. He said, Mary. And then she knew it was her teacher. It was the Lord. That sounds like Jesus in John chapter 10, where he says, My sheep hear my voice. I know them and they follow me. Mary recognized the voice of her shepherd, the Lord Jesus Christ. And she responded by calling him teacher. But Jesus here calls Mary by name And then he sends Mary out to proclaim the good news that the tomb is empty. Look at verse 17. Jesus said to her, Do not cling to me, for I have not yet ascended to the Father, but go to my brothers. And say to them, I am ascending to my father and your father, to my God and your God. And Mary Magdalene went and announced to the disciples, I have seen the Lord. And that he had said these things to her. So Mary Magdalene was first to see that the tomb was empty, and then she also saw that the Lord Jesus was indeed. Risen. And what does Jesus do? He sends her out. He commissions her to testify that she has seen the Lord. The question this morning, have you seen the Lord? Have you seen the Lord? In response to this question, Billy Graham was given this question once, and he said, I've never seen the wind. I've seen the effects of the wind, but I haven't seen the wind. Have you ever seen the wind? Or have you seen its effects? And God's people are those by faith in Jesus who can say, Yes, we have seen the Lord. We've seen his work in our lives. We've seen the effect that he's made in our hearts. We've seen him bring darkness to light. We've seen the dead come to life spiritually. And he calls us by name. And did you notice in this passage, he calls us into his family? Jesus says, Go to my brothers and tell them the good news. And our Lord Jesus also sends us out with this good news that we have seen the Lord And Jesus says, There, I am ascending to my Father, to your Father, to my God, and to your God. And brothers and sisters, if you are in Christ this morning, your testimony is that you have seen the Lord. Our testimony is that we have seen the Lord by faith. And King Jesus commissions us and sends us out with that message. He called us to share it, regardless of how people respond to that message. So he sent Mary out. But it's not clear from the rest of our passage that the disciples immediately respond with faith. Beloved, that should remind us that the Lord does send us out. But remember that salvation is his job. And he's good at it. He calls us to faithfully proclaim the good news to others. And it's his job to reveal himself. And he is faithful to do that. That's what we'll see in the rest of our passage now. Jesus goes to his disciples to reveal himself to them. Look at verse 19. On the evening of that day, the first day of the week, the doors being locked where the disciples were, for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood among them and said to them, Peace be with you. Now again, the disciples likely thought there would be consequences for their following of Jesus. And they saw Jesus crucified. And he didn't get down from that cross. He died. And then he was buried. So then the disciples ran off and they were likely in hiding. They didn't know what was going to happen to them. Maybe these Jewish leaders were going to come for them. But Jesus came to them and stood among them. And he responded to their fear by offering them peace. That's what it says in our passage. He says, peace be with you. Look at verse 20. When he has said this, he showed them his hands and his sides Then the disciples were glad when they saw the Lord. And Jesus said to them again, Peace be with you. As the Father has sent me, even so I am sending you. And when he has said this, he breathed on them and said to them, Receive the Holy Spirit. You forgive the sins of any, then they are forgiven them. If you withhold forgiveness from any, it is withheld. In those few verses that I just read, we see the witness of the triune God. God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit, attesting to the fact that Jesus rose from the grave. Because the Father sent Jesus into this world to atone for sin. And sin needed to be atoned for because God is holy and we are not holy. The Bible teaches that we have all sinned, we have all gone astray, we have all departed from his rule and from his ways. And we all, apart from Christ, stand condemned. And that's exactly why the Father sent his son Jesus to this world to live the perfect life To eventually go to the cross and die, but then to be buried and rise from the grave, so that by faith in the finished work of Jesus Christ, we would not need to fear the penalty that we deserve for our sins But rather, we could have peace with God right now and be brought into God's family by faith Jesus accomplished the Father's will and ascended to the Father, and that's where he is right now at the Father's right hand, ruling and reigning. And he does not leave us as orphans. He sent us the helper, the Holy Spirit, to live in us, to comfort us, to remind us of the truth of God's word, to convict us of a sin, to help us to live like Jesus will want us to live in this world. To give us the power to declare the good news to others. So Jesus has sent his followers, just like he's sending out these disciples to declare that we have seen the Lord. We have seen his work on the cross. We've seen his work in our lives. We've seen his goodness. And we have peace with God only through faith in Jesus Christ. That's what we're celebrating this morning. That's what we celebrate every Lord's Day that we gather together. And that is the offer that God is offering you today if you have not placed your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. That though your sins are many, his grace abounds more and more. And you can have peace with him through the risen Lord Jesus Christ. If you're here this morning and you're not a Christian, have you considered the fact that God may be trying to reveal Himself to you He sent someone to invite you to church this morning. And you actually showed up He gave you a neighbor or a family member that kind of pesters you over time, over the years, with the gospel. Those very people have been praying for you. Many of them for years. And you're sitting here right now hearing about the finished work of Jesus on the cross. That is no accident. And if you hear his voice, friends, do not harden your hearts. Turn to Christ today by faith and be saved. And maybe you're here and you have done that at some point. But if you're honest, you've strayed from the Lord. And you're in church right now, but you haven't been in a church for a very long time. Again, you're here and maybe it's Easter, so it's the thing to do. Maybe you're afraid of turning back to the Lord. Remember, he seeks after us. Psalm 119, verse 176. The last verse of the longest chapter of the Bible says, I have gone astray like a lost sheep. Seek your servant, for I do not forget your commands. Again, maybe the Lord Jesus is seeking you if you've gone astray. He's saying, I've been right here the whole time. Turn to me again by faith. Brothers and sisters, did you notice in this passage that Jesus shows his hands and his sides to the disciples when he appears to them? Any kids in the room? Why do you think Jesus did that? Why do you think he said, hey, look at my hands, look at my size? What's your guess? What do you think? That's right. He had wounds. He had scars. And he says, Look, that happened. See it. My hand was pierced. My side was pierced. He wanted them to know that this is really me. I was really crucified, and I am really risen. But beloved, think about it. Jesus still has his scars, even right now. And that reminds us that he really did crucifi, he really was crucified, and he really is risen. But that should also remind us that he understands our scars as well. Edward Chilito, who was um a minister, In England during World War I wrote this poem with those scars of Jesus in mind, called Jesus of the Scars. And here's where he says, in parts, recounting this very narrative that I just read. He says, if when the doors are shut thou drawest near. Only reveal those hands and that side of thine. We know to day what wounds are. Have no fear. Show us thy scars. We know the countersign. The other gods were strong, for thou wast weak. They rolled, but thou didst stumble to a throne But to our wounds, only God's wounds can speak. And not a God has wounds, but thou alone. Beloved, as you endure your scars in this world, remember that our Savior has a few of his own. He understands. Go to him. Look again in our passage at verse 22, where it says that when he has said this, Jesus breathed on them and said, Receive the Holy Spirit. As you may know, he later told them that they need to wait for the Holy Spirit to come upon them, which they did. And the Holy Spirit did come to them. That's Acts chapter 2. So this breathing on them, receiving the Holy Spirit was a foretaste of what would happen just some 40 days later at Pentecost, 40-something days later. And then look at verse 23 of our passage, where Jesus says, if you forgive the sins of any, then they are forgiven them. If you withhold forgiveness from any, it is withheld. What does that mean? Remember, Jesus is talking to his gathered disciples. He didn't say these words to Mary by herself. He said this to the group. And this is binding and loosing language that Jesus uses also in Matthew chapter 16 and Matthew chapter 18. And in both of those passages, Jesus is talking about the work. of the church, of its gathered people, the earthly witness of God's work. The people who gather and say, we have seen the Lord Whether that's two or three or two hundred or three thousand, they are the ones who are witnesses to proclaim what he has done. That he is risen and that he still forgives sin and that they are reflecting his work that he's doing in heaven as they're here on earth And that should remind us, brothers and sisters, that we should resolve afresh, once again, to tell people about what Jesus has done To declare his good works individually and even as a church. That's what we are called to do. That's what Jesus has given us the charge to do. And maybe you're discouraged this morning because you've been trying to do that. You invite somebody to church today, and they're not here. Keep going The Lord is with you. He's with us. Or maybe you tried to share the gospel with somebody this past week and it didn't go well. You got the role, the words wrong. Or you knew you were supposed to share the gospel, but you ran away out of fear. You talked to yourself out of it Keep going, brothers and sisters. Remember that you're not doing that by yourselves. That's why we have the church. That we can depend on each other for wisdom. For for strength, for encouragement, for comfort, to pray together for that loved one, or that neighbor, or that friend? That we will remember that we don't need to fear. Jesus has come to offer us peace. He's given us a message to proclaim, and he's sent us out to share that message. And if you're visiting with us today and you don't have a church home, a church where you've committed to, and a church that recognizes you as one that has seen the Lord. We pray that you would go home whenever you do and quickly find a gospel preaching church and submit to that church. Because we need the church to follow Jesus, all of us. We need God's people help. We need the help of one another. We need help as we wrestle with fear. We need help as we wrestle with sin. We need help as we wrestle with even doubt. And even in that, as we continue to gather with the Lord's people, we'll find that the Lord Jesus is still seeking after his people, even in the midst of those doubts. Let's look at verse 24, where Jesus now goes to one who doubts Now, Thomas, one of the twelve, called the twin, was not with them when Jesus came. So the other disciples told him, We have seen the Lord. But he said to them, Unless I see his hands, the mark of the nails, and place my finger into the mark of the nails, and place my hand in his side, I will never believe. So let's recap. Mary bore witness to the disciples. Jesus revealed himself. To the disciples. And Jesus sent them out. And then they go out to Thomas and they say, we have seen the Lord. But Thomas didn't believe Their testimony of seeing the Lord was not enough for Thomas. He said, I will not believe. Not just if I see it, but I need to put my finger and my hands there to believe myself. Look at verse 26. Again, God seeks after him. Eight days later, his disciples were inside again. And Thomas was with them, and the doors were locked. And Jesus came and stood among them and said, Peace be with you. And then he said to Thomas, put your finger here and see my hands. Put out your hand and place it in my side. Do not disbelieve, but believe. And Thomas answered him, My Lord and my God. Jesus said to them, If you believe because you have seen me, Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed. Now to go back to the start of this section in verse 26 there. Maybe you've wondered why the Bible teaches that Jesus rose on the third day. You might be thinking Friday, Saturday, Sunday, isn't that two days? Well, back in the first century, in the counting of the days, people would have included that same day that they were talking about. So Jesus was crucified on Friday, but rose on Sunday. Friday, Saturday, Sunday, third day. But that's also why at the beginning of this verse 26, there, it says eight days later, and he's talking about the first day of the week, Sunday. So it was a week later, a week after Jesus rose, a week after the Feast of Unleavened Bread was completed, a week after the Passover was done. Where those travelers would have gone back to their homes. And disciples, it seems like, they were still afraid, which is why they were altogether, probably in hiding again Now with Thomas, the one who wasn't there before, and the one who's doubting with them. But Jesus goes to the doubting. That's what he did here. He sought him out. And Thomas sees Jesus, he sees his hands, he sees his sides, and he doesn't feel like the need to put his finger or his hand there anymore. He says, My Lord and my God. Remember, he wanted this evidence because he wanted to see in order to believe. I wonder if you kids in the room, or you kids in teens, have you ever thought about that? Like, yeah, I want to believe in this Jesus stuff, but if I would just see him, that would make it far easier. Right? You ever thought about that? Like that would make things simpler. But Jesus doesn't seem to believe that that's true. Jesus doesn't seem to believe that seeing is believing. Look again at verse 29. He says, asking a question now to Thomas. Have you believed because you have seen me? Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed. So Thomas wanted to see Jesus to strengthen his faith. But Jesus tells Thomas that those who have faith in me, even though they haven't seen me, they are the ones with strong faith. They are the ones that are blessed. So in other words, believing is seeing. I wonder if you're a doubting Thomas this morning. Maybe there are still things about the faith that you struggle to believe. Like the virgin birth, I don't know. I wasn't there. Or all of the words of scripture? Did they happen as the Bible says that they happened? Or maybe you believe most of the Bible, but then there are certain passages that you kind of avoid, like I don't know about that one. Or maybe you doubt God's goodness, or His love, or His care, or His concern for you. I do pray that this passage reminds you that Jesus is not afraid of your doubts. That he's willing to go to you. Just like he went directly to Thomas. So, beloved, strengthen your faith in him. Jesus said that we are blessed if we believe in him Though we have not seen him. Remember that this Bible also teaches that one day we will see him. We will be like him, and our faith will become sight. So in the meantime, may the witness of the cross and the witness of the empty tomb fill in those gaps of your faith When you doubt God's love for you or his goodness or his grace, look to the cross, look to the empty tomb, and be reminded that he does love you. And that he is good to his people. John spends the last few words of this passage To kind of stop showing us what happened and to talk directly to the audience. Like some of those TV shows we may watch where they're looking directly into the camera and giving commentary. Remember, John here is acting not just as a historian, not just as a witness to the risen Lord, but also as a theologian. He's filling in the gaps for us. He's showing us what we should do with all of this. And what should we do? Point three, believe and have life in his name. Believe and have life in his name. Look at verse 30. Now Jesus did many other signs in the presence of his disciples Which are not written in this book, but these are written, so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his name. The entire gospel of John is built around these seven signs or these signs that Jesus claimed. To be the Messiah. These signs that are verifying what he's saying is actually true. So to recall a few of them, Jesus turned water into wine at that wedding, he healed several different people. He fed the 5,000. He walked on water. He raised Lazarus from the dead. And that's his final act. He rose from the dead and then appeared to his followers. So, in this summary statement here, John is saying that these things are here, all these things are here, talking directly to us, so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ. the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his name. Because the Bible teaches here and in other places. That belief in Jesus leads to life. And disbelief leads to death. So in other words, the resurrection that we've been talking about, that we've been singing about, it only does you good if you believe So do you believe? And are you sure that you believe? Many years ago I had a stranger ask me that same question. Came up to me awkwardly outside of a mall and mustered up some courage to say, have I placed my faith in the Lord Jesus Christ for my salvation? And to be honest, I was kind of annoyed at the question. And he could probably quickly tell that I was annoyed. I just kind of gave him a look: like, how dare you ask me that question? Right? So I gave him a frustrated, yeah, I believe that. And he asked me, are you sure? I said, yeah. And then he left. Now that probably wasn't the best gospel presentation. He probably could have asked me some more questions. We probably should have talked a little bit more. But that question stuck with me for days because at that time I was not sure. So are you sure? If not, please talk to somebody before you leave today. Somebody who invited you, the friend or the loved one that you came with, so that you can be sure That you believe, and that by believing you may have life in his name. And if by his grace you are sure of that this morning, be reminded of the life that Christ has already purchased for you. This recounts a few of the things that this gospel account says about Jesus. In John chapter 1, it says, in him Jesus was life. And the life was the light of men. In other words, Jesus as creator gives us life Or in John 3:36, whoever believes in the Son has eternal life. Whoever does not obey the Son shall not see life. But the wrath of God remains on him. Which means that Jesus as Savior gives us eternal life. Or John 10 10, the thief comes only to steal, to kill, and destroy. I have come, Jesus says, that they may have life and have it more abundantly. And Jesus, as our good shepherd, leads us to the abundant life. Or in John 11, after the death of Lazarus, where Jesus says, I am the resurrection at the life. Whoever believes in me, though he shall die, yet he shall live. And everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this? So Jesus, as the risen Lord, gives life beyond the grave because he is the ruler even over death. He defeated it on the cross. Or in John 14, where he says, I am the way, I am the truth, I am the life, and no one comes to the Father except through me. Jesus as the faithful son grants us entry into the Father's house. All that we need is in Jesus, our risen King. And through believing in him, we have right now and forever life in his name. Amen? We have life in his name. So King Jesus, the risen King, he reveals himself just like he's revealed himself to you if you've come to him by faith. So that we can believe and have life in his name. That's what we celebrate today. So back to our beginning quote. How can we find God? If you remember that quote, after the Russians went into space, He came back and said, I went up to outer space, but I did not encounter God. In other words, there is no God. There's no God to be found. Keep living your lives. And I told you that this quote was credited to Yuri Gagarin. But the problem is he actually didn't say that. Yuri Gagorin was actually a devout Christian. And he at this moment just was a victim of Soviet propaganda at the time, who ascribed the quote to him, even though he didn't say or believe that But here's another issue with that quote. T. S. Lewis, after that, wrote this essay called the See and I. He says a few different things which I'll close our time with. He says going to outer space to look for God is like Hamlet going into the attic of his castle to look for Shakespeare. How then can we reach or find God? Here's what C. S. Lewis says It says about the reaching, I am a far less reliable guide. This is because I have never had the experience of looking for God. It was the other way around. He was the hunter, or so it seemed to me, and I was the deer. You see what he's saying? Jesus has come after us. And Jesus is still hunting. He's still calling. He's still saving. He's still seeking after the lost. So the question is, has he found you today? Let's pray together with that in mind Or Lord Jesus, we thank you that you are the one that seek after your people, that you are the good shepherd. That you are gathering people to worship you who will one day worship you all together around your throne. Lord, we pray for those among us who are not sure. We pray that you would give them faith. Help them to believe and see that you are the risen Lord, and that by believing they may have life in your name. And Lord, we pray also for us as a church, as brothers and sisters in Christ, as believers here, that we would live the life that you call us to live That we will remember that we have risen just as you have risen. And that we will place our hope that in one day we will be raised to new life and we will see you face to face and be like you. We ask all this in your name. Amen.