Good morning, family. I don't know many of you, uh, but because of Jesus, you are my brothers and sisters, and so I will affectionately refer to you as family. Amen. You have uh 188 brothers and sisters in Portland, Oregon that are praying for you this morning because you're part of their family. And in some strange way, they will be praying for us at 10. 30 on the West Coast, which means their prayers will land right around the time when we're doing lunch. But God moves beyond space and time, and so he hears those prayers. The point is they love you. And we pray for this church regularly. And so it is my joy to be here with you this morning to open up God's word. This is, I think, the best way to love you is to preach God's word to you this morning So I'm going to read our passage this morning, and then we'll pray, and then we'll dive into the text. So if you'd be so kind as to turn with me in your Bible to the Gospel of John, we're going to be looking at chapter 16. Verses 25 through 33. I was gonna pretend like I was gonna switch up the verse. But uh then you said that I was like, ah he took the smoke away John chapter 16, verses 25 through 33. I have said these things to you in figures of speech. The hour is coming when I will no longer speak to you in figures of speech, but will tell you plainly about the Father In that day you will ask in my name, and I do not say to you that I will ask the Father on your behalf, for the Father Himself loves you. Because you have loved me and believed that I came from God. I came from the Father and have come into the world, and now I am leaving the world and going to the Father. His disciples said, ah, now you are speaking plainly and not using figures, figurative speech. Now we know that you know all things and do not need anyone to question you. This is why we believe that you came from God. Jesus answered them, Do you now believe? Behold, the hour is coming. Indeed, it has come, when you will be scattered, each to his own home, and will leave me alone. Yet I am not alone, for the Father is with me. I have said these things to you that in me you may have peace In this world you will have tribulation, but take heart. I have overcome the world. Family, this is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Would you pray with me? Our Father and our God, we thank you for your word. We confess this morning that without the help of the Holy Spirit, these would just be words. We desperately need your help. We pray, oh God, that you would give us the help that we need. Open our eyes to the truth of your word. Crack open our hearts to take in your word To bury these truths that we so desperately need into the crevices of our hearts, so that we might be comforted by the truth of your word and by the reality of who you are and what you've done. We pray, O God, that you would meet us here this morning as we look at these beautiful truths. We pray these things in the name of our mighty and risen King Jesus. Amen. Before we dive into this section, and maybe just to help set some context I think it's important for you to understand that this moment that we're looking at in Scripture doesn't come out of nowhere. Our text this morning is the end of one long conversation on one long and stressful night that stretches from chapter 13 all the way through 16. And throughout this conversation, Jesus has been providing a kind of disruptive clarity, dismantling everything the disciples thought they understood about the kingdom of God. So by no means is this kind of a casual conversation. I mean just consider, if you will, for a moment. What he's already told them in this conversation. In John chapter 13, verse 21, he told them, one of you, one of my closest friends, is going to betray me. In John 16, 32, he tells his disciples that they will all fall away in fear. In John 15, verses 12 through 13, he spoke of a kind of love. But that kind of love is going to be such that it will cost them their life. In John 15, verses 18 through 19, he told them that the world is going to hate them. In John 15, 20, he told them that the world will persecute them. In John 16, 2, he told them that they're gonna be kicked out of the synagogues and that some of those religious leaders will seek to kill them. In John 16, 20 through 22, he told them plainly that deep sorrow is on the horizon, and over and over again, in different ways, he keeps saying the same thing: I'm leaving. You can imagine how this conversation has been hitting the disciples. They're not just confused, they're afraid. They're not just uncertain, they are deeply unsettled because, as far as they could tell, the one who has held their world together is about to be taken away, and everything is starting to feel like it's falling apart. Which means this conversation is doing two things at the same time. On the one hand, Jesus is giving them clarity that they desperately need because of what's coming around the corner. But on the other hand, that clarity is intensifying the fear and uncertainty. And this reality is a sobering reminder for us. That though the world says clarity is kind, clarity doesn't always bring comfort. Sometimes clarity means realizing just how bad the situation actually is. Sometimes clarity reveals that the road ahead is a road that is paved with deep suffering and deep pain. And that's exactly where these disciples sit right now. They understand more than they did before, but they feel far less secure and far more afraid than they did before. Because Jesus is telling them the truth. without holding anything back. And this tension between clarity and fear is not unique to the disciples. It's something we all wrestle with Most of us have learned that clarity does not automatically calm fear. In fact, sometimes it intensifies it. You can know what's coming and still have no idea what you're going to do about it. You can understand a situation with eyes wide open And still feel deeply unsettled about what this might mean for your immediate future. Clarity about circumstances does not always produce peace. And when fear rises, we often hear these very well-meaning, weightless words from people we love. They say things like, don't worry about it, it's gonna be okay. Or take heart, things are gonna be fine. But if we're honest, those words aren't always helpful in those moments. They can even feel dismissive Sometimes they can feel like an attempt to quiet our fear and uncertainty without actually entering into it with us. I mean, imagine for a moment standing on the edge. Of a failing marriage. Or receiving a phone call that just confirmed the diagnosis. Or the despair of experiencing financial collapse when retirement is right around the corner. Or the ache of watching a child walk away from the faith In those moments when someone casually says, hey, don't worry about it, it's all good. Things will be fine. That doesn't bring peace. In fact, it can deepen the loneliness because now you're not only afraid and unsettled, you feel unseen by the very people you love. Family Why do we reach for these paper-thin words in these moments when we know they really don't help Listen, I don't think we do it intentionally or maliciously. I think most of it comes from discomfort. We don't feel comfortable sitting in someone else's pain. We don't like the feeling of carrying weight that we can't fix. So we reach for these words that sound like clarity, but really don't provide it. When we do that, we're just throwing around superficial optimism. We need to tell people why things will be okay. We need to explain how things will be redeemed. And we need to help remind them of where real authority rests. We don't need words from people who cannot control the outcome, who cannot guarantee the future, and have no power over the forces. pressing in on our lives. Again, they may be well-intentioned, but those words are weightless. And that's what makes Jesus' words radically different. When Jesus speaks into our fear, he doesn't offer superficial optimism. He offers certainty. He does not say things probably won't be that bad. He says, in the world you will have tribulation. That's clarity. But he says, take heart, I have overcome the world, that is certainty. Jesus does not address real fear with vague reassurances. He addresses it with objective reality. Not speculation about what might happen, but a declaration of what has already happened. That's why his words carry the weight we need. Because he's not just guessing about the future. He governs it. So when Jesus says take heart, he's not asking us to feel something He's calling us to rest in something. And what he gives his disciples here is not simply a strategy for surviving hardships. He gives them an anchor to keep them from drifting into despair. He reminds them of what's true about them, even when everything in the life feels like it's falling apart. He tells them that they are loved by the Father, that they are held by the Son. And that they are safe in the end. And those truths explain why when everything feels like it's falling apart, you won't These are the truths that I want to help us this morning to serve as mile markers for our text this morning. You are loved by the Father. You are held by the Son and you are safe in the end. So let's begin with the first truth that anchors us. You're loved by the Father. We see this in verses 25 through 27. Jesus begins this section By looking back at everything he's been saying in this conversation and acknowledging that much of what he said has been figurative. In chapter 13, verse 33, he says, Where I am going you cannot come. True words, but before the cross they sound confusing and unsettling. In chapter 14, verse 6, he says, I am the way, the truth, and the life. A clear claim about who he is, but the how of that claim won't be understood until his death and resurrection. Chapter 14, verse 18, I will not leave you as orphans. Sounds comforting, but confusing since he's been saying he's leaving. Chapter fifteen verse one, I am the true vine, great imagery, but a little indirect. Chapter 16, verse 16, a little while and you will see me no longer, and a little while you will see me. What does that even mean? That sounds totally confusing. Jesus has spoken this way, not because he's been unclear on purpose or to try to confuse them. Not because he's hiding truth, but because the disciples have been listening to resurrection language before death Kingdom language before the cross. So Jesus tells them in verse 25: I have said these things to you in figures of speech. In other words, I've been speaking truly You just don't fully understand it. I've been giving you real words that mean real things, but you haven't yet experienced the events that would make sense of these words. But then he says something that kind of shifts the whole floor. He says the hour is coming And that's a very loaded phrase in John's Gospel. This is not Jesus talking about some random moment down the road. He's pointing specifically to the climax of his mission. The cross, the resurrection, and return to the Father. He's saying in that hour, something is going to change. I will no longer speak to you in figures of speech, but will tell you plainly about the Father. In other words, the time of partial understanding is about to give way to much more clarity. Not because Jesus suddenly becomes more honest, but because his work will finally be complete and understood. And notice what the clarity centers on. The Father. And this is centering on something that is not just new information about the Father. But this is centering on the deeper dynamics with the Father. Jesus is about to tell his disciples something they've never really heard before. He's moving them from information about the Father to access to the Father. Look at verse 26. In that day you will ask in my name, and I do not say to you that I will request of the Father on your behalf. Okay, so what is Jesus saying here? What is why is this new for his disciples and what does this have to do with access? Well, Jesus is telling them that his disciples are soon coming to this day where their relationship or access with the Father will no longer be indirect. You see, up to this point, their experience or access to God has come solely through Jesus' physical presence. If they had a question about God, they asked Jesus. If they had needs, they went to Jesus and then Jesus spoke to the Father for them. Jesus has been their mediator in the most immediate sense. But now Jesus says that arrangement is changing for the better. He is preparing them for an even deeper reality. Specifically, the indwelling Holy Spirit, who will bring the presence of the Father directly into their hearts after Pentecost. Now, you have to understand that for a first century Jewish disciple, this would have sounded crazy. Because their entire understanding of access to God has largely been shaped by distance In the Old Testament, God was never approached casually. They understood that God was holy and dangerous in his holiness. They knew God dwelled among his people, but always at a distance. In fact, at the center of Israel's worship was the temple. And at the very center of that structure was one room called the Holy of Holies. No windows, no chairs, and definitely no casual conversations. Only the Ark of the Covenant, and above it, the glory of his presence. And separating that room from everyone else was a thick veil, a massive barrier between God and men that preached a kind of topical sermon every single day. Distance. You may come this far, but no further. Only one man could pass through that veil. The high priest Only one day of the year, the Day of Atonement. And even then, he did not walk in casually. He washed himself repeatedly. He put on sacred garments. He offered sacrifices first for his own sin because if he was not clean enough, he would not survive God's presence. So he carried blood with him as protection because the message was clear. Sinful people do not survive unmediated holiness. That's how Israel learned to think about access to God the Father carefully, fearfully At a distance, one man, one day with fear and trembling. And now Jesus says to his disciples, In that day you will ask the Father in my name. Mind-blowing. In other words, there's coming a day when you will speak directly to the Father. Not because you've become worthy, but because The Son, the great high priest, will offer himself as a final sacrifice that will cover all those who are unclean and open a way through the veil into the presence of the Father. Now, to be clear, Jesus is not saying when this access comes that he will stop interceding for us. No scripture is clear. He continues that mediation work What he is saying is that on that day you will approach the Father freely because you have been clothed in Jesus' righteousness. This is what he means when he says in my name. It means you will have access based on Jesus' authority. That the righteousness of the Son becomes your righteous standing. That his obedience becomes your acceptance and access. In other words, Jesus' holiness is in every way the basis of your access to a holy God. That's why the veil can be removed without God becoming less holy. Holiness is not lowered. You are raised in Christ. Which means practically no more veil. No more blood on your hands and no more distance. Not because God has changed, but because of Jesus, our great high priest. Jesus is saying that day of restricted access will soon be over. You will approach the Father not as a stranger begging for permission. You will approach him as a child who belongs. And to be clear, Jesus is not simply speaking about access alone. He's also speaking about affection. You see, access, as wonderful as it is, can still feel cold. And formal. You could be allowed, but not feel welcomed. You ever felt that way? I do all the time. It is possible for you to believe that you can come to the Father and still wonder how the Father feels about you when you get there. So Jesus doesn't leave this massive question unanswered. Look at verse 27. He says, for the Father Himself loves you. And that line family carries the weight of a lifetime. The Father loves you Not reluctantly, not indirectly, not at a distance Jesus is not saying, listen, I'm gonna love you, and then what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna try to convince the Father to tolerate you. You hear that? So many Christians, brothers and sisters, functionally believe this about the Father They assume that the Father is harder to please than the Son, that the Father does not like them, and that only Jesus loves them We love to talk about the love of Jesus. And we should. Jesus is kind. Jesus is gentle. Jesus welcomes sinners, but without realizing it, we sometimes imagine the Father is indifferent, reluctant, even disappointed. But here Jesus shatters that idea. He doesn't say the Father will grow to love you. He says the Father Himself already loves you And the word Jesus uses here is not just some general word for love. It's the word for personal affection. Family love. The love that is shared between a father and a child. In other words, it's not just that the father loves you out of some sort of obligation, it's that the father likes you while he loves you. He delights in you. This is why he sent his son. We just sang that song this morning. How deep the Father's love that he was compelled to give you his only son. He is inclined toward you. He is glad to receive you. He's not annoyed by your prayers or exhausted by your nagging presence or weakness. And then Jesus tells us why the Father loves you. Look at the second half of verse 27. Because you have loved me and have believed that I came from the Father. The Father loves you not because you're a good person, not because you do all the religious things, you show up to church, you set up chairs, you're on the worship team, you serve in children's ministry. He doesn't love you because you're so lovable. He loves you because of your love and faith in Jesus In other words, if you love the son that the father loves, then you are drawn into the father's love for the son The Father's affection for Jesus spills on to all those who are united to Jesus by faith. Which means the Father loves you with the same love he's always had for his son. This is a mind-blowing reality that so many people, so many saints miss. To be clear, the Father's love is not triggered by your faith He's saying your love for Jesus proves the Father has already set his affections on you. Your faith is the fruit, not the root of divine love. We love because he first loved us. The Father loved you before you loved the Son, and that prior love is what drew you into Jesus in the first place. You see how massive that is. And that reality is what makes this love almost unbelievable. Listen, the Father loves you like that, knowing everything about you. The real you, the full disclosure you. The you that just yelled at your kids in the van on the way to church this morning. He loves you with all your inconsistency. Your fear, your doubts, your sin, God loves you with nothing hidden. Which means when things fall apart, When your faith feels paper thin, when your obedience feels inconsistent, when your life feels unstable, when you feel unlovable, you are not losing the Father's affection. You are not slipping out of his delight. You are fixed in an inescapable love. And that changes everything. Because if the Father loved you like that, then you can survive anything in this world Confusion, uncertainty, fear, suffering, sickness, even loss. Listen family, you can lose stability. You could lose your sense of control. You can lose everything in this world, but you will never lose the Father's love. When a good father truly loves his child, he does not withdraw when things get hard. A loving father does not abandon his child when his child is weak. He does not turn cold. when his child is afraid. He does not step back when his child fails or falls. He leans in He protects. He provides. He corrects when necessary, but he never casts away. He remains persistent even when the child cannot hold himself together. A good father may allow difficulty for a season, but he never stops being there for his child. And Jesus is telling us that the father's love is far greater than any earthly good father. The Father's love is infinitely stronger, perfectly persistent, which means when things fall apart, When your world feels fractured beyond repair, you can rest your hope here that no matter what you lose, you will never lose the love of the Father. And this brings us to our second marker. You are held by the Son. We see this in verses 28 through 32. Being loved is essential. We were made not only with the capacity to receive love, but the desire for it and the ability to give it. But affection alone doesn't always make people feel secure. You can know that you're loved deeply and still wonder: am I going to make it out of this situation? Will I collapse under the emotional weight of this pain? Will I endure this present trouble? Will my faith collapse under pressure? So, Jesus, in this wonderful move here. Moves from affection to assurance, from being loved to being held. Look at verse 28 I came from the Father and have come into the world, and now I am leaving the world again and am going to the Father. Now admittedly at first glance we're like, what does this have to do with assurance? This doesn't sound like assurance, this sounds like abandonment. Jesus keeps talking about leaving, about going somewhere where they cannot follow. And if you're sitting where the disciples were sitting, this would sound deeply unsettling. How does this provide assurance? Family, this is not a statement of abandonment. This is a declaration of sovereign control. Jesus is giving them a plain declarative statement and summary of his entire mission. Because when everything is about to fall apart, what they need most is not emotional reassurance. Not simply to know that God loves you and has a good plan for your life. They need certainty. So when Jesus says, I came from the Father, he's saying something incredible about himself. He is reminding them that he existed before this troubled world began. That he is the pre-existent God of the universe. In fact, this is how John opens up his gospel in John chapter 1, verse 1 and 2. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. Here Jesus is helping them to find orientation that he is no mere man. He's not some rabbi or spiritual guru He is the divine Son of God who existed eternally with the Father in perfect fellowship before the world was made. He assures them by telling him, by telling his disciples exactly who he is And he says to them, I have come into the world. And when he says that, he's letting them know that the eternal son who created the world is stepping into our time and space. Into weakness, into suffering, into a world that he knew would reject him John also said this in the beginning of his gospel in John chapter 1, verse 14: and the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory. Glory as the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. John would go on to say his own people would reject him. Jesus coming into the world is God becoming man, not just to save us, but to be with us. To be in close proximity to us. Which means, family, when your world feels heavy and when suffering feels personal, when pain feels isolating, you are not dealing with a distant God. But a God who draws near to his people. And it's not just that he's close Is that you are being held close by the God who created and holds the universe together by the power of his word Three of our songs this morning, I think by design, express the magnitude of the God who holds things together with his hands. Part of that holding together is you, brothers and sisters. The son entered the world and took on flesh for you. So that you might see God and have peace with him and be assured that he will hold you fast. And then he says, Now I am leaving the world again, and that sounds like loss, but it's not abandonment. This is atonement. He is leaving this world by way of the cross, which means his departure, that the that the disciples fear is actually the path of their salvation and security. He is not walking away from them. He is walking dead into wrath. Wrath that would have crushed them and us. So what this means is that he didn't simply come to walk among us, to kind of be a spiritual guide to point us. He came to be the final sacrifice that would cleanse all of our sin and grant us access to the Father. And then finally, he says, I am going to the Father. And what this means is supreme sovereignty. Hebrews 1:3 tells us that Jesus, after making purification for sins, he sat down at the right hand of the majesty on high. Jesus returning back to the Father is Jesus completing his mission as the victorious Son who will rule and reign and intercede and hold his people safe and secure. Which means if you are trusting in Jesus, then you are held by a Savior who rules and reigns with absolute control over everything and everyone and every circumstance. And do you see what Jesus is doing here? He's saying all this to anchor our peace outside of ourselves. Not in how strong we are, or how strong we feel, or how well we understand things theologically, or how faithful we will be The anchor is in who he is, what he's done, and from where he rules. So when Jesus says in me You may have peace. He's not offering a kind of superficial coping mechanism for your pain. He's offering himself as savior and reigning king. And so verse 28, as theologically dense as it is, at its basic level is meant to bring deep assurance to your soul. Nothing in this world is slipping out of his control. When your world feels like it's falling apart, this is what holds you together. You are held by the sovereign Son eternally. You are in the grip of the Son who came from the Father to make you his own You are in the hands of the one who is now seated at the right hand of God, governing the world with absolute authority and meticulous providence. Everything is clicking as it should. Jesus said earlier in John's Gospel in chapter 10, verses 28 through 29. I give them eternal life, and they will never perish. And no one will snatch them out of my hand. My Father who has given them to me is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. Notice what Jesus does not say. He does not say you will be safe as long as you stay a strong Christian. He does not say you will remain secure as long as your faith never wobbles. He says they will never perish. And then notice he double downs on that promise. No one will snatch them out of my hands Jesus says of himself, and no one will snatch them out of my Father's hands, which means your life is not hanging by a thread. It is secured by the double grip of God It's held by two omnipotent hands, the son who died for you and the father who gave you to him. And if the father has given you to the son, then your salvation is not fragile. It's fixed. So whatever happens in your life, suffering, loss, sickness, betrayal Failure, even death, none of it has authority to undo what Christ has secured by his own blood. Nothing can move his sovereign hand Your circumstances may change. Your emotions may fluctuate. Your strength may waver, but your position does not Because eternal life is not something you're trying to keep. It's something Jesus has cemented for you. And what this means, family. Is that when the world presses in, when fear rises, when things fall apart, you're not being held together by your own sense of inner peace. On the paper-thin words of the people in your community, you're being held by the sovereign king of the universe. And that's why we can say with confidence, nothing can snatch you out of his hands Nothing can separate you from the love of God in Christ Jesus. You're fixed, you're secure, you're held now and forever. Amen? And notice Jesus' aim here to bring assurance to his disciples. It actually works. Notice how the disciples respond. Verse 29 and 30, his disciples said, Ah, now you are speaking plainly and not using figurative speech. Now we know that you know all things and do not need anyone to question you. This is why we believe that you came from God. Notice what happens here. Jesus speaks plainly about himself and about his mission, and as a result, there is a genuine response. This is huge. Clarity concerning Christ produces confession. They don't just feel encouraged, they respond by articulating trust and belief. They believe Jesus is from God. They believe he came from heaven. They believe he knows all things. They believe who he claims to be. This family is real faith. And notice Jesus affirms it in verse 31. Jesus answered them, do you now believe? In other words, do you finally see it? He tells them the truth about himself and the truth about his mission, and the truth and clarity causes belief in the disciples. But notice he also tells them the truth about themselves. Despite their confidence and their confession. Look at verse 32. Behold, the hour is coming. Indeed it has come when you will be scattered, each to his own home, and will leave me alone Jesus doesn't soften what's coming with these disciples. He doesn't protect their pride with silence. He calls it out. He names it. He tells them, brothers, you will experience fear and panic, and you're gonna run. That's gonna be the byproduct of your fear. You're gonna run, even though you believe. He tells them they will fail and fall in the face of fear. He tells them the truth about themselves. And the reason he's clear about why this will happen, listen, is not because they're unbelievers. They just confessed belief. He tells them because he wants them to know they're weak believers. They could believe the right things, but they will overestimate their strength. And listen, it's easy for us on this side of the cross to look at what the disciples did and how they respond and critique it. But family, how often do we do the same thing? We think we're ready to stand up for Jesus because we believe until the pressure comes. We think we're ready to stand for Jesus. We're willing to identify with Jesus until obedience costs you something, like your job, or your reputation We want to rock with Jesus until fear grips our hearts. You see, the problem is not that we don't believe, the problem is that we don't yet know how fragile we are as Christians. Jesus doesn't call them out to shame them or to kind of put them in their place. He says it so that when they do scatter and when we scatter, we won't conclude that we never belonged. He says it so that our future failure doesn't turn into deep despair. I mean look what happened to Judas. He says it so that fear does not become the final word in our life. So that we can return back to the God we confess. So when our courage collapses, we can know our confidence does not rest in ourselves, but in him Family God calling out the fact that they will fail is a kind of strange mercy You see how the Lord intentionally showed them their own fear and failure for their own good to help them and to help us? Jesus prepares them and us for our weakness so that our weakness doesn't destroy us. And then he adds this one quiet but deeply powerful line, and yet I am not alone because the Father is with me. And that sentence here is doing far more work than it appears on the surface. Jesus is not saying God will emotionally support me through the hard moments. He is saying something much stronger than that. He is saying that nothing is about to happen outside of the will of the Father. His betrayal, his arrest. His trial, his cross, all of the bad things that are about to happen, none of it is outside the Father's perfect purposes. None of it means that the Father has stepped away. When Jesus says the Father is with me, he is saying I am exactly where the Father has placed me to be. I am in perfect alignment with his will. I am obeying the Father faithfully. Which means that even as the disciples flee, Even as they reject Jesus, the Son remains faithful to the Father. And what that means is that our security has never rested in the strength of our grip on Jesus. But on his grip on us. Our security has always rested on the strength of his obedience to the Father. This is the gospel logic that carries us when things fall apart, when our faith wavers, when our courage cracks. When our confidence fades, when we can't make sense of the unimaginable, Christ is near. He will never let us go from the grip of his grace. And just as he was faithful to the Father, he is faithful to us. Hide this truth in your family in your heart's family. When things fall apart, you are loved by the Father, and you are held by the unrelenting grip of the Son. And this brings us to our final marker. You are safe in the end. Verse 33, we see it here. Everything that Jesus has been saying now culminates into this one single sentence. These things I have spoken to you, that in me you may have peace. In the world you will have tribulation, but take heart, I have overcome the world. If you've been a Christian long enough, you have heard this verse a thousand times. But despite the number of times you've heard it, don't let this verse just simply pass over you. This verse is powerful. This verse is sober. It's real. And it's unshakably hopeful. Notice how honest Jesus is with his words here. He doesn't deny suffering. He does not encourage us to live with plastic smiles. He says, in the world you will have tribulation. And that word tribulation is not a vague word. It's a word that means pressure. It's a word that's used for crushing grapes, for pressing olives. It's meant to give you this image of being squeezed that you feel like you can't move. So when Jesus says you will have tribulation, he's saying you will live in this world under an immense amount of pressure. And that pressure shows up in different ways. It shows up as trouble. Which is the various circumstances that disrupt your life, the things that don't go according to your plan, like your 401k or your job. Or when doors close or when relationships you didn't expect to fracture break, it shows up in affliction. The pain that comes at you, not abstract suffering, but personal suffering, real loss or illness or opposition, it shows up as distress The internal weight of it all, which means your anxiety, the heaviness, the sense of being boxed in with no way out. What I'm saying is that tribulation is not just what happens to you, it's what happens inside you when life presses in. And notice what Jesus does not say. He does not say, in this world you might experience tribulation. He says you will. So that when it happens, because it will, you can know that it's not because you have somehow failed in your faith Tribulation isn't the byproduct of God's displeasure with you. It's the very instrument God uses to mature you and grow you in godliness. It's not a sign that you're out of God's will. This is the normal Christian experience in a broken world. And Jesus is honest with us to prepare us. For life lived under pressure. Not to frighten us, but to keep us from being surprised and to push us into the place where we need to find peace. Listen, the world is not neutral towards you. And Jesus has already said why? Because the world hated him, because the world does not know the Father, and because you no longer belong to this world. So Jesus does not promise escape from trouble, but he promises something better. Peace in the midst of trouble. But notice where that peace is found, that in me you may have peace. Not in your circumstances. Not in your outcome, not in the removal of pressure, not in your stability. Peace is not found in the world becoming a safer place to live. Peace is found in Christ remaining victorious. This is why Jesus gives the command to take heart This take heart is not a superficial phrase or a paper-thin word. It's not emotional advice. It's a command to be grounded in reality. And the reason he can command courage is because of what Jesus says next. I have overcome the world. You notice the verb? It's not past tense. Or it is past tense. Not I will, not I'm trying to, but I have. The decisive victory has already been won. He's speaking from the perspective of accomplished redemption from the Father's throne. The cross and the resurrection are already complete, which means your final deliverance is already secured. And that's what this means. It means that the world can't threaten you. Though it pretends to threaten you, its sin, its hostility, its chaos, and its power has already been defeated. Not by force, but by the cross. Jesus overcomes the world by going through suffering, not around it. And if he calls us to be like him, this is true for us as well. But we have this promise that our safety is fixed It's not dependent on your courage, on your consistency, on your ability to hold on. It's dependent on Christ and His finished work. And that changes everything, dear Christian Because even if the world wounds you, it cannot claim you. Even if suffering overwhelms you, it will not separate you. Even if fear shakes you beyond what you think you can handle, it cannot undo what Christ has done. Your end is fixed. You are safe. Not because life is predictable, but because Jesus is victorious. And that's why Jesus doesn't say, take heart, things won't be that hard. He says, take heart because I've already won. This is not optimism, this is assurance. This is not a denial of pain. This is confidence in Christ. So family, when things fall apart, When the world presses in, when fear feels deafening loud, your peace is not found in understanding everything. It's not found in your inner self or even the words people say. It's found in trusting the one who has overcome everything in this world. Family, burn these truths into your heart this morning. You are loved by the Father. You are held by the Son. And you are safe in the end. And that is why even in a world of tribulation, fear, and uncertainty, you can take heart. And here's the truth, I think that this presses on every one of us. Every one of us lives under pressure. Every single one of us faces fear. Most of us imagine worst-case scenarios Everyone eventually is confronted with loss and suffering and death. If you haven't experienced it yet, dear Saint, you will. The difference is not whether life will press in. The difference is where you stand when it does. Some of you are trying to carry the weight of this world with nothing but superficial optimism. That's not gonna go well for you. That's not the anchor Christ has intended for you to hold on to Some of you are leaning on distraction to help you escape the troubles of this world. Some of you focus your attention on achievement, on control. on self-reliance, on meditation, or self-care, but none of those things can carry the weight of tribulation They can't forgive sin. They can't defeat death, and they can't promise an ending that is secure in the grip of God's grace. You need the peace that can only be found in Jesus. Let go. Trust in Jesus. Take all your troubles, all your pressures, and all your pain, and push it into Jesus, the place of peace. And listen, if you are here this morning and you don't know yourself to be a Christian, I want you to know that Jesus invites you to Him this morning to experience this peace. He's not asking you to take heart in yourself and kind of muster up the ability to approach Him. Or to find peace through some kind of spiritual enlightenment. That's not what Christians trust in. He's asking you to turn from yourself. To turn from hoping circumstances will save you, from trusting your life and your guilt and your fear and your future to the one who conquered sin, death, and this world. And the truth is you can do that this morning by doing what the disciples did. Believe who he is and what he's done The Son of God, who came from heaven, who took on flesh, who died on the cross to pay for your sins, and rose from the grave victoriously and went back to the Father who rules and reigns this world. Who will one day come to judge all the evil in this world that is causing all kinds of trouble? Come to him this morning and find peace with God. and peace for your soul and peace in this world. And if you have questions about what that means to follow Jesus, ask anyone in this room. Ask them, are you a Christian? And if they say yes, they will happily cancel their lunch plans. and talk to you about Jesus. This is the most important reality in this world. And they will do whatever possible to help you orient your life, your trust around Jesus. Amen, saints Family, when fear rises, when pressure pushes in, when the future feels uncertain, hear his word again, take heart Not because the world is safe, but because you are safe in Jesus who has overcome the world. Amen? Let's pray. Our Father and our God, we do thank you that we are not orbiting in this world all on our own. But that we are held together by the meticulous power and providence of the king who reigns. We pray, O Lord and God, that you would bend our hearts to your rule and to your wisdom, to trust you. In the face of adversity and suffering and fear and pain. Oh God, would you help us to believe? Help our unbelief. Help us to know That the Father truly loves us, and that we are held by the Son, and that our future hope is fixed and secure, and until that day we long for our hope The hope that awaits us. Keep us tethered to our Lord Jesus by his grip. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen