Well, good morning. My name is Luke Murray. For those who don't know me, I get to serve as an elder here In July 1813, one of the first missionaries ever sent abroad from the US, Adam Iron Judson Arrived in Burma, or what's called Myanmar, today, with a desire to share the gospel to a largely unreached people. He was twenty-five, and his wife Anne was twenty-three. And in one light, you can view their time in Burma as filled with waiting. Just 12 days after they got married, they departed for Burma, but it took them over a year to get there. It took them three years just to learn how to speak the language. It took four years before they held an even semi-public service. For six years, they labored before they saw their first convert. When Anne fell ill and had to return to the U. S. to recover, Aden Aram had to wait two years and four months for her to come back. And for ten of those months, they had no communication at all Another theme to their time in Burma was hardship. After eleven years there, Adaniram was arrested as a spy. At night, guards would put a bamboo pole through his chained legs and then lift the pole up until only Adonaium's shoulders and head were touching the ground, and he would stay that way until the morning. He had to wait seventeen months before he got out It wasn't just the rule of the despotic emperor that made Burma a hard place to live. Over a hundred-degree heat was common. So was cholera, malaria, and dysentery. All three of Anne and Adaniram's children died. Their first baby was born dead just as they sailed from India to Burma. Their second child, Roger, lived seventeen months and died. Their third, Maria, lived to be two and outlived her own mother by six months, and then died. Three of the eight children Adaniram had with his second wife, Sarah, would not reach adulthood, and Sarah herself would die eleven years into their marriage Finally, Adeniram knew inner turmoil. He was distraught after the death of his first wife, Anne. He gave all his savings away. He built a hut in the jungle to live in total isolation. He had a grave dug beside his hut to contemplate his own death. He lamented about the pride in his own heart. In one letter he wrote: My tears flow at the same time over the forsaken grave of my dear love. and over the loathsome sepulchre of my own heart. Waiting on God, persecution, inner turmoil These trials of Adam and Aram's life are some of the topics that come up again and again in our Psalm this morning. Psalm 25 is for people who know what it's like to wait on God. It's for people who know hardship. It's for people who have felt the pangs of sin in their souls. Go ahead if you haven't already, turn in your Bibles to Psalm chapter 25. I'm going to read the whole thing once through. It's not that long of a psalm. But before I do, I want to flag that the structure of this psalm may not be apparent right away That's because it's roughly an alphabetic, acrostic poem in Hebrew. Those are a lot of fancy words, just meaning that most of the lines begin with a successive letter of the Hebrew alphabet. So it's like a poem where the first sentence starts with the letter A, the next sentence with the letter B, and so on and so on. So this psalm is not going to have a nice neat verses 1 to 5 or about this topic and 6 to 10 or about that topic. But I do think you're going to notice, as I read, recurring themes throughout. Let's read now Psalm 25 of David To you, O Lord, I lift up my soul. O my God, in you I trust. Let me not be put to shame. Let not my enemies exult over me. Indeed, none who wait for you shall be put to shame. They shall be ashamed who are wantonly treacherous. Make me to know your ways, O Lord. Teach me your paths Lead me in your truth and teach me, for you are the God of my salvation, for you I wait all the day long. Remember your mercy, O Lord, and your steadfast love, for they have been from of old Remember not the sins of my youth or my transgressions. According to your steadfast love, remember me, for the sake of your goodness, O Lord. Good and upright is the Lord. Therefore, he instructs sinners in the way. He leads the humble in what is right, and teaches the humble his way. All the paths of the Lord are steadfast love and faithfulness for those who keep his covenant and his testimonies. For your name's sake, O Lord, pardon my guilt, for it is great. Who is the man who fears the Lord? Him will he instruct in the way that he should choose His soul shall abide in well-being, and his offspring shall inherit the land. The friendship of the Lord is for those who fear him, and he makes known to them his covenant. My eyes are ever toward the Lord, for he will pluck my feet out of the net. Turn to me and be gracious to me, for I am lonely and afflicted. The troubles of my heart are enlarged. Bring me out of my distresses. Consider my affliction and my trouble, and forgive all my sins. Consider how many are my foes, and with what violent hatred they hate me O guard my soul and deliver me. Let me not be put to shame, for I take refuge in you. May integrity and uprightness preserve me For I wait for you. Redeem Israel, O God, out of all his troubles. The main point of this sermon is what I think is the main point of this psalm. In times of trouble, God's children look to God for help. In times of trouble, God's children look to God for help And that sentence is going to break apart into four different parts, and that's going to be the outline of my sermon this morning. So let's start with part number one: in times of trouble. David's got lots of problems in this psalm. You can divide them roughly into two parts. We're going to start with the trouble that comes from the outside and then move to the trouble that rises from within. At the beginning and end of the Psalm, David references enemies who are out to get him. Verse 2: O my God, in you I trust. Let me not be put to shame. Let not my enemies exult over me. Then down to verse 19. Consider how many are my foes, and with what violent hatred they hate me. Verse 20: Let me not be put to shame, for I take refuge in you. Twice at the beginning and end of the chapter, there's this idea that David's enemies will put him to shame. There's this very real possibility that David's enemies will get victory and exult over him. Now you have to bear with me for a second. I'm a bit of a basketball fan. I'm going to use a basketball analogy, but I trust you'll track with me. There's this famous clip, famous at least among basketball fans, that gets played over and over again, especially during the playoffs of the NBA. Which is going on right now for those that don't know It's game one of the NBA Championship Series in 2001, pitting the heavily favored and reigning champion LA Lakers versus the upstart scrappy Philadelphia 76ers. And late in the game, there's this player from the 76ers, named Allen Iverson, one of the best players ever. He has the ball. He fakes a drive to the basket on the baseline. He steps back and he shoots this jumper. And the Lakers defender reaches out in vain to try and block it as Iverson makes the shot. And what happens to the defender is he kind of trips and falls. It wasn't really like Iverson made him trip. It was like he lost his footing as he was looking to block it. And what does Alan Iverson do? He doesn't run around, in this case Tyrone Liu from the Lakers, like not step on him. He steps over Tyrone Liu. And he steps over him in a way it's not like, oh, I'm sorry, I don't want to step on you. I gotta get back on defense. Instead, it's like Slow, deliberate, high knee, stops and looks back at Tyrone Liu on the ground. He is exulting over that Lakers defender. He is putting him to shame. That's a little like what David is talking about here. In verse 3 though, he also talks about how his enemies are a little bit different, perhaps, than 76ers versus Lakers. He calls his enemies wantonly treacherous. Treacherous means betraying or deceiving. Wantonly means without cause or reason So those going after David are acting falsely for no good reason. And later in the Psalm, as we've already heard, David is going to confess his sins before God. But we are not to construe or conflate the fact that David isn't perfect with meaning this persecution from his enemies was somehow justified. It wasn't And not only did David not do anything to provoke his enemies, David's enemies wanted to kill him. Look again at verse 19. David says that his foes are many, and that they violently hate him. Violently hate. I assume you get what hate means. Obviously, if you put violently in front of that word, you're talking about physical action seeking to destroy the other person. I admit, an example from the sports world can trivialize the scene. But this is not just about grown men gloating over each other during a sports game. David's enemies are out to get him. They want him dead. It's worth pausing here and noting the simple fact that David has enemies. Now, David doesn't tell us who his enemies were at this time. It could have been Saul running after him, could have been his own son Absalom trying to depose him, or one of the many foreign armies trying to seize Israel. And when we hear those possibilities, it may be tempting to think: well, I'm not a king like David. I don't have a foreign army trying to defeat me, so this enemy stuff doesn't apply to me. But it wasn't just David that had enemies. Jesus did too. And so do his followers. Repeatedly in Matthew 23, Jesus pronounces woe on the scribes and Pharisees. In Galatians 5:12, Paul wishes that his enemies would emasculate themselves. In Matthew 5, Jesus tells his followers to love your enemies. Jesus assumed that if his followers were living in a way that obedience was the pattern of their lives, then people would oppose them. Why? Because people either follow God and are his children, or they oppose God and are his enemies Christians, we should be living lives that are distinct from this world, that stand out, and yes, even see people oppose us for our obedience. Pick the social issue of the day, and you can see how Christians stand out. Yes, Christians believe in two sexes, male and female, or that God designed marriage to be between a man and a woman. Or that same-sex attraction is not something to be celebrated, or that our identities are not ultimately found in our sexual preferences Or that life in a mother's womb is worth protecting, or that the poor or refugees, are not to be ridiculed or mocked or belittled, but like orphans and widows helped and protected High schoolers, I want to speak directly to you for a minute. For those of you who trust in God As you're interacting more and more with the world, I wonder if you're noticing how your life looks different from your unbelieving friends. I assume you don't tell crude jokes or swear, you don't get drunk on the weekends, you don't treat others with disrespect or cheat to get ahead. That can be hard sometimes to live a different life. When I was a high school sophomore, I remember very distinctly changing in my high school locker room when the captain of the track team came up to me. He walked over and made fun of me for not engaging in a particularly immoral sin. I think he wanted to embarrass me in front of the whole team. But I had a good Christian friend on the team who reassured me. If you haven't noticed this difference in your life between you and your unbelieving friends, you will. Soon, but especially after you move out. Don't be surprised by it. Don't be caught off guard for being ridiculed for living a life that looks distinct from unbelieving friends. And then, of course, there is the offense of the gospel itself. You will not be well liked by this world if you insist that heaven and hell are real. That it was God who created all things, but that there's only one way to heaven, and that's Jesus. Now, if you clearly stand for any of those positions, Or you live in these godly ways we just talked about. You're going to be attacked in our society from the left and the right sides of our political spectrum. And that's okay. Jesus knew this would happen. But I wonder if you're tempted, maybe not to completely abandon these unpopular truths, but have some sort of temporary intentional amnesia. Are there certain unbelieving friends, family members, co-workers, who you really want to like you Or maybe it isn't so much wanting to be liked, but just a desire to avoid conflict. You don't like disagreement because it makes you feel uncomfortable We are not to soften the hard edges of the gospel or its implications. Being liked by or approved of by others, that's not the goal Being right before God, including standing for and living in light of what is right, no matter what may be trending in our society, is far more important for our souls. Now, I'm not saying you should get in people's faces, whether online or in person, and shout the truth at them. There are plenty of spots in the Bible that rebuke those who are not careful with their words and leanlessly provoke. I trust that whenever we get to those spots, whomever is preaching will challenge those who struggle in that way. But it can be tempting, especially in a day and age when so many people are rudely and rebuking one another, to actually go in the opposite direction. In the name of Bean Winsome, the truth is softened to the point that it's hard to recognize. Attempts are made to minimize differences. Common ground becomes the only objective But that's also not right. We don't have to be jerks to defend the truth. And not being a jerk doesn't mean we're squishes. But if we don't stand for the truth, even vigorously defend it, if we leave defending the truth to those who do it in the most offensive and obnoxious way, then that too is sin, friends. The challenge for us this morning in Psalm 25 is: are we sinfully trying to avoid having enemies by sacrificing what we know to be true and right? David had enemies. Jesus had enemies. His followers had enemies. All because they obeyed Christ. Do we? Let's keep going. David's got problems not only externally, but also from within. Look at how David describes his inner feelings in verses 16 to 18. Turn to me and be gracious to me, for I am lonely and afflicted. The troubles of my heart are enlarged Bring me out of my distresses. Consider my affliction and my trouble. Leave us lonely Twice he says he's afflicted. He's distressed. The troubles of his heart are growing. Loneliness, affliction, distress. This is a pretty deep valley to be in. David is not taking on his enemies from a position of strong self-confidence. No, he is crumbling inside His heart is about to burst from all his troubles. And troubles like this can be paralyzing. It can be hard to wake up in the morning. The whole world can seem gray. I wonder if any of us here this morning can relate to this kind of inner turmoil. There's something else inside of David that's adding to his anguish. The psalmist doesn't talk about his own sin in any of the first 24 Psalms, not once. But in Psalm 25, David calls out his own sin repeatedly. You probably noticed that. Verse 7: Remember not the sins of my youth. Verse 11, pardon my guilt for it is great. Verse 18, forgive all my sins. David's enemies are threatening him, his friends have abandoned him, his heart is full of trouble, and now this is all compounded by the grief and misery of a sinful heart Oh, how heavy this all must have weighed on David. As evil as his enemies are David's recognition of them does not distract him from also seeing clearly within his own heart. I really appreciate this about David. They enough had enough wherewithal to examine his own heart, even in the midst of persecution that he didn't deserve. David had a lot going wrong, but even if everything is going right in this life, great job, lots of money, loving spouse, good health. If you're not right with God, then you are not right on what matters most. I'll be the first to confess it's easier for me to see the sin of others than my own. It may be a good conversation after church to talk with a friend or spouse and ask if they think you look at the fault of others more than yourself. Better yet, it would be good if all of us spent some time later today confessing our sins before the Lord. Dads, given it's Father's Day, you get a special shout out here. We should be leading our homes in confessing sin. What does that look like? We should be teaching our children, certainly, the importance of confessing sin, but we also should be modeling it. We should be the first to confess sin, and it should be genuine. I think all of us Christians can relate to David's feeling of guilt here. When we've messed up, we know we've wronged our Heavenly Father, and it doesn't feel good. Even this feeling, though, is a gift from God. We are blind to our own sin, apart from God revealing it to us The man after God's own heart, King David, looks around and sees enemies who want to kill him, and no friends to help him. He looks inside himself and sees anguish, affliction, and shameful sin. Friends, trials and tribulations are part of the Christian life. The 19th-century preacher William Plummer put it this way: the road to heaven is soaked with the tears and blood of the saints. The Bible doesn't try to sweep the hard realities of this life under the rug. It calls them out. When trials come, we need God's help. But first, who does God help? That brings us to point two. In times of trouble, God's children. I don't know if you caught this as we were reading, but over and over again in this psalm, there are descriptions. Conditions even, about those who God helps. The perhaps uncomfortable fact of this psalm is that God does not help everyone Look at verse 3, for example. None who wait for you shall be put to shame. That's a strong promise, but it's conditional, right? Those who are not put to shame are those who wait for God. And there are other conditions in this Psalm as well. Look at verse 9. Who does God teach and lead in what is right? The humble. Verse 10: All the paths of the Lord are steadfast love and faithfulness, but for who? For those who keep his covenant and testimonies. Verses 12 to 14 have a bunch of blessings: instruction from God, a soul that abides in well-being, friendship of the Lord, the revelation of his covenant. Who are those blessings for? Well, for those who fear the Lord. So who does God help in this psalm? Well, it's summarize. It's those who wait for God, are humble, keep his covenant, and fear God. Like strokes of a painting when put together, these qualities form a picture. It's God's children If you're in Christ, then you're waiting on Him to answer all your requests and ultimately to come again. Humility also marks your life. Sure, you can be tempted to pride, but deep down you know you're a sinner in desperate need of a savior. And yes, in general, Christians keep God's covenant. We know this isn't talking about perfectly keeping the covenant, because in the very next verse, David himself says his guilt is great. In fact, I don't know of a better passage in all the Psalms, even throughout the Old Testament, that so clearly shows when Scripture speaks of Christians living righteous lives, it doesn't mean that Christians won't sin. Rather, it means that Christians are generally following a pattern of walking in obedience and holiness instead of giving into and even delighting in sin. Christians find joy in following the way of our Savior and keeping the covenant. Finally, Christians fear God. If we examine Scripture, we find that those who experienced the most intimacy with God knew more than his wonderful tenderness. They knew enough of his holiness to fear him From Habakkuk's lips quivering after God appeared to him, or the sight of Jesus causing the Apostle John on the island of Patmos to fall at his feet as though dead. There is no intimacy with God without trembling before God. If you don't wait for God, if you're not humbled before Him, if you don't keep His covenant, if you don't fear God, in other words If you're not a Christian, then these promises of help in this psalm are not for you. You are outside the promises. If this is you, the right response isn't to walk away discouraged and angry, but seeing your need for a savior. to cry out and beg the Lord to give you the belief and trust in Him. In fact, going to God is the key aspect of our third point. Number three, in times of trouble, God's children look to God. What does David do with all these problems? He prays. From the first verse, when David lifts up his soul to him, to the last verse, when David asks him for redemption, David goes to God. You really can't miss that fact in the Psalm. The whole thing is a prayer to God. Verse 1: to you I lift up my soul. Verse 2, in you I trust. Verse 5, you are the God of my salvation. Verse 15, my eyes are ever toward the Lord. Verse 20, I take refuge in you. King David is clearly surrendering to the King of Kings here. Who does he look to? Who does he take refuge in? Who does he trust? Who can save him? It's God, God, God, God all the time and every time. Non-Christian, I wonder what you do when you feel like the world is against you, or when you know that you've messed up badly and it was your fault, when your friends have abandoned you. Who do you turn to? Do they help? What do you do? Does it work? Have you found refuge and solace in those people or things When the circumstances of life grow dark, the non-Christian gropes around trying to find his way. The Christian goes home. Christian, going to God in times of trouble should be our first instinct and our last breath. He and he alone can save. There is no one like him We may have to go to him over and over, because his timing is not our timing, but in the end, God will not disappoint. As one theologian put it, we never honor God more, nor please him better, than when in times of trouble and darkness we still trust him and believe that he will do all things well. There's a specific element of looking to God in this psalm that I don't want us to miss. When David turns to God and unloads all his troubles, a big part of his hoping in God is waiting on him. Verse 3, waiting comes in the form of a promise. None who wait for you shall be put to shame. Verse 5: Waiting is one of the reasons David gives for why God should instruct him: Lead me in your truth and teach me, for you are the God of my salvation. For you I wait all the day long. Verse 21. Waiting is again a reason why God should save David. May integrity and uprightness preserve me, for I wait for you Kids, I bet you understand what it's like to wait. Raise your hand, kids, if you have ever had to wait. All right, now put your hands down. Raise your hand if you like to wait. Yes, that means you're just like me. Waiting is never fun. I don't know of anyone who likes to wait. By its very definition, waiting implies something you want that you can't have. Think about how much money is spent to avoid waiting. First class. Gets to board first. Faster phones means you don't have to wait that extra second or two to load that video. A fast pass at an amusement park. You don't have to wait in those extra long lines for a ride. We get the sense that David has been waiting for a while. Verse 5, he says, For you I wait all the day long. God has chosen to not yet give it to David, yet David doesn't waver, does he? Verse 15: My eyes are ever toward the Lord. What a wonderful response. While it may not feel like it at the time, waiting is a marvelous discipline of the mature Christian. We wait for what we hope for And if we didn't have hope or confidence that God could help, then we wouldn't wait for Him. Unbelievers aren't waiting on God for anything. When believers wait on God, that's evidence of true faith, and we should be encouraged by that. What does it look like to wait well? A heart that is waiting is a heart that is simple, dependent, expecting, and attentive. It's simple in that it has one focus, looking for the sun that is God's help. It is dependent, knowing that it can't make the sun rise It is expecting, and that it is confident that the sun will rise again, and it is attentive, looking for that first crack in the light of dawn. It does not give up when delay and discouragements come. It is determined to reject all other confidences. It has one fork focus, one source of relief, one hope In nearly every season of my life, I can think of asks I had of God that were not immediately answered. Wanting good, godly friends in junior high. Wondering what college I should go to in high school. Wanting to find a spouse in college, wanting a good job in grad school, wanting kids after marriage, wanting to kill a specific sin. Brothers and sisters in Christ, I trust you've waited before. I wonder if there's anything you're waiting for in this particular season of your life. Perhaps it's help with disobedient kids, or relief from a physical ailment, or for some really hard relationship to become a little bit easier. Or maybe it's simply and most supremely for Jesus to come back again. Waiting is hard. How are you doing at waiting? Are you tired? Are you hopeful? Are you patient? What helps us to wait well? When the one on whom we wait is worth waiting for. Right in the middle of David's prayer, verses 6 to 10, we get this burst of truths about God's character. And whenever we come across explicit descriptions of who God is in our Bibles, our antennas should go up. These are like nuggets of gold for us. God's attributes are fountains of joy to the believer's soul Look at verse six. God's mercy and steadfast love have been from of old. In verse seven he says, According to your steadfast love, remember me. Verse ten All the paths of the Lord are steadfast love and faithfulness. Three times, when David describes God in this chapter, he chooses to talk about God's steadfast love I think David does this because we're still sinners and often too slow to choose holiness. We mess up all the time. And we can be tempted to wonder: does God still love me? David in the Bible's unequivocal answer is yes. Steadfast love does not give up on its object at the first opportunity. Or the second, or the third, God's love does not change. Last summer, my family went to Yosemite for a week. And if you go to the valley in Yosemite National Park and you look up, one of the most striking features all around you is this feature called half dome. Half dome is this monstrous piece of granite that rises 4,800 feet from the valley floor. Now, growing up in California, I had been lots of times to Yosemite. And when I went back for the first time in some 20 years, you know what? Half dome looked exactly the same. I also have this picture of Half Dome in my bedroom that was taken by the photographer Ansel Adams in 1965. And you know what? Half Dome looks the same in that picture, too For thousands and thousands of years, Half Dome has looked exactly the same. People have climbed up it, repelled down it, kids have slid down parts of it. Through rain and thunder and lightning, forest fires and earthquake, there sits Half Dome. Same as ever. Now, why is it so easy for us to not be surprised that Half Dome hasn't changed, and yet we doubt that the love of the of the God who created Half Dome has stayed the same? Friends, God's love for his children is more steadfast than the biggest rock. His love will not be budged by our sin. It won't move an inch When we are faithless, God is faithful. His love is steadfast. There's more. Look at verse 8. Good and upright is the Lord. God is good in the most pure, absolute way. He's the very definition of goodness. You don't know what good is unless you measure it against God. He is upright. God never stoops or bends down to sin. His mercy is from of old. Steadfast love and faithfulness are overflowing. He is a good and upright God. David knew these attributes about our God before he ever wrote this song. I think he includes them in his prayer to encourage himself Calvin says David's meditations on God's character is the means of stirring up himself to increased confidence in God, and of withdrawing his thoughts from the allurements of the world I think that's right. Thinking about who God is is like putting logs on the fire of our prayers. They stoke our confidence in Him and love for Him. This can be really practical. If we're struggling to wait well, one of the specific things we can do is to think about, read about, pray about, and listen to someone else speak about the attributes of our Lord. If we want to wait well, we must remind ourselves of what the one we wait for is like. As a church, I'd love us to talk more about how we wait for God. I think the Bible talks about waiting a lot more than we do. Part of that will mean that we are more open and honest with each other. It's hard to know what we're waiting for if we don't tell each other. So, what prayers of yours have yet to be answered? I bet if we went around this room, every believer could share one or two ways in which they are waiting on God. Second, we should encourage one another as we wait. We should mimic David here and build one another up by reminding each other of who God is and what he has done And third, we should look up to and imitate fellow believers in this church who, like David, are waiting well. Even though they have good requests that have not been answered, they are not discouraged or embittered at God. They fully trust That he will do what is right in the end, even if that means they don't get what they've asked for. I think a characteristic of a mature believer is someone who waits well When God calls us to wait, we may see it, I hope that we see it not just as a duty, but as a privilege. When we have to wait on God, we get to show the world that God is our hope. And because God is good and upright, because He's full of steadfast love and faithfulness, because His mercy is from of old, we will not wait in vain. God will never let us down. Waiting well doesn't mean that we can't make our requests known to God. And that leads us to our fourth and final point. In times of trouble, God's children look to God for help. In his prayers to God, David asked for help in roughly three ways: protection, instruction, and forgiveness. Let's look at each of these in turn. Given the fact that David has enemies who violently hate him, it isn't surprising to see that David prays for protection. Verse 20, he asks that God would both guard him and deliver him. We shouldn't overcomplicate this ask. David has enemies and needs protection, so that's what he prays for. When we have specific needs, it's okay to have specific asks of God. In fact, God is honored when we bring these specific asks to him. David's second request is for God to show him the way. Look at verses 4 and 5. Make me to know your ways, O Lord. Teach me your paths, lead me in your truth, and teach me. Threatened by enemies, weighed down by his sin, it makes sense then that David asked God to show him what to do. Even this request is full of humility. David doesn't insist on his own solution to his problems. He genuinely doesn't know where to go or what to do next. But David knows he wants to go where God wants him to go. He wants to follow the Lord in what the Lord thinks is best. So David goes to the feet of the Lord and asks to be led. I trust you can remember plenty of times when you didn't know what to do. And I am sure we're all going to be in need of God's wisdom again soon. Verse 4 is a great popcorn prayer to memorize for these times. Make me to know your ways, O Lord. Teach me your paths. The third way that David asks for help is for God to forgive his sins Verse 6, David asks God, Remember your mercy, O Lord. Verse 7, he asks again to not remember the sins of his youth. And then verse 11, he asks God to pardon my guilt. Verse 18, to forgive all my sins. In going to God for forgiveness, David testifies that his works don't give him any hope. He knows he needs God's mercy and love. To the unbeliever. We've talked about how the promises of help in this chapter are not for you, but they can be. How? Well, the answer is as reliable as it is simple. Like David does here, go to God in faith for forgiveness of your sins. You see, we've all sinned. If we take an honest look at our past like David does, we can remember times we messed up when we didn't do what we knew was right. And because God is good and not evil, he punishes sin. That means each one of us stands condemned before him. But God sent his own son, Jesus Christ, to this world, becoming man. Like David, Jesus knew inner anguish, his sweat like great drops of blood falling to the ground, the Gospel of Luke tells us. Like David, Jesus looked to the Father for help, praying in those moments of anguish, and praying plenty of other times too But unlike David, Jesus had no sins to confess. There was not a thought that popped into his head, or a word that came out of his mouth, that was anything but purely and wholly good. David may have generally kept God's covenant, but Jesus kept it perfectly. Like David, Jesus had enemies who violently hated him and were wantonly treacherous Unlike David, Jesus died by the hand of his enemies, torn and beaten then, nailed to a cross of wood for a crime he did not commit. But this was all part of God's plan It's on the cross that we most supremely see God's steadfast love and mercy, which were from of old. David could never save himself from his own sins, let alone deliver salvation to the Israelites whom he ruled over. But Jesus took the wrath that we deserve to bring salvation for all God's children. It's in Jesus' sacrifice that we find the ultimate answer to David's prayer for forgiveness. So, non-Christian, I urge you, I plead with you. Turn to God today and believe in Jesus for your salvation. The double trial of enemies without and guilt within is the distinguishing mark of Psalm twenty-five. Trials come to everyone. The question is, what will we do when trials come? After the death of Adaniram and Anne's second child, Roger, Anne wrote, Our hearts were bound up with this child We felt He was our earthly all, our only source of innocent recreation in this heathen land. But God saw it was necessary to remind us of our error, and to strip us of our only little all Oh, may it not be in vain that he has done it. May we so improve it that he will stay his hand and say, It is enough. even in the death of their dearest child, Anne trusted in the Lord's sovereignty and goodness. Adeniram would also write If I had not felt certain that every additional trial was ordered by infinite love and mercy, I could not have survived my accumulated sufferings Like David, Adonairam knew that all the paths of the Lord are steadfast love and faithfulness. And ultimately, it was knowing who God is and what he has done for his people that sustained both Anne and Adonairam. Adonairam would work in Burma for 36 years until he died there at age 61. And such was the legacy of a man sold out for God, that two hundred years later, the Myanmar Baptist Convention estimates there are roughly one million Baptists and three thousand seven hundred churches who trace their origins back to God's work through Adeniro. In times of trouble, and they had plenty of them, David and Anne and Adaniram kept going to their only source of hope, the Lord God Almighty. Who are you? Let's pray. Our precious, precious Lord, we praise you for your steadfast love and faithfulness, for your mercy and goodness. When times of trouble come, help us to go to you with hope and trust and faith. Amen.