Good morning. Again. Good to be with you. Open your Bibles, please, to Ephesians chapter 3 We're going to continue this morning our study of the book of Ephesians, Ephesians chapter 3. If you are using one of those Bibles provided uh around you, that's going to be found on page 977 of those Bibles. Ephesians chapter 3. I'll read our passage this morning in just a couple of minutes I'm not sure if the Gordon family of Alberton, Canada ever sang the words, Jesus paid it all, all to him I owe. Uh that hymn, which we sang last Sunday at the conclusion of our service, was written in 1865. Uh eight years after George Gordon landed on the coast of Aramango off the Pacific Ocean with his wife Ellen. Uh they had arrived there to spread the good news of the Lord Jesus and that island had already become known for its uh murderous rage against western missionaries. Many had already been killed on that island for their witness to the Lord Jesus. But uh Gordon learned their language and he shared his medical skills and he established a good reputation for the Christian faith among the islanders that he ministered to there along with his wife. Uh despite ongoing threats and warnings from the natives to leave the island, George and Ellen stayed. They had come there to spread the gospel of Jesus Christ and over there time uh in Aramango they saw about 40 from the island converted to the Christian faith. But after Four years of living there in 1861, uh there was an outbreak of measles on the island, and one of the chiefs of the island thought that Gordon had cast a spell on two of his children who died from the disease. And so the chief banded together a group of warriors and they killed George on May 20th, 1861. A few minutes later, they killed his wife, Ellen. The news eventually reached Gordon's aged and at this time blind mother Mary, and she cried out, My son, my son, and and she wept, as you would imagine anyone would, as you would. Mary's other son, James, George's brother, who himself was aspiring to ministry, heard of the anguish and he learned of what had happened to his brother and sister-in-law. And he decided that he would send in an application to the mission board asking that he might be sent to take his brother's place on Aramango And preach the message of forgiveness and love through Jesus Christ to his brother's murderers Where does that kind of courage and resilience come from? Because you you and I are going to need it if we would be faithful in our mission to steward this this gospel message that we've gathered to celebrate this morning. Bryce uh as the beginning of the service he he pointed your attention to the front of our bulletin where this church is uh mission statement is uh communicated that we are disciples and we make disciples of the Lord Jesus. And that's not a very flashy, showy mission statement, and I kind of like it that way Because we're not here to do anything very innovative or flashy. We're here to keep the ball rolling as the case may be. Jesus charged his disciples to go and make disciples of all nations and baptize them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, teaching them to obey everything that he's commanded. And yet Jesus had warned his followers that it would be hard to do so. He told them that the gate is narrow and the way is hard that leads to life. And so there are temptations through the Christian life. And especially as we seek to bear witness to the Lord Jesus, there are temptations to grow weary, to lose heart Even if our particular dangers may not be as severe as what the Gordon family experienced Uh maybe we're tempted to lose heart. We work hard to put a VBS together or a Christmas service and yet Uh when I walk around Chevrolet, there's a lot more uh merch for the LGBTQ agenda. That's around town than there is for the Church of the Lord Jesus. And we work hard to bear witness to the Lord Jesus and yet we're still at times regarded as that church that's not open and affirming. We hold out a message of love to all and yet it's regarded as hate speech. Maybe we labor to raise our children in the nurture and admonition of the word. And yet we see then in time some of those kids walk away from the faith that we instilled, sought to instill in them. And maybe we pour into someone, spend hours over weeks and months and even years, pour into them to disciple them, to encourage them. And then they they become less responsive and less responsive and less responsive and then eventually they can't be found. And they accuse the church of not caring for them, not encouraging them. There's lots of temptations to grow weary and lose heart in ministry. And this passage that we're going to look at in Ephesians 3 is a balm to weary and discouraged souls who are weary, especially in their service to the Lord Jesus. Paul's entire motive in writing this portion of the letter is that the Ephesians themselves not give way to discouragement. Uh if you look there at your Bibles in verse 13 of Ephesians 3, this is the end of our passage, but it tells us the upshot, it tells us the point that Paul has in writing what he's writing. He says, so I ask you not to lose heart over what I am suffering for you, which is your glory. He doesn't want the Ephesians to lose heart. And everything that he says in the beginning of chapter three, up to that statement, in verse thirteen, is intended to help us to fight against this impulse towards Losing heart in the work of ministry. And his secret, and we we studied this passage last week and we got an overview of it, but his secret has everything to do with As we sang earlier, with coming and beholding the wondrous mystery, the eternal plan of God in Christ, which has now been revealed to the nations. and is being displayed through Christ's church. That's what we spent some time thinking about last Sunday. We're going to read the same passage again today. And I just wanted I wanted to, before we move on to the wonderful prayer that Paul prays for the Ephesians, we'll Lord willing look at that next week, but before we moved on, there was just a few more pieces of this passage that seem to me to warrant our attention. So I'm going to read the same passage again that we looked at last week, and I'm going to just give you the outline up front so that you can be on the lookout as I read this passage for what we're going to be talking about in our time together. I want you to be on the lookout as I read Ephesians 3, 1 through 13, be on the lookout for the privilege of gospel ministry. The privilege of gospel ministry. There's a sense you'll see that Paul has of wonder and amazement at the gracious gift that he has received to be a minister of the gospel. And then we'll also see in this passage, be on the lookout for the prize of gospel ministry, the prize of it. And that is the proclamation of the unsearchable riches of Christ that Paul's been charged to proclaim. And then we'll see in this passage also the price of gospel ministry. We'll see that In this great privilege that Paul has of bearing witness to the unsearchably rich Christ, there's a price to pay. There's a suffering that Paul must bear. Privilege, the prize, the price. That's what we want to think about as we look at this passage. Now, uh, listen along. In fact, actually, I'm going to pray before I read. We need God's help To hear the word, to understand the word, to apply the word. Let me pray for us and then I'll read these words from Ephesians 3. Heavenly Father, we thank you for the privilege that it is to be able to gather to hear your word to sit under it. We pray that you would instruct us. We pray that your spirit would be working among us to give us life For some, maybe that's brand new life in Christ. We pray for spiritually dead people among us that they would hear your words and live. And we pray for those who have been granted graciously life in Christ that you would strengthen that life and equip us with what we need to serve you faithfully. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Ephesians 3 verse 1. For this reason, I, Paul, a prisoner for Christ Jesus on behalf of you Gentiles Assuming that you have heard of the stewardship of God's grace that was given to me for you, how the mystery was made known to me by revelation, as I have written briefly. When you read this, you can perceive my insight into the mystery of Christ, which was not made known to the sons of men in other generations, as it has now been revealed to his holy apostles and prophets by the Spirit. This mystery is that the Gentiles are fellow heirs, members of the same body and partakers of the promise in Christ Jesus through the gospel. Of this gospel I was made a minister according to the gift of God's grace, which was given me by the working of his power. To me, though I am the very least of all the saints, this grace was given. To preach to the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ. And to bring to light for everyone what is the plan of the mystery hidden for ages in God who created all things. So that through the church the manifold wisdom of God might now be made known to the rulers and authorities in the heavenly places. This was according to the eternal purpose That he has realized in Christ Jesus our Lord, in whom we have boldness and access with confidence through our faith in him. So I ask you not to lose heart over what I am suffering for you. Which is your glory. This is God's word, brothers and sisters. Thanks be to God. Indeed. We are thankful for his word, right? I don't want those to be mechanical words that we say. We have reason to be grateful. God has just communicated with us through his word. We want to learn from this passage first the sense of deep privilege, the honor, the sense that this is an unearned and undeserved gift that Paul speaks of of having been entrusted with the message of the gospel. He says this three different times in the passage that I just read. If you look there at verse 2, he says You've heard, he says, of the stewardship of God's grace that was given to me for you So Paul's a steward, he's been entrusted with a message, and the stewardship of this message is itself a grace. It's a message of grace, but the fact that Paul has been entrusted with the message is itself also an act of God's grace. to Paul. It's grace that was given to him, he says there in verse 2. In verse 7, he says, of this gospel, having spoken of the way that Gentiles along with Jews are Fellow partakers of the promise in Christ Jesus, he says, of this gospel, I was made a minister. He didn't just take it upon himself. He was made a minister. according to the gift of God's grace, which was given me by the working of his power. And then he says again in verse 8, to me, though I am the very least of all the saints, This grace was given to me. The commentators say that this this phrase here, the very least, that Paul has basically created a new word. He takes a superlative the least, but then he adds a comparative to the superlative. I'm the least of the saints. What grace he has received, as he goes on to say, to speak, to proclaim the unsearchable riches of Christ. So you get the sense from these verses that Paul is just overwhelmed, that he's astonished with wonder over God's dealings with him. Right? He he can't get over the fact that God, in his kindness, has has granted him not just salvation Surely we know that Paul rejoiced in the love of Christ to him, that Christ, the Son of God, loved him and gave himself for him. that he was saved by God's grace. We know that Paul never tired of rejoicing in that grace, but here he is rejoicing in the fact that he The chief of sinners that he was, the leastest of all the saints, that he gets to be a part of what God is doing in the world by spreading the message of this grace to more and more people. It's as though Paul is saying to me, Marvel at this, to me He hated Jesus. Paul hated Jesus. You know that about Paul and his history. He was in going around in raging fury. He even describes it in his own words in the book of Acts. In raging fury, he was trying to destroy the Christian church. I didn't believe in Jesus. I didn't want anything to do with Jesus. He's I he doesn't even deserve, he has a sense. He doesn't even deserve to be saved. He doesn't even deserve to be alive. He should be crushed under the weight of God's righteous wrath, but he's been given He's been given a trust, a stewardship. Why not why not Nicodemus, you know? I mean he was pretty he was he he still needed Christ himself, but he was a pretty righteous Follower of the law? No, to me, a hater of Christ and a persecutor of the church, to me, this grace was given Made me think of of uh of Lou Garrick. You know those famous words of Lou Garrick, the the base famous baseball player who died of what's now known as Lou Garrick's disease ALS and he and it took him out. He was still playing baseball and he got this disease he couldn't keep playing. He stood before the crowded Yankee Stadium and said, today I consider myself the luckiest man on the face of the earth. Now, of course, we know there's nothing such a thing as luck, but I think that's the kind of posture that Paul has. I am the most blessed man on the earth that I get to be a servant of Jesus And Paul's privilege was a unique one, right? He was an apostle, he was an authoritative spokesman, he wrote scripture None of us share in that exact privilege that the Apostle Paul had. But every single follower of Jesus Has similarly been entrusted as a servant and as a steward of this gospel message. The revelation of the mystery given to and proclaimed by Paul, how's that being carried on today? There are no more apostles. Spreading that word. The apostles laid that foundation. They have given us God's written word. By praise God, we have, as we say, thanks be to God, we have the written word of God. in the scriptures, but now this proclamation of good news in Jesus is being carried on by all of us who formerly once hated God, right? We were, as Paul has said to the Ephesians already, we were dead in sin. We were children of wrath by nature, but he has entrusted to those whom he has saved, those whom he has made alive by grace He has entrusted that all of us who are united to Jesus by faith would carry on this mission by being the light of the world, as Jesus said to his disciples, you are the light of the world. If you have stepped into the light of God's salvation through faith in Jesus Christ, it's because somebody told you that good news. And it is now our privilege and it is our calling to spread that news in your home, in your neighborhood, in your school, at Lowe's. Even among all the nations of the earth. The Apostle Peter would write to the Christians scattered in the first century, you are a chosen race. A royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for his own possession, that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness and into his marvelous light. We all have a stewardship if we're here and we are Christians. It's not just apostles and missionaries, pastors who have this stewardship Peter says there whoever whoever's been called out of darkness into God's marvelous light is sent out to proclaim the excellencies of him who did it. So I I I'm wanting and I the Lord just the Lord bombarded me with this reality throughout the week, even apart from my sermon preparation. So you're just getting, um, I I I hope I'm not dumping on you in a bad way, but I I just want to I just want to pour out to you what the Lord has been working on me again, even apart, in like Different articles I would stumble across online, couple different conversations that I had during the week. This reality, that that evangelism, that spreading taking this message and stewarding it and spreading it to others, that's not something that is just an ought to. But it's something that we should regard as a get-to. Because we can talk about this subject and shrink and just kind of feel like guilty. Yeah, I know. It's a privilege. It's a get-to. So so Matt Matt and I were at Starbucks uh in Riverdale Park the other day and we we this is one of these conversations one of the lawyers I did we didn't have a particular agenda in getting together we're just catching up talking but we started talking about Evangelism. We start talking about spreading the good news to other people. And we're going back and forth. And I'm asking him questions and we're talking. And he's like, let's let's let's go do it. Let's just go. And we just walked out and we were just looking around for somebody to talk to and and we ended up uh stomping this this young man from the Philippines or is of Filipino descent uh nigos nigos was his name and uh and and matt just matt just shared with it he just he stopped him and matt's bold he didn't really ask you said he didn't ask questions he's just like hey i I I you know what would you understand to be the main message of the Christian faith? I'm here with my friend, we're we're part of church together, and what we're just wondering what you would think is the main message. And and we began to talk with him. He's from a Catholic background, he thought the main message of Christianity was the golden rule. And and Matt, largely Matt, I was there, I was a bystander, largely, but Matt shared with him, basically from Romans 6. 23, the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus. Uh and and and we talked to Nigos for a few minutes. Did I just get the verse rolling? Okay. We talked for a few minutes, and uh then he politely sort of excused himself to go get lunch, and we moved on. And it wouldn't necessarily occur to me if I hadn't been thinking about this passage that what we were able to share in was an unspeakable privilege. We were able to hold out to this young man. We have no idea how that seed might be watered in time and how others might come along. He didn't seem moved. He seemed hungry. And not for the word of God, but for like some physical lunch But what a privilege it was that we could be ambassadors of the risen Christ proclaiming a message of unsearchable wealth to that man. Because the greatness of the privilege that we have is not measured in the response that we receive. Or the influence that we think we're having with other people. But the measure of the greatness of this privilege is in the greatness of the one who we are representing and proclaiming. And his is a greatness that is unsearchable. That brings us to our second observation from the passage, the prize of gospel ministry. The prize of gospel ministry. And that is the proclamation of the unsearchable riches of Christ. That is clearly what Paul says is the wonder of this privilege, is that's what he's doing. Look at verse 8 again. To me, though I am The very least, the least of the saints, this grace was given to preach to the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ. That was that was Paul's mission. That was Paul's heart. That was Paul's That was Paul's passion. He says to the Corinthians, I determined to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ and him crucified. He would tell the Corinthians later in that same letter, I declare to you the message is of first importance that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures and that he was Raised from the dead on the third day, according to the scriptures. He said to the Galatians, May it never be that I should boast except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. Paul was a man who was he was obsessed with Christ. Uh young people, I don't know if this is a young boy thing, a young people thing, parents, I don't know if you've observed this fad, this phenomenon of six-seven. What's the deal? Kids, how does it how how what's the right way to say it? Come on, kids. You know what I'm talking about. What's the way to say it? No one's gonna do it. Okay. I hear it something like 6-7. Parents, have you heard this? Parents of like, I don't know, tweenish boys or older It's a thing. You're looking around with some acquaintance with what I'm talking about. Okay, the Murray's are a little bashful to do it out loud, but I'm here. I'm looking at facial expressions and I'm saying it's in the Murray home. And I know they're not alone Listen, kids, if you're if you're Jesus was like the six seven of Paul's heart That's a ridiculous thing to say, but I'm trying to get your attention, kids. Paul, why is he always talking about this? 6-7. Why is Paul always speaking of this Jesus? Jesus was his passion. I think Paul would have heartily affirmed the song that we sometimes sing around here. I will arise and go to Jesus. He will embrace me in his arms. In the arms of my dear Savior, oh, there are 10,000 charms. It's time to move off the 6-7 thing. Okay, maybe I shouldn't have gone there. 10,000 charms in the arms of Jesus. His riches are unsearchably great, Paul says. Now how does a person, this is the quandary I found myself in, looking for some sympathy. In like five or seven minutes, what does somebody get up here in front of people like you and say to try to draw your attention to, to measure out and think together about What's unsearchable? The word here, unsearchable, bottomless, it's used one other time in the New Testament in Romans 11, it's where it's translated inscrutable. Boundless, unfathomable. What am I supposed to say? How rich does Paul understand himself to be because he has Jesus? And we could talk, I mean, there's many, I I just I thought about it, but what should I say? We could speak about just the glory, the charm of him as the bridegroom of his people, loving and laying down his life. for his bride or the charm of him as the good shepherd leading us beside still waters and following us day after day with his goodness and mercy or the charm that he's our shield and our defender Our rock and our Redeemer. He's our great high priest who's made a once-for-all sacrifice by which we can draw near to God. He's He's the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. He's the creator of galaxies and he's a compassionate friend. He's the pearl of great price. He's an endless river of delights. And we could I could do that for some time. I hope every sermon that you hear. Whether it's from me or Pastor Tony or whoever happens to get up here, I hope that every sermon that you hear isn't expounding upon these unsearchable riches of Christ. But as I thought about it this particular week, I thought I thought, you know, the riches of Christ are so rich that Paul is willing to suffer imprisonment for this Christ. Because that's what we're told in the passage, right? In verse 1 of chapter 3, it says, he's a prisoner of Christ. Do you see that there in chapter 3, verse 1? He's a prisoner of Christ. Paul doesn't understand himself primarily to be a prisoner of Caesar. He sees himself under the rule and reign, even in a jail cell, of Christ. He's there. belonging to Christ, possessed by Christ, serving Christ. Do you remember what Paul told the Philippians of his calling He said there in Philippians chapter 3, whatever gain I had, I counted as loss for the sake of Christ. Indeed, he said, I count everything as loss. Because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus, my Lord. For his sake, we're talking about how precious Jesus is here. For his sake. I have suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish, in order that I may gain Christ and be found in him. Now we can fill that in a little bit. That just sounds wonderful. I kept counting all things as rubbish. It's something when you recognize that for Paul, part of all things that he counted as rubbish. Where's his freedom? He was a prisoner bound in chains, it says in Ephesians 6. 20 But Paul did the calculations and he thought that was gay. Because that's how much of a treasure Jesus The wealth of our King Jesus that he lavishes upon us from his bounty includes everything that Paul's already been praising God for in this letter. Right? God has chosen a people in Christ to be holy and blameless before him. And he's predestined that people in love to be adopted as his children. He's forgiven us of all our trespasses through the blood of Christ. He's raised Christ from the dead, and he's been exalted to the right hand of God the Father in all power and authority. He has taken a spiritually dead people and he has made them alive in Christ and he has seated that rebellious dead people in heavenly places in Christ Jesus He's taken us who were once aliens and strangers, and he's made us members of his kingdom. He's brought us into uh his family as brothers and sisters in his family. He's made us a holy temple for the Holy Spirit to indwell. And all of these blessings. Every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places is in Christ Jesus, in Christ Jesus, in Christ Jesus. These are just some of the incalculable, unsearchable riches of Christ. Such that I can say without fear of ever being proven wrong that the man who has Christ and everything has no more than the man who has Christ alone So again, uh this is just what the Lord has been really impressing upon my soul because I feel myself to be a timid evangelist. I look bold, I maybe I come off as bold here And I'll say anything in front of you, but when I'm walking down the street and there's somebody like Nigos there, I get timid. I get fearful. So I'm preaching to myself. I'm preaching to myself and not just lecturing you. But why would we be sheepish? Why would we be embarrassed to spread the good news of Christ? To just tell others, to just spread that word out, no matter what people do with it. Uh a couple weeks ago, uh Tony and I, we were in Dallas at the uh SBC. And we got a text message. We got a text message from Jonathan one afternoon. Free ice cream outside the main lobby in the hotel. Good news! And Jonathan was eager to spread the good news. This is good news, a free ice cream. We went down. And you know, if I had responded, listen, don't you know I'm dairy free? That wouldn't have deterred Jonathan from this is just good news. Spread the news. We've got news far greater than free ice cream, right? We as a church, may we be determined to know nothing among us except Jesus Christ and Him crucified in our gatherings. In the songs that we sing, in the prayers that we pray, when we eat and drink in remembrance of him, in every sermon, may Jesus be that That bottomless bottom of everything that we do that animates us and that fuels us to say we've got really good news. We don't need to be embarrassed about telling other people, even if they think we're a little weird, even if they think we're a little foolish. to spread to them news of unsearchable wealth that could be theirs if they would repent and believe What I have found walking around Chevrolet as I as I do often, what I have found is that many people, not all, but many people are courteous enough to give a common hello when you pass by them What if we were, and again I'm preaching to myself here in response to this passage and just some things the Lord's been impressing upon me in this past week, what if we were to move from hello to hello, how is your day going? Some people would probably think that's weird and they've just walked by us. And you know what? It's okay if somebody thinks you're weird. That's actually okay But what if we could even push past how are you doing today to hi, this may sound strange, but I'm a Christian and I I'm wondering if there's any ways that I could pray for you And maybe even move past that and say, I'm a Christian and I've discovered the greatest news in the whole world. It's changed my life It's a new, it's a message of unsearchable wealth. Could I just take a minute or two and just share with you People will look at you strangely. I trust. Some will say things that maybe you don't expect. Some negative, some positive, perhaps But I can assure you this, it was the sense that I had, and again, this was large, this was not a pat me on the back. This was, praise God, that Matt took the initiative and just was like, let's go, let's go tell let's go talk to somebody I'm confident that I walked away from that conversation. I hope you did as well, brother. God was honored. God was honored in our hearts, knowing it's that important. And and souls we trust will be saved. I mean this is it is why we're here, right? We we you can read this in 2 Peter 3 if you'd like to later today, but like the whole reason that we're here, that Jesus hasn't come back and made all things new yet, is so that more and more people could hear this message and be saved. He's not come because there's still w they're still there. There's still people out there. There's still some of those chosen ones from before the foundation of the world who we don't know who they are, but we're called to just go scatter that seed generously all over the place because he's got people still to save. I trust he's got them around here in the DMV. Proclaiming the unsearchable riches of Christ does require faith. It does require courage. Even Paul himself felt the need of that courage. He said to the Corinthians, I was with you in weakness and fear and much trembling. He's going to have the Ephesians at the end of this letter, he's going to say, Pray for me that I'd be able to speak the word boldly. Paul needed prayer for boldness. So don't feel like there's something wrong, especially wrong with you, that you have feel the need of courage. But pray for it and then act in faith upon the courage that God will give you. Because Jesus is too good and eternity is too near for us to remain silent. We have an unspeakable privilege and a treasure, a prize of inestimable value to spread as part of that stewardship, that privilege that we have And these two convictions, the great privilege and the great prize, produce in the people of God a willingness even to pay the price of gospel ministry. Which is that we would suffer for Jesus and with Jesus. That's point number three, the price The price of our suffering, uh the price of gospel ministry is to suffer with and for the Lord Jesus. That's how this passage begins and ends. Look at verse 1 again. For this reason, I, Paul, a prisoner of Christ Jesus on behalf of you, Gentiles. And then he and then he, for 11 verses, he just basks in the wonder of God's plan and his part in it And then he concludes, so I ask you not to lose heart over what I am suffering for you, which is your glory. This passage is book-ended by the reminder that this is a suffering man. He's a prisoner of Christ And he's suffering for them. And yet despite the suffering, despite that price, Paul still regarded his ministry calling as the gracious gift. of his great God and Savior. He's writing from a jail cell, bound in chains, speaking of the wondrous privilege that is his, that he can be a servant of the Lord Jesus, testifying to this message, for which he's become a prisoner. He knew that it was an inestimable honor to suffer for Jesus, to, as he says in Philippians 3, if I'd kept reading a few minutes ago from Philippians 3. to share in the sufferings of Christ, becoming like him in his death. And if if we're not going to do this today, but if you were to go back into the book of Acts, And see and note the circumstances surrounding what got Paul in jail here. You can read about that in Acts 21, into Acts 22. If you read about those circumstances, you'll see that it was completely unjust and outrageous. I mean, Paul was hated and mistreated. He was hated without cause. Just like his Savior King was hated without cause Jesus was rejected by family and friends. He was without honor in his hometown. He was betrayed by a close friend. He was denied by another. He was abandoned by them all. He was wrongfully arrested. He was falsely accused and condemned. He was mocked, he was flogged, he was spit upon, and he was struck, and he was nailed to a cross, and then they pierced his side with a sword. And all of it that Jesus experienced was unjust. Just as Jesus himself said right before it all came to a climax on the cross. He said on the night before his crucifixion, he said to his disciples in John chapter 15, the word that is written in their law must be fulfilled. They hated me without cause. Kids, I wonder if you've ever said in the midst of if somebody maybe treated you poorly, you're not happy with how somebody Treated you if you said, what did I ever do to you? You ever say that? Ever think that? What did I ever do to this person that he's being so mean now? Well, no one ever could say those words as truly and purely as the Lord Jesus Himself. What what did He ever do? What did the Lord Jesus ever do to us? Only create us. Only shower us day after day after day with life and breath and everything. But each of us, without exception, has hated him without cause. We've rebelled against God. Uh so if if you're here visiting today and you maybe don't understand yourself to be a Christian or not even really sure what is the main message. I as as I mentioned that we asked this guy What is the main message of Christianity? The main message of Christianity is that God is incredibly good and kind and loving and faithful and he's wise and he's the ruler of everything. And yet, human beings, we've Rebelled against him. We've desired to rule our own lives instead of submitting to him. And the Bible calls that sin. And it deserves God's punishment. But God in his goodness and in his love, he is so filled with compassion for sinners that he sent his own son into the world. Jesus, the Son of God, the second member of the Trinity eternally existing with the Father, Jesus came and he took on flesh so that he could give himself up to death. the death that we all deserved as punishment for our sins. He suffered for all of our pride, all of our arrogance. Pride is not just of rainbow flag waving thing. Pride is a human thing, and we have all been guilty of pride before God, but in his condescending love, Jesus emptied himself so that he would suffer the punishment that we deserve for our proud rebellion against God, so that we could be rescued, so that we could be forgiven, cleansed from our sin. brought into his family, called out of this world then to bring him glory on earth by bearing witness to his supreme love. That is what we're here for. And part of that witness that Paul had received and that we all trusting in Christ have received that stewardship is that we would share in his afflictions. And Paul actually said this to the Philippian church. He said, it has been granted to you. That for the sake of Christ you should not only believe in him, but also suffer for his sake He's just writing that to ordinary Christians. That's amazing. He says it's been granted to you. It's been granted to you that you should believe in him. Right? Faith is a gift. We could not earn it. We could not do anything. He has graciously given us faith. But Paul says here, it's been granted to you. Not only that you believe, but also, this is a gift. I don't like this gift as much. Understandably, it's gifted to you not only that you believe, but also that you suffer for his sake. That's not just a word for missionaries like the Gordon family or the Apostle Paul or Elizabeth Eliot, but that's for all of us who are united to Jesus in faith. It's a gift. Paul almost speaks of it as a like a badge of authenticity to the Galatians. He says, consider my sufferings I bear in my bodies as the marks of Jesus. Now, maybe our calling is not to be beaten to the point of death or imprisoned for Jesus, though some of our brothers and sisters around the world are in fact experiencing just that. But to be misunderstood? To be misrepresented? To be falsely accused and slandered? These also are afflictions that are part of the price of bearing witness to Jesus. It's part of the price of having this stewardship from him. Some of you have experienced estrangement from loved ones because you stand firm for the truth of God's Word and the gospel of Jesus But today to promote the sanctity of human life will make you to be regarded as an enemy of women and women's health. To believe that manhood and womanhood are divine gifts that we can't change and decide on for ourselves. That will make you a bigot. And that's hard. It's never our desire to needlessly antagonize. We are always to communicate our faith with gentleness and respect. Gentleness and respect And respect, gentleness and respect. That is to be our MO when we talk to anybody about any sin whatsoever. But you can be as gentle and respectful as possible, and some people will say that you are a hater. And that you're an enemy of kindness and tolerance. And that's hard. And we should pray that things will change. And we should be thankful for the use of civil rights by which we can alleviate some of those injustices. Some of you are working. Your your your vocation, what you will do when you go to an office tomorrow is to help advocate. for laws and for a a land that has safety and protection so that we can continue on spreading this message without fear. And that's a w those are wonderful callings. Thank you to those of you who serve in all those various ways. But understand that Jesus did say that we could count on suffering. In some form or another, all who desire to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted To follow Jesus means not only learning to be content with uncertainties about tomorrow but also learning to be content with the certainty that some of your tomorrows are going to hurt. And some of that hurt will be because of your commitment to Jesus. That's how Paul lived his life in worshipful devotion to the Lord Jesus. And he was able to keep going because he knew that in his sufferings, eternal glory was being worked through the Ephesians, for the Ephesians. Just as Christ suffered and brought glory to his people, the glory of salvation, so Paul now sees himself suffering, not to atone for anyone's sins. But he sees himself sharing in Christ's sufferings that the good news of Christ might be presented to more. And their coming and receiving that good news is a glory that Paul is willing and even counts it a gift to suffer for. That was Paul's commitment. That was the commitment that marked the Gordon family, who I mentioned earlier Uh James Gordon was resolved that he would go and he would bring The message of forgiveness to those who had murdered his brothers, his brother and sister-in-law. And he did go. And he. Spent years on the very island where his brother lost his life, Aramango, and he saw much fruit born in his gospel ministry there. But in God's providence, in 1872, James was also martyred on that island. And I'm told that when the news reached His mother, their mother, in Canada, who now had lost two sons She is reported to have said quietly, I wish that I had another boy to send, that the heathen may receive salvation. Jesus paid it all. All to him I owe. I don't know if she ever sang that song. I don't know if she knew that song. But she was unwilling to spare her own sons out of love for the God who did not spare his own son for her salvation Where does this resilience come from? Well, I hope it's a little bit more clear, having spent this time in God's Word together. It comes from knowing the great privilege of gospel ministry, knowing the great prize that Jesus is. Those things working together to fuel in us a willingness even to pay the price. Maybe with some of us, all these children run around, maybe some of us would would one day put our kid on a plane to one of the hardest places in the world to go for the gospel And entrust that soul whom we love more than any physical gift that God's ever given. Maybe some of us would be called one day to do that Maybe not. Maybe it's going to be you in some very ordinary ways this coming week. In a cubicle or in a grocery store or in a boardroom or in a kitchen. Offering up this prayer to the Lord that we're about to sing. Oh Father, use my ransomed life in any way you choose. And let my song forever be. My only boast is you. Beloved, we have an unsearchably great treasure in Christ. May He work in us in this coming week to be praying that prayer, not mindlessly as we're let's not sing mindlessly But to sing and to mean it, and to be very attentive as we go about our week about how we can so work to fulfill this prayer by God's help, oh Father, use my life, use my ransomed life in any way you choose. Surely our great Jesus is worthy of them. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for the unsearchable wealth that is ours in Christ. We pray that you would help us to Deepen in our own love for you. More love to thee. We cry. More love to thee. May we love you with purity of devotion that we might be willing to have you use our ransom lives in any way you choose. Help us to be prayerful about how we can be of use in your kingdom with this awesome stewardship you've entrusted to us, even the rest of this day and the rest of this new week. We pray for this all in Jesus' name. Amen