Well good morning everyone. How's everyone doing? Excellent. It's good to see you all here this morning. I just want to state again for the kids, especially for the kids who may be a little bit older, maybe Seven, eight, nine in that range here, even older than that. We have the question sheets on the welcome table in the back. Those are for you. They're for all kids. But then they might be especially helpful to those who are a little bit older to track along with the sermon Just to help you get as much out of God's word as you possibly can. And that's what we're here to do this morning. We're here to hear from the Lord, to study his word, and to pray that he will make his word known to us. So before I begin, I'm going to pray one more time briefly for the Lord to bless what we're doing here this morning. Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, we come to you and we confessed this morning that we believe in the Holy Spirit, the Lord The giver of life, who proceeds from the Father and the Son, who is worshipped and glorified together with the Father and the Son, and who spoke through the prophets. We pray to you, Father. And to you, Lord Jesus Christ, that you would grant the Holy Spirit to open our eyes to what is hiding in plain sight today in your word. Oh, reveal the truth about the Lord Jesus Christ and about us to us today. Convict us by the Holy Spirit and cause us to rejoice in the salvation that has come to us through Christ. And we pray this in His name. Amen. The Invisible Gorilla. The Invisible Gorilla was the name of a study. conducted by a researcher and professor at the University of Illinois. And what he was researching and studying was selective attention or selective concentration. Did somebody just make a girl in noise some I dismiss that He was studying selective attention or selective concentration. And the basis of the study, what he was doing to show kind of what how people selectively give attention to what they want to do was he put on a study where he shot a video and in the video it's the video is about a minute long you can watch it on YouTube if you want There are two teams of three. One team is wearing white shirts and one team is wearing black shirts, and each team is given a basketball. And then the researcher told them, in this video, what you're to do is you're to move around quickly, passing the ball back and forth to one another. Now the test subjects were told, when you watch the video of the invisible gorilla, they they weren't they weren't told the name of the video. You, here's your job as the person watching, as the subject, you are to watch the video and you are to count how many times the team in white passes the ball You're to discount what the team in black does, but you focus on how many time the team how many times the team in white passes the ball. So people watch the video. And then after the video is done, the researcher asks them two questions. First How many times did the team in white pass the ball? People gave their answer. We saw 13, we saw 14. That's not the point of the test. The point of the test is the follow-up question. When the professor says to them, Did you see the gorilla? And people would say, the the gorilla? What are you talking about? What what gorilla? There was no gorilla And then the professor would play the video back for them, and lo and behold, about thirty seconds into the video, while the team is running around in this small pace space passing a basketball. A gorilla, a person walks out wearing a gorilla suit, stands in the middle of the screen, beats on his chest, and walks off screen. He's on stage for about, or on the screen for about 10 to 12 seconds. And about half the people did not see the gorilla. What gorilla are you talking about? And then they watch the video again. And they're like, oh my gosh. There is a gorilla standing right in the middle of the video I just watched and I didn't notice it. And what's the point of the study The point of the study is this: that what we are focused on determines what we see What we're focused on determines what we see. A gorilla could be hiding in plain sight, but if we're not looking for it, if we're told to look for something else, we might miss it, even though it's right in front of us. What does that have to do with us this morning? Well, in our passage this morning, we find Jesus teaching about something much more important than a gorilla that is hiding in plain sight for all to see. So if you have your Bibles with you. Please open to Mark chapter 4. We're going to be looking at verses 21 to 34. If you're using that Black Pew Bible that's next to you, you can find that on page 839. uh of the Pew Bible. If you don't own a Bible, please take this Bible with you. There's nothing more important for you than to have a copy of God's word. We think the God who exists that we've been praying to this morning. The only God who exists has spoken only through his word in the Bible. And so we want you to have a copy of that. I'm going to go ahead and read the passage for us this morning. It's Mark chapter 4, verses 21 to 34. This is God's word. And he said to them Is a lamp brought in to be put under a basket, or under a bed, and not on a stand For nothing is hidden except to be made manifest, nor is anything secret except to come to light. If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear And he said to them, pay attention to what you hear. With the measure you use, it will be measured to you, and still more will be added to you For to the one who has, more will be given, and from the one who has not, even what he has will be taken away. And he said, The kingdom of God is as if a man should scatter seed on the ground. He sleeps and rises night and day, and the seed sprouts and grows. He knows not how. The earth produces by itself. First the blade, then the ear, then the full grain in the ear. But when the grain is ripe, at once he puts in the sickle, because the harvest has come. And he said, With what can we compare the kingdom of God, or what parable shall we use for it? It is like a grain of mustard seed, which, when sown on the ground, is the smallest of all the seeds on the earth. Yet when it is sown, it grows up and becomes larger than all the garden plants and puts out large branches so that the birds of the air can make nests in its shade. With many such parables, he spoke the word to them as they were able to hear it. He did not speak to them without parables, but privately to his own disciples. He explained everything. Well, what we find this morning in our passage is that what's hiding in plain sight for all to see is the kingdom. The kingdom of God is hiding in plain sight. And we learn three specific things about the kingdom of God in our passage this morning. And the first thing that we learn about the kingdom of God is that it's revealed, it's made visible through the word of God. The kingdom of God is revealed Through the word of God. And real quick before we begin, when I say kingdom of God this morning, I mean the rule of God that arrived in Jesus and in his mission to bring people back into relationship with him. And wherever you see people submitting to the Lord Jesus Christ and repenting of sin and trusting in him, you see the kingdom of God expanding and established. That is what I mean by the kingdom of God. And so where do we see that the kingdom of God is revealed by the Word of God? Well, look at me at the parable in verses 21 to 23. Real quick, he says in 21, and he said to them, Well, who who's them? Who's he talking to? Well, this section of teaching is part of all of chapter four, which begins Back in chapter 4, verse 1, he began to teach beside the sea, and a very large crowd gathered about him. So this is one of the parables. He taught them many things in parables. This is one of the many parables that he taught to that large crowd. And we see that in verses 21 to 23, he tells a parable of a lamp. But it's a pretty straightforward parable. Look at verse 21. He said to them, Is a lamp brought in to be put under a basket or under a bed and not on a stand? Jesus is saying, nobody buys a lamp only to hide it, right? Lamps were meant to Give off light. Then in verse 22, if you look at the next verse, there's a slightly more cryptic statement. But I think in the context of what he's been teaching, it's pretty straightforward. Just like a lamp isn't meant to be hidden. The person or the kingdom of God and the person of Jesus Christ isn't meant to remain hidden either. It's meant to become manifest. It's not meant to remain a secret. And we want to think about how the secret of the kingdom of God is being revealed. We've seen this throughout Mark's gospel on a number of occasions, right? He's told demons and people to not say anything about who he is. Don't tell anyone who I am because Jesus is needing to teach people what is actually true about the Messiah and what the Messiah came to do and the type of kingdom he came to establish. So you can see. It's hidden. I'm telling people to be secret, but it's not meant to remain hidden. It's meant to be brought out into the light, just like my mission as the Messiah of the world is meant to be revealed for all to see. It's his these miraculous healings that we've seen, these exorcisms that display that Jesus is creating a kingdom where goodness and peace reign. There is no more death and disease in the path or the wake of Jesus Christ. When he comes, he shows us what the eternal kingdom of God will be like. But without his teaching, the kingdom of God and those miracles are left up to people to interpret, right? Without Jesus telling people exactly what is going on and who he is and what he's doing, we're left to guess for ourselves what those miracles are and those healings teach us. And we see throughout Mark's gospel, people come down to the wrong conclusions. Amazing prophet, great teacher, rabbi, wrong, son of God, son of God. That's who Jesus Christ is. It's his teaching that reveals the kingdom of God. The word of God reveals the kingdom of God, which is why in verse 23, if you look there, Jesus says, if anyone has Ears to hear, let him hear. You you'd think he could say, if anyone has eyes to see, let him see. But Jesus knows that the word of God reveals the kingdom of God. And so if anyone has ears to hear, let him hear. Right? What Jesus is saying when he says if anyone has ears to hear, let him hear, he's saying to heed what is being taught. Not just to hear it, but to heed it, to accept the instruction and to apply it to your life. Jesus is saying, if you want to see the kingdom of God, if you want to be a part of the kingdom of God, You need to pay attention to what I'm teaching you. And the ways that we do that, one of the ways that we do that as a church together, as members of Chevly Baptist Church, is in our personal relationships with each other. Right in our personal relationships with one another. So a question I would have for you if you're here and you're a member of CBC or if you're just a Christian visiting from another church or you're here and you're thinking about what it means to follow Jesus A question, what ways are you helping one another pay attention to the word? In what ways are you helping one another pay attention to the word? So when you get together, right, it's completely normal for you guys to talk about how life is going. Right? I'm not saying that there's anything wrong with that. I do that when I get together with my friends in the church. But Your relationship should also include a component, a component of helping one another pay attention to the word. Right, you guys can do that in a number of different ways different ways. Some of you are already doing that, I'm sure many of you are doing that. You can read a Christian book together and discuss how it applies to your life. You can study scripture together. You can make a point to discuss the sermon together. Or you can just get together and ask questions about how each other is doing spiritually. All of these help us to continue to pay attention to the word. And just a word to parents. I loved what Klon prayed earlier to all the adults, not just the parents, but everyone who's here who's a part of the church. Klon prayed earlier about all the kids being saved. We want that. And so for the adults in the church Think about ways that you can be helping the kids, even if they're not your kids. Pay attention to the word. So after the service, when these kids are running around, don't just try to get out of their way. Talk to them Right in our church covenant, our covenant says something paraphrased as, we are going to commit to raising up those who have been entrusted to us in our care. And some of those people are the children of the church. To adults, think about not only your own children, but the other children in the church. Think about how you can help them to pay attention to the word But it's not just in our personal discipling relationships that we're called to pay attention to the word. We're called to pay attention to the word together as a congregation, as a body of believers. And the way that we do that is by remembering that our mission as a church is first and foremost the proclamation of the gospel. Before anything else, we're called as a church to proclaim the gospel. Now I don't want I don't want to you we don't want to make the mistake of saying gospel only, nothing else. Jesus calls us to love and serve our neighbors. So things like Community outreach or mercy ministry or VDS that we're doing. I want us to be doing those things, but those things are always working together with the proclamation of the gospel. The gospel never gets subordinated to those things or abandoned for those things, right? So uh one pastor some of you may be familiar with, John Piper, said this. He said, Christians care about all suffering, especially eternal suffering. I think it's a great way to think about it. Christians care about all suffering suffering. especially eternal suffering. So all suffering, we want to help be forces for good in this world to alleviate and eliminate suffering. But especially eternal suffering. And the only thing that has the power to alleviate or remove eternal suffering from the lives of human beings is the gospel, the message of the kingdom. And that's why we as a church want the word to be central to all that we do on Sundays, right? Right? That's why we want our service to be saturated with the word. We want the songs to fill our hearts and minds with truth. And when we're singing, we're singing these truths to one another, not just to the Lord, to encourage one another. in the truths of those songs. We want the sermon to shed light on the word. We want the prayers to reflect the prayers that you find in Scripture. And we want the Lord's Supper to remind us of the Word made flesh. Jesus Christ, whose body was broken and blood poured out for us. You see how everything is focused on the word because it's the word of God that brings life to Christians. It's a word of God that brings life to all humans if we hear and have ears to hear. Now look, I want to say this very clearly. I know that there are churches out there who have a lot of the word and not a whole lot of love. I am not calling us to be that kind of church, right? In fact, you can't actually know what true love is unless you know what the Bible says about true love. So we should be a church of love and a church of the word, but those things should go together. They don't work against one another. And keeping the gospel central to our mission is crucial for us as a church. Because if we abandon the gospel, God will abandon us. His gospel and his presence go together. Look at verses 24 and 25. Right? You look down there. This is what he's teaching I think it's easy to read this parable and you think, he says, pay attention to what you hear. With the measure you use, it will be measured to you. It's very easy to read that and think, with the measure I use, it will be measured to me. Uh okay, with the amount of kindness I act towards someone else, they're gonna use that measure of kindness towards me. With the amount of justice I act within the world, that amount of justice is going to be measured also to me. But that's not what Jesus is teaching when he tells this parable. It's not focused on what we do to other people. Look at the context. Think about the context. He's just said, if anyone has ears to hear, let him hear. And then he says, pay attention to what you hear. With the measure you use, that is, with how much attention you give to paying attention to the word, you will get an understanding from the Lord. With the measure you use, it will be measured to you. So here's a my paraphrase of this parable. You will receive understanding of the message of the kingdom in accordance with the amount of attentiveness you give to understanding it The more you pay attention to what the word is saying, the more God gives understanding. And not only that, you see how gracious he is. He gives more than we deserve Jesus says it will be measured to you, and still more will be added to you. For to the one who has, more will be given. For to the one who has understanding, who has ears to hear, more understanding will be given. But to the one who has not, Even what he has will be taken away. If you do not pay attention to the message, your heart will become increasingly hardened, and God will take away understanding. This is clear throughout Scripture. Pharaoh hardens his heart, and the Lord hardens his heart. With the amount of attentiveness we give to the word, God gives understanding. So kids, Think about this. If you want to grow as Christians, then you are going to regularly need to be in God's Word. Now, what I mean by that is not just opening the Bible in order to check a box Right? That's not what I'm talking about. What I mean is opening up the word and really thinking about what it says. You know, even if you're reading the storybook Bible or one of those other types of Bibles, like think about what the story is teaching. And what does that mean for you? Pray that the Lord would help you understand it. Think of every time you read the Bible and you open it up, try to come away with one question that you can ask your parents. Parents, good luck. They are going to ask difficult questions, but you will all grow together, right? It's going to help us pay attention to the word together. And kids. I just want to plant this seed in your minds and hearts now. At some point, you are going to move on from Chevrolet Baptist Church. I'm sure you'll be responsible for finding a church on your own. You must find a church that values the word. If they don't value the word, then they don't value your soul. Because the only thing that can care for your soul in the way that God has created us is his word. So you need to find a church that preaches the word, a church that pays attention to the word. All right, so the message for us is clear this morning about the kingdom of God that's hidden in plain sight. If you want to see it, Then you need to pay attention to the word because the kingdom of God is revealed through the word of God. But the second thing that we learn about the kingdom of God in our passage. is a wonderfully relieving truth. And that is that the kingdom of God isn't dependent on us. The growth of the kingdom of God is not dependent on us. Look at verses 26 to 29. So in verse 26, Jesus begins. He says, the kingdom of God is as if. Now I'm gonna hit pause. You're uh a Jew, and you're part of the original audience that's listening to this parable. Jesus starts. The kingdom of God is as if, and you're thinking, boom, I'm locked in. I know what he's talking about, right? All of a sudden, you know, the kingdom of God that is infused the Jewish culture up until this point. All the thought that was part of their culture regarding the kingdom of God comes rushing into their mind. So they're they're thinking about the promise made to Abraham. Back in the day. And then they're thinking about how that promise was traced through the patriarchs to the greatest king ever, King David, who came in, just had sweeping victory for the people of Israel. And then they think about King David's son, the glorious Solomon, who brought just ridiculous amounts of prosperity to Israel. Think about how unbelievably they prospered in the time of Solomon. Then you're also thinking about the Psalms that talk about this coming king who's gonna be glorious. And you also think about the prophets who predict a kingdom that just encompasses the whole world from sea to sea. And you're like. Jesus is saying, now the kingdom of God is as if, and you're thinking, oh, it's as if this amazing kingdom is falling out of the sky and it's going to crush all our enemies and we're going to rule the world. And Jesus says, the kingdom of God is as if a man scatters seed. Huh? Oh okay, okay. I I'm there. I'm there with you. A man scattered seed. It's not not what I expected, but maybe something amazing happened to the seed. Maybe the seed erupts and a gigantic castle grows out of the ground and we're gonna fill the world And scatters a seed and then leaps. Excuse me, what The kingdom of God is like a man who scatters seed and then sleeps, and the seed just grows? Like any other seed, and the man doesn't know how, it just happens slowly, deliberately, and unsuspectingly. Then in verse 28, Jesus emphasizes that all of this is happening independent of the man. The earth produces by itself Greek word used there. Automate. Where we get our word automatically. Man scatter seed? Automatically. Just starts growing on its own. What did he do to do? What did he do to help it grow? Nothing. He slept. That's what he did. That's the man's contribution. He sowed the seed and then slept Its growth is not at all dependent on him. The growth of the kingdom isn't due to his remarkable skills as a farmer. It's not due to his plowing techniques. It's not due to the minerals in the water that he irrigated his fields with. It is not dependent on him at all. The earth produces by itself. Hey, this is the kingdom of God. It's a man scattering seed on the ground. And someday it's going to sprout and grow. And that's Jesus' point, right? Jesus is trying as best he can to emphasize that it does not depend on you or me at all. The growth of the kingdom comes from God. It happens independently of human effort, human schemes, human strategies, human market, human cunning. It's not dependent on us. In fact, every possible improvement that we could make to God's plan for growing and establishing the kingdom could only serve to ruin it. That's all that's the only contribution that we can make is to ruin it if we try to add to God's blueprint for building the kingdom. And so as a church We need to think about how this affects how we think about what we're doing here on Sundays and what we do throughout the week. Because we're a church all the time. We don't want to fall prey to thinking that our success here in this place depends on us having the best building or the best sound system or the best music or the best bulletins or the best small groups when we have them or the best kids programs. Those are they are amazing To think that a church must have those things and they must be done extremely well in order for us to be successful is to give into a consumeristic mindset that is American. And it is at odds with biblical Christianity. It is to give into a mindset that is fundamentally at odds with biblical Christianity. And it's not only that, it's that when you adopt the mindset that those things are needed for a church to become successful. It's so easy to begin attributing the success of the church to those things rather than to God And when that happens, the church ceases to be the kingdom of God and becomes a mini Babel. Right? What do you think the story of Babel is meant to teach us? You have a tower, a bunch of people who got together and said, let's build a tower. Let's make a bunch of bricks. Let's build the tower all the way to heaven and let's make a name for ourselves. Right? We're gonna stand around and say, that tower is amazing. Look at how awesome we are. Right? But God hasn't given us bricks to build his kingdom with because he knows the danger of us taking credit for it. In fact, when we look at Scripture, especially in the New Testament, nowhere do you find descriptions of God's people building, expanding, or establishing the kingdom? Nowhere. Is the kingdom of God described in that way in relation to mankind? The kingdom arrives, appears, draws near. It comes, but it's never built. It's never built by us, especially. God brings the kingdom to us. We don't build the kingdom ourselves. But that's not to say we don't do anything, right? Look at what the man does. He scatters seed. We do have a role in the kingdom. But I gotta say, as I've been studying this passage and thinking about our role in the kingdom of scattering seed and then sleeping and what that's meant to teach It seems to me that God has intentionally, intentionally given us the things of word and prayer These are our tools for seeing the kingdom grow. He has given these to us intentionally to make it clear that we don't build the kingdom. Because who who comes up with a plan of I want you to go to your neighbor and I want you to tell them That 2,000 years ago the Son of God came and died for their sins, and they need to repent of their way of living and turn and follow him. And They will be blessed amazingly, uh, not only in this life spiritually, but in the future life. That's the message I want you to go and tell them. What? Like that That's how the kingdom of God is going to grow? And then after you share with them, I want you to go home and pray. What? You want me to go speak to them about a Messiah dying 2,000 years ago for them and then go pray for them? God has created a plan to make it clear to us that when the kingdom of God finally appears In its fullness, it will not be because of you and me. It will be because his power in the word and his kindness to answer prayer. When we can say, look, for from him, through him, and to him are all things. Like this did not come from us But I want you to know also and just really grab hold of the freedom that there is in that. Do you know what our mission is as Christians? Just sow the seed and pray. What an amazing job description. That's it. And and then what do you get to do? You get to sleep. You get to rest and know that God is going to grow his kingdom. It is an amazingly odd plan. No sane person would come up with that plan. And so our job, if we want to see people enter the kingdom, is not to build a great building or to have the best programs. So those things are fine. We just don't put our hope in those things. But to be a people who sow the word and who pray, right? And we talked about sowing the word last week Uh very clearly in the parable of the sower, we talked about the power of God's word and his sovereignty to bring salvation, but I wanted to talk about at least one specific way this week that you could think about sowing the word and in weeks to come. Right? When we hear sowing the seed or sowing the word, I think sometimes as Christians we can fall prey to the notion that By sowing the word, that means I need to go to this person and I need to have a conversation with them in which I tell them there is a God. He's glorious and wonderful. He made the world to operate a certain way. He made mankind, and so he has authority over us, but we rejected his rule. We sinned against him. He cast us out of his presence. We're all guilty before him, but he sent a son For us to be forgiven and a way for us to return to him. And you need to turn and trust in him and follow Jesus. And like that's how we think about sowing the seed. And that is absolutely one of the ways that we sow the seed. But Think about this week or in the weeks to come. One specific way that you can sow the word without just doing that is by doing a Bible study with somebody. Right? There's not as much pressure on you like I have to get this conversation. I have to nail this. I have to think about what I'm gonna say, and this is my one conversation, my one shot, I've got to get it in. Well, think about a Bible study just alleviates that. You're going to sit down with somebody for maybe a number of weeks, maybe a few times in a week. And you're just going to sit and let the expansiveness of God's reign in his kingdom that just comes out of the Word of God do its work on their heart. You let him bring conviction. You let him bring repentance, right? Just study the word with them. Ask particular questions, point out obvious things, and just let the word do its work. I mean, think about this. The famous great Augustine, a theologian from the fourth century in North Africa, came to faith when he read Romans 13, 13 and 14. Let us walk properly as in the daytime, not in orgies and drunkenness. Not in sexual immorality and sensuality, not in quarreling and jealousy, but put on the Lord Jesus Christ and make no provision for the flesh to gratify its desires. How many of you, when you talk to a non-Christian friend of yours, are thinking that I'm going to take them to Romans 13, 13, and we're going to open it up and they're going to get saved? No, you're thinking of like John 3. 16. I need to focus on the gospel, but God's word, all of it, all of it, pierces the heart. Paul In Romans 13 is speaking to Christians. Augustine's not a Christian, but he becomes one because he sees the truth of God's word, reveal the conviction in his own heart, because he had been living in orgies and drunkenness. That's what God's Word does. Charles Spurgeon, famous 19th century preacher, when he was a non-Christian, was saved when a blizzard Forced him to take refuge in a Methodist chapel, and the preacher of the Methodist chapel could not come because of the blizzard. And so a stand-in preacher got up and read Isaiah 45, 22, look to me and be saved. All the ends of the earth, for I am God and there is no other. And Charles Spurgeon became a Christian Who among you is going to turn to Isaiah 45 with your non-Christian neighbor and think this is where they're getting saved? But this is what God's word does. You open to a genealogy in numbers, and God can save somebody. He can do it with his whole word. The whole word is profitable. It is there for our instruction. Think about just doing a Bible study with one of your non-Christian friends or neighbors. God has determined to use his word. and has promised that it will accomplish the purposes for which he has sent it. Think about that. But when we do that We also need to be prepared for what will happen next. And what will happen next? When we sow the word, we should be prepared for a lot of slow growth. That is imperceptible to the human eye. Because what is the kingdom of God like? It's like a man who scatters seed and then sleeps and the seed sprouts. And it grows. First the blade, then the ear, then the full grain in the ear. How long do you think that actually took? It only took Jesus 10 seconds to say it. Have you ever watched a plant grow? Not exciting. Not exciting, right? It's kind of like watching paint dry. But this is what it's like watching the kingdom of God grow. So I would just want to encourage you all, as you have been sowing the seed of the gospel in this neighborhood for years. And praying for people to come to faith, just consider what this parable teaches us about what we should expect. Expect slow growth. And don't let That discourages you because that's the way that God's kingdom normally works. God can pour out great blessings. I think sometimes Christians get discouraged when you think, like, why isn't revival happening? Well, because God didn't promise revival all the time. He promised that the kingdom of God would grow like crops. So consider the fact that slow growth will happen, right? It's like looking at pictures of my kids, right? I've looked back at when they were babies. I see them today. I can't remember a day where I looked at looked at them when they woke up and thought, ah, your cheekbones. Expanded just a little bit and your chin is a little bit more defined, right? It's a bit it's imperceptible. But I went to sleep, I woke up I did it hundreds of times, and now they're growing up before my eyes. That's what the kingdom of God is like. So be prepared for slow growth Don't get discouraged if things seem slow. Keep praying, keep sowing the word, and keep trusting. But one of the other things I want us to see in this passage. That the kingdom grows independent of us, but it does grow, and its growth will surprise you. That's the third thing. The third thing we learn about the kingdom of God is that it will fill the whole earth. The kingdom of God That is like a seed that scattered on the ground will grow and it will fill the whole earth. Look at me at verses thirty to thirty-two. Jesus says, I uh with what can we compare the kingdom of God, or what parable shall we use for it? It is like a grain of mustard seed, which, when sown on the ground, is the smallest of all the seeds on the earth, yet when it is sown, it grows up and becomes larger than all the garden plants, and puts out large branches so that the birds of the air can make nests in its shade. Right, so in the last parable that involved a seed, we saw the emphasis placed on the independent growth of the seed apart from the farmer's effort. But in this parable involving a seed, there is a different emphasis, and that is on the astounding growth of the kingdom in contrast to its insignificant beginnings, right? It begins like a mustard seed, which Jesus says is the smallest of all the seeds, but it ends up growing larger than all of the garden plants. If you are a horticulturalist, A gardener, you enjoy gardening, you know about gardening, you might think Jesus is making a mistake here. Mustard seeds are not the smallest seeds in the the world. They're not the smallest season and neither are mustard bushes the largest in the world. But Jesus isn't trying to make a an exact scientific point about which seeds are the biggest and the smallest and how trees grow to be the biggest. He's just simply making a proverbial comment about something tiny growing into something very large. And that's where the point of the parable lies. And what will the kingdom begin like? It will be like something insignificant, but will turn out to be something that amazes all of us. It becomes like a large plant. that puts out its branches and the birds of the air make nests in its shade. Right? So to the the the Jewish audience that Jesus is speaking to, right, this is really calling back in their minds. It's taking them back. to the prophets. It would have been a striking image because the prophets foretold of a day when God would arrive, especially in Daniel and Ezekiel. when God would arrive to cut down the trees that symbolize the kingdoms of the earth, and then on his hill he would plant a massive tree. That would be visible throughout all of the earth. It would reach from earth up to heaven, and in the branches of that tree, the birds of the air, which symbolize the people of the nations, would make nests in its shade And we see wrapped up in this image that Jesus is using, he's calling to mind that tree, this tree that connects heaven and earth. Think about Babel. We tried to build our way. God says, no, I alone can connect heaven and earth. I am the one who is going to plant this tree. And wrapped up in the image of this tree that Jesus is using is the history of all humanity. Why do I say that? But we see in the beginning, when the world was created, when God lived with us, God lived with mankind, heaven and earth were one. They were united. And the place where God lived with mankind was what? A garden. It was a garden. It was a paradise. A place without disease. A place without death. A place without decay? Now think about your life right now, whether it's you who's suffering or you know somebody close to you who's suffering disease or death or has passed away. This was a place where none of that existed. There was no suffering, no injustice, no pain of any kind, and that is because God was present. In his presence, those things cannot exist. The garden was his kingdom, and in his kingdom there is only perfect peace and rest. But the first man and the first woman rejected him as their king. Right? It was his kingdom. He was the king. And the first man and first woman rejected his rule over their lives. They wanted to rule their own lives. They didn't I don't want to be told what to do. Don't tell me that I need to repent and believe in Jesus. This is my life, right? How dare you preach to me? I'm not trying to submit to God That's what Adam and Eve were doing. They didn't want to be told what to do. And this rejection of God as king because he is the rightful king is what the Bible calls sin. And we've all done it. And our first parents, Adam and Eve, were cast out of the garden, away from the presence of God, because they rebelled against him, and all of us. live out of the presence of God, separated from him. When God casted them out of the garden, there was a fissure between heaven and earth. Man wandered. He was lost. He was like Cain wandering around, thinking, somebody's going to kill me now. He had no peace. He had no rest, only anxiety and fear apart from the presence of the Lord. And when we sinned and we're cast out of God's presence, everything fell apart, right? Mankind disintegrated quickly We see people murdering each other right away. Everything fell apart. Pain entered the world. Fear entered the world Blame shifting entered the world. Death, destruction, tyranny, every evil thing entered the world and has plagued our existence ever since. And mankind in every generation has scratched and clawed his way to find his way back into the presence of God. And you get some humans who tire of scratching and clawing, who just say he doesn't exist. I'm done with this. This is given it. Life is meaningless. This is pointless. We're all here, we're all gonna die, and we just fade into black That's what's happened in some people's lives. But unfortunately that is not true because God does exist. And man cannot work his way back to God. Man can't find his way back to God. Man cannot create heaven on earth. He can't build the tower all the way up and say we will reach the heavens. They can't do it. You can't do it. I can't do it. But God can create heaven on earth. Only God can bring heaven and earth back together again. Only God can bring us back together. to the garden. Right? And the image of the garden plant in this parable, Jesus' way of saying, the prediction of that coming kingdom. When heaven would come back to earth, when that tree was planted, and the birds of the nations would take nest in its shade, it's happening right now. It's happening in me. I am bringing the kingdom of God. I wonder if you're here and not a follower of Jesus. I'm glad that you're here. There's really, honestly, there's nowhere else that I'd rather you be, but I wonder, do you long for peace in this life? Do you long for peace in this life? Do you long to see disease and destruction and death and decay done away with Do you know it is possible? Not gonna happen in this life, but that kingdom is coming, and it's possible to know that you are entering into a kingdom where those things will not ever exist and you will live forever in perfect peace and rest. There is a way to enter that kingdom if and only if in this life now before you die you choose to abandon the kingdom that you have been building for yourself to flee it To flee like Lot fled Sodom and Gomorrah and to flee for the kingdom of God. It'll be difficult, but you will need to relinquish control. You will need to say, I am in no way equipped to be the captain of my own soul, the master of my own ship. You'll have to say it. You will have to relinquish control. It is, after all, the kingdom of God, and kingdoms have kings, and kings have subjects. To come into God's kingdom, to nest in his shade, means bowing to him, kneeling before the Lord Jesus Christ, confessing that you are not And anyway, equipped to be Lord of your own life and to turn to Him in repentance and faith. But if you do that, You can know and take comfort in the fact that God is unlike the kings of the earth, right? The rulers of this world abuse their power, even the best of them. But you can know that if you entrust yourself to the Lord and you commit yourself to him, he will not abuse his power or his authority. Right? He won't take advantage of you if you entrust yourself to him. And you can know that. You can know that he's the type of king who seeks to serve and not to be served because the great king. Sent his great son into the world to teach us about his humility. The Lord Jesus came as a humble servant, seeking not to be served, but to serve. And to give his life as a ransom for many. To give his own life to rescue us from our slavery to sin by dying on the cross. And we can be confident that Jesus will finally bring us into God's kingdom because three days after he was buried, he got up from the grave. Showed that he was victorious over sin and death and hell. He was seen by hundreds of people. It happened in the open. It was hiding in plain sight. All who wanted to see it could see it. Right? That seemingly insignificant death was God's way of flinging open wide the gates of the kingdom to all who desire to enter into it. And that seemingly insignificant seed, the seed of the kingdom, is growing today in our very midst, right? It's growing today in our very midst. Paul says in his letter to the Ephesians that God was making known his manifold wisdom through the church. That it's through the gathering of saints sitting under the authority of the Lord Jesus Christ that God's kingdom is growing throughout this world And as churches meet to worship God and to bring praise to his name, the branches of that garden plant plant are spreading And the birds of the air are taking nests in its shade as God continues to work out his plan of redemption. And those branches will continue to grow until the appointed time when Jesus returns And the kingdom of God that has been hiding in plain sight will be revealed to all. Friends, if you think that what we're doing here today is an insignificant thing. I'm sure you feel that way because God kind of intends you to feel that way. This is it? This is how the kingdom is growing? Yes. This is how the kingdom is growing because when the kingdom of God is finally and fully revealed, when Jesus returns, there will be no question who gave growth to the insignificant seed. The kingdom of God is hiding in plain sight today. Do you see it? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, you are the one who has the power to cause those who are deaf to hear and to cause those who are blind to see. We ask that you would open our spiritual eyes and ears this morning to see what you are doing in your kingdom and through it. We pray, Father, for any who are here who have not abandoned their own kingdom to flee for yours. We pray that they would do that this morning, that they would not wait. We ask that you would grant them faith and teach us to wait on the kingdom that is coming. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.