Today's scripture reading is found in Colossians chapter 3, verses 1 through 17. If then you have been raised with Christ, seek the things that are above. where Christ is seated at the right hand of God. Set your minds on things that are above, not on things that are on earth. For you have died and your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ, who is your life, appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. Put to death, therefore, what is earthly in you sexual immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry On account of these, the wrath of God is coming. In these you too once walked when you were living in them, but now you must put them all away. Anger, wrath, malice, slander, and obscene talk from your mouth Do not lie to one another, seeing that you have put off the old self with its practices, and have put on the new self, which is being renewed in knowledge after the image of its Creator. Here there is not Greek and Jew, circumcised and uncircumcised, barbarian, Scythian, slave, free, but Christ is all and in all. Put on then as God's chosen ones, holy and beloved, compassionate hearts, kindness, humility, meekness, and patience. Bearing with one another, and if one has a complaint against another, forgiving each other, as the Lord has forgiven you, so you also must forgive And above all these things, put on love, which binds everything together in perfect harmony, and let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, to which indeed you were called in one body. And be thankful. Let the Word of Christ dwell in you richly, teaching and admonishing one another in all wisdom. singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs with thankfulness in your hearts to God. And whatever you do, in word or deed, do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus. Giving thanks to God the Father through Him, the Word of the Lord. You guys know what a do over is, right? Like maybe you're you're you're playing a piano piece and you make a mistake you want to do over. Or or or you're or you're teeing off in golf. And it, you know, slices off into the rough and you want a do-over, call it a mole again. How about a do-over on your whole life? Ever wanted one of those? Well, if you're a Christian here this morning and you've been baptized, that's what your baptism represented. The fact that you got a do-over on your life. And I want you to meditate for a second on your baptism and what it was, what it represented. I I often think to myself, what a strange ancient practice this is, right? What you what you have is you have a person going down under the water representing what? Death. It represents a drowning, right? A strangling The eyes are closed, the lungs aren't breathing. It's graphic, isn't it? But then you have somebody coming up out of the water, representing what? Birth or or resurrection, a new birth or a resurrection. So the person comes up out of the grave, as it were, the lungs fill with breath, the eyes open. Alive. Right? You, Christian, were united with Christ in that burial and in his resurrection. You got a do-over in that regard. And your baptism Is something you should think about every day. And that's what our passage this morning helps us to do. So I trust you're already there in Colossians 3. If you're not in the pew or in the chair Bible, it's Page 984. It's that big number three you see on page 984. That's what we're looking at. A little bit of background, a group of visitors had come into the Colossian church and they were teaching them a number of philosophies that were distracting people from the preeminence of Christ And Paul comes along and says, stop listening to those false things. Christ is preeminent And he's laboring to help the Colossians understand what the preeminence of Christ means and what it means for how they live and the fact that they were buried and raised with Christ. So if you're here this morning and you're not a follower of Jesus, you would not consider yourself a Christian. What's great about this text Is it will help you both understand what Christians understand themselves to be, like what we are as Christians, and also then how we understand God calls us to live. If you're a Christian, here are the four basic lessons that Paul has for us. Number one, this is going to be my outline. Number one, you have died and been raised with Christ. That's the do-over. The different kind of do-over. I'll explain a bit more. But point one is you have died and been raised with Christ. Number two, therefore, seek the things that are above Point number three, therefore, put off the old man. And point number four, therefore put on the new man. Okay? So number one, you have died and been raised with Christ. We begin with Paul's first reminder. Look back at chapter 2, verse 20, a few verses back, verse 20. If with Christ you died, look at chapter 3, verse 1. If then you have been raised with Christ, Look at verses 3 and 4 of our chapter. For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ, who is your life, appears. then you will also appear with him in glory. What does Paul mean when he says we have been buried and died with Christ and then raised again with Christ. Well, as as I've already suggested, it means that in that burial and resurrection, it's as if we were holding on to him, right? As we go down and come back up, holding on to him, such that all the benefits Of his death and the benefits of his resurrection now belong to us. So in his death, what did he do He paid the penalty for sin, for our sin, if we're holding on to him, right? So the benefits of his sin paying, sin payment belong to us. And then in his resurrection, he defeated sin and death and the consequences of sin and death and accomplished reconciliation with God. So here we are holding on to him into the grave, holding on to him, coming out of the resurrection, such as the benefits of that and the benefits of that now belong to us. Right? And the the metaphor that the Bible often uses to explain this is marriage. So in marriage, when you're covenantally united, all that's hers becomes mine, and all that's mine becomes hers by covenantal transfer. And that burial and the resurrection of Christ, all that's his, his righteousness, his glory, his perfect living is now mine. And all that's mine. The sin, the consequences, all of that are his. You've died and been buried with Christ, he is saying. As in marriage, the old you, the single you is gone, and a new you, a wed you, the two flesh one you, is now born. Okay? So, Christian, being united to Christ's burial and resurrection means you now belong to a new you and a new whole reality. It is remarkable. You now have The forgiveness and favor of God. You didn't have that before. You now have the promise of life eternal with God. You didn't have that before. You now have the gift of the Holy Spirit in you enabling you to walk in righteousness. You didn't have that before. You didn't want to do God's will before, but now you've you want to do God's will You before were liable to the assessments and judgments of others. You cared a lot about what other people thought of you, but but now you don't need to, and you know you don't need to. Because God's judgment is done. It is accomplished in the person of Christ. And you're free from the judgments of others. Remember, Christian, your baptism. Remember your drowning. Dead. And then resurrection with Christ A new reality. And remember what I said a moment ago. We're not talking about a typical Do over. So you you don't just restart like, okay, I messed up the piano piece and now I'm gonna play it again. But this time I'm gonna play it perfectly and show all of you that I can do it. Because I really do know this piece. Rather, it's like You make a mistake, and now you're given a whole new piece to play and new hands to play them that somehow can play the piece It's like you're you're given the new golf course, but or you're you're you're standing up there rather again to hit the ball, but it's a whole new golf course And because you're following Christ, you're not hitting it this way. Now you're hitting it this way. It's a do-over, but it's a whole new reality. And suddenly you find you're a remarkable golf player. Because the Holy Spirit of God is in you to hit that ball exactly where you needed to go as you walk by faith. Here's something else about this new reality. I wonder if you notice this in verse 3. Look at verse 3 again. It's hidden. This new life that you have is hidden, for you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. I looked up the word because I wanted to get exactly what it means, and it means what it looks like it means in your English Bible. It means hidden. You can't see it. It's hidden. Your new life, you can't see it, it's hidden. But then verse 4, when Christ, who is your life, appears. Then you will appear with him in glory. So our our life with Christ and God is hidden, but it will be revealed with him in glory. And Brothers and sisters, I hope this idea of hiddenness and then revealed is an encouragement to you It's sort of like this. I have back pain. I go to the doctor. I get medicine for my back pain. He warns me. This isn't going to work right away. In fact, it might give you some stomach pains. But hold on, it will eventually work. Right? So I go home. It's not working. In fact, my stomach is kind of upset. I'm not panicked though, am I? The doctor told me this is it's going to work this way. I'll be okay, because eventually my back will feel better. Well that that's what Paul, Paul is being a good doctor right now for us. He's saying, okay, right now people oppose you. Right now you continue to stumble. Right now you you can't see what's stored up for heaven in you. It's okay, it's it's hidden It will be revealed. You're struggling at home with that sin you continue to commit. I thought I was supposed to be sanctified. I thought I was supposed to be done with this sin by now. You're fearful of sharing the gospel. You know it's so good you want to share it, but you're fearful of sharing it. People at work oppose you when you say, no, I'm not going to do that anymore. I'm living for Christ now. And then they oppose you. Don't be surprised by these things, friends. Your life with God in Christ is hidden. It will be revealed. We're not there yet The medicine will work, I promise. We're not there yet. We live by faith now, not by sight. This is how it's supposed to work. Okay? Now for the rest of the sermon, we're going to be talking about seeking things above, putting things off, putting things on. But if you don't get this first point, the rest won't be worth very much. The Christian life and all of its power come from faith in the gospel, come from faith in what Christ has accomplished. Faith in the fact that he has been buried, he has been raised, he has vanquished the enemy, the enemy out there, the enemy in us, we're holding on to him in burial and resurrection. And the glory is coming. That's all the work. And that work is accomplished. And the power to put off and put on is all right there. And that's why I said you gotta remember your baptism every day. Okay? Because that's the power. You gotta remember your baptism every day, because remembering your baptism is remembering what Christ has done. You see? So Christian, do you want to grow? Parents, do you want to see your children grow Elders, do you want to see the congregation go grow? We start right here. We start with what Christ has done in the gospel. We start with this whole new reality that He has created in forgiving sins and raising us to new life in Christ. That is what we are looking for If you're here this morning again and you're not a follower of Jesus, do you want your life to change? Well, if you listen to everything I'm about to say about putting off and putting on and you think That's what's going to help you to change. You're missing the entire point of this sermon. Because the point of this sermon, the point of this text is that Christ has accomplished something. And we can be changed insofar only insofar as we're holding on to him by faith in that burial and in that resurrection. So, my non-Christian friend, do you want to change? That is a good desire. You look at your life, you see the sin, you see the way you've betrayed others, you see the mess you've made of some of your relationships, you're thinking, yeah, this is not good. It's not moral effort that's going to get you out of that It's recognizing that a man came who is fully God. Fully man, fully God. He lived Better than you or me. He didn't make a mess of his relationships. He didn't betray his friends. He was perfect in every way. And then he was sacrificed for our sakes. He paid the penalty that we deserved. And then he rose again from the grave, conquering sin and death, so that, as I've been saying, if we hold on to him in faith, in that burial, in that resurrection, All that's his becomes ours. And that is the power and the path to change. If you want to understand this more for. Anybody visiting, happy to talk to you about this afterwards, as would be any of the members of this church. Please, please talk to us about this. Okay. That brings us to our second point. Lesson one, you have died and been raised with Christ. Lesson 2. Therefore, seek the things that are above. Paul clearly says this in verses 1 and 2 If you have been raised with Christ, seek the things that are above, where Christ is seated at the right hand of God. Set your minds on things that are above, not on things that are on earth Well, what does it mean to seek the things that are above? Well, you could say it means Valuing things like God values them. What is God value on earth? What is God value in heaven? Do we value things like God values them or put it this way. Do we put the same price tags on things? So think of think of all of life, think of creation as a store. You walk into the store and there's a price tag on everything, right? And in this fallen world, all the price tags are wrong. The expensive things look cheap, and the cheap things look expensive. Before In the store of creation, fallen creation, a man would spend his entire life to purchase the world. But now he knows it profits a man nothing to gain the world yet forfeit his soul. Before, a woman would run around spending her days saying, What shall we eat, what shall we drink, what shall we wear? But now she knows to seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. Before you did everything for yourself, for your fame, for your reputation, your comfort and ease. Now look at verse 17. And whatever you do in word or deed, do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus. Why? What's going on? Well, in this book, this Bible, all the price tags are made correct. We thought it was expensive, but it actually leads to death. We we thought it was cheap, but it's actually quite valuable. And this book tells us the true value of things. We can put the right price tags on things for the first time. So when the text says, seek the things that are above, well I look through this book and I ask myself, okay, what's really valuable? What does God say is actually valuable? Is it religious ritual? He says, no, it's a broken and contrite heart. Ah. Is it strength and wisdom and riches? No. It's him who knows me and delights in righteousness and justice because I delight in righteousness. Okay, I'm putting the right price tags on things as I read through this book. And so Paul is saying, as you seek the things above, you're seeking to value things like God values them. So friends Think about this last week. What price tags did you put on things? What price tag did you put on your work? Your marriage? Your parenting, your children, your free time. That new iPhone. What price tags did you put on things? Were they. Or the same price tags that this book would put on them. That's what it means to seek the things that are above. And whether or not we're doing that is demonstrated by the third point, what we're putting off and on. The third point. Point one, remember, you have died and been raised with Christ. Point three, therefore put off the old man. Point three, therefore put off the old man. Look at verse 5 again. Put to death, therefore, what is earthly in you Sexual immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry. On account of these, the wrath of God is coming In these you two once walked when you were living in them, but now you must put them all away. Anger, wrath, malice, slander, obscene talk from your mouth Do not lie to one another, seeing that you have put off the old self with its practices and put on the new self, which is being renewed in the knowledge after the image of its Creator. Here there is not Greek or Jew, circumcised and uncircumcised, barbarian, Scythian, slave-free, but Christ is all and in all. You see there in verse 9, it says, put off the old self. Well, the original language has man, probably an allusion to Adam. Put off the old man, put off the old Adam, and put on the new man, put on Christ. And that's what Paul is telling us to do. Put off the earthly creation like Adam. And he does this in three clumps of commands. Clump one is in verse five. Look there, it lists sexual immorality and impurity. That refers to any actions or thoughts or wants outside of what God has intended for a man and wife in marriage. It refers to actions like fornication and adultery and homosexuality and looking at pornography, but it also refers to the The thoughts of our heads and the attitudes of our hearts, things like lust and envy and fantasizing and comparison and so forth. You see the next verse then also mentions passion and evil desire. Well, that's a desire for anything other than what God intends, and it's letting those passions control you. It's having the wrong price tags. again. Then notice that Paul tops off the list with covetousness, which he says is basically idolatry. Why is covetousness idolatry? Well, the non-idolatrous heart is genuinely content with and thankful for whatever God gives Because God is the one who is most prized and valued. Whereas the idolatrous heart is not satisfied with God. He's not good enough. I need something else. I want that. I'm worshiping that. Covetousness is idolatry. What do you covet? Did you realize that's false worship? And because of such sins, Paul says clearly, look at verse 8, the wrath of God is coming. The wrath of God is coming because we look at Pornography on the internet. The wrath of God is coming because we get more excited about an afternoon at the mall than a Sunday morning. In church, the wrath of God is coming because we compare our husband to other husbands, our wives to other women. The wrath of God is coming. Because we'd rather spend money on ourselves than anyone else. It's mine. The wrath of God is coming Because though we know the right thing to do at the moment of temptation, we tell ourselves, God understands. It makes sense. It's natural. He understands. And so the wrath of God is coming Let me let me remind you of some very practical advice for overcoming wrongful desire, whether wrongful desire for sexual activity, for food, for stuff. Here it is, really simple. Don't feed it. You have a desire. You think, nibble a bit. That little bit of nibbling just feeds it. And it grows. Christian, you're dead to that. It only leads to further death. You're dead to that. Don't feed it. You've been buried and raised with Christ. Don't look back to Egypt. Don't be like the dog that returns to its vomit. To use another biblical idea, don't feed it Then we see this second clump of commands in verse 8, throw off these things as well. It says, throw off anger and wrath. Anger and wrath. Do serve God-given purposes, what are they? Well, anger and wrath oppose injustice. And that's a good thing. They destroy, right? You should be angry at certain things. The idea of child abuse. You should be angry. You should want to oppose and destroy that. But the problem is when we're living as gods, we want to destroy all the things that get in our way. And that's why we use our anger and our wrath So every time you're angry, every time you show wrath, you are destroying something. Did you realize that, parent? When you get angry at your child, You're destroying something. And you get angry at your spouse and you give vent to that. You're destroying something. That's the purpose of anger and wrath, to destroy, to oppose and destroy. Paul is calling to put off these things. Anger and wrath are the prerogative of God, when you are tempted to anger friend, remind yourself of the wrath of God. Paul next mentions malice and anger, that is pursuing harm in word and deed. Kids, you might Remember what Pastor John said a few weeks ago about the fact that everybody is created in image of God, and therefore we don't make fun of others. Instead, we act as leaders trying to protect others and build others up, right? And then Paul mentions obscene talk from the mouth. How pure is your mouth? Christian, I've noticed it's become very popular in Christian circles to talk about Christian freedom so that I can swear. Okay, how about using your freedom to be pure? There's an interesting idea. Non-Christians don't do that. Use their freedom for purity. Wouldn't that be interesting if Christians started doing that? And then we have this third clump, really just one command. Look at verse 9, do not lie to one another. That seems to be a natural extension of the sins of the mouth, like slander and obscene And notice that all of these verse or these sins mentioned in verses 8 and 9 are really fellowship breakers, right? That's what these sins of the mouth do. They break fellowship. But this life with Christ that's raised and putting off all of this is very much lived through fellowship then. And so in verses 9 to 11, Paul returns to the foundation of all. We should follow these commands because we've put off the old self, we've put off the old man, and we've put on the new self, we've put on Christ, the new man. Right? And our our new self, he says, is being renewed. Through knowledge, after the image of the Creator. Renewed through knowledge, after the image of the Creator. Can you fathom that? You looking, acting, living, more and more like your creator Loving like your Creator, being holy and righteous Like your creator, being compassionate and gentle and kind like your creator. Isn't that what the verse is promising? We're being renewed after the same image through the through the knowledge of these things? Isn't that remarkable? Think of the things that the people of this world are ambitious for, what we in our fallen selves are ambitious for. We're ambition for recognition, ambitious for recognition, for status, for money, for power. How about this ambition? Being conformed to my creator and being just like him. Often in premarital counseling, I try to explain to the couple, okay, the purpose of this marriage isn't just for your happiness The purpose, and I trust many of you have heard this before. I read it in some book somewhere, the purpose of your marriage, as much as anything, is for your holiness Right, to be renewed in holiness. And again, marriage is given to us as this picture of old and new. So I remember the first few years of marriage, my sweet patient wife would have to occasionally say to me, in the Maybe not just the first few marriage years of marriage, but sometimes she would have to say to me, you're kind of living and thinking like a single guy. Because what happens when we get married? Well, we we we come as single people into this this new state of marriage and We kind of view marriage as an opportunity to get the things we wanted as single people, but now, hey, we're married, we can get all those same things. Just we have somebody to help us. Well, no, that's not how it works. You have to put off, Jonathan, the single you. Stop thinking like a single guy. Think now like a married guy. Okay, I'm one with her. I need to lay down my desires and seek to build her up. I'm a new me. So friend, I say in premarital counseling, things dramatically change. And that's what we have in the Christian life. You're putting off the old, you're putting on the new, in which you seek the glory of God in Christ, and you're being conformed to the same image. The point isn't just your happiness, the point is also your holiness. And that is what we become ambitious for. And then look in verse 11, we have a wonderful picture of what the fellowship of these new selves looks like. There is no distinction we see between Greek and Jew, circumcised. uncircumcised, barbarian, Scythian, which is kind of the lowest form of barbarian, slave, free. Okay, the world would divide us and give us status according to these different classes by race, by religious ritual, by class, by sophistication. The gospel knocks all of these things down and says, you're united, church. You are one church. And to the extent that the world continues to divide us in these ways, and we're living according to the old man and measuring, tempted to measure ourselves by these categories. We're living for folly and death. We're going back to Egypt. We're going back to our vomit. And he's saying no You're united. You're not living according to those same categories. Are you now loving one another in the life of the church according to this new you? Stop thinking like a single man You're a married man now. Stop thinking like the old you think like the new you. You're saying Well, this picture I think points us to our fourth and final point. Therefore, put on the new man Point one, you've died and been raised with Christ. Point two, therefore put off the old, or no, therefore seek what's above. Point three, therefore put off the old. Point four, therefore Put on the new. Verse 12, put on then as God's holy chosen ones, holy and beloved, compassion, kindness, humility, meekness, and patience Bearing with one another, and if one has a complaint against another, forgiving each other. As the Lord is forgiving you, you also must forgive And above all these, put on love, which binds everything together in perfect harmony. Christian friends, we are God's chosen ones. Right? Isn't that what it says? He has declared us holy and he has loved us. We are agape by him. We are beloved by him. Therefore, put on Christian friends. Compassion. Do I have to tell you what compassion is? Put on compassion. Your kids are driving you crazy. I know. Put on compassion. The other people at church are frustrating you. Put on. Compassion Put on kindness, he says. God's holy beloved people are called to kindness. Do you strategize? Do you think in your head, okay Going to church today, how can I be more kind and compassionate? Okay, this week with my fellow members and with my family, how can I be more kind Compassionate. What about humility? That's the next in the list. Well putting the interests of others in front of your own. Or meekness, meekness are we, that is to say, considered of others waiv our own rights, not forcing our opinions or our way. And then finally, put on patience, it says. Is this church marked by putting on compassion, kindness, humility? Meekness, patience is your home. Are you What kind of price tags do you put on compassion, kindness, humility, meekness, patience? Are those expensive things that man, you are going to work hard for that? Oh, it's so precious. Friends, by God's grace, I see so much of that in this congregation. I do. I could name names. I could point to examples of these very things. It is such a pleasure for me to sit down. I had lunch with John on Friday. And we were reflecting particularly on the women in this church and reflecting on how we see so much maturity in the women in this church. And what does that look like? Well, that looks like compassion, that looks like kindness, that looks like patience, that looks like meekness. And I could say the same thing, we could say the same thing about the men in this church. So praise God for what he's giving. Right? And what he's already begun to give. And now we pray for more. Lord, you've given, we want more. We're hungry for this because it's precious. It costs a lot and we want it. You can tell if you're putting the right price tags on things, in part because, verse 13, we bear with one another amidst the ups and downs. We forgive. one another. It says, if anyone has a complaint against another. Well the wording is actually slightly stronger in the original. It says, if anyone toward anyone has a complaint, anyone toward anyone. Forgift. What it says. One of the places I struggle with this the most is marriage. I remember when I was being considered for an elder. the first time at another previous church. And I was sitting down with a present elder at lunch in Union Station. Some of you remember Papu Sandu. I'm sitting there with Papu Sandu in the basement of Union Station and He's getting to know me because again, they're considering me to be an elder. And Papu says, says, Papu says, Jonathan, what would you say is your number one sin struggle? I knew right away. I said, it's my self-righteousness in response to my wife's sin. When she sins against me, my oh my, I become self-righteous and judgmental so fast. This is this is again this is year four or five earlier on in our marriage. When I perceive her to be sinning against me, maybe it's her tone is less than perfect. Oh, my mind is appalled. You're using that tone with me? I think to myself, haven't I set a better example for you? I think to my thought bubble. I'm not saying these things, but I'm thinking these things. Haven't I set a better example for you? And you're using that tone with me That's condemned. I condemn what you're doing right now. Here I am up on my perch, up in my chair of judgment, looking down. How anti-gospel is that? How anti-Christian is that? Jonathan, what kind of tone of you use with God Has he not forgiven you? Does he not forbear with you and show you so much grace and mercy? And you're gonna judge her for that little snippet of unruly tone right now, really? You're going to bring the hammer in your mind? Have I not endured with you for forty-some years, Jonathan? Using inappropriate tone and so much more with me? It's funny, it's it's a reaction. Judgmental hearts is a reaction which pretends maturity, but it's it's really just the opposite. It's immature. I'm a mature Christian. I don't do that. Well, okay, right now you're being immature. You're being anti-gospel. You're being anti-Christian. In this. Instead, we put on compassion, we put on kindness, we put on humility and meekness and patience, if anyone, against anyone. That's a problem. We forgive. As you've been forgiven. Well then in verse 14, Paul adds one more quality to the list he began in verse 12. Over all these things he says, put on love, which binds them together, which is the bound foundation of them all. What is love? Well, you guys know love is patient. Love is kind. It is not proud. It is not rude. It keeps no record of wrongs. It's compassion, it's kindness, it's humble, it's meek, it's patient according to the text here. It has a completely different set of Price tags. Love is overlooking a less than perfect tone from your spouse or friend or colleague. Love is taking time with someone. Love is involvement. Love is getting inside of their shoes and trying to see life from their perspective based on what they've been through, trying to understand what they've been through. Love is asking questions because you care. It's learning the likes and dislikes of someone. It's forgetting yourself and being genuinely interested in the person in front of you. It's honoring that person. It's overlooking faults in that person. It's always hoping. Love always hopes. Paul says elsewhere. And it's doing these things without demanding them back. A lecture on 1 Corinthians 13 by a man named Henry Drummond, he said this. He said, You will find if you think for a moment that the people who influence you are people who believe in you. In an atmosphere of suspicion, men shrivel up, but in an atmosphere of love, they expand and find encouragement and educative fellowship. Friends, you I trust you can all think of people who You know you loved you. You know they loved you. Did they make you weaker or stronger in the way they loved you? Stronger, right? You knew you could grow and you you could trust them and they were interested in your good and you you could follow them because you know they loved you This should also characterize us as individuals. I am a child of 1980s and 19, well, 1980s youth groups I'm a product of that. And so Rich Mullins was one of my favorite artists and grew up listening to Rich Mollins. And he has this one song in which he is singing. on behalf of a parent to a child, a child named Aiden, and he sings in the in the verse. He says, Aiden the day, the day will come when me and your mom and all the love we have Can only take you so far, as far as we can, but you'll need something more to guide your heart as you grow into a man. And then the chorus he says, let mercy lead, let love be the strength in your legs And in every footprint that you leave there'll be a drop of grace. And if we can reach beyond the wisdom of this age into the foolishness of God, that foolishness will save those who believe. Although their foolish hearts may break, they will find peace, and I'll meet you in that place where mercy leads. What a beautiful picture that is of a father Saying to a son, let mercy lead you. Let love lead you, child, so that when you leave a room, what's left behind? The aroma of love and mercy. Son, daughter. I want that to be your effect on others. Mercy and love. How much more to that characterize us in the church? Let mercy lead. Let love lead And it of course means in our parenting too. We shepherd their hearts not just with rules, we shepherd their hearts with mercy Shannon and I have to remind ourselves of this all period, the period, time period. Okay, honey. Mercy. We gotta show mercy. Show love. What's gonna help these kids to grow? It's not all of our rules. Showing the unexpected, showing mercy, showing love. Verses 15 to 17, Paul gives us several more specific ways to put on the new man. First, he says, let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts. and rule in your lives, because we are called to one body. So God's law stood against us, condemning us, but Christ stood in our place and took God's wrath for us. So now we know peace. And since we have peace, we no longer need to condemn one another. So if you are condemning others. You're not living into the peace that you have with God. Basically what he is saying here. And then he says to be thankful, he says at the end of verse 15, and how how thankfulness will characterize The heart and mind and mouth of a Christian. He he says it at the end of verse 15. And then notice he says it two more times. Verse 16, sing with thankfulness. And notice verse 17: do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him. And something I've noticed about mature Christians is that mature Christians are usually pretty quick to give thanks. They give thanks quickly for the big things, the small things, the unexpected things. Instead of being characterized by evil desire and covetousness, they they recognize that everything is a gift They have a different set of price tags, right? And notice how anti-pharisiacal giving thanks is. So any good that you or I do on this list of putting off and putting on, any good we know, goodness gracious, that is just a gift. I give thanks for it. No credit to me. It's all a gift. And Paul commands us to let the peace of Christ rule, he commands us to be thankful. Then in verse seventeen he says, Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. But what does that mean? Let the Word of Christ dwell in you richly. Does that mean memorizing the Bible? That's one implication. I think the first application here seems to be in the church. We want it to Dwell, he says, in us richly. And the word dwell has the same root as the word house. We want the word of God to come and make a house in us. How do we do that? Well, we do that by teaching and instructing what I'm trying to do right now according to the wisdom of the word. We also do that by singing the word to one another. He says psalms and hymns and spiritual songs as we've already done this morning. Well it's hard to understand well what does he mean by Psalms versus hymns versus spiritual songs? Because if you look up those three words at other places in scripture, it uses them in different Ways, I think what he's getting at is all of our music of any kind should be making a house for the word, should be dwelling in it, making sure it makes a house then in us. Just like the teaching of his word should do. Finally, verse 17, Paul says, summarizing all of this. The life of the new man and what we're to put on. He says, whatever you do in word and deed, do it in the name of the Lord Jesus. We do it for his glory. Our whole lives as Christians are being performed. for the sake of his glory. So Christian friends, I I think that's Colossians 3, 1-17. You have died and been raised with Christ, therefore seek the things that are above, therefore put off the old man, therefore put on the new man. Why? Well, because this world is passing away. So quickly passing. I was a literature major in high college. I confess I enjoyed Shakespeare. This character Prospero in the Tempest says this. He says, like the baseless fabric of this vision, he's looking at the world, like like the baseless fabric of this vision, the the cloud-capped towers, the gorgeous palaces, the solemn temples, the the great globe itself, yea, all which it should inherit shall Dissolve. And like this insubstantial pageant faded Leave not a wreh. We are such stuff as dreams are made on. And our little lives are rounded with a sleep. Wake up. The dream is over. How substantial was your dream last night? Vanished. Such is this world. If you are here this morning as a non-Christian, I want you to conclude by asking yourself what it is you are investing in in this world, and what kind of return do you think ultimately You are going to get on it. You leave here today, you go do stuff, tomorrow you do stuff, you earn stuff, you invest in stuff to get more stuff. What will that ultimately get you? Children, what what are you hoping for? Do you think anything in this world will last? My kids are really looking forward to Christmas right now and the gifts. That's fine. Look forward to the gifts. Gifts are great. But we all know what happens a few days after Christmas, kids. What are you hoping for in this world? What are you investing in? What do you think will last Christian, this world is passing. It's headed towards eternal death. And once again, right now, this morning, in this text, through my voice, God is saying to you, where are you looking for life? What are you investing in? Where do you hope to find something? And he's saying go back to your baptism Go back to your burial and resurrection. What did your baptism mean? That's the question And look at verse 3 one more time. For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ and God. When Christ, who is your life, appears, then, then, you also will appear with him in glory. Let's pray. Father God, we give you thanks and praise for the hope of the gospel that we have, that we have been buried and raised again with Christ. And though we encounter many trials in this world, Though we disappoint ourselves and this world disappoints us, we know that our life is hid with Christ in God, and we look forward to that day when all things will be made right. And Father, we pray that you would keep us until that day. In Christ's name. Amen.