Well, good morning. It is a pleasure and an honor to be with you today and to have this opportunity to open up God's Word together. I'm going to pray for us again briefly, and then we will dive in. Let's pray. Father, you say so many different things about your word in your word. That your word is like silver or gold purified seven times over. That your word is like a hammer that shatters. It strips forests bare. Your word is like a lamp unto our feet. We pray, Lord, as a people who need light, spiritual light and wisdom. We ask now that as we turn to your word, you would be kind to us and grant the Spirit to be a lamp unto our feet and to shine upon the glory of the Lord Jesus Christ. in your word, so that we would be transformed from one degree of glory to another. And we pray this in faith, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Well friends, go ahead and turn with me in your Bibles to Colossians chapter 3. We're going to be looking today at Colossians 3 verse 22 all the way through chapter 4, verse 1, as we continue our study through Paul's letter to the Colossians Beginning in chapter three, as we think about the broader context of the verses we're looking at today, beginning in chapter three, Paul has been telling the Colossians about how their new life, their new spiritual life in Christ, How it should transform their daily lives. In verses 1 to 4 of chapter 3, we see that they should now seek Christ and His kingdom rather than chasing after the world. Then in verses 5 to 11, we see that new life in Christ leads to us putting off the old self, right? We put off all forms of sexual immorality. We put off all forms of anger and all the different ways that we sin with our speech. But new life in Christ doesn't just include putting off the old, it also includes putting on the new. We're to put on the character of Christ. We're to be ruled by the peace of Christ. We're to be filled with the word of Christ. And we're to do everything to God's glory. And then what you see, if you look at verse 18 and following, Paul then gets specific. We see that new life in Christ should also transform our marriages. Our parenting and our work life. Two weeks ago we saw how our tra how our marriages should be transformed. Last week we looked at how new life in Christ should transform our parenting. And this week We're going to think about how new life in Christ should transform our work life, our vocation, whatever it may be, whether we work for an employer in the marketplace. Whether we work in our home with our kids, whether we're a student working at school or retired but still active in life and family and community, everything we do we'll see is transformed by our new life in Christ. And the reality is that we are now citizens of God's kingdom, having been transferred from the kingdom of darkness. into the kingdom of God's beloved Son through faith in Jesus Christ. So how should our new life in Christ transform our vocations? I want you to follow along as I read Colossians chapter 3, verse 22, all the way to chapter 4, verse 1. This is God's word. Bondservants, obey in everything those who are your earthly masters Not by way of eye service as people pleasers, but with sincerity of heart, fearing the Lord. Whatever you do, work heartily as for the Lord and not for men, knowing that from the Lord you will receive the inheritance as your reward You are serving the Lord Christ, but the wrongdoer will be paid back for the wrong he has done. And there is no partiality. Masters, treat your bondservants justly and fairly, knowing that you also have a master in heaven What we learn in this passage is that new life in Christ transforms our work life By pointing us to new ways of working and new motivations for working. But before we dive into those two points, You may have noticed that Paul is addressing bondservants and masters. Depending on what translation you're using, that word bondservant can be translated as slaves. And I think that is a faithful translation of what the Apostle Paul wrote. He is addressing slaves and masters. To an American, uh if you are an American uh living in the 21st century, those words jump off the page. They bring to mind the the horrors of the American race-based chattel slavery system. We've got to ask some questions when we come to a passage like this. Just make sure that we're understanding everything correctly. We need to ask the question: Is what happened in America comparable to what was happening in Rome in the first century? And do these instructions, this mean in any way that Paul is endorsing or supporting the institution of slavery I want us to think about those things for a few minutes before we really get into it, to what this passage means for us today. Is what happened in America comparable to what was happening in Rome in the first century? Well, to be sure, there are some inescapable similarities between slavery and first century Rome and the American system of slavery first. I point out two. First, in both settings, individuals were treated as property by their masters. Slaves were understood to be owned by their master, and it was understood in Rome and accepted without question that the master had total rights over the slave. The second similarity is that in both systems of slavery, terrible abuses occurred. It's not right for us to look at the Roman, because we're going to look at some very profound differences, but say that there were no abuses. Of the slaves that occurred. There were some terrible abuses that occurred to slaves in the Roman system of slavery. But we also do need to recognize that there are some profound differences. By and large, the first difference I'll point out is that by and large, slavery in the Roman world wasn't the result of man stealing. In the same way that it was in America, and which is expressly forbid by God in Scripture. In the Roman world, vast numbers of people chose to become slaves. In order to gain a better standing in society, which we'll talk about in a minute. A second, slavery in the Roman Empire wasn't based on race or ethnicity as it was in America. Slaves looked just like everyone else in more ways than one. Not only were was the makeup of slaves ethnically diverse, but they also dressed. like everyone else, showing that they had comparable clothing to the regular citizens of Rome. There was actually one point in Roman history where legislation was proposed to force slaves to wear particular clothing so that they could be distinguished from everyone else. It just goes to show that they were indistinguishable from most of the citizens of Rome, which points to a third difference. And that's that slaves in Rome didn't inhabit the lowest sphere or rung of society. Slaves, on the whole, were better off than poor free people in Rome. So whereas poor free people in Rome slept on the streets and had little in the way of food and clothing, slaves lived in the home with the family and were treated as part of the family, which is why Paul is addressing them in what is widely understood to be household instructions. He speaks to husbands and wives, parents and children, and slaves and masters. They were part of the family. They were given food, clothing, and often a small stipend for their labors. And that points to another difference, and that's that slaves often worked in very specialized fields in first century Rome. They worked alongside their masters in various trades, or as legal clerks, or as accountants, managers of states and vineyards, or on ships, and so on. Even beyond that, they would go on to work in those fields when they moved on from being a slave, and oftentimes the master would bankroll them. and invest in the work that they were doing in order to help them get started. Then that points to another difference, and that's that slavery was rarely permanent in Rome. Many chose slavery because it was the quickest path to become a citizen of Rome, and it afforded them educational benefits which could be put to use Later in life. The average length of service for a slave in Rome was roughly seven years, which is interesting when you look at the Old Testament. Slaves were to be released after seven years. And you he see some influence of Judaism on Roman culture even there. In all of these ways and others, we see clear differences between Roman slavery and American slavery, but I think perhaps the clearest difference. And the one that helps us better understand why Paul speaks as matter-of-factly as he does about slaves obeying their masters is because slavery was the way the entire world operated. Just really hard for us to understand and wrap our minds around in 21st century America. It was the way the whole world worked. It was the basis of the entire political and economic system in the ancient world. Every nation on earth Every empire, and this is not to excuse it or uh encourage it, condone it. It's just the way that it was. From Egypt to Babylon to Assyria to Persia to Greece to Rome and beyond. the entire ancient world operated upon a system of slavery. History historians believe that nearly one half of the population, up to one half of the population of the Roman Empire were slaves. There was no such thing as a free society, at least as we understand it, anywhere on earth. It's just how the world worked Which helps us better understand why the authors of the New Testament, Peter and Paul and elsewhere, speak as matter-of-factly about slavery as they do. They aren't trying to take on the world economic and political system head-on. Instead, they are planting seeds of slavery's destruction in the preaching of the gospel. The gospel in that sense Is like a Trojan horse to the institution of slavery. As soon as a city built on slavery opens the door to the gospel and to genuine faith in Christ, It has sealed its own fate. Slavery cannot last long when and where the people of a nation come to believe that God has created mankind equally in his image. and has lavishly poured out his grace on us to free us from our own spiritual slavery. And the proof of that fact And the proof of that is in the fact that slavery is no longer the world economic system that it was in the ancient world. Yes, it does occur in parts of the world, but Christianity And the gospel message are the reason that the institution of slavery is no longer the world system that it was. And where Christianity and slavery have coexisted for a time, they have coexisted not because of Christianity. but in spite of it. So if you have questions about the topic of slavery in the Bible, if you want to think more about this. You can come find me. I'd be happy to chat with you about it or pass along further recommendations on resources for your own reading. I'd encourage you to pursue those if you'd be helped by that. But even though first century Roman slavery no longer exists, doesn't mean we have nothing to learn from these verses. Instead, in these passages, we find principles laid down that should transform our entire approach to work and vocation. And we see that this passage does that by pointing us to new ways of working and new motivations for working. So if you're taking notes. Those are going to be our two points today. Paul points us to new ways of working, that's point one, and new motivations for working, that's point two. But the first new way of working that we see is sincere obedience. I want you to go ahead and look down with me again at verse 22. Look at what Paul says. He says, bondservants. Obey in everything those who are your earthly masters. John, if nobody in this room is a bondservant, a slave, how does this passage apply to us? It applies to us by way of an argument from the greater to the lesser. If slaves were expected to sincerely obey in a vocation That was far more difficult than the work you and I do, then how much more should we sincerely obey those who are in authority over us? If in your vocation you work under another person, if someone has authority to give you instructions that you're expected to follow, if you have a boss or a supervisor, New life in Christ for you means that you must obey them. And notice, just like children were expected to obey in everything So you are expected to obey in everything those who are in authority over you. Now again, I've said this in past weeks, the past couple weeks that we've looked at these passages. Because Paul says very similar things to husbands and wives, parents and children. This command to obey in everything doesn't mean that you should obey your supervisors if they're telling you to sin. And given how things are going in our culture, I do want to camp out here for just a minute. We're quickly moving to a point in our culture where many Christians in the workplace are going to be required to affirm and celebrate lifestyles and choices that God clearly calls sin. If your employer requires you to affirm sinful lifestyles and choices You should not obey. To do so would be to sin against God and to call good, to call what he calls evil good and what he calls good evil. So if you work in a corporate setting and you haven't been asked to do that yet, I want to encourage you to get prepared now for when you will be asked to do that. Right? I don't say that to stir up fear. I just say that because it's highly likely that it will happen at some point in your life, and perhaps sometime soon. It's just the reality of the world that we live in. So when I say be prepared for that conversation, I want to encourage you to think literally about the words that you are going to say. How are you going to respond when you're told that you must affirm certain lifestyles or choices? What will you say to your boss or supervisor? What words and phrases will you use? How do you expect that supervisor to respond to you? And how are you going to respond to them then? Think ahead of time Be prepared now, because the likelihood that you will be told that you must obey an instruction that leads you to sin increases with every passing month and year in our country. But in everything else, you should follow their instructions from mundane requests. to ridiculous requests and everything in between, you should do what they say. By all means. You know, that doesn't mean you can't uh level an appeal about particular instructions that you've been given or projects that be are being launched in your company or your organization. By all means, use your expertise and your knowledge to persuade those in authority over you of the course of action you think is best. But when all is said and done and they've made their decision, You should obey. And obey with sincerity. I want you to look again at verse 22. Bondservants obey Not by the way of eye service as people pleasers, but with sincerity of heart. Fearing the Lord. Notice how Paul he starts off by telling them what not to do. Here's what I mean not to do. This is how you should not obey. Not by the way of eye service as people pleasers. That's a that's a a weird phrase, isn't it? Uh uh I w I wonder if any of the teens kids, I want y'all to think with me real quick. Can any of you tell me what you think he means by Not by the way of I service as people pleasers. What does it mean to not obey by the way of I service as a people pleaser? Any of y'all? Any thoughts on what he means? Put in your own words. Give me your best shot. Caleb. Not just doing it to make people happy, but doing it because it's right. That is definitely part of what he means. Anyone else? Not by the way of I service. As people pleasers Not just doing so not just cleaning on the visible surface, but doing all the work underneath. So not just cleaning the top layer of your closet or your room, but but cleaning more deeply. That can be part of what it means. What else do you think he means? Not by the way of eye service. That's exactly right. Oh, those are all very good answers. That's that's definitely part of it. It's not just obeying when people are watching. Don't just obey when people come around and look at you. Don't just obey when people are watching. For the young kids, if you're between the ages of five to nine, go ahead and raise your hands. You want to raise your hand between the ages of five and nine. I'm talking to y'all. I've got a little illustration that might help you kind of like click in with what we're talking about here. Maybe you've experienced This instruction. Your parents, your parents tell you to go upstairs and clean your room, right? So what do you do? You go upstairs to your room and you're intending to clean it. But when you get upstairs, you get distracted. By toys and by books and by other things going on in your room. And so all of a sudden you're you're you're you're putting together toys and and playing with books and other things in your room or dolls or whatnot and you haven't started cleaning your room. But then all of a sudden You hear coming up the stairs. Doom doom doom. Who's coming up the stairs? Mom and dad are coming up the stairs and they come, they come up, they come around the corner and you're you're sitting here playing with your toy. Whoop! You jump up and you start cleaning, right? That's what it looks like to obey only when people are watching, right? Now mom and dad are in the room and oh I'm supposed to be Yep, yeah, I was supposed to be cleaning. I am cleaning. I really promised I wasn't playing with the toy. Paul is saying, kids, don't do that. Don't obey just when people are watching. Work hard all the time. Obey your parents' instructions, even when you go to your room, clean your room, work hard all the time, even when they aren't watching. To work hard for the adults only when people are watching is hypocrisy. It is a form of lying. You are lying visually with your actions, pretending to work hard when people are around, but not actually working hard when they're not around. Obey the instructions you've been given with sincerity, not just when people are watching. But we also see a second new way that we're called to work as part of our new life in Christ that's similar to the first. We're called to give it our all. Look at verse 23. Whatever you do, work heartily. Whatever you do. Stay-at-home mom. Homeschool or regular school teacher. Piano instructor, musician, administrator, accountant Computer technician, human resource officer, nurse, physical therapist, lawyer, counselor, State Department official, lobbyist, program coordinator, security guard, military personnel, software designer State Department official, Author, Editor, Driver, Hillstaffer, Salesperson, State Park Official, Professor Cybersecurity agent, Secret Service Agent, or any job that can't be described because it's super secret. Whatever you do, work heartily Give it your all. That's the new way of working. He says work heartily. The phrase in Greek is do soul work. Not work on your own soul, but work with your own soul, your whole soul. Give it your all. Work with your entire heart, your entire being. Think of Ecclesiastes chapter 9, whatever you do with your hands. Do it with all your might. Give it your all. Kids, I want you to think think back again with me. This is really important. And it's it's harder when you're a kid because the the desires of the heart are just Like you want to have fun and you want to do fun things. But one of the things that God has created us to do, it was part of why he created us, is to work. And one of the things that you want to practice doing now is working hard around the home. Whether it's uh raking the yard or mowing the grass or doing chores. Whatever it might be, students in school, give your schoolwork all of your work. Work heartily, do it with all of your might. New life in Christ, kids, affects how we live in the world. It changes us as people. God gives us his spirit, and the spirit encourages us, propels us, pushes us on to desire to obey God and live as he's called us to live. So we are called to work heartily, kids. And adults. We're called to work with our whole being, to give our work in this life, whatever it is, all of our hearts. I want to ask some questions to you. How are you doing putting on the new self at work by obeying sincerely and giving it your all? Are there ways in which you're violating company rules? Do you break rules that you've been given without thinking about them? How does that square with obey sincerely? Do you find yourself complaining to others about your supervisors or the work that they've assigned you to do? Are you a model to your coworkers of respectfully voicing difference of opinion and then happily submitting to their leadership if they go a different direction Do you agree to follow their lead, but then subtly find ways to do what you want? Do you work hard only when you're being watched Does your productivity ramp up in obvious ways when other coworkers come around and then ramp down again when they leave? What does that mean about not working by way of eye service? How do we square that? I want us to thank also like particular application for today, remote work. has made that a huge temptation. Right? If you're working from home and your spouse or your roommate comes into the room where you're working, are you quickly switching desktops so that it looks like I was I was actually I'm working here? Not on just the web surfing around. I'm doing my work, right? Do you surf the web while you're working when you know that you're not supposed to Now some of your jobs require you to be online checking things like Twitter and platforms like that make it basically impossible. To only look at work-related items. If that's your work, how are you doing? Ensuring that you're not spending time clicking through to things that aren't work-related. Maybe you don't work in a traditional work environment. Maybe you work for yourself. Let's say you're you work for yourself and you're married. Let's say you Ask your spouse to watch the kids so that you can go get some work done at a coffee shop. Are you actually working when you go? Are you doing what you told them that you were that you were going to do? Put it this way. We'll just reframe it a little bit. If you asked your spouse to watch the kids so that you could go to a coffee shop and surf the web, what would they say? No thanks. Right? Like I'm gonna need your help here. So if you're telling them that you're going to do something related to work, are you doing it? Hey, listen, these are things that we all struggle with, and we all need to be fighting against. We need to be putting off the old and putting on the new. And we'll see how in this passage there is so much mercy for those who are in Jesus Christ. But the Spirit dwells in us and God has called us to holiness. And part of that call is to obey sincerely and work heartily, right? How are you doing working heartily? Are you cutting corners? Are you doing just enough to keep your job? Do you only do what you're told to do and nothing more? Right? Do you let yourself get away with things that you wouldn't let coworkers get away with? If you're treated unfairly, do you let that affect the quality of your work? You gotta recognize Paul is talking to slaves and he's telling them to work hard, even when treated unfairly. How much more should you and I work hard when we're treated unfairly? Not being treated fairly is not a reason to not obey or work hard. Right? We're called to work as hard as we possibly can. With the skill set God has given us and within the limitations that God has placed on us, physical or otherwise. But there's also a third new way that we're called to work. We're called to treat others fairly. I want you to look at chapter 4, verse 1. Paul says, masters. Treat your bondservants justly and fairly. Notice how the different roles entail different obligations. Bondservants are commanded to obey. Masters are commanded to treat their bondservants fairly, with justice and fairness. And in a context in which some masters would abuse their authority, this instruction was revolutionary. Masters must not take advantage of their bondservants in any way that transgresses God's law. This outlawed all forms of physical abuse and violence. Not only that, it positively commanded justice and fairness. Paying the bondservant the wages they're due, providing for their basic necessities, upholding, valuing, and cherishing the image of God in them. And notice why they're commanded to treat their bondservants with justice and fairness. Look again at verse 1. Knowing that you also have a master in heaven. Understand what Paul is saying to them and to us. He's saying that authority that you have in your workplace Doesn't belong to you. It's been entrusted to you by the one with all authority in heaven and on earth, and he is going to hold everyone accountable for the ways they've used the authority trusted to them. He is going to hold governments accountable. He is going to hold pastors and congregations accountable He is going to hold husbands accountable. He is going to hold parents accountable. And he will hold masters in this passage and bosses and supervisors in our world accountable. Every ruler on earth, no matter how great he is, is also a subject. Every king on earth is also a peasant. Every master on earth is also a slave before him. Who is the true ruler, king, and master of all? There is a master in heaven who will hold us all accountable for the ways that we have used our authority. God in heaven stands over all who exercise authority in this world, and he will hold each and every one of us who have used that authority unjustly accountable. Every act of injustice, every unfair treatment will be paid back by the Lord, and there is no partiality, not to slave or master, not a worker or boss. God will use his justice perfectly. That means that whatever our vocation, we're to use our authority over others justly and fairly. What does that type of authority look like in action? What are some good ways to illustrate it? I think one of the clearest ways that I know of from scripture itself is From 2 Samuel 23, where David describes what just and impartial authority is like for the people under it. He says, This: the Spirit of the Lord speaks by me. His word is on my tongue. The God of Israel has spoken. The rock of Israel has said to me: When one rules justly over men, Ruling in the fear of God, he dawns on them like the morning light, like the sun shining forth on a cloudless morning. Like rain that makes grass to sprout from the earth. I wonder if that if that describes the authority that you have in your life Moms, if you're primarily with your kids during the workday. Does that describe how you use your authority over your children? Do you dawn on them like the morning light? When you get frustrated, do you start requiring impossible standards of obedience? Or do you treat your children fairly? For those of you who may not have the title of supervisor, but you have people who work under you, is your leadership like the sun shining forth on a cloudless morning? Or is it more like a cloudy and overcast day? For those who are supervisors, is your leadership like rain that makes grass sprout from the earth? It gives life and causes things to grow. Or is it like the desert heat? Are you more like Pharaoh in your leadership? More bricks, less straw? Right? Would your employees and your coworkers view your leadership like a spring rain? Do you treat your employees and coworkers even-handedly? Do you show unfair preference towards certain coworkers, giving them particular benefits and blessings that you don't give to others? Do you let unfair things happen in your workplace without speaking up? Whether it's happening under your leadership or the leadership of someone else in your workplace Do you lay unrealistic expectations on those you work with or have authority over? Do you require them to work longer hours while not requiring the same of yourself? Do you place such burdens on them that they're forced to neglect their families and their well-being? How are you doing considering the well-being of those under your authority? Are you going above and beyond to make sure they're being compensated fairly for their work, perhaps even being generous because of how generous God has been with us? In these ways and more, we put on the new self in our vocation by treating those under our authority with justice and fairness. And seeing how that record that that reflects the character of God Himself, I wonder, if God were to look at your life, would he see his reflection in it? Would he recognize his justice and fairness at work in you? New life in Christ calls us to new ways of working It calls us to put on sincere obedience, giving it our all, and treating others fairly. And it also provides us new motivations. For working, which leads us to point two: new motivations for working. And the first new motivation that we see for our work, our vocation, is that our work is an act of worship. I want you to look again with me at the passage. Notice that in verse 22, we work in the fear of the Lord. In verse 23, we work as for the Lord and not for men. And we we work as for the Lord because we are working for the Lord. Look at verse 24: you are serving the Lord Christ. Whether you have a boss or not, whether you work in an office or not, whatever you do, whatever your vocation is, you're working for the Lord Your work is an act of worship to God. I wonder what your work, the quality with which you carry it out, say about your worship of God? Everything that you do in life, all of life, is an opportunity to offer your life as a living sacrifice to God because of what God has done for you through the sacrifice of His Son, including your work. All of your vocational life can be offered to God as an act of worship. You are serving the Lord Christ I don't want to go to work today because I'm I'm working for this this company. I just don't believe in its mission and the work is just such a a a tire to me. I remember in my when I first became a Christian, I worked in the Coast Guard and I chose to work on computers. That was the the career path that I chose. And I just couldn't stand it. Just not my thing. Some people like to work on c computers. And I would go to work every day just grumbling and complaining. And I would waste time at work. Sin against God by not obeying this passage. Because I didn't recognize that as a Christian, my work was not just for the Coast Guard. It was for the Coast Guard. It was also serving the Lord Jesus Christ. I was fulfilling the mission that He had given me to do, that He created me for. In all of our work, at home, in the workplace, wherever we are, we're serving the Lord Christ. What a motivation to obey sincerely, to give it our all, to treat others justly and fairly. David Platt noted that if you work for 40 hours a week for 40 years, you will work 80,000 hours in your life. Goodness, that's a huge number, right? But recognize this: as a Christian, your work is not somehow disconnected from your being a disciple of Christ Since God intends for new life to work itself out in your work life, then your work life becomes a means by which God is making you more like Christ. And your worship of God through your work is not more or less pleasing to God based on how important the world judges your work to be. Did you notice? Paul says to slaves, whatever you do, he doesn't say this to masters, whatever you do, work heartily Where else has he just used that phrase, whatever you do? In verse 17, just before this, he says to the Colossians, Whatever you do in word or deed, do everything in the name of Jesus. You could be a bond servant in the name of Jesus, and God would accept that work. It would be pleasing to him as a sacrificial offering, right? Slaves could offer their work as worship to God. in the name of Christ and God would be glorified in it. There is no line of work on earth that is beneath the Lord Jesus Christ. At least that's not inherently sinful in and of itself. There is no line of work that is beneath Jesus. Your work matters to God, and whether you're a mailroom clerk or a head of state, you can bring glory to God in it You might even say that the work of the slave uniquely glorifies God because it most closely identifies with Jesus' own mission, to be a servant to us in rescuing us from sin. In your work, friends, you are serving the Lord Jesus Christ. Changing tires or changing diapers Driving presidents of company or being a president of a company. And that should mote us to obey sincerely To give it our all and to treat others fairly, right? Take the name of the company that you work with and place over it the name of Jesus. You work for them and him. What a higher calling that is. You can offer your work to Christ. But there's another motivation here that Paul mentions, and that is that we're going to be rewarded for our work. Look again at verses 23 and 24. Paul tells him to work heartily, knowing that from the Lord you will receive the inheritance as your reward What reward are we working for? We're working to hear Jesus say to us, Well done, good and faithful servant. Enter into the joy of your master and that reward, that inheritance of living with God in a new heavens and new earth where the curse on work has been removed and you will work with joy everlasting in the presence of God, that reward is coming, knowing that from the Lord you will receive the inheritance your not you maybe Not worth thinking about giving you a bonus this year, but it depends on your performance. Not you got to sell X number of gadgets in order to receive the reward. You will receive the inheritance It's coming. Have you have you experienced frustration in your work? Have you experienced this pouring yourself into a project and just having it fail? And you think there is no reward for this thing? God is saying to you, yes, there is. Look upward. I am working in you and through you in all of your toils, all of your sufferings to make you more like Jesus. And the reward is coming. You will receive it. You will come into my presence and I will say to you, well done, good and faithful servant, friends, you can keep going. God will make good on his word. And I want you to notice also what these this reward of being brought into the presence of God actually does for us. It also crushes the all-too common temptation in our culture of turning work into an idol, right? Working for the reward of this life The person who has turned their work into an idol, right, finds their primary satisfaction in light in all of life in their work Work becomes all about making a name for themselves. They're chasing the next thing, the next promotion, the next pay raise, but there's always a next thing because work was never meant to be your final reward in this life. We were created for a higher purpose, for communion with God, and work is part of our discipleship through which God is making us more like His son, and he's calling us to the final reward. So don't fix your eyes on the work you're doing now and thinking, this is where I'm going to find my value and my identity. Fix your eyes on Christ And know that in Christ, your identity is with Him and your reward is with Him. And that frees you from having to hold on to the work that you're doing in this life and thinking, like, I need this to pay off for me now. Now the payoff is in the end. Friends, keep going. You will receive the reward as your inheritance We're meant to find our identity in Christ. He defines us. Not any job title, not anything else about our work, right? Promotions, pay raises, prominent titles, while helpful in the things of this world are ultimately empty rewards that cannot completely satisfy. And not only that, Jesus is paying careful attention to all of your work experience. Do you notice that? The frustrations, the futility, the disappointments, the hard work that seemed to be wasted, the diligence that went unrecognized It does not go unrecognized by God. He sees his children's work and he will reward his children's work far more than we could ever ask or imagine And because he's a just and fair boss, he will give us the reward that he has promised to us. But we also see one more motivation. And that's that we'll be judged for all that we do in our work. I want you to look again at verse 25. For the wrongdoer will be paid back for the wrong he has done. And there is no partiality. Well speaking to the to slaves here who may have been tempted to sin against their masters, and he wants them to know that wrongdoing. Will be assessed and judged by God. So they should flee every temptation to wrongdoing. Friends. God will judge us for the work that we do in this life. Throughout the New Testament, Christians are called to holiness in every area of life, including our work life. And these warnings motivate. They motivate us to pursue holiness in our vocation because when we clock in at work, we don't clock out as Christians. Peter says that judgment begins at the house of God with God's people. But if you're a Christian. . . You put your faith in Christ, you can take comfort that the judgment that awaits us is not an ultimate condemnation for our sins. Because if we're being honest with ourselves, when we read these commands here that Paul has given, we've all failed in one way or another. We've not lived up to God's law. We've not reflected his justice and fairness. We've not obeyed sincerely. We've not given it our all. If you're here, friend, and you're you're not a follower of Jesus, this is where I want to hold out to you the good news. That though there is a judgment coming for God's people, it will not end in an eternal condemnation. You see, God created the world in holiness. He made man and woman in his image, and he made them to work in the world And he gave them his laws that they were called to live by. But the first man and first woman, Adam and Eve, they disobeyed God's instructions. They rebelled against him. That's what the Bible calls sin. And their decision to sin plunged the whole world into sin. So that all mankind born after them was born in bondage to sin, as as slaves to sin. We follow the passions of our flesh. We do not do what God desires. We cannot please God in the flesh. And because of that, we are under God's judgment. There is a judgment coming that will end in an eternal separation between those who have put their faith in Christ and those who have not. I want to encourage you if you're here today to put your faith in Jesus Christ if you have not already. Jesus came into the world to bear the punishment that we deserve He came to bear the curse of sin. He wore the crown of thorns on his head, the the thorns that came as a result of the curse that would afflict us in all of our work. He wore the crown of thorns on his head to show that He would wear the curse of the fallen kingdom of darkness upon his head. He would bear the punishment that we deserve so that we could wear the crown of life if we would put our faith in him. And after he died on the cross, he rose from the dead three days later, proclaiming his victory over sin and death and hell. And he offers his eternal life to all who would believe in him. So friend, if you're here and you are a Christian, recognize what this means for you. Jesus, after he rose from the dead Rose as a Savior who can identify with his people and their struggles at work. I wonder if you've noticed how clearly Jesus identifies with your work struggles in the Gospels. Think about this. He knows what it's like to do the same thing day after day. First as a carpenter builder, second as a teacher. He walked around and taught day after day. Mark chapter 1, verse 38. He knows what it's like to feel underappreciated for your work. He came to his own, and his own did not receive him. He knows what it's like to have to submit to unjust authorities, bad bosses. He submitted to the religious authorities who persecuted him and the Roman government who crucified him. He knows what it's like to pour your heart and soul into something, only to have it seemingly fail. His disciples ultimately abandoned him after three years of pouring into them, and he was nailed to a cross. But the author of Hebrews tells us we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who in every respect has been tempted as we are. Yet without sin. Jesus understands the temptations to not obey sincerely. to not give it your all. He understands unjust authority and being treated unfairly And because of this, you can draw near to Jesus in confidence, knowing that he delights to give mercy and grace to his people in our time of need. Not only that. But he invites you again to find your meaning, value, and purpose in him rather than in your work Because ultimately, no work done in faith ever actually goes unnoticed because your work is done unto the Lord and he sees all. Ultimately, no work done in faith ever actually goes unrewarded because the Lord has prepared an inheritance as your reward. And ultimately, no work done in faith is ever actually a failure. Because through every failure in this life and every heartache in our work, God is making us more like Jesus. And that work is more glorious than we can imagine. And will last far longer than any project we're currently working on. Friend, as part of your new life in Christ. Put on the new self by the Spirit of God that is within you. Obey with sincerity. Give it your all. Treat others justly and fairly. And remember that the Lord will give you the inheritance that he has prepared for you. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we praise you. For the new reasons we have to work in Christ, and the new motivations to work that you have given us We ask, Lord, that you would help us to obey sincerely in the week to come, to give it our all, to treat others justly and fairly, and to remember that our work is an act of worship to you. And that you are pleased with those who would work by the Spirit in all of their work and offer their life as a living sacrifice to you through your Son Jesus Christ. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.