Today's scripture passage comes from 1 Thessalonians 1. Paul, Sylvanus, and Timothy to the Church of the Thessalonians and God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ, grace to you and peace. We give thanks to God always for all of you, constantly, mentioning you in our prayers, remembering before our God and Father your work of faith and labor of love and steadfastness of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ. For we know, brothers, loved by God that He has chosen you. Because our gospel came to you not only in word, but also in power and in the Holy Spirit and with full conviction. You know what kind of men we proved to be among you for your sake, and you became imitators of us and of the Lord, for you received the word in much affliction. with the joy of the Holy Spirit, so that you became an example to all the believers in Macedonia and in Achaia. For not only has the word of the Lord sounded forth from you in Macedonia and Achaia, but your faith in God has gone forth everywhere, so that we need not say anything. For they themselves report concerning us the kind of reception we had among you, and how you turned to God from idols to serve the living and the true God. And to wait for his son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, Jesus, who delivers us from the wrath to come. This is the word of the Lord. Good morning, friends. Let me first apologize for my voice. Uh between a cold and doing a lot of teaching yesterday, we're a bit hoarse. I could just give you the notes and maybe you should preach it, but I figured That wouldn't be fair to you. If you didn't get a outline, anybody not get an outline coming in of the book of Thessalonians? Anyone? Leah, okay. Anybody else? Everybody else got one? Couple in the back. Shanderson right there. Anybody over here? Great. I I'd love to read you the whole book. It's not that long, but I'm not. So I gave you this outline instead. And that'll be helpful just to have open as we read or as we look through this book together this morning. It gives you the lay of the land Shape and substance of the book. And since we're doing 1 Thessalonians in our small groups, I just thought it would be worthwhile to do the 35,000 commercial airline overview So we can get a sense of the of the whole landscape, right? And that's what this outline is trying to provide. Okay, here's the whole landscape. And then some of the major themes is what we'll touch on this morning. But first, turn to Acts chapter 17, where we see the establishing, the background of the Thessalonian church and how it came to be. And the backdrop to this letter, to look there at verse 2. Well verse 1, they show up in Thessalonica. Paul and Silas and Timothy. Then verse 2, you see they Paul goes to the synagogues for three Sabbaths and says, reasons with them from the scriptures. What are the scriptures? Well. The Old Testament. He's opening up the Old Testament. He's talking to the Jews there in the synagogue, explaining that it was necessary for the Christ, that is the Messiah, to suffer and rise from the dead. So he's. He's sharing the gospel with them. Incidentally, in in in Thessalonica, even today, which is in Greece, Uh there's been a long population of of the largest concentration in Greece of of Jewish people, at least there was up until World War II. A large concentration of Jewish people in Thessalonica till World War II when the Nazis came in demolished quite a bit there. But even then there was this large population of Jews and there's Paul sharing the gospel with them. You see, look at verse 4. Some were persuaded and joined Paul and Silas. Okay, so we have the church being established. But hold on, verse 5. The Jews were jealous. They form a mob, and the city is set in an uproar, it says. And so, verse 10, the brothers sent Paul and Silas away by night. So how long was Paul in Thessalonica? Maybe three weeks? Three Sabbaths? Maybe more. Maybe it doesn't give us all the details He's not there for long, right? He goes in, preaches the gospel, a church amazingly is established. The local leaders get upset. He gets kicked out. He heads on to Berea and then Athens and then Corinth. Somewhere in here, he sends Timothy back. So Timothy then comes back. Hey, how are you guys doing? Well, we're doing awesome. Lots of opposition. Timothy goes back to Paul. They're doing great. You wouldn't believe it. They're still thriving. And so now in Corinth, Paul writes this letter to the Thessalonians, right? And that's what we're then looking at this morning. Turn to 1 Thessalonians then. Jessica read us the first chapter. If I were to summarize the letter in a sentence, I'd say Paul praises God for the Thessalonians' salvation. As evidenced in their faith, hope, and love amidst opposition. Paul praises God for the Thessalonians' salvation as evidenced in their faith, hope, and love amidst opposition And now this is a compound sentence. And now he wants them to grow in faith, hope, and love, awaiting Christ's return. So he praises God for their salvation, evidenced by faith, hope, and love amidst opposition, and now he's encouraging them towards faith, hope, and love as they await. Christ's return. That's kind of the big picture of the book. Look at chapter 1, verse 2. We give thanks to God always for all of you, constantly mentioning you in our prayers. Remembering before God our Father your work of faith and labor of love and steadfastness of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ. Now flip a few chapters to chapter 5, towards the end of the book. And let me just say, don't just listen this morning, look too. It'll really help, I promise, if you if you just stay with me and look at the text as we're because we're going to be jumping around a bunch. Chapter 5, verse 8. But since we belong to the day, let us be sober, having put on the breastplate of faith and love, and for a helmet the hope of salvation. And then verse 11, therefore encourage one another and build one another up just as you are doing. And friends, that's what I'm going to try to do, we're going to try to do this morning. Build one another up, encourage one another in the faith, hope, and love that we have in Christ, and as we await the Lord Jesus Christ. Okay, so if you look at this outline. You see the whole book, chapter one, you have him giving thanks for this work of salvation evidenced in Faith, hope, and love. And then Roman numeral three, he kind of summar in chapters two and three, he summarizes the history of the relationship. I gave that to you. This this is what happened. We received opposition, went away, sent Timothy. Timothy came back. He reported good things. That's chapters two and three. And then finally, Roman numeral four, he's urging them to walk in a way that is pleasing to God. And he has a series of exhortations there for them. Okay, what I want to do is start by thinking just about the circumstances of the letter. Look at chapter 1, verse 6. You receive the word in much affliction. And look at chapter 2, verse 2 Paul says he shared the gospel of God with them in the midst of much conflict. If we kept looking through the letter, we would see more examples of this. Thessalonica was a commercial, a busy commercial city of about 100,000 people in Paul's day. In Macedonia, or as I said, what is today? Greece. And it was given over to the worship of many other gods, but there were also many Jews there. And both ended up opposing Paul and then eventually the little church that was planted. And it was a it was a it was an idolatrous city. It was a city given over to many forms of sexual immorality as well, for instance. We'll see that come up to remember. Now, I think what's helpful to remember in this letter is that Paul is writing to first generation Christians. Christianity has been there for like maybe six months, right? All they know about Christianity is what Paul told them while they were there, maybe some things Timothy said when he's back, and now what they're receiving in this letter. So you can picture Paul, he's like, okay, I got these this little fledgling baby church. They're all brand new Christians. They don't know much. Ah, how do I keep them? And people are opposing them. How do I keep them in faith, hope, and love? So kids in here Kids, I want you to imagine for a second that you guys are all Christians and none of your parents are Imagine there are no other Christians in your neighborhood, there are no other Christians in your school, there is nobody kids in your world who's even heard of Christianity, and your parents aren't Christians, but you guys are How crazy would that be? How hard would that be to sustain yourself in faith, hope, and love? And so it's Sunday morning and you say to your mom and dad, hey, I'm gonna walk down the street to Blainsburg Baptist, and uh I wanna I want to meet with the other Christians there. And your mom and dad be like Why? At best, they would say, why? At worst. Now I come after you a little bit. No, you're not. Don't you dare. But but you know these things are true. And so kids and adults, this is the set of circumstances the Thessalonians find themselves in. The world around them is like. What is this? This guy shows up, he says some things about Jesus dying, getting up from the dead, and now you're all together and being weird. That is the circumstances they found themselves in. And what do they need? They need faith. They need faith that what God said through the Apostle Paul is true. They need hope that everything will turn out. As God had promised. And of course, they needed love for one another, but love for God, love for something bigger, more wonderful, than all the opposition they're receiving. We're receiving a lot of opposition right now Man, my heart must be big for something even more. Because this is hard. Right? And sitting here today for us, in some ways, our circumstances are easier because we have 2,000 years of of Christian history behind us. We've seen the impact of Christianity on global culture, right? We know this is quite a thing. In other ways it's harder. For us sitting here today. There's there's more opposition, more entrenched opposition from all sorts of places. There's more temptations, more trials that we can potentially encounter. In fact, friends, I would even say to you, just watching the landscape today, I predict, I would guess, no prophet here, but I would guess in the coming decade, you're going to see more and more evangelical churches Yeah. Peeling off. From faithfulness to the gospel. It's already happening. I'm watching it happening now. My job has me kind of watching this sort of stuff. Church is saying, hey, you know, let's not let's not keep track of membership anymore. Let's not do that anymore because we don't want to have to ask people awkward questions. Because we want to be an inclusive and intolerant church. And so just more and more evangelicalism is going to come under this time of And so I think it's good for us to look at the Thessalonians and think, okay, some ways we've not encountered anything like that, and yet they maintained their faith, hope, and love by God's grace. How can we do that? Mark Dever often talks about tarring the Ark. Preachers, this pulpit needs to tar the Ark. Floods are coming. How can we prepare ourselves for those coming floods? Right? And one of the things we do is we look at the example of of churches like the Thessalonians. Okay, that's the circumstances of the letter. What were the means God used to grant them faith, hope, and love? What were the means God used? Well The Holy Spirit and the Word. The Holy Spirit and the Word. Look at chapter 1, verse 4. We know, brothers, loved by God, that He has chosen you, because our gospel has come to you not only in Word, But also in power and in the Holy Spirit and with full conviction. Conviction comes from the Word and the Spirit. Right? Look at chapter 1, verse 6 He received the word in much affliction with the joy of the Holy Spirit. Joy amidst Opposition comes from the Word and the Holy Spirit. Look at chapter 1, verse 8. For not only is the word of the Lord sounded forth from you in Macedonia and Achaia, but your faith in God is God forth everywhere. Faith comes through the word. And keep going. Look at chapter 2. This comes up again and again throughout this letter. Paul emphasizes the role of preaching. Chapter 2, verse 9. We work night and day that we might not be a burden to any of you while we proclaim to you the gospel of God. That was his big trick proclaiming the gospel of God. Look at chapter 2 verse 13. And we also thank God constantly for this that when you received the word of God which you heard from us, you accepted it not as the word of men But as what it really is, the Word of God, which is at work in you believers. Chapter 4, verse 8. Therefore, whoever disregards this disregards not God, not man, but God. Who gives his Holy Spirit to you? And then chapter 4, verse 15, for this we declare to you by a word from the Lord Notice Paul claims that his words are in fact God's words, a word from the Lord, he says. So to disregard him is somehow to disregard God. I don't need to tell you this is exactly what panics So many people and has for a long time. I mean, so you're claiming to speak for God? Really? A bit presumptuous, don't you think? I mean, are you just using that to cause fear, to get your way, to oppress, to take advantage of people, use them? Apparently, people were accusing Paul of this very thing. These are not new arguments that we've been hearing since the Enlightenment. They were accusing Paul of these very things. And so he has to defend himself. Look at the beginning of chapter 2, chapter 2, verse 3. For our appeal to you does not spring from error or impurity or any attempt to deceive. But just as we have been approved by God to be entrusted with the gospel, so we speak not to please man, but to please God, to test our hearts. For we we never came with words of flattery, as you know, nor with a pretext for greed, God is witness. But again, you understand why people would make this charge against Paul, right? And really the fact that the Thessalonians received Paul's gospel word doesn't make sense. I mean it is astonishing if you stop and think about it. Right? A guy shows up, he starts preaching about this Jesus, and against opposition people believe. It is inconceivable that this would happen How this is not explicable, explainable by human terms. It doesn't make sociological, psychological, emotional sense Something else is going on here. What is that? It's the word coming with the Spirit. So the mouth speaks, air vibrates The ear receives the word, the mind comprehends, that's ordinary communication, right? But this time that word comes with electricity. Holy Spirit electricity. Radioactive glowing. So that when it comes up, there is a jolt. Think emergency room paddles to the chest. Jolt. Love wakes up. Faith materializes. Hope, suddenly, dead, now there. With the word and the spirit coming and giving life. That's what explains it Think about all that we do as a church. Why is it so critical we gather around and then scatter, speaking to one another, the word? Because life comes from God's word, working together with God's Spirit, right? Something exists that didn't exist before. In creation, you have God speaking the universe into existence out of nothing. And in new creation, you have God speaking new creation into existence out of nothing. It's exactly what Paul says. In Romans 4. He points back to creation and he says, now God's doing the exact same thing. Right? God puts faith, hope, and love in our heart. It doesn't matter if the people in the neighborhood think you're crazy if your parents think you're nuts once you've seen it you can't unsee it There's now this new heart pulsing. It's just there. Nothing I can do about it. Can't walk away. It's just there. It's in my chest now. Right? Friends, this happens every time John stands up and preaches. It happens in your small groups when you're studying the word. What happens when you open your Bibles, your dinner table, you talk to your kids. Spirit doesn't always give life. Sometimes he hardens. The Spirit's always working. When we open up and read and preach and teach God's word. Look at chapter 2, verse 13 again. When you received the Word of God, which you heard from us, you accepted it not as the Word of men, but as what it really is, the Word of God, which is at work in you, believers. So Paul stood up regularly to preach in those synagogues there in Thessalonica. His sermons were not inspired scripture. How do I know? Oh, because we don't have them His sermons were him putting together sentences and paragraphs based on his reading of the Old Testament, just like he or right now I'm getting up and I'm I'm I've I've written these sentences. Right? So this this manuscript is not God's word. This is God's word, right? Yet somehow Paul is saying you received it as what it really is, God's word. What's going on there? Why would he say that? Well, I think insofar as John, insofar as I, insofar as you open up God's Word, this book, and you faithfully transmit its message Insofar as you say what it says, you are speaking God's word, right? I'm the receptionist, I'm taking the message from the phone caller, I'm handing it on. It's going to be at Chipotle at 12. Say it's going to be at Chipotle at 12. I'm faithfully transmitting the message. It's not my word. The guy who just called said he's going to be a Chipotle at 12, meet him there. It's a press secretary saying that this is what the senator says on healthcare Not giving you my own message. I'm giving you the senator's message. This is his posture on universal health care. It's a mailman delivering the mail. Not riding it, but just delivering The male. And insofar as we faithful deliver the message, we hear what God actually says. This is not the men of God. And insofar as we do that, we are able to speak with Holy Spirit power. Do you think the Holy Spirit is going to come along with my wisdom? Come along with your charisma? No, the Holy Spirit is going to attach himself to the wisdom, the perfect, authoritative, sufficient, inerrant wisdom. of God as revealed in this book. Two lessons from that. Lessons one, if you're ever preaching a sermon, teaching a Bible study, teaching your kids, you only give your hearers a chance at life insofar, you only give them a chance at faith, hope, and love insofar as you faithfully repeat this book. It doesn't depend on your humor, your charisma, your clever way of coming up with putting it. It depends on your faithful transmission. Okay? Lesson two. If you want to grow as a Christian, grow in your knowledge of God, grow in Faith, hope, and love, how will you do it? Well, by seeking out a knowledge of God's word, by grabbing onto that power line through which electricity buzzes. By standing in the riverbed through which the water flows, my faith feels weak. My love is ebbing. Ah, just so little hope in circumstances right now. What do I do? Go to the word. Have other Christians bring you along in the Word. Let other Christians open it for you. Open it yourself. Let other Christians open it for you. Study it. That's where life comes. God's word, working through God's Spirit, is God's primary instrument for growing God's church. God's word, working through God's Spirit, is God's primary instrument for growing God's church. In fact, I think we can say God's word is the most powerful force in the universe. God created the universe through his word. He is recreating it through his word. He sustains all things. By his word. Okay, that's the means. Now some lessons. We have the circumstances, we have the means, circumstances, opposition, means, word and spirit, four lessons Four lessons. Number one, in salvation, God saves us from his coming wrath. In salvation, God saves us from his coming wrath It's one of the key themes of this book. We start here because it's primary, it is foundational. I wonder if have you ever had somebody or you ever heard somebody ask the question, have you been saved? It's kind of an awkward question, isn't it? Have you been saved? Saved from what? No, I needed saving. Says the average person, I think. Well, I think again it's crucial we start here because the most important thing about every one of us here, whether you consider yourself a Christian or not, the most important thing about you is where you stand in relation to God. That is the most important thing about you. Do you stand in his favor or do you stand under his condemnation? That is the most important thing about you. Our temptation is the thing the most important thing about us is things that we can see. And so if I'm talking about what do I need to be saved from? Well, it's things I see, right? I need to be saved from. Ignorance. I need to be saved from folly. I need to be saved from uh relational strife. I need to be saved from financial challenges that we have from poverty. And so we tend to think about salvation in these other categories. That's not what the Bible says. The Bible says the main thing that we need to be saved from is the one who created us. The one who loves us and sent his own son. Most importantly, we need to be saved from God. Look at chapter 1, verse 9. For they themselves report concerning us the kind of reception we had among you, and how you turned to God from idols to serve the living and true God. And to wait for his son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, Jesus who delivers us from the wrath to come They were worshiping idols under wrath. They turned from idols to the living and true God, saved from that wrath. That's what he says right there. Look at chapter 2, verse 15. It's referring to the Jews who killed both Jesus and his prophets, but now, says Paul at the end of verse 16, God's wrath has come on them. So they're in opposition to Jesus, and so they are still under wrath. Now look at chapter 5, verse 9. Chapter 5, verse 9. Church. Thessalonian Church, Chevrolet Baptist Church, chapter 5, verse 9: God has not destined us for wrath. But to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ, who died for us, so that whether we are awake or asleep, we might live with Him. So, friend, if you're here this morning, you're visiting, you don't understand yourself to be a Christian, the most important thing, as I said, about you is where you stand in relation to God. And apart from Christ. These texts show us that we are under God's wrath and we need saving from that wrath. Now, does the fact that he says that, or does the fact that God has wrath against sinners mean he is some type of sadistic tyrant Is that what we are learning about God? Well, I would say it's actually just the opposite. I actually think it shows us how glorious and beautiful and wonderful God is in this sense. Wrath Reveals worth. Wrath reveals worth. Just ask any jewelry store owner The more precious, the more valuable something is, the greater the penalty is for protecting it. So if you come along and you damage my car, I'm gonna be a little mad at you If you come along and you hurt my children, I'm going to be furious at you. Why? Well, because my children are worth far more than a silly car Okay, what might the eternal wrath of God reveal about the splendor, the glory, the preciousness of God and how it dishonors him? To sin against him. Let me put it this way. Hell, which is where we see breath beaded out Hell in many ways is like the foundation beneath a skyscraper. And the higher the skyscraper, the deeper those foundations have to go So think about the steel piles driven beneath the sands of Dubai to hold up this glorious biggest building in the world, Birj Khalifa. Okay, now how high, how glorious, how beautiful is God. And so what does the horror of hell reveal? It reveals that very thing. Short buildings, small foundations, right? Big, glorious buildings, deep foundations. And the whore and wrath of God against sin tells us something about how beautiful and glorious and wonderful he is and the nature of our offense against him. Now see the thing is we we live in these kind of self-obsessed, all we can see is ourselves and self-important world And we lose sight of that. Okay, I sinned against God, whatever, big deal. Do you know who you sinned against Do you know what he deserves? Do you know how worthy he is? We don't So sin doesn't seem like a big deal. And what the wrath and testimony to the wrath of God in books like 1 Thessalonians tell us is tells us we deserve it. Because he really is. There really is a being in and beyond the universe that beautiful, that glorious, that worthy. That offenses against him are worthy of eternal wrath. That's what it teaches us So again, my non-Christian friend, the most important thing about you is where you stand in relation to God. And the Bible says we are all apart from Christ under his condemnation. But that's not all it says. It also says we can be saved from God, by God. We can be saved from God by God. Chapter 1, verse 10. Jesus can save us from God's coming wrath. Look at chapter 4, verse 14. We believe that Jesus died and rose again. Even so, through Jesus, God will bring with him those who have fallen asleep. Look at chapter 5, verse 9. For God has not destined us who trust in Christ, has not destined us for wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ, who died for us So that whether we are awake or asleep, we might live with Him. So when Jesus went to the cross, I said there's one place we see God's wrath, we see it in hell, right? Where's the other place we see it? On the cross. We see God's wrath poured out on the Lord Jesus Christ on the cross. So that all of us who repent of our sins and put our trust in Him and hold on to Him in faith And be saved. Be with God for eternity. That's what we're promised. And we know that He's better than anything this world promises. We have that hope. believers. Okay, that's lesson one. Lesson one, in salvation, God spares us from the coming wrath. Lesson two, in salvation, God grants us faith, hope, and love. In salvation, God grants us faith, hope, and love. That's lesson two. In other words, salvation is not merely a change in status. Under wrath, not under wrath. It's not merely a change in status before God's throne. Salvation also changes us. It gives us this faith, hope, and love that we did not have. Before, right? Chapter 1, verse 2, we give thanks to God always for all of you, constantly mentioning you in our prayers, remembering before God, Father, your work of faith and your labor of love and your steadfastness of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ. And verse 6, and you became imitators of us and of the Lord, for you received the word in much affliction, with the joy of the Holy Spirit, so that you became an example to all the believers in Macedonia Flip over to chapter 3. Look over chapter 3, verse 6. But now that Timothy has come to us from you and has brought us the good news of your faith and love, and reported that you always remember us kindly and long to see us. Why do they long to see this guy? Why do they love this guy? He's the one who brought the gospel word to them. And the electric paddles of the Holy Spirit came and jolted to life in love and affection for this guy Look at chapter 4 verse 9. Chapter 4 verse 9. Now concerning brotherly love, you have no need for anyone to write you For you yourselves have been taught by God to love one another. God taught you to love one another, for indeed that is what you were doing to all the brothers throughout Macedonia. Friends, when God gives us faith, we cannot help but believe. That's the amazing thing, right? Can't help but believe. Now, to my shame There are times, and we all know this, there are times when we don't believe, or we're tempted not to believe There are times, you've got to trust we all know this, when when when things of this world still look more attractive to me. And there are times when I think to myself, would I rather have that? Or I think to myself, can I really keep believing this stuff? But you know what happens whenever I get to those moments? I'm stuck Because I still believe it and I still have hope. Again, it's like this new heart has been stuck in the chest and I can't get rid of it Because it's supernatural. I just keep believing, I keep having hope, and so I keep fighting. And I, Lord, give me more love. So I I get into I get to these moments of I don't know, temptation or crisis of faith. And at this moment, it always occurs to me, okay, I have one of two choices here. I can I can back away entirely from this faith, this Christianity thing, and just pursue what I want, or I can go deeper and further in. And when I'm standing there, because you can't stand still. That's a waste of time, right? In moments of doubt or moments of temptation. You can't stand still. Either going to back away or you're going to go deeper in. And so as you're standing there, to me, every time it's just it's just like, well, that's stupid and makes no sense and is wrong. And I have this heart and this faith and this hope and this love telling me I have no choice deeper in. Further in. Friends, when you get there, when you get to temptation, when the doubt hits you, those are your two choices. Can't stand still. Back away entirely. Stop calling yourself a Christian. Go deeper, further in. And if the Spirit of God is in you, I know what you're gonna do. And I rejoice. Yeah, so that's faith. So it is with hope. So it is with love. I rejoice to see the love that I see among you. occurrences of love. It doesn't make sense that you guys love each other the way that you do. It doesn't make sense that you received and loved the greens. Or you love Tom and Pam the way you do. It doesn't make sense. It doesn't make sense the way you text each other and the way you call each other and the way you email and the way you stop by each other's house. The way you inquire into one another's hearts, how you doing, doesn't make sense. Our non-Christian friends at work aren't doing that. They're not inquiring into one another's hearts and asking about one another's souls, asking one another how things are going with discouragement. But I see that with you guys I see you holding on. I hear stories of doubt. I hear stories of temptation to back away. But then I watch you go deeper and further in And I praise God for it. God is at work in you, saints of Chevly Baptist Church. He has given you new hearts. Hearts of faith and hope and love. Praise God. Three. Lesson three. In ministry, we work by faith, hope, and love. In ministry, we work by faith and hope and love. And this really is chapters 2 and 3. Where we hear about Paul's ministry among them, we hear about his departure, his sending Timothy back, the congregation's Response. We've already considered his motives for ministry. We saw those in chapter 2, verses 4, to please and love God. But now I want you to consider them the manner of God's ministry. Notice I listed them right here, motives and then manner of his And you see, I have five things that I think characterize his manner of ministry. Verse 7, look at verse 7. It's gentle like a nursing mother His ministry is gentle like a nursing mother. I go to a lot of pastors' conferences. You don't hear that a lot. Hey guys, be gentle like nursing mothers Not many men that. There it is. Look at verse 8. He's affectionately desirous. He wants to share not just the gospel but his own life. Affectionately desire to share the gospel and his own life with them. Look at verse 9. He wants to avoid being a burden. It's gonna work. I wanna burn you guys. Look at verse 10. He wants them to be holy and blameless And then look at verses 11 and 12. He exhorts them like a father. Christian ministry is gentle like a nursing mother. Exhortative like a father. And it's always done with our hope in view. We exhorted and encouraged you and charge you to walk in a manner worthy of God who calls you into his own kingdom and glory. So he's got his eyes fixed on the hope, and he's trying to help them get in, right? That's what he's doing. Paul loves The Thessalonians. He was only there for a month, but he loves them. His heart is full for them. Look at verse 17. We endeavored the more eagerly and with great desire to see you face to face. Look at verse 18. We wanted to come to you. Look at verse 19. What is our hope, our joy, our crown of boasting? Look at verse 20. You are our glory and our joy. Therefore, look at chapter 3, verse 1. When we could bear it no longer, we were willing to be left alone. I don't want to be alone, but I'm going to love to be alone because I gotta hear how you're doing. So I sent Timothy to you. So in Christian ministry, we are called to work by faith, hope, and love. Obviously, this has immediate relevance for the Elders and deacons, brothers and sisters, are you working by faith, hope, and love? Do you think, elders, deacons, do you think you can actually change people's hearts? In your teaching? In your service? Or are you working by faith That God comes and joins himself to his word to create new hearts. And we're just we're just instruments here. that but he he really is going to use your works of teaching and your works of service to that end that's what we see in this book right And of course, the work of ministry doesn't belong just to the elders and the deacons. It belongs to the whole church. Ephesians 4 says the elders exist to equip the saints for the work of ministry, for building up the body of Christ. So what am I trying to do right now? I'm trying to equip you guys With faith, hope, and love, so you can do the work of ministry and ministry to this body and ministry outside of this body. So, friends, as you do ministry, don't do it to please men Right? Don't do it by your own strength and by your own power. Don't make those text messages and those phone calls of encouragement and those visits and those meals. And the duty that we're doing in the in the in the child's care. Don't do those things by the power, by the strength of the flesh. Do it to please God. Do it by the power of God. Do it for the sake of the love of God that they might love God. As you set an example in these ways, and as you speak gospel words. Right, and God can use all of those. God does use, he promises to use all of those things as we build one another up in love, says Paul again in Ephesians 4. It's sad, isn't it, how quickly our minds can go to how we appear. I'm going to look this way when I'm doing that ministry. I remember I was in seminary Well I just started preaching, right? Uh in seminary. And recognizing how much my heart struggled with what people thought of me when I preached. And because I was a pious young man, I thought, I know, I'm just going to stop preaching. I'm going to beat the devil in his game. I'm not going to give myself over to fear of man, so I'm just going to not preach And Satan's like, yeah, good call. Don't preach. Of course, that was the wrong solution, wasn't it? The solution was to learn how to minister, how to preach, and yet fight fear of man at the same time Gotta do both. So insofar as you are tempted to minister to others in order to please men, I'm not telling you to stop ministering. Keep ministering. But look for ways to put to death the desire for the praise of others as you do it. Confess it. Bring it into light. Show it in its ugly face. Right? And then repent of it. Yeah, we don't just do ministry by faith, hope, and love. We do it for faith, hope, and love. Look at chapter two, chapter three, verse two We sent Timothy to establish and exhort you in your faith. Chapter 3, verse 5. I sent to learn about your faith. Chapter 3, verse 7. In all our distress and affliction, we have been comforted about you through your faith. We pray most earnestly night and day that we may see you face to face and supply what is lacking in your faith Chapter 3, verse 12. May the Lord make you a crease and abound in love for one another, for all, as we do for you, so that he may establish your hearts blameless in holiness before God our Father, the coming of the Lord Jesus. with all his saints. So we are working by faith, hope, and love. We are working for faith, hope, and love. Point four, finally point four in discipleship We pursue faith, hope, and love. In discipleship, we work, I'm sorry, we pursue faith, hope, and love Look at 4 verse 1. We ask you and urge you in the Lord Jesus that as you receive from us how you ought to walk and to please God just as you are doing, that you do so more and more. And so much ministry comes down to this. Oh, I see these things in you. It's really awesome. And now I'm encouraging you to more and more of it. You affirm what you see God's doing and you call people to even more. That's so much of ministry. Right? Affirming what God has done, pointing to more. And then as you see in your outline, you have five clumps of commands there in the rest of chapter 4, verses 5. Verses 3 to 8. He exhorts them to abstain from sexual immorality. You see that in verse 3. And then verse 6. We're not to transgress or defraud or wrong our brothers and sisters. Why? Keep reading. The Lord is an avenger. The Lord is an avenger. He takes sexual immorality very seriously. It's a severe picture. And look at the second clump in verses 9 to 12. The opposite of sexual or immorality is love. Love one another with a brotherly love. And you've been doing this, he says in verse 9, but verse 10, we urge you to do it more and more. Verse 11, do it by aspiring to live quietly and to mind your own affairs Facebook and Twitter need to hear that. Mind your own affairs. Brothers and sisters, we need to mind our own affairs. We love drama. We love gossip. Mind your own affairs. Not loving. Clump 3, verses 13 to 18. He wants them to understand that Christians have died. Look at the end of verse 13. They've died so that they don't grieve as others who have no hope. He wants them to have hope Verse 16, look with me. For the Lord Himself will descend from heaven with a cry of command, with the voice of an archang with the with the voice of an archangel, and with the sound of the trumpet of God, and the dead in Christ will rise first. And we who are alive or are left will be caught up together with him in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. And so we will always be with the Lord. Therefore, encourage one another with these words. Encourage one another that death is not the end for the believer, right? Encourage one another that Jesus is coming back. Encourage one another that while the temptations of this world may be appealing, we will always be with the Lord, and the Lord is better. By far. Fourth club, chapter 5, verses 1 to 11. He exhorts them to remain sober and build one another up in preparation for Christ's coming Verse three, while people are saying there is peace and security, then sudden destruction will come upon them. Verse four, but you are not in darkness, brothers, for that day to surprise you like a thief, for you are all children of light, children of the day. We are not of the night or of the darkness. So then let us not sleep as others do, but let us keep awake in sober. Apparently the Bible does want us to be woke. Right? It says, keep awake How we're to be awake, we're to be awake through the Spirit. We're to be awake to God's coming judgment, it says. How easy it is to fall asleep, how easy it is to let sin dull. our senses. As you sin, friends, as you give yourself over to sin, your your conscience does dull and it becomes easier and easier. You feel less conviction. How do you how do you wake up Oh, Father, help me, grant me your spirit. And then you fight against that sin. And as you're fighting against that sin, you'll begin to discover once again its significance while also discovering the goodness of the Lord. Right? And for that we need faith, hope, and love. Look at verse 8. But since we belong to the day, let us be sober, having put on the breastplate of faith and love, and for a helmet the hope of salvation. Then finally we have the fifth clump in verses 12 to 22, which offers exhortations for their fellowship together. Verses 12 and 13: respect those who labor among you and are over you, esteem them highly in love. Esteem those in love who labor among you as elders. Verses fourteen and fifteen, encourage each other according to where they are. It says, Admonish the idle, encourage the faint-hearted, help the weak, be patient with them all I often use this text when I'm talking to pastors about church discipline. Church discipline I say, and this is all of us, when you're stepping into somebody's life to correct sin, you've got to pay close attention. Is this person rebellious or is this person just weak? Exercise pastoral care. Extreme social sensitivity, love awareness, when you're going to encourage or rebuke a brother or sister Be patient with them all. And then verses 16 to 22 speak of their fellowship with God. Rejoice, it says, pray, it says, give thanks. Don't quench the spirit speaking. Don't despise prophecies, it says there. It says abstain from evil. Remember what I said earlier. Salvation is not just a change of status. It's a changed life. It's one where God causes us to believe different things, hope for different things, love different things. Let me. offer this kind of final illustration. It was uh Friday morning, just this last Friday morning at 7. 20 a. m. and I was boarding a flight for Michigan And I was feeling my heart just very distracted by the world. And so I text three brothers who I meet with, have been meeting with every other Tuesday morning for seven years Starbucks. I said, brothers, boarding a flight to Michigan. One talk tonight, two tomorrow, back tomorrow night, preparing Sunday sermon throughout, but heart and mind very distracted by world. Been praying Psalm 131-31, but still feel the battle. Pray for me. Four minutes later, Philip Lehman texts back. One of my favorites by Paulison is his meditation on Psalm 131. Thanks for the heads up. Love you, brother. And he included an attachment of the Pallason essay. I didn't read it, but I was encouraged. Ten minutes later, Klon texts, praying now. Three minutes after that, Bill Barron's text saying, Yeah, I'm praying too. Two flights, and six hours later, I get off my flight. And I have another text from Klon. Hey dude, how are you hauling up? I replied, good, really good time in the plane, writing Sunday sermon, meditating on the hope we have. God heard their prayers. That's my life. I get to walk through life with my soul being guarded and protected by brothers like that. And so do you. If you're a member of this church, And you're reaching out to build those kinds of relationships with brothers and sisters in this congregation. Isn't that amazing? Lock arms with us and to walk along with them. Look at Paul's final prayer at verse 23. Now may the God of peace sanctify you completely. We're not yet completely sanctified. We will be completely sanctified. That's the promise. Verse 24, he who calls you as faithful, he'll will surely do it. Friends, that's the 35,000-foot overview. I hope you enjoyed your flight of First Thessalonians. I hope it is encouraging for us as a church wide. Last thought here Paul comes into a city, 100,000 people, all he's got is his Old Testament. He doesn't have a church building. He doesn't have fancy programs. All he's he got is a book. And he's the only he's got half the book. He's got the Old Testament. All he does is he preached from that book. And you know what? The Holy Spirit comes and people believe. They imitate him. The word goes out from them. It crosses international borders, not just Macedonia and Nakiah but beyond, it says. Friends, can God do that among us? Chevrolet Baptist Church. He may choose not to, but he certainly can. And we certainly should pray for it. And we shouldn't assume that whether we have this or we don't have that, we're gonna be we're gonna be okay. Right? God can do amazing and mighty things through this congregation as we preach his word, speak his word, gather around his word And so on. Let me pray. Father God, we give you thanks and praise for this example of this Thessalonian church under opposition. And Lord, even though we are under opposition from the world, the flesh, and the devil. You can do great and mighty things through us. Thank you for saving us from your wrath. Thank you for calling us to your work. Thank you for the faith, hope, and love we know is beating even now in our hearts, and we pray that you would grow us. Sanctify us completely. Finish the work you've begun, we ask in Christ's name, Amen