I want to fit in. I want people to like me That's fear of man 101, right? We fear more what people think than we fear what God thinks And it's something that we're all born doing from the beginning. In the beginning, we want our parents' approval. When we went and moved into school, we want our friends' approval. I remember in the fifth grade. If you were a member of Mr. Lazar's fifth grade class, 1983, the cool thing to wear were Aizod shirts. All the guys wanted Aizod shirts. Fast forward one year to sixth grade, Jefferson Junior High, the cool thing were was parachute pants. Anybody have those Seventh grade, it was a brand called Genera. Anybody remember that brand? Am I older than all of you? Most of you it doesn't exist anymore. I Googled it yesterday. Genera. My I did my mom had to get me Jennera clothes. Moving into high school, of course, it was all about defining myself against the crowd, against the herd, in the music I listened to, in the kind of clothes that I bought, and the self-identity image I wanted to cultivate. But of course, defining yourself against the crowd is still defining yourself by the crowd, right? Same, same, same basic idea, different tactic Then, of course, when you move out of high school and into college and then even to a young adulthood, you're still kind of doing the same thing. There's a sense in which we never really leave high school. I read David French the other day. He said something along these lines. He writes, the older I get, the more firmly I'm convinced of a fundamental psychological fact. We never really leave high school. Of all the forms of pressure that one can apply to a person, political pressure, market pressure, moral pressure, the one that matters most of all Is the one that mattered in the lunchroom when you were wearing your class ring and letter jacket. It's peer pressure. The unbreakable bond of the high school clique. This is how you understand corporate activism. This is how you understand media double standards. This is how you understand the way we talk and the jokes that we laugh at. We all want to belong to a certain group, right? And so much of our lives is determined by that basic psychological fact. We want to go with the flow. We want to be liked. We want to be along. People have always been this way. This isn't new. This is part of the fall. And that's why the Bible addresses it. Turn to the book of Deuteronomy. I'm going to be looking at this morning. My goal is to consider the entire book. of Deuteronomy. What is the basic point of Deuteronomy? What is the message? If you just saw a movie, you spent two hours watching a movie and I said to you, hey what's what's that movie about? You you would summarize it for me in the point of that movie. in a few minutes. Well that's that's what I'm going to try to do in about 40 minutes with the book of Deuteronomy. It too wrestles with this question of a people who want to define themselves relative to the nations. They're gonna want to be just like the nations around them, God tells them. And therefore he He gives them this book. He's given them all the advantages of being his people, of having his presence, of knowing his law. Here are my very words. And yet they still just want to fit in. Like the kid looking for an Izod shirt. Look at chapter 31, verse 16 Chapter 31, and we're going to flip around a lot in it this morning. It'll be helpful to follow along with me to keep your Bibles open to follow along. Chapter 31, the big number. In verse 16, right towards the end of the book, God says to Moses, Behold, you are about to lie down with your fathers, then this people will arise and pour after the foreign gods among them in the land that they are entering. And they will forsake me and break my covenant that I have made with them. It seems that they're not gonna want God to be their God. They're gonna want the gods of The nations. They want to fit in with the nations, be like the nations, and that's going to be their primary temptation. Of course, why are we reading this? Because that's our temptation, too. As a church, we, Chevroly Baptist Church, are to be a distinct marked-off people, but there is a constant temptation in your heart and my heart, our hearts, to be like our colleagues at work. Our neighbors on the street. Movies we listen to. Or the movies we watch, the music we listen to. Blend in to fit in. And so God gives us this book of Deuteronomy. And he basically has three things to say to us: God alone is God. He loves you and has saved you, church. So listen to him That's the basic point of Deuteronomy. What's Deuteronomy in a nutshell? Well, it's these three basic points. God alone is God. He loves you and has saved you. So listen to him. And that's what the three points we're going to talk about this morning. But before we jump in, let me give you a quick Overview of the landscape. Turn to chapter 1, verse 1. Chapter 1, verse 1. And we see there that Deuteronomy presents us with, quote, the words that Moses spoke to all Israel. Right, as Israel stood on the edge of the promised land and they're preparing to enter. They've been wandering through the wilderness for 40 years. Now they're about to go inside, and Moses is giving them the final, okay, kids, as we as we get out of the van and go into grandma's house. I want you to behave. Speech. Right? That's what we get in Deuteronomy. In fact, we get three speeches. in the book. The book could be broken down in multiple ways, but common ways is you see three different sermons he gives, along with a couple of conc uh concluding chapters about Moses' death. And it's easy to see where these Speeches begin because it points to a geographic location. Look at chapter 1, verse 5. Chapter 1, verse 5. Beyond the Jordan. In the land of Moab, there they are on the edge, in Moab, on the edge of the promised land, Moses undertook to explain this law. And then if you just flip through chapter uh one through three you see Moses sort of recounting how they got there. They they refused. Just look at the subheadings in chapter one. They'd refused to enter the land. There was a penalty for the rebellion, chapter 2, then you have the wilderness years, and then you have the defeat of King of Sihon. Defeat of King of Og. These are kings that have come out and tried to stop them on their way. So he's recounting history, recounting how they got to right where they are. And then chapter 4 rounds this out by reminding them that the Lord alone is God. Then the second sermon, look at chapter 4, verse 44. Chapter 4, verse 44. We have the beginning of a second sermon, a different geograph of this reference to a geographic location. This is the law that Moses set before the people of Israel, beyond the Jordan, in the valley opposite Beth Peor And then in chapter 5, if you flip there, we see the Ten Commandments. That's the second time we've seen the Ten Commandments. They were back in Exodus 20, remember that? And now it's a second giving of the law, and that's where we get the name Deuteronomy, Deuteros, second gnomos, law, Deuteronomos, Greek translation. We get the name of the book. And then chapters 6 through 11 really do feel like a sermon, because he kind of comes back and makes the same points over and over again. And then if you look at chapter 12 And following all the way down to chapter 26, you get a bunch of what you might call case law. If this, then do this. And circumstance, look at chapter 12 of worship. Idolatry, flipping on, chapter 14, clean and unclean food, chapter 15, sabbatical year, chapter 16. Passover, and so on and so forth, all the way up to chapters 27 and 28, where you get a list of curses and blessings For obeying or disobeying the law. So he's laid out all this law, and now here's the list of curses and blessings. And you get that in chapter 28. Right? And then the third speech begins in chapter 29. Look there. These are the words of the covenant that the Lord commanded Moses to make with the people of Israel in the land of Moab. besides the covenant that they had made with him them at Oreb. So another geographic reference. And this final third sermon has sort of a bottom line. Look at chapter 30 verse. 19, chapter 30, verse 19, I call heaven and earth to witness against you today That I've said before you life and death, blessing and curse. Therefore, choose life That's what it all boils down to. Choose life or death. And I'm here to exhort you to choose life. That's the big idea. That's what he's driving. And then Moses blesses each of these two. Well, chapter 32 is a song that Moses teaches the people, and that concludes the third speech And then chapters 33, he blesses the tribes. In chapter 34, he describes Moses' death outside of the promised land. Okay, that's the landscape. All right? You got it? That's how the book is laid out. And what we learn along the way is that you know who your gods are by who you listen to. So friends, who do we as a church listen to That's the question it poses to us. And God has three reminders for us as a church. Point one, God alone is God. God alone is God. That's the first thing he would remind us of this morning. Flip back to chapter 4 Flip back to chapter four. Referring to how God had rescued them from Egypt and sustained them in the wilderness, Moses says this And not to write it down. Thirty two For ask now of the days that are past, which were before you, since the day that God created man on the earth, and ask from one end of heaven to the other whether such a great thing as this Has ever happened or was ever heard of the rescue from Egypt. Did any people ever hear the voice of a god speaking out of the midst of the fire? As you have heard, and still live? Or has any God ever attempted to go and take a nation from Himself from the midst of another nation by Trials by signs by wonders and by war by a mighty hand and an outstretched arm and by great deeds of terror All of which the Lord your God did for you in Egypt before your eyes. To you it was shown, that you might know that the Lord is God. There is no other besides him. Verse 39. Know therefore today and lay it to your heart that the Lord is God. Heaven above, and on the earth beneath. There is no other. Powerful words. There is no other. Perhaps the most important verse in the whole book occurs in chapter 6. Flip there, verse 4, the famous Shema. Shema is the Hebrew word for here. God wanted them, he wants us to hear this. Verse 4. Hear, O Israel, hear, O church, the Lord our God, the Lord. One. He is unique. Uniquely and only and fully and wholly God. That's the Lord, God of Israel, God of the nations, our God And to say that the Lord is God is not only to make a truth claim with your mouth about what you believe, it is to make a heart claim about what you love. About what you most love. Keep reading in verse 5. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your might. To hear God is to love God. If you don't love God, you don't really hear God What are we tempted to love? We're tempted to love social and cultural acceptance. Material comfort. Um self-gratification in food or sex Having a family or a certain kind of family, being a certain kind of church, even Political power can certainly be a god, so can friendship, so can your work. What do you, friends, stop and think, what do you most love? What do you find most worthy? Or let me pose the question this way, what do you spend all day thinking about? What makes you angry if you're threatened to lose that thing? What makes you anxious or stressed, or what if taken away causes depression? Well, it's in the answer to those questions that you'll find you're God. What you most love, what you listen to. And and and friends, I I confess how easy this is For us all to be distracted and find our hearts wandering off to other things, to love other things. Just last week, I'm walking around and my heart's distracted with other things. I'm loving other things above and beyond God. What about you last week? What was controlling your affections, your emotions, your thoughts, your thought processes last week What were you listening to? What caused you to say, I must, I have to, they better? Well, you'll find your gods. And God's first statement to you and me this morning is, hear this, I alone am God. I'm the only one. The others are fakes. Listen to me. You were created for me. There's nothing worthier than me. There's nothing more joy-producing than me. I'm God. That's it. That's the whole thing. I find there is actually, when I stop and I'm in the spirit as it were, I'm thinking on these things as a Christian, there's emotional freedom, there's there's joy, there's contentedness in that thought, isn't there? To stop and realize and to kind of shut everything else out and think, okay, God is God and He's in the heavens, He reigns. I don't have to sustain everything. I don't have to protect everything. I don't have to prove anything. God is God. Not me. And there's joy in that. If you're here this morning and you're you're wondering about Christianity, maybe you're investigating Christianity, Well part of what makes us as a church, Chevrolet Baptist Church, is that at some point we all We don't do this consistently, but at some point we reach the end of ourselves and we realized how good it is to know that God is God and that we are not. And to realize that he is the source of all good, not you, not me. He's better than anything on that list that I mentioned before, social and cultural acceptance. He's he's better than food or sex. He's he's better than family. He's better than work. The giver is actually better than the gift. Not that these are bad things, but the giver is better than the gifts. Friends, turn to chapter five. Look at verse seven. What's the first commandment? You shall have no other gods before me. Now is that commandment supposed to be a burden? Oh gosh, gotta keep that Or is that commandment meant to point us to the pathway of freedom and joy and even life? Well, remember what Moses said at the end of the book. I've set before you death and life. It's in keeping the commandments he's laying out in this book. There is life. Choosing God as God means life. Why? Because God is life. We will find no rest until we find rest in God. As Augustine said, you will not find rest. You know this, you will not find rest in well-behaved children, or contemplating your daily tasks, or attaining a fit body Not rest in those things. God is God. God is life. God is joy. And because God wants us to know joy, he says, you shall have no other gods before me. And then he says, second commandment, don't make any idols. I'm a jealous God. I'm jealous for your life. I'm jealous for your joy I'm jealous for you to have life. So for Christians here, there's a second point this morning That God would have us here from Deuteronomy. Here's the second. God loves you and has saved you. God loves you and has saved you. Turn to chapter 7. We try to fit in and be like the world around us, but look at what he says in verse 6. For you are a people holy to the Lord your God. Chevely Baptist Church were to be a holy people, a distinct and set apart People, why? Keep reading. The Lord your God has chosen you to be a people for his treasured possession. Out of all the peoples on the face of the earth, So, and of course, Peter repeats this in his his letters, so it applies to us. And why has he chosen us? Why does he Love us like this. Again, keep reading. It was not because you were more in number than other people that the Lord set his love on you and chose you, for you were the fewest of all peoples, but it is because the Lord loves you So did you catch that? He loves you, Israel. He loves you, church, because he loves you. Not anything in you. Something in him. And therefore, all the commands and laws in this book, which we'll get to in a moment, emerge out of God's salvation. The formula is not obey so that you'll be saved. The formula of this book is you've been saved, therefore obey. Look again at chapter 5. Notice how God introduces the Ten Commandments Chapter 5, verse 6. I am the Lord your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery. And then commandment 1. You shall have no other gods before Me. So what's God saying to the Israelites? He's saying, You're mine. I've purchased you out of slavery. I've attached my name to your name. Now you represent me. Now therefore obey me. Right? That's the formula of this book. Then look at chapter six, verse twenty. Chapter 6, verse 20. When your son asks you in time to come, what is the meaning of the testimonies and the statutes and the rules that the Lord our God has commanded you, then you shall say to your son, We were Pharaoh's slaves in Egypt, and the Lord brought us out of Egypt with a mighty hand In other words, God commands his people to keep his law because they belong to him, and their name is identified with his name. Again, it's it's it's like uh my grandma this time used to say to us, act like a lemon. And for some reason, my grandma had the idea that being a lehman meant something. Gratefully, that was a low bar. Well, so it is with the nation of Israel and God, a much higher bar, though, of course. Look at chapter 4, verse 5. Chapter 4, verse 5. See, I've taught you statutes and rules, as the Lord my God commanded me, and that you should do them in the land that you are entering to take possession of it. Keep them and do them, for that will be your wisdom and your understanding in the sight of all peoples, who, when they hear all these statutes, will say, Surely this great nation is a wise and understanding people. For what great nation is there that has a God so near it, near to it, as the Lord our God is to us whenever we call upon him And friends, so it is for us Chevrolet Baptist Church today. We who are Christians, because Christ has saved us, we take on his name. We are Christians, little Christs. We are followers of Christ. More important than the fact that you're a Lehman or a Smith or a Jones. Is the fact that you have I'm with Jesus name tag fastened to you, right? From your bapti- baptism Baptized in the name of the Father, Son, and Spirit. We gather together in His name. We wear that name tag, I'm with Jesus. Fish bumper sticker on our car. Hopefully not. But our whole lives, right? Well, so in Deuteronomy, God is at pains to remind the people that it is He who Save them. It wasn't their power or wealth or status or righteousness. It's simply because he loved them that he saved them. Friends, remember what Ephesians 2 says to us. Ephesians 2, we were dead in the trespasses and sins. God, being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which He loved us. Even when we were dead in our trespasses made us alive together with Christ. By grace we've been saved. And we know that Christ was nailed to the cross and made a curse for our sakes, received that curse threatened in this book, took all the punishment of the Father for our sins, and then rose from the grave, demonstrating that he had defeated the power of sin and the power of death, that the guilt that that we had had been vanquished. Removed, and then he grants us his spirit We'll come to that in a minute. The power, as we think about it, for obedience comes from Remembering that it is God who is God, and that it is God who has saved us by remembering that we have been purchased. Let me give you a couple of concrete illustrations of how this might work. Christian husbands, suppose you're struggling with being tender with your wife Or serving your wife as Christ served the church? What's the problem there? How do you address that Well, you're forgetting that it is God who is God. And you're forgetting that he has purchased you. He has saved you unto himself for his own work. You're not your own anymore. You're his. Probably you're breaking the second commandment by worshiping some other idol. Maybe it's the idol of work. You're neglecting her. Maybe it's the idol of image. So a lot of sarcasm comes out of your mouth. Maybe it's the idea of another kind of woman. It's the seventh commandment that you're also breaking. What's the solution? Is it just to try harder? Again, the solution is to remember that God alone is God, that you're his. Did you forget that fact? You were buried with him in baptism and you were raised again with him from the grave and you're his now and you're called to love your wife as Christ loved the church. Like I got to go back and I got to remember the gospel. Or here's another illustration. Maybe somebody at church really annoys you. Maybe that person's too chatty. Maybe that person is always putting themselves forward. Maybe the sermons are too long. Whatever it is. Something is annoying. What's the solution? Okay, don't be annoyed. Don't be annoyed. Don't be annoyed. Love, love, love. Say that a thousand times to yourself. That'll work. For about three minutes. Here's another solution. Your fallen heart is going to keep breaking those commandments. It's going to keep breaking the sixth commandment by hating that other person. Or it's going to break the tenth commandment by coveting what that person has. And all of that means you're breaking the first commandment, having some other God. You're making an idol, breaking of the second commandment. They're all wed together, right? So what do you do? Well, you remember that God alone is God. And that God has purchased you out of murder, purchased you out of adultery, purchased you out of coveting. Pursed you out of stealing and lying and all of those other things, and he's purchased you for himself because he loves you And you'll find joy and love only in him and not in these other things. And now you're free to help that other person, to serve that other person, maybe challenge that other person, but whatever it is, your heart is for them and not against them. Even as you know God is for you and not against you. So lesson number one of Deuteronomy, God alone is God. Lesson number two, God loves you and has saved you. Lesson number three, listen to and obey God. God. Listen to and obey God. One of the great ironies of the book of Deuteronomy is that Moses and the people had stood in that same spot before, 38 years before in fact they had stood in that spot. Look back at chapter 1, where we remember that God had said, go in, but they didn't. Verse 26. You would not go up, but rebelled against the command of the Lord your God. Here they are on the edge of the promised land again. Take two. Again, about to get out of the minivan, going to grandma's house. What got what is God saying? He's saying, okay, when you go into the house, listen to me. Do what I said. You guys know what it's like to have your kids not listening to say it again and again and again. That's what he's saying. Listen to me. Keep my words. Look at chapter 4, verse 1. And now we'll reveal Israel. Listen to the statutes and the rules that I'm teaching you. And do them that you may live Chapter 4, verse 23. Take care lest you forget the covenant of the Lord your God which he made with you. Flip to chapter 6, verse 6. And these words that I command you today shall be on your heart, you shall teach them diligently to your children, and you shall talk of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise, you shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes. You shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates. Look at chapter 11, verse 18. Fix these words of mine in your hearts and minds. He says this to the rulers, the rulers, the kings aren't above this. Flip to chapter 17. Chapter 17 Verse 18. And when the the king, he's talking about the king here, when the king that I set over you sits on the throne of his kingdom, he shall write for himself in a book a copy of this law. Approved by the Levitical priests, and it shall be with him, and he shall read it all the days of his life. Flip to chapter 27. This is throughout the book. Chapter 27, verse 2 and on the day you cross over the Jordan to the land that the Lord your God has given you, you shall set up large stones, and p plaster them with plaster, and you shall write on them all the words of this Law. What did God want from the people when they entered the promised land? To listen to him, to remember the things that he had said. To obey him. And did you notice that in these passages, listening and obeying is the path to life. Chapter 4, verse 1 said, listen to the statutes and do them that you may Live. And chapter 6, verse 2 said, Do all of these things that your days may be long. And look at chapter 28. Chapter 28, verses 1 and 2. Chapter 28, verses 1 and 2. If you faithfully obey the voice of the Lord your God, being careful to do all his commandments that I command you today, the Lord your God will set you high above all the nations of the earth. And all these blessings shall come upon you and overtake you if you obey the voice of the Lord your God. And then look down at verse 2 Verses 15 and following. But if you will not obey the voice of the Lord your God, or be careful to do all his commandments and his statutes that I command you today, then all these curses shall come upon you and overtake you. And that's why Moses earlier, as I talked about, or a little bit later, as I talked about earlier, says in chapter 30, verse 19: I have set before you life and death, blessing and curse, therefore choose life. Adam and Eve chose not to listen to God, and so they died. Had they listened, they would have lived. And this is basically one of the most basic lessons of the whole Bible. Listening to God leads to life. Yet it's right here that the book of Deuteronomy throws a real curveball at us. After laying out all of these blessings and curses, for obedience or disobedience, the story keeps going and it tells them. You're gonna fail. You're gonna whore after other gods and break my covenant. Look at chapter 31, verse 19. God even tells them or tells Moses to teach them a song about their eventual disobedience. Chapter 31, verse 19. Therefore, write down this song for yourselves and teach it to the Israelites, have them sing it, so that this song may be a witness for them against the Israelites. And then part way through verse twenty, They will turn to other gods and worship them, despising me and breaking my covenant. And when many troubles and afflictions come to them, this song will testify against them, because their descendants will not have forgotten it. For I know what they are prone to do. Even before I bring them into the land, I swore to give them. I mean wow, right? It's like you're going into the game and your coach is like, you're gonna lose In fact, I got a song, You're a Loser, at the cheerleader saying, Big L. I mean, isn't that what he's saying right here? You're gonna lose, you're gonna fail, you're gonna fall on your face. I've just spent three sermons, you're all gonna fail. Close the book. In in fact that that's how it ends. Look at chapter 34. Verse five. So Moses, the servant of the Lord, died there in the land of not Israel. Land of Moab. According to the word of the Lord, and he buried him in the valley in the land of Moab Opposite Beth Peor, but no one knows the place of his burial to this day. Can't even find no monument. Exodus begins with Moses' birth, rescues the people from Egypt. Wander through the wilderness, all the laws given. You get to the end of the Deuteronomy, into the Torah, into the Pentateuch, like the law. Dead body on stage. Curtain drops. Ow. Bad ending. That's it. Why? Didn't obey the law. And the people won't obey the law. They're gonna go in and fail. Uh if you're here this morning as a non-Christian, I wonder if you can sympathize with that. I mean, honestly, I can I know what it is. I tr I trust you know at some level to know what it is to kind of set standards for yourself or or maybe even from when you were younger, kind of obey God's law. Maybe you went to church when you were younger, something like that, or you had certain ideas of what God is like and you try to believe him in him and you try to follow him and yet you failed. Or maybe you redefine God to sort of fit with your preferences. Yet at some level you kind of know that's what you're doing. Here's another curveball that Deuteronomy throws at us. It commands us to keep a law that it knows we cannot keep. Turn back to chapter 10. It commands us to do something it knows we cannot do. Chapter 10, verse 16 Circumcise to command, circumcise your hearts. And don't be stiff-necked any longer The command to circumcise your hearts is sort of a Hebrew way of saying get a new heart or even get a new nature So that you you actually want different things. You you find different things most worthy. Okay, everybody, go get a new nature. Uh how do I do that? Jesus calls this being born again. Be born again. We do it that What Deuteronomy is doing here is finally it's giving us a parable of humanity. It's about Israel, yes, but more than that, it's about all of us. God has given us his law. He's commanded us to keep it. He said, this is the way to life, and we haven't kept it. We've taken the way to death, not the way to life. All of us. Well we can't help but go that way. We can't help but break it. We can't help but fail. And and frankly, I think when we're being honest, we all we all know this through personal experience. Ironically, if if you walk into some churches this morning Or follow any other religion, they'll take a text like Deuteronomy 28 and they'll tell you To be blessed, you gotta give to the to the church. To be blessed, you gotta be obey And that's that's the gospel, the good news that they preached. Preach. And those preachers are sort of right. They're horribly, deceitfully wrong too, but but they're right this far. What Deuteronomy teaches us, especially chapter 28, is that there is an unbreakable connection between obedience and blessing. And disobedience and cursing. In the Bible, you cannot take these two things apart. Obedience always leads to blessing, and the only way to blessing is through obedience. Disobedience always leads to curse. But the story goes on. And we learn the people are disobedience and they earn curse, but. Another son of Israel comes, and he is perfectly obedient. And he earns God's blessing perfectly so that everybody who is united to this perfect Israelite in his perfect obedience receives his perfect blessing Even as he takes on himself the curse for our disobedience And not only that, he gives us his own spirit so that we can obey. And we have the promise of that right here in Deuteronomy 30. Look there. Deuteronomy 30, verse 6. Remember what I said a few minutes ago from chapter 10? Circumcise your hearts. Be born again. Well now look at chapter 30, verse 6. The Lord your God will circumcise not a command, we have a promise now, right? The Lord your God will circumcise your hearts. And the hearts of your descendants, so that you may love him with all your heart and with all your soul and live. Verse 8: You will again obey the Lord and follow all his commands I am giving you today Friends, we we cannot circumcise our hearts. We cannot give ourselves new natures. God can. God does. God will. If we only turn to him and look to him and say, I can't. I need you to do it. I'm holding on to you The message of the New Testament is the same as the message of Deuteronomy to those who have been saved. Listen to God's word. It's the pathway to life, it's the pathway of life. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was. God, said John. And in his letter, 1 John, he would write, if anyone obeys his word, God's love is truly made complete in him. And that's why Paul would say to the Romans, faith comes from hearing the message. And the message is heard through the Word, Christ. Friend, if if you're here this morning and you're not a Christian, don't understand yourself to be a Christian, you need to be born again. That's what you need. How do you do that? Turn from your path. Turn to Christ's path. Follow him. Follow him as the word. Ask him to save you. Listen to him. And and Chevrolet Baptist Church, we're going to continually be tempted to fit into this world, to be like our neighbors and like our colleagues, but you know, friends, that's not the path of life. Will succeed as a church, not through our numbers, not through an exciting program, not through being relevant, but as we listen to God. As we listen to him, we'll know his love, his salvation, his embrace, his success. is flourishing, is life. By listening. We'll know that he alone is God Let's pray. Father, we give you praise for giving us your word, giving us your son, and for speaking to us that we may listen, that we may be saved, that we might repent of following our other voices, following our own voice. And discovering the life that only comes from you. For anybody here this morning who doesn't know you, this Lord, we pray that they too would repent and follow after you, because you are life. All else is death. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.