Good morning, friends. How's everyone doing? Good to see you all here this morning. I'm going to go ahead and open us with a brief word of prayer, and then we will dive into God's word. So let's pray. Heavenly Father, you have set the way of faithfulness before us. And as your people, we confess and admit that we we choose the way of faithfulness this morning. So we ask, Lord, that you would set your rules before us. We cling to your testimonies, O Lord. Let us not be put to shame. This morning. Help us to run in the way of your commandments. So we ask, O Father, that you would enlarge our hearts to receive. Right. We ask this in Jesus' name. Ben. Well, in first century Roman culture Religions were not known for their care for the sick or for the dying. They weren't known for their compassion. Religion in a Roman sense was about appeasing a particular God, and it really entailed no true ethic for how a person should interact with fellow It was merely about the relationship, the vertical relationship, about appeasing that God and receiving benefits and blessings from them. So it was common in that culture for the sick. and the weak and the helpless and the dying to be abandoned by society. And it was against this backdrop that Christianity really exploded onto the world stage in large part because of a compassion displayed by Christians toward the helpless and the hopeless that was really utterly foreign to society at large For instance, in the third century, an epidemic swept across northern Africa and Italy And in the city of Rome and in the area of Rome, as many as 5,000 people were dying per day because of this epidemic. Now, Roman citizens at large, who were not Christians, were wanting to stay away from these people. They are dying and sick and they are contagious, so we need to abandon them and stay away from them. Yet rather than abandoning the sick, Christians in Rome risked getting sick themselves and in areas of Carthage and Northern Africa, risked getting sick themselves to care for those who were sick. And who were dying. They went to great lengths to extend compassion to these people, to these hopeless individuals. What would cause the Christians in Rome and in Northern Africa and then throughout the centuries in situations like this to extend compassion to hopeless and helpless individuals. What is it that would fuel that compassion? Think about what the answer is. What do you think caused that to happen? Well, as we open to our passage this morning, We actually find a reason, if not the reason, that Christians throughout history have felt the call to compassion in the places that they live. So I want to invite you to turn with me to opening your Bibles to Mark chapter 8, verses 1 to 10. Hey, if you're using the Bible that we provided, that black Bible that's around you, you can find our passage on page 843. If you're not familiar, With reading a Bible, you're looking for the big, bold, number eight on the page, and then we're going to be looking at the smaller numbers one to ten after that. I'm gonna go ahead and read the passage for us now, and then we'll dive in. Now this is God's word. In those days, when again a great crowd had gathered and they had nothing to eat, he called his disciples to him and said to them I have compassion on the crowd. Because they have been with me now three days and have nothing to eat. And if I send them away hungry to their homes, they will faint on the way. And some of them have come from far away. And his disciples answered him. How can one feed these people with bread here in this desolate place? And he asked them, how many loaves do you have? They said, seven. And he directed the crowd to sit down on the ground. And he took the seven loaves, and having given thanks, he broke them and gave them to his disciples to set before the people. And they set them before the crowd. And they had a few small fish. And having blessed them, he said that these also should be set before them. And they ate and were satisfied. And they took up the broken pieces left over. Seven baskets full. And there were about 4,000 people And he sent them away. And immediately he got into the boat with his disciples and went to the district of Dalmanutha. Well, if you're taking notes this morning, if you're the type of the person who takes notes from a sermon, the one point I want you to take away from the passage is this. If you have received compassion from Christ, Then you should show Christ-like compassion to others. If you have received compassion from Christ, Then you should show Christ-like compassion to others. Look at me at verse one. We're gonna break that up basically. We're gonna look at this in two parts. Though it's one point, we're gonna look at compassion given or compassion received. And then compassion given. So look at me at verse one. It begins in those days. Well in what days And what days? Well, if you've been here the last two weeks, then you know that Jesus has been traveling outside of his native Israelite context into predominantly Gentile lands. Right, so two weeks ago we saw Jesus travel north to the area of Tyre and Sidon, where he healed a pagan woman's daughter who was possessed by a demonic spirit. And then last week he traveled about 120 miles southeast to the region of the Decapolis, another predominantly Gentile area where he healed a deaf man, a deaf and mute man who was able to then hear and speak plainly. So when Mark begins chapter 8 with, in those days, And he's intending us to understand that Jesus is still in the region of the Decapolis, which means he's still ministering to a predominantly Gentile population or audience. And we learn in verse 1, if you look down there with me, that a great crowd had gathered again around Jesus. So if you've been here with uh through our study. through the gospel of mark, then you know that this has been typical throughout Jesus's ministry. The works that Jesus were doing were so unlike anything that anyone else had done at the time, that people were flocking from all of the areas and all of the regions around Galilee to find him. To see him, to hear him preach, and to possibly be healed by him. I mean there were constantly crowds gathering around Jesus, but we learned something important about this crowd that is gathered around Jesus. Here. What does Mark tell us about them? He tells us that they had nothing to eat. They had nothing to eat. It's crucial for us to grasp the gravity of this situation. Some of you may remember A few weeks ago when we studied the feeding of the 5,000, which occurred in a very similar type setting in an outdoor area that was fairly desolate. It was a wilderness, an uninhabitable place, we said one of the things that was important about that feeding is that there were no mini marts. Along the way, right? There's no fast food restaurants. There's no ancient Near Eastern trail mix, right? You can't load your bags up with these bags full of like planners trail mix that stays good for months on end Right? You're in a dangerous situation when you run out of food and you're in the wilderness in an ancient Near Eastern context. Right? This is a serious situation for these people to be in. They're not just able to pick up a snack. Right? So to be without food was to be in a dangerous place, especially, especially if you're a great distance From home. And we're going to learn that that's exactly the situation that this crowd was in. So Jesus himself, recognizing the perilous circumstances that the crowd is in, goes ahead and calls his disciples to him. He calls his disciples to him, and what does he tell them? Look at verses 2 and 3. Jesus says, I have compassion on the crowd. Because they have been with me now three days and have nothing to eat. And if I send them away hungry to their homes, they will faint on the way. And some of them have come from far away. Notice already in the first three verses the emphasis on hunger. Look at Mark describes in the verse, in verse 1, when he describes the crowd, he says that they had nothing to eat. Then when Jesus says that he has compassion on the crowd, the reason that he has compassion on them is repeated. They have nothing to eat. Hunger, physical hunger and physical need calls forth compassion from Jesus. Not only that, but he also knows that if he sends them home, they won't make it. They won't make it. Look at verse 3 Jesus knows that they've pushed the limits of their hunger so far that if they try and return to the cities and towns that they've come from, they'll likely faint on the way. They'll collapse. They'll pass out. What happens to a person who collapses, faints, and passes out in a desert? Not good stuff. They possibly die. Maybe even likely if there are wild animals around, which I think in this context there would have been. This would have had deadly ramifications for these people because the setting of this miracle is in the wilderness area outside of the regions or the city of Decapolis. Look down briefly in verse 4. Notice when the disciples respond to Jesus, they call the area that they're in a desolate place. The word that's used for desolate also means wilderness. or desert. So it was made up of ten cities. But these ten cities were located in a vast area, and there are large swaths of uninhabitable desert wilderness that separate these cities. And it's likely, it seems like the setting For this miracle miracle is in one of those uninhabitable areas. So this great crowd is composed of those who've traveled a great distance, likely from those ten cities, to see Jesus And to witness his miracles and to hear his teaching. And apparently whatever it is that Jesus has been teaching or the miracles that he's been working have been so amazing. That the people have decided to stay with him for three days, have gone through all their supplies, have no food left, and they're still with him. What is Jesus says to them? Because they they've been with me three days now These people are committed. They see that this man has something different from other wonder workers and other rabbis. This guy has an authority that is unlike anyone else. And we've eaten all our food, and we're not leaving because you are amazing, Jesus. We are going to stay with you. But then Jesus recognizes if you are going to stay with me, you are going to need food I'm not going to send you away hungry because you're not going to make it. This is a perilous situation for these people to be in. And so Jesus, seeing their hunger and the consequences of them remaining in a state of hunger, Jesus has compassion on them. compassion about their hunger. I have compassion on the crowd, Jesus says Kids, if you're following along in those little bulletins, you'll see a question there. What is compassion? Compassion is this. Compassion is a deep sense of pity At the condition of another that propels one to loving action on their behalf. Compassion is a deep sense of pity at the condition of another person that propels us to loving action on their behalf, right? The root word. of the word compassion in Greek. The base that it is built off of comes from the word for organs or heart or gut. Right, it is deep-seated. You know that feeling just when you see somebody who's suffering in a way that just oh Right? It is this deep sense of pity that just comes forth out of the inner organs that causes you to have compassion on a person. And it's that type of compassion that makes you say, I want to help you. in some way. I see the pain that you're in, and I want to find some way to help you. It propels loving action towards the person. Jesus. Jesus. has this compassion on the crowd. He sees their hunger. He has heartfelt brokenness over their condition. And so he wants to help them. I mean, this is really interesting for us, right? Because throughout this study in the Gospel of Mark, we've been focusing on How Jesus does those things that according to the Old Testament only God can do. We've been focusing on what Jesus Does that only God can do, right? So for instance, in Mark's gospel, we've seen in the Old Testament, only God could forgive sin. But in Mark 2, we see Jesus forgiving sin. In the Old Testament, we saw that only God has control of nature. And then in Mark's gospel, we've seen Jesus calm a storm and walk on water. He's identifying himself as God by the things that he does. According to the Old Testament, only God can do those things. But in Mark's gospel, He's not just teaching us that Jesus is God by telling us how Jesus shares in the power of God, but also how Jesus shares in the character and attributes of God. I want you to consider this. Perhaps the most important self-disclosure of God to man in the entire Old Testament comes from Exodus 34. Exodus 34. Remember, Moses asked God, God, show me your glory. Let me see your glory. I've come to know you, and I want to know more of you, and I want to see your glory. And God says to Moses, You cannot handle my glory, no man can see my glory and live because it is too holy and too perfect. So what does he do with Moses? He takes Moses And he places him in the cleft of a rock, and he says, I'm gonna pass by you, and you're only gonna see the robe of my train. I'm gonna show you my glory. But when I pass by you, Moses, I'm going to proclaim my name to you. And what does God say to Moses when he proclaims his name? Do you remember what God said about himself to Moses? Can any of the kids tell me what God said about himself to Moses when he passed by him? Be bold here. Am I looking at Abram? He called himself the I am. Yes, the Lord, the Lord, Lois. Well, that too, but what it God said, the Lord, the Lord, Adam. He is the Lord God of hosts. He also said the Lord, the Lord, the compassionate and gracious. God, the Lord. Moses, I'm gonna place you in a cleft of the rock, and when I pass by you, I am going to proclaim my name. And as I proclaim my name, I am going to tell you what I am like And he says, the Lord, the Lord, the compassionate and gracious God, slow to anger, abounding in love, maintaining love. To thousands and forgiving wickedness, rebellion, and sin. The first thing that God tells Moses about Himself is: I am compassionate. I mean I'll tell you this. Like think about the people you know. If I came to you and I said, hey, tell me about your spouse or your best friend. What is the first thing that's going to come out of your mouth? The first thing that's going to come out of your mouth is the most dominant trait to characterize that person. You know, like Brent is a lovely man to be around. He is a kind and patient man, right? Right? The first thing that we tell people about others when you say, hey, tell me what this person is like We are going to tell you about the trait that most fully characterizes him. What is the first thing that God wants us to know about him? The Lord, the Lord. The compassionate and gracious God. I mean, I gotta assume if you're human and you're here this morning and we're not AI creatures Yet, right? We are humans. You probably struggle to believe that God is compassionate. Is that you this morning? Do you think God looks down on you and is condemning you because of your continued struggle against ex sin? Do you not regard him as a compassionate God? The first thing he says about himself, the Lord, the Lord. The compassionate, gracious God. If you're struggling to believe that God is compassionate this morning, just consider that the first thing he tells Moses about himself. I am passionate. I am gracious. I am slow to anger. I maintain love to thousands, and I forgive wickedness, rebellion Compassionate God. Jesus has passion on the people. Jesus has compassion. on the people. Jesus shares fully in the attributes of God. And because he shares fully in the attributes of God, Jesus has compassion. This isn't the first time we've seen this either, right? Just think of Mark's gospel in Mark 1. Jesus is moved with pity. compassion at the leper, the unclean one. And he reached out and touched him. In Mark 6 in the feeding of the 5,000, which is a different miracle. than the one we're studying this morning. He has compassion on the crowd. Why? Because they were harassed and helpless like sheep without a shepherd. In Mark 9, he has compassion on the boy who's possessed by a demonic spirit and he's having seizures all the time. Jesus is moved by compassion. One of the most dominant traits of Jesus that you hear over and over in the Gospels is his compassion. Deep-seated pity at the condition of another that propels him to action. And what is the action that he wants to take this morning? He wants to provide food for the crowd. But notice how his disciples respond in verse 4. Look at verse 4. How can one feed these people with bread here in this desolate place? Now look, if you have not been here in our study through the Gospel of Mark, if you've not been following along through this study, that sounds to you like a completely reasonable question. Right? They're in the desert. There's a crowd of 4,000. Matthew tells us in his gospel, there's 4,000 plus women or children. Because in the ancient Air East, they would take a census or they would take, you know, uh however many people were at an event by by counting the heads of household. So there's heads of household, the men, plus women and children. So there's upwards of 10,000 people here at this feeding. They're in the desert. There's upwards of 10,000 people and they're out of food. How can one person feed people with bread here in this desolate place? That's a legitimate question. Right? Until you realize, you haven't been here through this study, that not two chapters earlier, the disciples were present when Jesus miraculously fed a gigantic crowd. In the desert that was larger than this one with bread. He's already done this. How is it possible that they're asking this question? How could they not remember? How could they not remember that Jesus already did this? What gives? As I've been studying the passage this week, it's some people fall into the position of saying this question isn't actually as bad as it sounds. that they actually know he can feed them the crowd miraculously with bread and they're basically asking him in a kind of a roundabout way what he intends to do. Like, okay, we know that you can do this. What do you intend to do? I just don't think that that is the right way to read this question. I don't think it does justice to their question. I think it's better to see their question as a testimony of the power of spiritual blindness. and hard-heartedness, which has plagued the disciples throughout the entirety of the Gospel of Mark. We're even going to see the next time I preach on the Gospel of Mark in chapter 8. Jesus is going to come at them harder than he has yet in the gospel, asking them three questions in a row about how can you be hard-hearted? How can you still not understand? How can you not get it? And it's related to this miracle of bread. There is a spiritual Blindness, a spiritual blindness. This spiritual blindness can be so powerful that a person can live with Jesus for three years. Watch him do miracle after miracle, hear him teach over and over again, and still completely fail to recognize who Jesus is and what he's capable of. And I think that's what's going on here. I think that's what's trying to be communicated about these disciples. And what's interesting about Jesus' response here is I think he's subtly trying to remind them of the fact that they've been down this road before. Look at what he asks him. Verse 5. He asks him. How many loaves do you have I say I think he's subtly trying to remind them that they've been down this road before because that is the exact question, the same exact words, in the same exact order that he asks them in the feeding of the 5,000. It's like in this feeding, he's saying, how many loaves do we have? How many loaves do you have? I've asked you this question before. What happened the last time I asked you this question, right? Whether or not the disciples remember it or not, we don't know. All we know is that they tell them they have seven loaves And a few small fish. What does that tell us about this food? There's not nearly enough of it to feed the crowd. That's what it tells us about this food. And just like in the feeding of the 5,000, what does Jesus do? He directs everyone to be seated. He gives thanks for the food. He breaks the bread. And he gives it to his disciples to distribute. Then he takes the fish if you're following along verse 7. He takes the fish. These are likely dried sardine-like. Fish that were com that were a common staple of the ancient Near Eastern diet. One pastor, John MacArthur, remarked on this. It's interesting. Jesus miraculously creates already dead and cured fish. Right? He's the author of life. He can also create food that's already prepared. The fish has lived? I don't know. Here it is. It's ready to eat. Jesus can create food just like that, and he blesses the fish, gives them to the disciples to set before the people. So he's got seven loaves and a few small fish, and there are 10,000 plus people. So what do we take away that there were 10 people fed? Right? Seven loaves, three fish. Maybe there's only ten people fed? No, look at verses eight and nine. And they, meaning everyone, ate, and were satisfied. Man, there were leftovers. Seven large these baskets that they're using are like large hampers, you could say, if you ever had a stand-up clothes hamper. But seven large wicker baskets full of leftovers. And to underscore how astounding this was. Mark's like, hey, just so we're clear, just so we're clear, verse 9, there were about 4,000 people present. Which in that day means about 10,000 people present. Look at this. This is not possible by any human means. How can one person feed so many people with food in the wilderness? One person can't One person cannot feed so many people in the wilderness if that person is only human. Impossible. The people starve or they collapse on their way home if Jesus is only a man. Jesus isn't merely human, he is fully human, but he is also fully God. And that is what this passage is demonstrating for us. The compassionate God who provides food miraculously in the desert. And this miracle clearly demonstrates that Jesus is God because of how clearly the miracle is meant to remind us of another account from the book of Exodus. Recall the Exodus. God saves the nation of Israel out of slavery in Egypt, brings them through the waters of the Red Sea. God brings them out into the wilderness, and in the wilderness the people hunger and clamor for food. They were going hungry and they would have fainted and collapsed. Along the way, and so God says to them, I am going to feed you with bread from heaven Bread that would fall down and feed and satisfy all of the people of Israel, which according to the book of Exodus, had increased over a million people by the time the Exodus occurred. Bread from heaven that would feed and satisfy everyone. And what do you remember about the bread that would feed them? They could go out and gather as much as they need. And however much they gathered, it was left over to them, whatever amount it was would feed and satisfy them The God who provided manna in the desert to the nation of Israel miraculously is seen here on this hilltop in the desolate place outside of the decapolis, providing bread from heaven, from himself for these people. Jesus is the Lord. But this passage doesn't just point us back either. It doesn't just point us back to the Exodus. It also looks forward to the Lord's Supper. The Lord's Supper. We can't miss the similarity of what Jesus did here with what he does at the Last Supper. We turn forward in the book of Mark. Mark records the details of the Last Supper saying this And as they were eating, Jesus took bread and after blessing it, broke it and gave it to them and said, take. This is my body. Notice the pattern. He took the bread. He blessed the bread. He broke the bread. And he gave the bread. Jesus is teaching his disciples that just as he broke bread to feed them physically, so his body would be broken on the cross to feed them spiritually. What does he say in the Gospel of John? I am the bread of life. I am the bread of life, the compassion. The compassion that drove Jesus to satisfy this crowd's physical hunger with bread. is the same compassion that would drive him to offer himself on the cross as the atoning sacrifice for our sins. Grasp this, friends. The eternal son of God, the one who existed from eternity past. who is fully divine and shares fully in all of the inexpressibly glorious attributes of the Father, the one who is worthy of all worship. honor, glory, and power, this eternal Son of God looked down from his seat in heaven on ruined and lost sinners like you and me, a plea people completely undeserving of compassion, and he said of looking at us, I have compassion on them. I have compassion on them. They might be fallen and hopeless, but I love them. They may deserve wrath, but I will show them grace. They may deserve death, but I will go and give them life and life abundantly because I have compassion on them. If you're here this morning and you trusted in Jesus Christ, you are a recipient of divine compassion. Compassion that has washed away everything deserving of judgment and wrath in front of God. He has had compassion on you. Oh my friends, if you are here today and you're trusting in Jesus If you are here today, what you are today is because of Christ's compassion towards you. It is because of his compassion towards you. And if we have experienced the compassion of Christ, compassion that would drive him to the cross for the sake of our souls. then we should be driven in compassion towards others. Do you see how that works out? Compassion from above, it doesn't end in us. We are not a cul-de-sac. We are to be an avenue of God's compassion to others Those redeemed by compassion now show compassion to others to show other people God's redeeming compassionate love. You see how that adds up together? Do we want to think about not just compassion received, but compassion given If you have experienced the compassionate salvation that has come to you through Jesus Christ, then you should be a person who shows compassion to others. And here's the thing about that. Since we are surrounded by people each week, and since people are needy, everyone has needs, then we have numerous opportunities to display compassion each week to the people around us. There's not a week, not a day that passes by where we don't have opportunities to show compassion. I consider some of these opportunities for compassion. I was very helped in this by one of the counselors from CCF who did a talk on compassion. Just thinking through some of these categories, these opportunities for compassion in your own life. Do you know people who are experiencing physical suffering? Maybe it is the result of disease, chronic illness, or pain. People who are experiencing physical. Maybe their body just isn't working rightly. Can't figure out what it is. Opportunities for Do you know people who are experiencing emotional suffering, not just physical suffering, but emotional suffering? Maybe they've lost a loved one. Maybe they're battling depression. Maybe they're struggling with anxiety. There are ways that all of us struggle emotionally suffer in this life. Even if we're not suffering today emotionally. These things come to us because we live in a fallen world. It's going to happen to all of us. Do you know people who are suffering relationally? Maybe you know someone who's had a broken marriage or they're experiencing loneliness. It's not good for man to be alone That's what God says about mankind, but in a fallen world, we experience loneliness for a variety of reasons. Maybe the person just feels like an outsider. The greatest curse in Jesus' culture was to be an outsider, to be outside of the city. Think of the ways that people suffer relationally, even in this own congregation. Honestly, the number of opportunities for compassion can seem, frankly, overwhelming because of how much suffering there is in the world, right? And the danger in that is seeing the sheer number of uh or amount of suffering and the opportunities for compassion, what happens? I mean it maybe it doesn't happen to you, it happens to me. It's too much. So I'm just not gonna do anything. Right? But we can't take that route. We can't take that route. We should never let the sheer volume of suffering cause us to become numb to the opportunities to display compassion. in this world. There's an antidote about this that I think we should take to heart. So uh it goes like this a member a member of an inner city church Comes to the office of the newly installed pastor of said inner inner city church, and he finds the the the pastor standing in his office Standing at the window, overlooking the tragic nature of the inner city and just the conditions of the inner city. And the pastor, as he's looking out the window, is weeping. And the member of the congregation who's been a part of this church for a long time says, hey, don't worry. After a while, you'll get used to it. Right? And what does the pastor say? He responds to him. He says, yes. I know. That's why I'm crying. He recognizes that his heart is going to grow cold to the fact that there is suffering and need around him. And it's going to cause him to become less compassionate. And he's mourning over that fact, the reality that as humans, that happens to us. And we should do the same. We should mourn in the same way. We should be a people who mourn compassion that has grown cold in our hearts. And God gives grace to this, right? This isn't. Because we grow cold in compassion doesn't mean that God no longer accepts us. We are a fallen people, and God gives grace to us, and there's no temptation that is not common to all. But we need to beware of the fact of the ways that we've grown hardened towards showing compassion towards others. Just got to remember again the cross. Where would we be? Where would you and I be if Christ's compassion had grown cold? His compassion is steadfast. It's in his nature to be compassionate. And as we grow in Christ We should be growing and becoming compassionate like him, which means being moved to loving action by a deep sense of pity for the needs of those around us. And because it's so easy to become overwhelmed by that sheer number or volume of needs and suffering around us, I want you to consider two questions to help you think through compassion in your own life and ways that you can show compassion this week and in the weeks to come. Two questions. First, who are the people that you regularly encounter on a weekly basis? Think about them. Write them down. Be praying for them. And related to that, second question. Second question, what are the ways that you can show compassion to them? And I want you to start with the people that you encounter most because proximity is key to compassion, right? It's certainly possible to have compassion on people who are on the other side of the world. But distance, more often than not, creates a barrier to compassion. It's typical that when we person it's typically when we personally interact with those who are in need or suffering that we're then moved by compassion to help them. You see this even in Jesus' ministry, right? When he saw the leper who came near to him, he was moved with pity. When he saw the crowd who was near to him, who was helpless like sheep without a shepherd, he was moved by compassion. When he saw their hunger, it was personal, it was proximate, it was close to him. So who are the people that you are encountering most during the week? If you're married or have kids, it's going to be your spouse and kids. If you're single, it's going to be your roommate or your co-workers. If you're a young child or teenager, it's going to be your siblings or your parents or your classmates. Right? Often when we think about showing compassion as Christians, our minds go to helping the hungry, caring for the sick, and things like that. And those things are very good. And are examples of compassion. But if we do those things to the neglect of showing compassion to those closest to us and nearest to us at best, Our compassion isn't as it should be, and at worst, it's a form of Christian virtue signaling. I helped this person today. Get away from me, like those who are near to you, right? Like something doesn't add up there. We want our compassion to work from those closest to us. and through our relationships out to those outer rings of concentric circles, if you think in that way. So compassion, that's only compassion to those who are far away. Something doesn't add up. We should be people who are compassionate to those who are closest to us. So parents How are you doing? Showing compassion to your children. Right, the compassionless parent sees their child's weakness as an annoyance. Think of this as an example. Your child comes to a room full of other children and is afraid to go in. The compassionless parent asks, what's wrong with you? Stop being afraid. Go in. Unless any of you think like, uh, I've never said that aloud. I'm saying, does this happen in your heart, right? Because Christianity is a heart religion. Jesus has already said the evil comes out of your heart So whether you think it or not, how are you doing with compassion towards your children? Are you the compassionless parent? Right? Husbands. Think about your relationships with your wives. How are you doing showing compassion for them? If they happen to express anxiety or fear about something, you get annoyed and frustrated. Right? The compassionless husband. responds to anxiety and fear saying something like look you worry all the time just stop it can you just not be anxious this one time And whether he says it out loud or not, if it occurs in his heart, this is a sign of a heart that is needing to grow in compassion. And I want you to think now that these are the types of thoughts And words that can be extracted from a husband relationship or a parent relationship and applied to all relationships. It doesn't matter your stage in life How are you doing with compassion towards others? The compassionate person responds to the needs of others by identifying with their weakness. identifying with their weakness. This is to me one of the most powerful aspects of Jesus' compassion in this passage. Why do I say that? Notice, it is the people's hunger that calls forth his compassion. He does not want them to be hungry. I have a question for you. Had Jesus ever experienced hunger like this before? Yes and amen. 40 days and 40 nights in the wilderness without food or water. He knew intensely what it was like to be hungry. He identified with their hunger and having experienced it himself, called forth compassion towards them. He identified with their hunger. Consider the comfort that we even take from this, knowing that about Christ, this reality, that we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with us in our weakness. But one who in every respect, in every way has been tempted as we are, yet was without sin. Look, we have we can have questions about what does that mean and how did that work out in Jesus' simple. I I don't know the answers to all those questions, but I know what you can take from this. He identifies with you in your struggle. That's what the author of Hebrews is trying to say. He is a compassionate high priest. He doesn't look down on you and say, like, get your act together. Why are you so afraid? Why are you so anxious? He identifies with his people. And so his people should become like him in identifying with others. So consider the fearful child again. Let's go back to that example. The compassionate person says to the child, and I'm saying this as one who has said those things to my child Like I am the compassionless person from time to time. And it severely hurts me and disturbs me. And I want nothing more than to grow out of that. And I'm so frustrated by how slowly that's happening And I'm praying for it to happen more. But I know what the compassionate person says to the child. The compassionate person says, you know what? I recall when I've been afraid. And I know how hard it can be to work through fear. Because think about what you're teaching your child in that moment. You're not teaching them to interact with other children, just say, like, hey, get over it. Why are you fearful? You're teaching them to engage. to identify. Right? Think about how you can identify the compassionate husband. This is what he says. You know Though I I don't get anxious about the things that you're struggling with, I have definitely experienced anxiety in my life about other things going on in my life. And I can identify with you in that That is what compassion sounds like. You don't just tell people to get over it, right? We come alongside. We are all fallen You have experienced what other people are experiencing. Right? Consider identifying with others isn't something that we can do only with those closest to us. We start working our way out of those closest to us to these other relationships. Consider the homeless person that nobody looks at when they walk by. Too smelly. Too crazy. Just an outsider that like not deserving of compassion. Well, have you ever felt isolated and ignored in life? Dude, how hard that was to feel? I just remember going into school and just like trembling, like will somebody in the cafeteria pay attention to me? Because this is just so hard when when people don't welcome you and they don't even look at you and don't treat you like you're human. So how does Christ-like compassion call us to engage with or treat someone who The rest of society doesn't want to even look at. How does it call us to engage with that person? You see how it works itself out in all these different ways in relationships. We can share in the pain of isolation or being shunned by others. When we think about the homeless person or others like it, this would be an appropriate place to mention that the effects of our perception of a person's innocence, the effects that our perceptions of a person's innocence has on our willingness to be compassionate towards them. There is an effect on that The studies show that the group of people least likely to receive compassion in our country and our society are the homeless. And this isn't just a sermon about how to help the homeless. It's being compassionate to them and others. But here's what I want you to see in this. The reason given is that they probably made bad decisions in their life that caused them to end up in the situation that they're in. Basically, here's what they're saying. They're guilty, and because they're guilty, they don't deserve compassion. Do you see? That's not a viable option for a Christian. That is not a viable option for a Christian. Because if God treated you on the basis of your guilt, how would he have treated you? Guilty. No compassion. God moved towards those who were guilty, who were outsiders, who were unworthy to come into his presence. He moved in compassion towards them in spite of our guilt. We were guilty and yet God still showed compassion towards us and that should compel us to action Having received that type of compassion. James says in the book of James, if you see a brother or a sister who's poorly clothed and lacking in daily food, and you say to him, Go in peace, be warm and filled without giving them the things they need, what good is that? I'd like you you see a fellow Christian who doesn't have the daily bread that they need and you say, peace be upon you. I'll pray for you to be filled Well God may have put you in their life to provide the very thing that they need out of compassion for them. Right? So think about this. Compassion compels us to action. It's not something we should just talk about, but something we should be about. Consider the ways that you can come alongside those who are in need in this congregation. Who is sick? Who is lonely? Who's an outcast even this congregation? Who may feel like an outsider in this congregation? Think about it, hey, who's different from the other people in this congregation and how might they feel like an outsider? And what does compassion say about how I should interact with them? Right? Who is sick? Who's lonely? Who's anarchists? Who are the people that you tend to avoid? And why? What's ask that question? Why do I tend to avoid this person? What is it about them? Consider the ways that truly giving someone your attention and your time is itself a display of compassion. Even as you think about it after church, engaging with them. Focusing on them. This is where your phone might be an enemy in the midst of meaningful conversation. Turn it over. Put it away. Show them that they matter most to you, right? As we consider ways that we can respond with compassion to the needs of those around us, we also need to remember that the most compassionate thing we can do as followers of Christ is to tell others about his compassionate salvation. of sinners. Compassion drives us to loving action towards others, but that loving action also needs to include the most loving thing you can possibly do. Because if they don't know Christ, then they are in need. And the need that they have is for salvation justification, redemption, and adoption, which God has compassionately extended to them in Christ. Compassion includes sharing the most compassionate message that exists on earth. And God has compassionately offered those things to all. Consider again as we close. Consider again the lengths that Christ would go to compassionately secure our salvation. He left heaven to become Emmanuel, God with us. Proximate. He identified with us in our weakness. He is the sympathetic high priest, and he continues to compassionately intercede for us at God's right hand even now. And he was moved to action. He was moved to action, action that drove him to the cross to bear the punishment that we deserved. I. Have compassion on them. Since he had compassion on us, may we have compassion on others Heavenly Father, we come before you now praising you and thanking you for the compassion that you have shown us In Jesus Christ. Lord Jesus, we thank you for your compassionate love for sinners who were in need and for offering yourself as a sacrifice to all, for the sins of all who would turn from their sin and trust in you. Oh Lord, please don't let us just meditate and think about those realities, but let us act on those. Cause your spirit to compel us to act in compassionate love towards others this week. Lord, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen