The scripture this morning is Genesis 8, verse 20 through 9, verse 29. Then Noah built an altar to the Lord and took some of every clean animal. and some of every clean bird, and offered burnt offerings on the altar. And when the Lord smelled the pleasing aroma, the Lord said in his heart, I will never again curse the ground because of man, for the intention of man's heart is evil from his youth. Neither will I ever again strike down every living creature as I have done. While the earth remains, seed time and harvest, cold and heat, summer and winter, day and night, shall not cease. And God blessed Noah and his sons and said to them, Be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth. The fear of you and the dread of you shall be upon every beast of the earth and upon every bird of the heavens. upon everything that creeps on the ground, and all the fish of the sea. Into your hand they are delivered. Every moving thing that lives shall be food for you, and as I gave you the green plants, I give you everything But you shall not eat flesh with its life, that is, its blood. And for your lifeblood I will require a reckoning. From every beast I will require it, and from every man From his fellow man I require a reckoning for the life of man. Whoever sheds the blood of man, by man shall his blood be shed, for God made man in his own image. And you, be fruitful and multiply, increase greatly on the earth, and multiply in it. Then God said to Noah and to his sons with him. Behold, I establish my covenant with you, and your offspring after you, and with every living creature that is with you, the birds, the livestock, and every beast of the earth with you, as many as came out of the ark. It is for every beast of the earth. I established my covenant with you that never again shall all flesh be cut off by the waters of the flood, and never again shall there be a flood to destroy the earth. And God said, This is the sign of the covenant that I make between me and you and every living creature that is with you for all future generations. I have set my bow in the cloud, and it shall be a sign of the covenant between me and the earth. When I bring clouds over the earth, and the bow is seen in the clouds. I will remember my covenant that is between me and you and every living creature of all flesh. And the water shall never again become a flood to destroy all flesh. When the bow is in the clouds, I will see it and remember the everlasting covenant between God and ever living and every living creature of all flesh that is on the earth. God said to Noah, This is the sign of the covenant that I have established between me and all flesh that is on the earth. The sons of Noah, who went forth from the ark, were Shem, Ham, and Japheth. Ham was the father of Canaan. These three were the sons of Noah, and from these the people of the whole earth were dispersed. Noah began to be a man of the soil, and he planted a vineyard. He drank of the wine and became drunk, and lay uncovered in his tent. And Ham, the father of Canaan, saw the nakedness of his father, and told his two brothers outside. Then Shem and Japheth took a garment, laid it on both their shoulders, and walked backward and covered the nakedness of their father Their faces were turned backward, and they did not see their father's nakedness. When Noah awoke from his wine and knew what his youngest son had done to him, he said, Cursed be Canaan, a servant of servants shall he be to his brothers. He also said, Blessed be the Lord, the God of Shem, and let Canaan be his servant May God enlarge Japheth, and let him dwell in the tents of Shem, and let Canaan be his servants. After the flood Noah lived three hundred three hundred and fifty years. All the days of Noah were nine hundred fifty years, and he died. This is the word of the Lord. Good morning. It's a pleasure to be here with you today, to have this opportunity to open up with you God's Word. And I'm going to, what I'm going to do now is pray for us briefly before we begin, and then we'll get started. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we do pray again and ask, Lord, that you would be merciful and kind to us. Help us to understand your word. Help us to see the great and precious promises this word holds out to us this morning. And help us to find their fulfillment in the Lord Jesus Christ. By your Spirit, open up to us the Scripture. that we may see how they point forward to and are fulfilled in your precious Son, Jesus' name. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well kids, I do want to point out real quick, I usually make kid sheets for uh some of the kids to fill out. I forgot to put them on the front table. They're going to be there in the front seat if you want to come grab them. You won't embarrass me or make me feel bad if you don't come get them, but they are there if you want to fill them out. Alright, there you go. There's one. Who's gonna follow him? Alright, let's begin. New beginnings can often bring with them a sense of excitement. and eager anticipation. Because it's during a new beginning that we're provided with an opportunity to Start over, right? We're we're given a fresh start, a clean slate, and that opportunity to start over can be exciting. Think of different new beginnings scenarios. You move to a new city or town, right? Where will you go? What sites will you see? What will become your favorite restaurants? Or you start over at a new school, right? Who will become your your your friends? What clubs will you join? What sports will you play? Or you start a new job and you you eagerly anticipate the ways that your boss will be a better boss than your old boss and the ways that that your new job could improve your quality of living, right? New beginnings bring with them a sense of excitement. But that excitement is often short-lived as we eventually come to find out that our new beginnings Have the same old endings, right? The new city may have some cool sights to see, but the winters are freezing, the public transportation is terrible, and the people in this city are just kind of generally grumpy The new school may have some advantages, but the person you thought who was going to be your best friend ended up being mean to you. You didn't make the sports team that you thought you would make, and you can't find any clubs to join that you actually like And the new job, yeah, yeah. I mean, it may pay well, but you work ridiculously long hours, you still have co-workers you struggle to get along with, and the quality of life that you are hoping for just isn't there. And the reason new beginnings always end up with the same old endings is because we live within the inescapable confines of a fallen world. And as much as new beginnings, fresh starts, and clean slates may result in specific identifiable blessings They will also always be marred by the effects of the fall on the world and on our bodies and the presence of sin in our lives and in others. The question that we should ask this morning is, will there ever be a new beginning that doesn't have the same old ending? Well, to answer that question, I want to invite you to open in your Bible, if you haven't already, to Genesis chapter 8, verse 20. If you're using the Bible that we provided in the seats there, what page is it on? Page 6 and following. And if you don't own a Bible of your own, we want to encourage you to take the Bible that we have provided as a gift from us to you. We're going to start this morning morning in verse 20 of chapter 8 and go all the way through the end of chapter 9 And what we find in our passage is that it recounts for us a remarkable new beginning for mankind through the family line of Noah, and yet Even though Noah and his family were given the chance at a new beginning, we see the sad reality that their story has the same old ending. But this passage also points us forward to the ridiculously encouraging reality that there will one day be a new beginning. another new beginning, and that new beginning will not have the same old ending, but will be a complete and total fresh start and reset in mankind's relationship. with God. So if you're taking notes this morning, I have two points for us today as we work through the passage. Point one, which will be the longest point. It will be much longer than point two. Uh point one, we'll be looking at chapter eight verse twenty to verse uh chapter nine verse seventeen. And that point is the new beginning And then point two from chapter 9, verse 18, to the end of chapter 9 is the same old ending. So, first, let's look at this new beginning. This new beginning. Where do we see this new beginning? We've got to recognize the context of the passage that we're reading in, right? We have to remember that in chapters 6 to 8 We saw that God brought a terrible judgment on all mankind for their sins in the form of the flood. But because of one man's righteousness, Noah. Noah and his family were saved. And after the flood waters had fully receded from the land and the dry land had appeared, Noah and his family and Two of every kind of animal departed the ark and filled the earth again with life. Moses wants us to see this as a reset. A fresh start, a new beginning, just like the creation of mankind where God created dry land and then he filled the land with uh kinds of every beast, and then he filled the land with man and woman. So here Flowing off of the ark into the open dry land before them comes every kind of beast and animal and man and woman and his family. And so, in response to being preserved through the flood and saved, look at verses 20 and 21. Noah offers to God a massive sacrifice. He offers some of every single kind of animal. Two of every kind of animal on the earth came to Noah in the Ark, and Noah offers some of every animal, a gigantic sacrifice and offering, to give thanks to God in worship of God for preserving his life. And we see there that so pleasing was Noah's sacrifice that it brought about a determination in God never to judge the earth again as he did during the flood. Look at verses 21 and 22. were welcomed into the heart and mind of God. The Lord said in his heart, I will never again curse the ground because of man. For the intention of man's heart is evil from his youth. I think what he's saying here is, even though I will never again curse the ground of man, even though the intention of man's heart is evil from his youth. Right? We're off to a really good start in this new beginning. Perhaps mankind will make the best of this opportunity to start again. And the fact that this is a new beginning is brought out even more clearly in the first 17 verses of chapter 9. We'll see this new beginning play out in two parts. In verses 1 to 7, we'll see a new blessing. And in verses 8 to 17, we'll see a new covenant. Let's look first at the new blessing in verses 1 to 7 of chapter 9. Look there with me. Look at verse 1. And God blessed Noah and his sons and said to them. Be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth. Just notice again how clearly Moses wants us to see that this is a new beginning. for mankind by the blessing God pronounces to Noah and his sons. This is word for word, the same blessing that God gave to Adam and Eve in the creation account. And though Adam and Eve sinned and were expelled from the presence of God, and though sin increased and spread throughout the earth, resulting in the flood, God's intentions to bless mankind still remain. And so God gives to Noah and his sons the same commission that he gave to Adam and Eve: Be fruitful, multiply, get married, have children, fill the earth with life. And life and the protection, preservation, and propagation of life is central to this new blessing that God gives to Noah and his sons. Notice first in verse 1 how the blessing begins with a command to create life. That's where the blessing begins. Now look at verse 7, where the blessing ends. It ends with a repetition of the command to create life. The creation of life and the filling of the earth with life is central to God's blessing and purposes for mankind. In this new beginning, mankind should enjoy the gift of marriage and children and seek to fill the earth with life because All human life still reflects the image of God. And we're going to return to this theme of life again in this blessing as we'll see. But if you look at verse 2, You see that the blessing also includes dominion over the creature kingdom. Look at what the what the blessing says. The fear of you and the dread of you shall be upon every beast of the earth. And upon every bird of the heavens, upon everything that creeps on the ground, and all the fish of the sea, into your hand they are delivered. That the animals have been delivered into Noah's hand is to say, they belong to you. Exercise dominion and rule over them. Not only are you to create life in this new beginning, but you're to bring order to life by caring for and rightly ruling over the animal kingdom. Which, by the way, in this new beginning, God has given the animal kingdom, we see that God has given to mankind as a source of food. Look at verse 3. It's in this new beginning. It's not just the green plants that have been given to man and woman to eat, but everything that moves. The the fish of the sea, the birds of the air, the beasts of the field, even maybe creepy, crawly little insects, right? Everything that moves has been given to man and woman to eat as a source of food. Notice here. Notice how clear the parallels are to Genesis 1. In Genesis 1, you'll recall that God created Adam and Eve Then he blessed Adam and Eve, told them to be fruitful and multiply. Then he granted to Adam and Eve dominion over the beast of the field. And then gave them instructions about what they could eat. And here, Noah and his sons to them, God blesses them, gives them dominion over the creature kingdom, and then gives them instructions on what they can eat. This is a new beginning. And in this new beginning, mankind is given not only the green plants, but also everything that moves as a source of food to sustain. Now, some might wonder why after the flood God allows the eating of animals, whereas before the flood, uh, he didn't allow the eating of animals. You recall that in the garden, the law that God gave to Adam and Eve was that they could eat every seed-bearing fruit, every seed-bearing plant, and all the green plants, there was no mention of animal life. I think the text doesn't really give us an answer. It's possible, it's possible that a reason is that given that the flood has just occurred. And the dry land has really just appeared and has become habitable for mankind to come out on. Crops and plants and fruits haven't had time to mature and grow. And so Noah and his family would need a source of food to sustain them while the crops grow. But then again, God doesn't say that he should stop eating animals once he does grow crops. So I I don't know. We're kind of left to guess I think what we're meant to take away is that in this new beginning, God has simply determined that humans can eat other living creatures as a source of food. I think this is helpful for us to just acknowledge. When we think about how to apply the Bible as Christians, when we think about applying the Bible, we often think of it in terms of what do I need to do? But the Bible thinks about application in in a much broader sense. It's not just what am I supposed to do? It's how am I supposed to think We're to be renewed in our minds. And what we're going to see is that the Noaiic covenant is a covenant with all creation, all peoples on earth, for all time, as long as the earth exists, which means that the Noaic covenant is still in effect today. And now God has given as part of the Noaiic covenant this rule that mankind can eat other living creatures as A source of food. And that's important for us to just acknowledge and recognize because there are people in our culture who do believe that eating meat is immoral in and of itself. And now typically, I'm not saying that everyone who believes it's immoral believes what I'm about to say, but typically that belief flows out of an evolutionary worldview. in which humans and animals are all part of the same family. We're kind of descended from one another, so it's like eating your brother or sister or something. In their mind it's uh they have the same value as human life. And so we shouldn't eat them for food, right? And while it's right for us to affirm the importance of treating animals humanely, which the Bible clearly affirms. We also need to recognize that God, in his own wisdom, has determined that mankind can eat fish and birds and animals as a source. of food. But we also need to recognize that in this new beginning, just like in the garden, God also told Noah what he couldn't eat. Look at verse 5. He's not to eat flesh with the blood still in it. I think what's in view here is the purposeful consumption of blood in the act of eating an animal. Whether drinking blood or consuming raw meat that is still filled with blood, some commentators would even say that this refers to eating an animal while it's still alive. Right, there's a bit of savagery savagery going on. You see that this this new beginning with mankind is marked by death and and uh prohibitions against savagery and And he says there that it's because blood is the life of the animal. So even as God grants permission to kill animals for food. God is still concerned with life. And he wants his people to be concerned with life. Yes, they were given permission to kill and eat animals. But even in the act of doing so, they weren't to brutalize the animal, right? They weren't to become savages in the way that they went about eating the animal. And the upholding of the value of life and especially human life in this new beginning for mankind comes clearly into focus in verses 5 and 6. Look at verse 5 And for your lifeblood, that is your life, and for your lifeblood, I will require a reckoning. From every beast I will require it, and from every man. From his fellow man, I will require a reckoning for the life of man. Just notice the repetition of require, require, require. I will require a reckoning for anyone who takes the life of another human being. If someone takes the life of another person, I will require a reckoning. If an animal takes the life of a human being, I will require a reckoning of that animal, which you see later happen in the book of Exodus and Leviticus. I will require a reckoning from anyone who takes the life of another human being. This the threefold repetition of the warning of judgment for anyone who takes the life of a human being hangs over this passage. Though God now allows for mankind to take the life of an animal for food, under no circumstances whatsoever should one human murder or take the life of another human being. And to do so brings a person face to face with a reckoning from God himself. But you need to notice here how that reckoning in this new beginning would be administered. Look at verse 6. Whoever sheds the blood of man, by man shall his blood be shed. In this new beginning, God so upholds human life that whoever takes life will have their life taken from them This verse is widely and I think rightly understood as the divine sanction for human government. Think about this. So as Noah and his descendants were fruitful and multiplied and had children and spread throughout the earth, when they spread throughout the earth and sought to uh take kill animals, to hunt and kill animals for food, and they they created crops and places to live, they would need to find ways to govern themselves. They would need to be given a law by which they could govern themselves and because murder and violence have become a way of life in a fallen world, think Cain and Abel, right? They would need to know how to respond to crimes perpetrated by one human against another in order to protect and preserve life. And so God gives to them this law that a person who harms another person deserves a penalty that is proportional to the harm Done. This is the operative principle behind what is called retributive justice Retributive justice, an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth. We often hear that today and we think that sounds barbaric, but in fact it was a great kindness. Because in the ancient world, as someone could be harmed, say a person is punched. Well, if the person is punched, the proportional penalty for that that harm done is to punch the person back. But in the ancient world, what would happen? War would break out. Murder would ensue. People would go over the top. And God is saying, in this world, I am going to restrain evil by ensuring that the penalty carried out against an infraction is proportional to the infraction that was done. Retributive justice is given here and is meant to restrain human evil in a fallen world by the threat of proportional punishment. case of murder, this would mean that the person who committed the murder would have their life taken from them. Now some understandably find this difficult to reconcile. How could a God who values human life command the taking of human life? They see that as contradictory and this impugns the character of God. But I would propose that it is exactly because God values human life that he commands the taking of the life of someone. who murders another person. Were there no proportional punishment in the case of murder, the murderer Would then have the opportunity to kill again and thus take the lives of more human beings. Right? That would be a devaluing of human life if God did not respond to the infraction committed. And we see the reason that taking the life of another person is such a serious crime. Look at the end of verse 6 For God made man in his own image. God is bringing us right back to the creation account again, in the same way that Adam and Eve were made in the image of God. So you, Noah, and all your descendants are also made in the image of God. The presence of sin in the human race has not erased the image of God in man, and so man must do everything in his power to preserve protect and uphold human life because to do so is to honor God's very own image in us We need to think about this in our culture today. It is precisely our culture's rejection of the fact that mankind is made in God's image that has fueled and propelled our descent into the culture of death that we now live in. Where unborn children are murdered because they're viewed as nothing more than a clump of cells. And where adults and even children now in some countries can legally request physician-assisted suicide. Because if there is no God in whose image we are made, then we become our own gods and the masters of our own fate. It is a complete rejection of the image of God in mankind that has led us into this culture of death. And the only true remedy to this culture of death is to return to recognizing that all people, regardless of age, level of development, or ethnicity, are made in the image of God. All people. I want you to think about this. An illustration that I found helpful in thinking about what this means and how we're to treat people with value because they're made in the image of God. There's a Dutch bicycle manufacturer named Van Moe. That makes high-end electric bikes. But they were finding a few years back that a large number of their bikes during the shipping process were being damaged in that process. And so these bikes would be returned, they were losing profits, all that comes along with that. And the boxes themselves that they were shipped in were roughly the size of a large-screen, you know, flat-screen TV. And so they came up with an ingenious idea. They said to themselves, the boxes that we use to ship our bikes in that are being damaged resemble large-screen TVs. So why don't we go ahead and put a picture of a large screen TV on the front of the box with our logo? People will think that it's a large screen TV. We're gonna put a little bike down here in the bottom corner, but our logo is now gonna look like a large screen TV with a bike in the bottom right hand corner. And they knew because they th or they they they thought to themselves that if the outside of the box look like something that was valuable that the people handling the box would then treat it with greater care. And what were the results In the following year, they saw a 70, a 70% decrease in bikes being damaged in the shipping process. And why? Because when you value what's in the box, You treat the box with greater care. How much more? How much more should we treat human life with greater care? knowing what is inside the box. The image of God in man A friend, this doesn't just have to do with murder. This is kind of the foundational principle that governs kind of retributive justice in a fallen world to every level. How are you doing treating other human beings with care? Are you treating them justly? Are you treating them righteously? Are you looking upon others as you know less than yourself for whatever reason? Do you treat other groups of people for whatever reason as though they have less value in your sight? All human beings bear indelibly the image of God in them. Whether children in the womb, humans who are grown in front of us, regardless of their ethnicity, or people even at the end of their lives. At no point in human life, from conception to the tomb, from the womb to the tomb, is it right for us to deface the image of God in mankind by the way that we treat human beings? Right? We should be a people who, like God, in this new beginning, value, cherish, uphold, and seek to protect, preserve, and propagate life. Right? You notice how God repeats that command to Noah in verse 7 to be fruitful and multiply. God is radically pro-life. It's not just that God wants to prevent the taking of life. He wants to encourage the making of life. Have children Raise those children up. If there are ways that you could adopt children, bring children who are orphans into your family to raise them up and to show that you care for human life. Do it. Look for ways to promote and bring life into this world because when you do it, you fill the world with my glory. In this new beginning, God blesses his people with the gift of propagating and protecting. Human life. But we also see that in this new beginning, in verses 8 to 15, that God shows his common grace to all. And he does that in the form of a covenant. Seven times in verses eight to fifteen, God references the covenant he's making with Noah and all his descendants This is the first time that we've seen this word in the book of Genesis, so it's crucial that we take a moment to understand what a covenant is because of how foundational Covenants are to understanding God's relationship to mankind in general and his chosen people in particular Simply put, a covenant is an oath-bound agreement between two or more people. So think about a human covenant like marriage. In marriage, a man and a woman pledge or make an oath to commit themselves to one another in good times and in bad, in sickness and in health. In much the same way. God enters into covenants with his people in which he binds himself to a particular group of people by his own oath to keep his promises. Now, I'd like to open up a question for any of the kids or youth in the room this morning. Can any of you name the four major covenants in the Old Testament? Let me give you a hint. We're looking at one right now. Can any of you tell me the four major covenants in the Old Testament? Just raise your hand if you know one of the answers, Abram. This one right here, the no way at covenant. So that's one. There are three more. Adam. Who's what's the man's name? Yes, the Abrahamic covenant, where God promises to bless Abraham and to create from him a nation of people. And then after Abraham, the Abrahamic covenant comes the Mosaic. There we go. Just shout it out. Mosaic covenant, the covenant at Sinai. And what's the last covenant in the Old Testament that points forward to the New Testament? This one can sometimes slip by people. I give I gotta admit sometimes I even like oh what is it? Ava The Davidic covenant, his promise to grant to David and to his descendants an eternal throne. You have these four major covenants, and the Noaiic covenant is one of those four major covenants. But now what makes the Noaic covenant unique? among all the other covenants in the Old Testament is that it is the only covenant that is non-salpitic. All the other covenants have to do with the salvation of a particular group of people. But God's covenant with Noah is what we might call the common grace covenant with all of humanity. Right? Look at verse 9. Notice who the covenant is for. It's for Noah and all his offspring after him. Because Noah is the head over a new humanity. This refers to every human being that has ever been born. From the flood forward. His sons and their sons and daughters and their sons and daughters to today. Is this covenant for you and me This covenant is for you and me. This covenant is still in effect today. This is describing all humanity. Every person on earth is a descendant of Noah. And so this covenant is a covenant for all people, you and me included. But it's not just for all people. Look at verse 10. It's also for every living creature, for every beast on earth. But it's not just mankind and every living creature. Look at verse 13. It's also between God and the earth. Between all of creation. Notice the extent extent of the covenant the covenant. It encompasses the entire created realm. And it's not just that it's it encompasses the entire created realm in space, it also encompasses the entire created realm. in time. It stretches out indefinitely into the future, or definitely when the earth is finally comes to an end. Look at verse 12. This covenant is for all future generations. For all people and all creatures and all the earth for all time, as long as the earth exists, I will keep my promise to the earth. Well, what's the promise? Abram already said it for us this morning. Look at verse 11. Never again, never again will God destroy the earth with a flood. Notice how many times he he repeats, never again. Never again will I send a flood of waters on the earth. Never again will I destroy all life on the earth by a flood. God is unilaterally declaring by his own mercy and grace. That he will never ever again destroy the earth with a flood. There's nothing, nothing that Noah has to do to receive this promise. There's nothing that you and I have to do to receive this promise. God, out of his immeasurable grace and kindness toward us, has determined to never again judge the earth with a flood because of mankind's sin. And we need to recognize how immeasurable his grace and kindness is towards us in that promise. Look back at chapter 8, verse 21. After Noah's sacrifice, God says that he will never again curse the earth, uh curse the ground because of man, even though Even though the intentions of man's heart is evil from his youth, the grace of God's promise to never destroy the earth again by a flood is evident in the fact that he still has reason reason. to judge the earth. He is withholding that judgment out of his mercy towards us. Mankind is sinful from youth. Psalm 58 says, We are conceived in iniquity. We are given over to the power of sin from the time of conception on, and yet God graciously promises to all mankind that he will never destroy the earth again with a flood. Look at chapter 8, verse 22. As long as the earth exists, he'll graciously allow the continuing of the seasons and the filling of the earth with life And then we also see God's kindness in his providing a sign by which we would know that his promise to never judge the earth still stands. Look at verse 13. I have set my bow in the cloud, and it shall be a sign of the covenant between me and the earth You see this happen with most covenants in Scripture. God gives signs to accompany the promise. And the Abrahamic covenant, he gives circumcision In the Mosaic covenant, he gives the sign of the Sabbath. You could say in the Davidic covenant, he gives the throne as a sign. In the new covenant that Jesus brings, we have the signs of baptism. and the Lord's Supper. These signs are visible reminders of the promises that God has made to assure his people that he will keep his promise. And the sign that he's given in this new covenant here with Noah is the bow or the rainbow. And I want you to notice when the bow will appear as a sign. Look at verse 14. God says the bow will appear when he brings clouds over the earth. And we know this to be true in our own experience, right? When do we see rainbows? We see them. Right before or right after rainstorms when there's still condensation in the air or rainfall and the sun appears at the right angle, the bow, the rainbow becomes visible. And it's so appropriate that that is when the sign appears, isn't it, right? As as the dark clouds roll in and release rain on the earth, the inhabitants of the earth would be fearful that the flood was coming once again But to assure them that he wouldn't send the flood to destroy the earth, he gives the rainbow in the clouds. It's a sign that God has promised for a time to relent from sending total disaster on the earth because of our sins. These tokens of God's kindness are what Christians refer to as common grace. These are tokens of God's kindness that He has shown to all of humanity. Even though we have all sinned, God allows us to feel the warmth of the sun. He allows us to receive food from the ground. He restrains evil and maintains order, albeit imperfectly, through human governments. He allows us to experience joy and laughter and peace at different times in our life. And all of these tokens are meant to lead us, you and me, to repentance. If you don't understand yourself to be a follower of Jesus, I wonder if you recognize that every blessing you've received in life is undeserving. That may be a hard thing to hear, but the Bible is really clear about this. All of us have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. And because of our sins against his holiness, his majesty, our rebellion against him, over and over again, we deserve death and judgment. Yet God has delayed that judgment for a time. When you see my bow in the clouds, you, dear human, can know that I have relented for a time from sin. Total judgment on the earth, so that you, having experienced my common grace, not only in not sending the flood, but in the many gifts of common grace that I give to every human being, I open my hand to all I have given these to you so that you would see my goodness and know that if you turn to me in repentance and faith, I will forgive you of your sins. I will put a new heart inside of you. I will make a new covenant with you. I will give to you a new beginning that won't always have the same old ending. God has graciously made a covenant with all humanity to let them know for a time that he will relent from totally destroying the earth with a flood. But this covenant that he makes with Noah and with all of us cannot save us from evil. eternal judgment. For that, we need the new covenant that Jesus established by his death on the cross In which he paid for the sins of fallen humanity. Because the sad reality is that even though God gave to mankind a new beginning, we see in verses 18 to 29 that the new beginning has the same old ending. Which brings me to our much shorter point, too. We need to remember, as we think about this same old ending, we should remember that a central purpose of the book of Genesis is to deliver God's promise. That he would send the seed of the woman to crush the serpent's head and deliver his people from bondage to sin. And as soon as the promise is made, we're then introduced to two different lines of people. People who by their wicked actions show that they are aligned with the serpent, and people who by their faith-filled worship of God Show that they are aligned with the seed of the woman and with the hope that comes through him. And after the original beginning, when Adam and Eve sinned and then were sent out of the garden, they had two children, Cain and Abel. Cain shows that he's the seed of the serpent by giving in to his anger and murdering his brother Abel, and we see his descendants after him are then giving given over to more and more sin. And then in contrast with the line of Cain And the seed of the serpent that comes from him, we meet Seth, whom God gave to replace Abel. And Seth's line is identified with the seed of the woman by their true worship of God. And Seth's line culminates in Noah. Ultimates in Noah. And you think God has done it. God has rid the earth of the seed of the serpent. And now the seed of the woman, Noah, has been preserved. Finally and fully the curse will be reversed. But what you find out is that's actually not the case. From Noah come three sons. In the days of Noah, God flooded the entire earth, leaving only Noah and his family, giving them a chance at a new beginning. But we find that Noah's fallen family is plagued by the same ending as Adam's fallen family. One of Noah's sons by his wicked actions is identified as the seed of the serpent, and one of his sons by his righteous deeds. is identified with the seed of the woman. The true seed of the woman who would crush the serpent's head has not yet come. So which of these sons is which Well, let's look and see. In verses 18 and 19, we meet Shem, Ham, and Japheth, who are Noah's three sons. But then quickly, Moses transitions to an event that happened at some point in Noah's life after the flood. Look at verses 20 and 21. Noah plants a vineyard, he drinks wine, he gets drunk, and he ends up naked inside of his tent. I mean seriously, you gotta you gotta take a step back here and think about the parallels. to Genesis 1 and 2 and 3, right? Adam was a man of the soil who by eating the forbidden fruit became aware of his nakedness. And now Noah, as the new Adam, is a man of the soil who doesn't eat of the fruit of the ground. He drinks of the fruit of the ground and then becomes naked. Right the same the new beginning same old ending like you just you get like one second into this new beginning failure already Right? Like we have no idea where this happened in Noah's life following the flood, but the one event that Moses wants to point to in 350 years of life after the flood is this one. Noah failed, got drunk. Drank too much wine, exposed himself, brought shame and guilt on himself, laying naked in his tent. What Adam did, Noah did. What Noah did, all humanity does. Right? The new beginning is the same old ending. And while scripture makes it clear that drunkenness is a sin. And it's portrayed as sinful here, since it resulted in Noah's nakedness. The focus is less on Noah's nakedness and more on the response of his sons to that nakedness. This is where we're going to find out who the seed of the serpent is and who the seed of the woman is. Look at verse 22. Ham, the father of Canaan, saw the nakedness of his father, and told his two brothers outside. You can go ahead and look down to verse 24. After Noah wakes up and he finds out what Ham did, he curses Ham's son, Canaan. I think to modern readers, the significance of what Ham did, because Moses said, Ham did something. He went into the tent, saw his father's nakedness. was defiled by seeing it and then went out outside of the tent and and talked to his brothers. Moses is focusing on what Ham did, right To modern readers, the significance of it isn't immediately apparent. We have become dulled to the idea of nakedness in our culture, which is unfortunate. But in the ancient Eres, nakedness was a deeply shameful thing. To be exposed was a sign of humiliation, shame, and guilt. And so what's going on here is that Ham is pictured as walking into the father's tent. Noah, seeing his father's nakedness, being defiled by that nakedness, then mockingly going outside and telling his brothers about it. Look what our old man did. He can't handle his wine, and now he's naked. Y'all should go check him out He doesn't cover over and bless his father, right? He is dishonoring his father, which was a deeply disobedient and sinful thing to do When you fast forward to the covenant at Sinai and God gives to his people the Ten Commandments, the first three commandments are all about our relationship. to the Lord, honoring the Lord. Don't worship other gods. Don't make false gods. Keep the Sabbath. Honor the Lord. That's your relationship with the Lord. And then he turns in commandments 4 to 10 to instruct on your relationship with one another. What is the first commandment of our relationship with one another that God wants us to know about? Honor your father and your mother. Honor your father and your mother. God regards the dishonoring of parents as such a serious sin that it comes before lying, murder, adultery, stealing, and coveting. This is a commandment that is then repeated in the New Testament. On multiple occasions, children are told to obey their parents. Kids, I just want to talk to you briefly. I want you to see how seriously God takes your obedience to your parents. Showing honor to your father and mother is one of the chief ways that you show your love for God. Because by honoring your parents, You show that you honor God who has placed parents in your life. In fact, given your current stage of life and that you live under your parents' roof and under their authority, one of The clearest ways that you can tell whether or not you follow Jesus is by the fruit of whether you seek to, desire to, and strive to obey your parents. Now you're not going to do it perfectly. None of us does. Your parents didn't do it to their parents perfectly. But there should be a desire in your hearts to put to death. Sinful rebellion and grumbling about the laws of your parents. And your parents your parents' rules might not always line up with God's rules. They may just be the rules that they came up with for own household. But you're called to honor those rules and obey those commandments. And by doing so, you show that you honor God. Right? We see how serious a matter it is in that Noah curses Canaan. Ham's son for his disobedience. Look at verse 24 with me. Some wonder why Noah curses Canaan rather than Ham. And again, I don't know that we have a clear answer. If you look back to chapter 9, verse 1, you'll see there that God blessed Noah and his sons So God blessed Noah, and then he blessed Shem and Ham and Japheth. So it's possible that Noah knows I cannot overturn the blessing that God has already given to Ham, so I will now curse his son. It's also possible that since the son, Ham, mocked the father and dishonored him, the father now mocks a son of that son who dishonored him and curses Canaan. But there's not a really clear answer here. But I think what Moses really wants us to see is that Ham and his son Canaan are the seed of the serpent and the forefathers of the peoples of the land of Canaan. Canaan. Notice how many times he he says Ham was the father of Canaan. He's trying to impress upon them the land that I am bringing you into. The land of Canaan, the promised land. I'm telling you to drive out all the peoples of the land. I will go before you and drive them out from you. You shall not intermarry with them. You shall not worship their gods. You shall do nothing of all the nations of the people. I have set you apart as my holy people. And he's trying to show the people of Israel here that this enmity with the people of Canaan goes all the way back to Noah. Right? This cursing of Canaan would have signaled for the people of Israel, God is serious. These people are our enemies. And by their wickedness, they show that they are opposed to God. And you see how that the line of the seed of the serpent now is marked by anger and murder through Cain, boasting and murdering even more through Lamech, and now mockery of parents through Ham. That line is compared with the line of the seed of the woman seen in Shem. Do you notice how differently Shem and his brother Japheth respond in verse 23? Look there with me. They go into the tent, but are careful not to look upon their father's nakedness. They have a garment spread between them. That's how seriously they take Not being defiled by their father's nakedness, and they walk backwards. So they stretch out this garment and they keep their eyes focused forward and they walk backward, likely until they see their father's feet below them, and then they drop the garment backwards. covering his nakedness. They're careful not to be defiled as they cover over their father's shame. And because of the way that they honor their father, look at how Noah blesses them in verse Verses 26 and 27. It's clear that Shem, the father of Israel, you'll see that Abraham comes from Shem and then And from Abraham comes the nation of Israel. Shem is regarded as the seed of the woman because the Lord is his God. And then Japheth is also blessed by being allowed to dwell in Shem's tents. And Canaan. Would serve them both. But you see, friend, how this new beginning has the same old ending? Noah is the new Adam He's given the chance at a new beginning, but like Adam, he sins and becomes naked. Then one of his sons by his wickedness shows that he is the seed of the serpent, while the other son by his righteousness shows that he is the seed of the woman. And this pattern of new beginning, followed by the same old ending, would continue over and over again. As you read the Old Testament, you're supposed to wonder: will there ever be a new beginning? that doesn't have the same old ending. Yes, there is. That day would come when the true seed of the woman The Lord Jesus Christ came as the true Adam and the true Noah. And I want you to see how this passage points forward to and prepares us for Jesus' ministry. Like Adam and Noah, he is the head over a new family, a new people. But unlike Adam and Noah, Jesus never sinned. He never ate the forbidden fruit and never disobeyed God. In fact, he came to live the righteous and perfect life that you and I should have lived, but none of us have. And then he went to the cross to bear the punishment for our sins. Now think about this This new beginning began when Noah offered a massive sacrifice that was pleasing to the Lord. So pleasing was his sacrifice that the Lord established a new covenant with humanity. by which he relented from sending disaster on humanity. And in the same way, Jesus offers such a massive and glorious sacrifice of his perfect righteous and holy life on behalf of his people that he absorbed the wrath of God completely for us, offered his life. The Lord was so pleased with his sacrifice. That the Lord now looks on his chosen and special people, not all of humanity, but his chosen and special people, and says, I will relent from sending disaster on the church, not only now, but for eternity. This covenant prepares us for the new covenant where God would relent in sending disaster on his people both now and forevermore. And Jesus is the true Shem. He is the true Israelite who in his sacrifice on the cross provided a covering for our sins. while also not becoming defiled by sin himself. He who knew no sin became sin for us, so that in him we could become the righteousness of God. We are all like Noah. Doesn't matter how many new beginnings we get, we all drink too much wine, we end up naked in our tent, we bring shame on ourselves. But the Lord Jesus came into creation, into the tent of this creation, and he brought the garment of his own flesh and of his own blood to cover over our sins, and he did not become defiled In the process, which is why the God, why God in heaven could accept his sacrifice. It was the perfect sacrifice of the God man, the seed of the woman, the Lord Jesus Christ. It was a pleasing offering to God. And then when God established the new covenant with his people, he gave to them signs. Not a rainbow in heaven, but the signs of baptism and the Lord's Supper, by which we would be reminded of God's promise that having been buried with Jesus in baptism, And raised again to newness of life, we would never need to fear again the threat of eternal judgment. Because in the Lord's Supper, we see that Christ's body was broken and his blood was poured out for the forgiveness of sins. Oh friend, I hope you take encouragement in Noah. I hope you take encouragement of Noah. If you are struggling with sin, God gave to the righteous one Noah the man who kind of was righteous enough by which God saved a family and brought about a new beginning. And righteous Noah fails. All of us who are not named Jesus Christ of Nazareth fail. No matter how righteous we might be, no matter how blameless we might be, all of us end up in a tent naked like Noah. At some point in our lives, we continue failing, we continue struggling. That is just part and parcel of life in a fallen world. God has seen fit to not sanctify us completely, nor has he seen fit to remove sin from our lives totally, so that we would not become proud, sin against him, and think that we don't need him anymore. He allows sin to remain in our lives so that we might feel our need of him. So that Jesus, keep me near the cross. There a precious fountain. The precious fountain is not in you and me. And one day though friend, one day that sin will be removed It is by the righteousness of the Lord Jesus Christ that you have been brought into the kingdom of God. And that kingdom is a new beginning. And when Jesus Christ comes to bring his church into that new beginning, that new beginning will not have the same old ending. There we will be set free finally and fully from the presence and power of sin. No more nakedness, no more shame, no more sin, no more same old endings. That is the destiny that awaits the children of God. Friend, if you don't follow Jesus, turn from your sin today. Trust in Jesus. God is good. He will show to you not only common grace, but his special saving grace through his son Jesus Christ. And you can know that if you turn and trust in him You will experience same old endings again in this life. But there is a day coming when you will get a new beginning, and that new beginning will remain a new beginning once and forevermore. Friend, that is our hope today. When Jesus returns to judge the living and the dead, he will bring his people into his everlasting kingdom. A kingdom free from nakedness, kingdom free from sin and shame, a kingdom where we will experience his covenant blessings forever. Praise God. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for the new covenant. That you established with your people by the righteousness of your Son Jesus Christ. And we thank you for the ridiculous amount of blessings that you have given us through him, given to us through him. Justification, sanctification, adoption, the hope of heaven, the presence and power of the Holy Spirit to comfort us and keep us in this life. We pray, Father, that you would comfort and keep us. Us and that we as your people would continue to look to the signs of your presence among us and to take comfort in the fact that you have relented from the disaster that we deserve. And we pray, Father, that you would bring us. Into your eternal kingdom once and forevermore. And we pray this in Jesus' name. And all God's people said, Amen