Sermon passage this morning is Genesis 4. Now Adam knew Eve, his wife, and she conceived and bore Cain, saying, I have gotten a man with the help of the Lord. And again she bore his brother Abel. Now Abel was a keeper of sheep, and Cain a worker of the ground. In the course of time Cain brought to the Lord an offering of the fruit of the ground and Abel also brought of the firstborn of his flock and their fat portions. And the Lord had regard for Abel and his offering, but for Cain and his offering he had no regard So Cain was very angry, and his face fell. So the Lord said to Cain, Why are you angry? And why has your face fallen? If you do well, will you not be accepted? And if you do not do well, sin is crouching at the door. Its desire is contrary to you, but you must rule over it. Cain spoke to Abel his brother, and when they were in the field, Cain rose up against his brother Abel and killed him Then the Lord said to Cain, Where is Abel your brother? He said, I do not know. Am I my brother's keeper? And the Lord said, What have you done? The voice of your brother's blood is crying to me from the ground. And now you are cursed from the ground, which has opened its mouth to receive your brother's blood from your hand. When you work the ground, it shall no longer yield to you its strength You shall be a fugitive and a wanderer on the earth. Pain said to the Lord, My punishment is greater than I can bear. Behold, you have driven me to day away from the ground, and from your face I shall be hidden I shall be a fugitive and a wanderer on the earth, and whoever finds me will kill me. Then the Lord said to him, Not so. If any one kills Cain, vengeance shall be taken on him sevenfold And the Lord put a mark on Cain, lest anyone who found him should attack him. Then Cain went away from the presence of the Lord and settled in the land of Nod, east of Eden. Cain knew his wife, and she conceived and bore Enoch. When he built a city, he called the name of the city after the name of his son Enoch. To Enoch was born Arad, and Arad fathered Mehazel, and Mehaziel fathered Methushel, and Methushel fathered Lamech, and Lamech took two wives. The name of the one was Ada, and the name of the other was Zilla. Otta bore Jabul. He was the father of those who dwell in tents and have livestock His brother's name was Jubal. He was the father of all those who played the lyre and pipe. Zilla also bore Tubulcane. He was the forger of all instruments of bronze and iron. The sister of Tubulcane was Naimah Lamech said to his wives, Ada and Zillah, hear my voice. You wives of Lamech, listen to what I say. I have killed a man for wounding me, a young man for striking me. If Cain's revenge is sevenfold, then Lamech's is seventy-sevenfold. And Adam knew his wife again, and she bore a son, and called his name Seth, for she said, God has appointed for me another offspring instead of Abel, for Cain killed him. To Seth also a son was born, and he called his name Enosh. At that time people began to call upon the name of the Lord. This is God's word Good morning. It's a pleasure to be with you all this morning, to have this opportunity to open up God's Word and to hear Him speak to us. even from the earliest chapters in the Bible, like Genesis chapter 4, which we have so much to learn from today. But before we get into the word, It's right for us to go to the Lord and ask him for help in giving us wisdom. So would you pray with me briefly? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, your Spirit is the Spirit of Illumination, who shines the light within our hearts and glorifies the Lord Jesus Christ. The Spirit unfolds the mysteries of God and shares with us even the thoughts of God. And we pray that you would grant the Spirit to give us your mind this morning. So that we might look upon your word, that we might perceive what it is teaching us, that we would understand it, and that we would become like a people who walk away from your word and who do your word. Help us to be hearers of the Word this morning and also doers of the Word. And we pray that you would help us to do that by your Spirit for the glory of your Son Jesus. And all God's people said, Amen. Well, from the the very beginning of time, war has been an ever-present part of the human experience. I was curious about some statistics, about certain statistics related to war to war, and so I did a little bit of research and I found that in a New York Times article uh published in 2003, the author Chris Hedges Stated that over the last 4,000 years there has been at least one war occurring in all but 268 of those years. Frankly, I was actually surprised. I didn't think there would be any years in which there wasn't at least one war occurring. So I did a little bit more digging. And it turns out other articles had been written critiquing Mr. Hedge's articles for certain criteria that he uses for what constituted war. And those articles concluded that there had never been a time of total world. Ultimately, I don't think we can conclusively know definitively one way or the other, but given the ubiquity of war and how it It seems, at least in my lifetime, that one war has been occurring at least in one place on the planet at all times. It seems most likely that there has never been a time of total world peace. And some wars are short, even very short. For instance, the Anglo-Zanzibar War fought between the United Kingdom and the Zanzibar Sultanate. on August 27th of 1896 lasted somewhere between 38 and 45 minutes. The very short war But some wars are very long. The longest war in U. S. history is actually still occurring today. That's the war in Afghanistan, which has been going on since October of 2001, making it longer than the Civil War, Spanish War, World War I, World War II, and Korean War combined. And yet the war in Afghanistan, that's been going on since 2001, pales in comparison to the longest war in human history, which is the Iberian Religious War. just fought between the Spanish Empire and the Moors living in Morocco and Algeria, a war that lasted 781 years. or more than three times as long as the United States has existed. But even the Iberian religious war pales in comparison to another war. And that's the war that we see begin here in Genesis chapter 4. A war that's not just between two brothers, Cain and Abel. But between two kingdoms, the seed of the serpent and the seed of the woman You'll recall if you were here for our sermon last week in Genesis chapter 3, that in Genesis chapter 3, verse 15, when God cursed the serpent He said to him, I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your offspring and her offspring. He shall bruise your head and you shall bruise his heel. Genesis 3. 15 is a declaration of divine war. God, through the seed of the woman, is declaring war against the serpent and his offspring. The seed or offspring of the woman refers to a child who would come and who would do battle against the serpent and against his offspring. Now I think it's important for us to understand here that the offspring of the serpent will not be literal baby snakes, but people who by the wickedness of their lives show that they are aligned with the purposes of the serpent in his war against God. And in Genesis chapter 4 We meet the first two participants in that war. Cain, who we'll see is identified with the seed of the serpent and Abel, who is identified with the seed of the woman. And by focusing on Cain in Genesis 4, you'll notice that there's very little said about Abel. Genesis 4 is about Cain. What we see by focusing on Cain and his attitudes, actions, and his legacy, Genesis 4 Provides us with a great portrait of someone who is identified with the seed of the serpent and who lives in opposition to God So if you haven't already, I want to encourage you to turn with me in your Bible to Genesis chapter 4. I want to encourage you, if you're not used to keeping the Bible open throughout the sermon, I want to encourage you to keep it open because we're going to be looking often at the text. And what we're going to do this morning as we look at Genesis chapter 4, if you're taking notes, what we're going to do is we're going to put together a portrait of someone who lives in opposition to God by looking at three traits. that we see in Cain's life. And what we'll see, those three points, those three traits, is first, their worship is empty. Their worship is empty. Second, they're ruled by sin. And third, they love the world and not God. That's what Genesis 4 is going to show us as it paints a portrait of someone who is aligned with the seed of the serpent in the serpent's war against God. Their worship is empty. They're ruled by sin, and they love the world and not God. So first, let's look at the fact that Cain's worship was empty In verses 1 and 2, if you look down at the passage with me, we learn that Adam and Eve are blessed with children. So sin, as sin came into the world in Genesis chapter 3, it has not completely wiped out their ability. To be fruitful and multiply, to carry out the commandment that God gave to them. And we see that they have two sons. The first son that they have is Cain. And then we also see that they have another son named Abel. We also learn in the first two verses that Cain was a farmer. And that Abel was a shepherd. Right? You look down there with me at verse 2. Now Abel was a keeper of the sheep. He's a shepherd, and Cain was a worker of the ground. He was a farmer. And giving Cain's place as the firstborn. And the prominence that Eve gives to his birth by her comments about him, we expect coming on the heels of Genesis 3. 15 that Cain Is the promised seed of the woman who would crush the serpent's head. So if you look down at what Eve even says about him in verse 1, I have gotten a man with the help of the Lord. Right? You expect that this man, this child, Cain, is going to be the one who has come to crush the serpent's head, who is aligned with God in his war against the serpent. But we soon learn very quickly that all is not well between Cain and God. Look at verses 3 and 4. We learn that at some point in their adult lives, the way that Moses puts it in Genesis 4 is in the course of time. They grew up and got older as they were shepherds and farmers, as they grew up and got older. In the course of time, at some point in their adult lives, Cain and Abel bring offerings to the Lord. Now this is interesting. I want to stop right here. Kids, can any of you tell me who the book of Genesis was originally originally written to? You can raise your hand if you know. Who was the book of Genesis originally written to? Adam? The people of Israel. That's exactly right. Very good, Adam. So it was written to the people of Israel. Now, another question for the kids, maybe not Adam this time, another kid. Can any of you tell me the name of the God of Israel? What's his name? Dorothy? Yes, we'll see that Jesus is his name. That's the second person of the Trinity. But what was the name that he went by in the Old Testament? Four letters. Abram. The Lord or starts with a Y. Yahweh, there we go. Very good. Yahweh. Yahweh, which is transliterated in the English Bible in the Old Testament, in as the word Lord in all caps. So when you see the word Lord in all caps in the Old Testament, you are looking at the divine name of the covenant God of Israel. Now look again at verse 3 at who Cain and Abel bring their offerings to. Moses says they bring their offerings to The Lord to Yahweh. Moses wants the people of Genesis to know, you, the people of Israel to know, you are not the first people to personally know Yahweh. Cain and Abel and Adam and Eve knew Yahweh. Yahweh made his personal presence known to mankind from the beginning of time. And Cain and Abel brought offerings to Yahweh as a form of worship. They're bringing offerings to him testifies. some way to their recognition of the fact that Yahweh is the giver of life. And so they bring him gifts. And if you look down at the passage, you see that Abel brings him a firstborn from his flock with the fat portions. And Cain brings him fruit of the ground. I don't think this necessarily means that what Cain brought was actual fruit. I think it means that he brought a portion of his crops that would have been considered fruit from the ground. But we notice that something isn't right. Right? It's here that we begin to see that something isn't right between Cain and God. Look at the second half of verse 4 and into verse 5. God has regard for Abel and his offering, which means he accepts Abel and his offering, but he doesn't have regard for Cain and his offering. What's going on here? Why does God accept Abel's offering but not Cain's? There are about five different understandings or reasons put forward by commentators for why God didn't accept Cain's offering Some have said that it's because God prefers shepherds to gardeners, but that seems unlikely because Adam was commanded to do both. He was commanded to work the ground and have dominion over the beasts, right? In Scripture also, God is portrayed as a gardener and a shepherd. Some have said that it's because God prefers animal offerings to food offerings, but you recall that this letter is written to the nation of Israel. And even in Israel, this account is foreshadowing for them their own worship of the Lord, in which God commanded them to bring animal offerings and food offerings. So I don't think that's the reason. Others have said that this is an account, just an instance of God's mysterious election. God, in his own inscrutable will, chose Abel and not Cain, but I also don't think that's what's going on here. I think there are two reasons why God chose Abel's gift and not Cain's. And the first reason is a deficiency in the gift itself. And the second reason is a deficiency in the heart behind the gift. Notice first the difference between Cain's offering and Abel's offering. Look carefully what Moses says. The text says that Cain just brought some of the fruit of the ground. Which is contrasted with Abel, who brought the firstborn of his flocks along with the fat portions. In Israel, the firstborn, the fat portions, and the first fruits were the best a person could offer God. So Abel brings the best of his offerings. He brings the firstborn and their fat portions, while Cain does not bring the first fruits. He just brings some of the fruit. Moses is portraying Abel as giving his best to the Lord in worship while Cain is just giving some of his crop, maybe even holding back the best for himself. What's going on here is that Abel is being held out as an example of someone who recognizes how merciful and gracious God has been to him. And so out of the overflow of his gratitude, he wants to give God the best of what he owns, while Cain is portrayed as someone who does not recognize the mercy and grace of God, who doesn't r uh recognize God's abundant provision for him. And so who doesn't think much or at all about giving generously back to God? What might it be that Abel recognized and that Cain didn't recognize? It's possible that Abel recognized how amazing it was that even though God had driven Adam and Eve out of the garden, away from his glorious presence, that the text tells us the Lord came to them. in the wilderness, and made his presence available to them even there, after they had been exiled. And it's possible that Abel recognizes that the Lord has made his presence available to us even in our sins, and we can access him by faith. While Cain looks upon him and just says, thanks. I'm going to keep the best for myself. Now, friends, a question to you. Which of these two men do you resemble? Which of these two men do you see reflected in your life? We can think about this in terms of our of our financial giving. What does your giving to the church say about your grasp on how merciful and gracious God has been to you? Throughout the Bible, not just in the New Testament, throughout the Bible, the most generous people are the people who have truly grasped the grace and mercy they've received from God. After God saved Israel out of slavery in Egypt, when he commanded them to build the tabernacle, the people that he tasked with building the tabernacle eventually had to say, please tell them to stop bringing gifts. They have brought enough. The people were so overwhelmed with gratitude for their salvation that they wanted to give everything they could to see the temple and the tabernacle built in their presence. Then in Acts chapter 2, after Jesus ascends into heaven and the Spirit comes in Pentecost and brings the first 3,000 people into the church, the text says that they were together day after day. Sharing their possessions with all, selling their possessions so that any who had need could have what they needed given to them Generosity marks those who recognize the grace and mercy they've received. Think about how Luke even talked about it when he was praying for the offering, the Macedonian church in 2 Corinthians 8. Though they were extremely poor. They were extremely poor. They gave beyond their means to the work of the ministry. And why did they do this? Because they had experienced the grace of our Lord Jesus, who, though he was rich, became poor for our sake, so that by his poverty we could become spiritually rich. Well friends, they weren't and we aren't giving so that we can be blessed. We give because we have been blessed, right? We do not give to get blessed. We give because we have been blessed. A spirit of generosity with material goods Characterizes those who love God because they realize how generous God was to them. That God didn't withhold his best from us, but gave his very own Son for our sake. And so they give back their best to God. Oh, friends, your giving is a helpful revealer of how well you've grasped how generous God has been to you in the gospel. Does your giving indicate that you are more like Abel or more like Cain? But this doesn't just apply to our giving. This applies to our whole lives. Paul in Romans 12 says, I appeal to you, therefore, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies as a living sacrifice. holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship. And there Paul is talking about offering your whole life to God in worship. Don't hold anything back because all of it is his in the first place, right? We're called to give back our best to God in marriage, in parenting, in our workplace, in our public lives, right? Worship of God and giving yourself to God as an offering. doesn't end when you walk out the doors on Sunday. Sunday is the beginning of the week. We come to be filled up on God's generosity towards us in the gospel on Sunday so that we might be propelled by the Spirit into the week, offering our entire lives. to God, right? To think that these couple hours in church on Sunday belong to God, but that the rest of the week belongs to you is to think more like Cain than it is like Abel. So Abraham Kuiper famously said, There is not one square inch in the whole domain of our human existence over which Christ, who is sovereign over all, does not cry, mine All of it, Jesus says, is mine, which means if you are a follower of Jesus, your whole life belongs to him Means your money belongs to him. Your marriage belongs to him. Your parenting belongs to him Your work, inside or outside of the home, belongs to him. Your friendships belong to him. Your shopping belongs to him. Your diet belongs to him. We go big picture down to small. It all belongs to him. And we are called to give back our best to him. to serve and glorify him in every domain of life as our spiritual act of worship. So are there areas in your life where you're holding back the best for yourself? Is your work a platform for you to glorify God or to make a name for yourself? Is your marriage a display of your trust in God either by your Laying down your life for your wife or your loving submission to your husband, or is it about you getting your own way and getting what pleases you If so, friends, that is what it looks like to live more like Cain than it does to look live like Abel. Cain wants to keep the best for himself And so his gift is deficient. But the deficiency of Cain's gift flows out of a deficiency in Cain's heart. In the New Testament, we learn that the major difference between Cain and Abel Is that Abel offered his gift in faith? Hebrews 11, 4, by faith Abel offered to God a more acceptable sacrifice than Cain, through which he was commended as righteous, God commending him by accepting his gifts. The heart posture behind his gift is what God was accepting. Abel's willingness to give the best of his flock was a result of his faith. Which means that Cain's unwillingness to give the best of his crop was a result of his lack of faith. But here's what's especially important for us to recognize. To an outsider, Cain and Abel would have looked identical. Both approached God. Both brought an offering to God. Both appeared religious. But only one was accepted. What was the decisive difference? Faith. Faith in the heart of Abel was the decisive Difference. This, friends, is so important for us to grasp because so many people today, and it has occurred throughout human history, think that just going to church is enough. Just participating in religious rituals is enough. Just going through the motions of religion is enough. But God has never accepted people for just going through the motions. He has always, always cared about the heart behind his people's worship. It was true for Cain and Abel. It was true for Israel in the Old Testament, how God repeatedly warned the people of Israel that they could not live however they wanted throughout the week and then show up to worship him at the temple and think he would be pleased with him. Think about what he says in Isaiah 29:13. These people worship me with their lips, but their hearts are far from me. Jesus then picks up that same warning and repeats it to the Pharisees. To the most religious looking people in Israel, and says, Your worship is in vain, because it's a religion of external appearances only. There is no faith in your hearts. Friends, what is inside of your heart when you come to church on Sunday? What is going on in your heart when you sing? What is going on in your heart when you pray? What is going on in your heart when you listen to the word? Are you trying to justify yourself every time you hear something that convicts you? It says, No, no, that's not me Right? What is going on inside of you? God cares what is going on inside of you. We cannot fool God by merely appearing religious God is not pleased with people who only appear religious, who only show up to church because they think that's what they're supposed to do. God desires a heart that is also full of love for him, a heart like Abel's, but not like Cain's Maybe you're saying, like, how can I know? I I I think I have faith, but I want to know. How can I know if my heart is full of faith? How can I tell if I'm just going through the motions? Well, we should look at point two and we'll see the difference between those who have faith and those who don't. We'll see that those who go through the motions Who have empty worship are also those who are ruled by sin. Empty worship is not all that marks Cain out as the seed of the serpent. We also see that those who are aligned with Satan are ruled by sin. Look at verse 5. Notice how Cain responds to God not accepting his offering. He becomes very angry and his face falls. Other translations say he becomes Downcast look if you've ever seen somebody who's angry and you just look at them and you're like, that person's angry. I see it in their face, their face fell. Right? That's what's going on here Cain becomes downcast. He becomes very angry. He's visibly angry. And so verses 6 and 7, look there with me. God warns Cain not to give in to his anger. He says to him there, if you do well, will you not be accepted? But if you do not do well, sin is crouching at the door. Its desire is contrary to you, but you must rule over it. Sin's desire is against you. It wants to take you down, but you must rule over it So look at what's going on here now. Genesis chapter 3. Adam and Eve had to be tempted from the outside. Externally. The serpent came from outside of them, tempted them, they gave into sin, they ate the fruit, and then all humanity fell in them. We are now all in bondage to sin. And Adam and Eve's children, Cain, Now has sin dwelling inside of him. It is at the door. It's at the door of his heart. It is always crouching, ever present, ready to attack, ready to take him down, and he must rule over it You see how gracious so God is being here, the Cain, by warning him about this battle with sin? God doesn't have to warn him, but he lets him know, Cain, this is a reality for you. And if you can fight against sin, will you not be accepted? But if you let sin rule over you, You will not be accepted. Its desire is to destroy you and to drive you out of my presence, further out of my presence And amazingly, we see that Cain disregards God's warning. And in verse 8, he gives in to his anger Look there with me. It says in verse 8, Cain spoke to Abel, his brother. As some understand this to be Cain calling him out into the field. uh in an act of pre-meditation. I think I agree with him because what you find out in the rest of Scripture, Scripture talks about those who are wicked and those who are evil as those who lie in wait. And then rise up against people and take their lives? Cain is the paradigmatic, wicked person in Scripture. He's lying in wait. Hey, Abel, come out to the field with me. I want to talk to you. I want to show you what I'm working on. And then what does he do? When they were in the field, Cain rose up against his brother Abel and killed him. You notice, if you read Genesis 4 carefully, how over and over and over again Moses emphasizes that Abel was his brother His brother, pressing home the heinousness of this sin. Then as if murder wasn't bad enough when he's confronted by God in verse 9, Cain then lies to God. What have you done? Where is your brother Abel? I don't know. Even though I just murdered him. Lies to God. He denies personal responsibility for the well-being of his brother. Am I my brother's keeper? Not responsible for him. Cain fails to heed God's warning about sin. Instead of ruling over his sin, his sin rules over him. He allows murderous anger to overtake him, and then he lies to God as though God doesn't actually know what he's done. When God says to him, what have you done? That's not an actual question. Just like the same question he asked Adam was not, where are you? I can't actually find you. Where are you hiding behind the trees? It was a call to come out into the light. What have you done? I know what you've done. Own up to it. But he doesn't own up to it. He lies. doubles down on his sin, showing how clearly it has ruled over him and overtaken his life. And so we see even more how Cain is aligned with the seed of the serpent. Jesus will say in John chapter 8, the Gospel of John, that Satan is a liar and a murderer. Here's Cain, committing murder and lying about it You see how Moses is showing the people of Israel and us that they can worship God all they want. But if their lives are marked by murder and lying and by being ruled by sin, God will not accept them. Those who are ruled by their sin are the seed of the serpent. Now I know some of you may be thinking, listen, I'm not like Cain. Right? Sure, I may have told a white lie here and there, but I have never murdered anyone. So I'm good. God's gonna accept me, right? I'm good with God. Oh friends, if that's what you think, you need to consider what Jesus says about murder. What's he saying in the Sermon on the Mountain? He says that those who are angry with others have already committed murder in their hearts. Now he's not saying that just anger is as bad equally as the act of committing murder. If you're angry, you should definitely not commit murder. He's not saying that they're the exactly the same. He's saying that murder begins here And God judges the heart. Right? God looks inside of the heart. And when God sees anger in the heart, in his eyes, he has already seen the murder of a brother or sister. Right? Cain didn't control his anger, and his anger metastasized into actual murder. But even his anger was a sin before God. How are you doing with anger? How are you doing with anger? Husbands and wives, how are you doing with your anger towards your spouse How are you doing if you have children with your anger towards your children? Do you yell or scream at them No, maybe not. Even if you're not saying anything out loud, do you find yourself Cursing your spouse and your children and having an angry, running dialogue about the ways that you perceive them to be failing you Anger is not good, friend. Anger aligns you with Cain and with the seed of the serpent. Kids, how are you doing with anger? Are you allowing your anger to control you? Are you flying off in fits of rage at your siblings, your parents? Do you see what anger says about us? Think also of lying, kids. When you're confronted by a teacher or parent or classmate about something that you may have done wrong, do you own up to the truth? Or do you lie in hopes that they won't find out? Just as someone who in his own life struggled with lying before I came to know the Lord, and it's still a temptation for me, but I really struggled with it. Lies will always find you out. And even if they don't, God knows. Your lies will always find you out. So kids, I want to encourage you, if you have sinned and done something wrong and you're confronted by it, don't lie. There is mercy. Those who confess their sins find mercy. And the same is true for the adults in the room. But it's not just lying in anger. It's all sin. In 1 John, the Apostle John says, everyone who makes a practice of sin practices lawlessness. Sin is lawlessness. Where are the areas of your life where you are tempted to make a practice of sin? Are you ruling over sexual immorality and pornography? Or is it ruling over you? Are you ruling over the temptation to be critical of everyone and everything? Or is it ruling over you? Are you ruling over gossip and slander? Or are they ruling over you? John Owen famously said, be killing sin. Or sin will be killing you. There is no neutral ground in this war, friends. And all John Owen is doing is paraphrasing what God says to Cain. Friends, what are you doing to rule over your sin? How are you fighting against it? How are you bringing it out into the light by sharing it with others? and enlisting them to help you fight against it, whether by sharing with them or regularly praying with you in your battle against sin. This is what it means to be a member of a local church. This is why it's so important to be a member of a local church. If you're the type of Christian who has been taught that it's okay to just float around life and not be part of a committed part of a local body, I want to encourage you That is not what the New Testament holds out in the Christian life. The New Testament assumes that Christians are committed members of local churches because the church is like an assurance of salvation co-op. We help encourage one another in our fight against sin so that we might not be deceived by sin and go the way of Cain and go the way of Korah and go the way of Balaam, right? This is what the churches is. We're gathering together to help one another fight against sin. To think about what Cain says. Am I my brother's keeper? If you are ever tempted to ask that question as a Christian in a local church, the answer is yes. You are your brother's keeper We are called to commit to look out for one another, to encourage one another, to exhort one another To admonish one another, to rebuke one another, because all of us at some point in our lives need encouragement, need instruction, need admonishment, need rebuking. And we need other Christians who love us to be our brother's keeper. And when they do it, we need to recognize that when people call us out on our sin, if they see sin ruling in our lives, we need to recognize that as an act of love. Whether they're right or wrong, right? Whether they have rightly seen what's going on in your life or not, we should never respond like, hey man, like back off, right? Like what you need you're getting a little too close here It's an act of love when a Christian shows concern for your spiritual well-being. They're trying to keep you from going the way of Cain, which we are all, by sin dwelling in us, regularly tempted to do. Right? Prone to wander? Prone to leave the God I love? Right? We need the Spirit at work in us and we need the fellowship of the saints. Right? And we see the consequences of sin are devastating. Look at what happens to Cain because he is ruled over by his sin. In verses 10 to 12, God pronounces judgment on Cain. And when you read through Cain's judgment, you basically see this is like a doubling down on the judgment that occurred to Adam and Eve. It's greater than Adam and Eve's sins, greater than Adam and Eve's judgment in a sense. In Genesis 3, the ground was cursed, but it still produced food for Adam and Eve. But now, for Cain, it will no longer yield any strength to him. And while Adam and Eve were sent out of God's present presence to the east, Cain is sent further into the east. You need to go further away. You are consigned to wander the earth. Right? These are devastating consequences like a double exile. And notice in verse 14 Verse 13 and 14, Cain complains. This is not an admission. And in verse 14, while complaining about his judgment, Cain says, From your face I will be hidden. My friends, this is the terrible judgment for those who are ruled by their sin. They will be hidden from the face of God. Throughout the Old Testament, the face of God is associated with and symbolic of blessing and salvation. And so to be hidden from God's face is to be cut off from blessing and salvation. A friend, if you are here and you don't understand yourself to be a follower of Jesus I hope that you would receive this as an act of love, that I would call you to repent of your sin now. Don't wait another day. Turn from your sin, turn from being ruled by your sin, and put your trust and faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. He is our only hope for salvation because all who do not trust in him face this eternal cutting off from the face of God. To continue in sin is to choose to be cut off from the saving presence of God and to live eternally in a land of wandering and that judgment Cain gets right. It is too great for any of us to bear on our own. Oh friends, we've seen that the seed of the serpent are characterized by empty worship The seed of the serpent are characterized by being ruled by sin. We also see one final thing in this passage, and it's that the seed of the serpent love the world more than God. Following Cain's complaint about his judgment in verses 14 and 15, we see that God places a mark on Cain there in verse 15, and that's to protect him from anyone who might take vengeance on him for killing his brother Abel. So many people want to know what is the mark? And I don't think there is an answer. I don't think there is a clear answer. Some have proposed that it's the first tattoo. As someone who has tattoos, I would like to believe that, but I just don't think that's what's happening Others think it's a hairstyle. That would be interesting. Others have gone a step further and said it's a dog. God gives to Cain, this is real. God gives to Cain a dog, and when people attack him, the dog will drive them off. Just I think it's reading in our desire to see the dog as man's best friend. I I don't think we know what the mark is. Because the word to put a To put a mark on Cain, it's a sign. The word mark also means sign. And the word put on can just mean he gave to Cain a sign, not that he actually placed something on his body. We don't know. What we can say, though, is that this mark would have been a constant reminder to Cain of his sin, as well as a constant reminder of God's grace in allowing Cain to continue living. And in the rest of the passage, as we look at verses 17 and following, we see that God amazingly shows Cain even more grace. Look at verse 17. Cain finds a wife. As a child, builds a city. God shows common grace to Cain and to his descendants, even though he sinned against him. A friend, just just want to point out this again. If you're not a follower of Jesus, I wonder if you recognize the many kindnesses that God has shown to you by giving you life. By giving you breath, by causing your heart to beat, and so many other blessings, even with the trials that we all experience in this life. And God has given those to us so that we would recognize his kindness and turn to him to receive not only his common grace, but his saving grace that he shows to those who repent. Yet what's so sad in this passage that we see is that so many people choose to love the blessings rather than the one who gives the blessings So many people make the mistake of choosing to love the gifts more than the giver of the gifts. And this is what we see hinted at in Cain's family. In verse 18, you can look down there with me. We read about Cain's descendants, culminating in a man named Lamech. In verse 19, we learn that Lamech was even worse than Cain. So Cain's sin is doubled down on by one of his descendants, Lamech. He was the first bigamist, right? He disregarded God's good design for marriage and followed his own lusts, taking more wives than God allowed. And then verse 23 and 24, you look down there with me, we see that Lamech, like Cain, is also a murderer. And yet he's even worse than Cain because he's now boasting in his murder. bragging essentially to his two wives of the fact that he killed a man. What you see here is that this family line of Cain, the one who is identified with the seed of the serpent, is marked by sin And murder by flouting God's laws and by boasting in their sin. And I want you to notice how this wicked family line is also associated with the creation of culture. and civilization. Look at verses 20 to 22. There we meet Lamech's sons, and we see that they are the forefathers of culture and civilization. And you need to understand That God does not cause men to write things that are unnecessary. Everything that he tells us in his word is necessary. For life and godliness. It's profitable for instruction, for training, for teaching and righteousness. So you need to ask the question: why on earth is he telling us about Lamech's sons and that they were the forefathers of these different things? Look down there with me. You see verse 20 and following his son Jabal is the forefather of animal husbandry. So he Designed and implemented mass systems of animal husbandry, right? To make things easier for the people around him. His other son, Jubal, is the forefather of the arts and music. a cultural world, and his son Tubal Cain is the forefather of metallurgy, craftsmanship. Interestingly, the son who makes weapons, Tubul Cain, is the son that Lamech names after Cain, who likely killed Abel with some sort of weapon. Now, why would Moses want the people of Israel to know that the seed of the serpent, Cain, and his children, are the ones responsible for the creation of culture and civilization? Because he knew that when the people of Israel were later brought into the promised land of Canaan And came into contact with the great cities and cultures of the peoples around them, they would be tempted to abandon God and chase after the world. And so he wants them to know the cultures around you, as glittering and sparkly and amazing as they may be, they are associated with the family line of Cain, the seed of the serpent. Now he is not saying that the arts and animal husbandry and craftsmanship are in and of themselves sinful What he is saying is that the people who are aligned with Satan in opposition to God will live for, put their hope in, and chase after the things That this world has to offer. They will try to make a name for themselves rather than making a name for God. And we see this repeated throughout Genesis and throughout the Old Testament. You see this repeated at the Tower of Babel in Genesis 11. As the people gathered together to use the technology that they had come up with, we made bricks. What are we going to do with these bricks? Let's make a name for ourselves. Right? They built this tower to make a name for themselves, and then you see it repeated ad nauseum throughout the Old Testament as the people of God abandon God over and over to chase after the things of this world. after the things of culture and civilization, money, political alliances, power, and worshiping the false gods of the nations. The people of the nations were known for putting their hope in the cultures and civilizations that they had created to make a name for themselves, while the people of God were to be known for putting their hope in the Lord. This is why you get to the New Testament and you see in 1 John chapter 3, John says, do not love the world or the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, the desires of the flesh, and the desires of the eyes, and the pride of life, is not from the Father But it's from the world. This world that finds its origin in the family of Cain and the cultures that they've created Just as those who come who are born of Cain, who are the seed of the serpent, would come to put their hope in their own creations, their own cultures, their own civilizations, those who are born from God are to put their hope in God. Friend, where are you putting your hope today? Are you tempted to put your hope in beauty, in fitness, in clothing? There's nothing inherently sinful about those things But beauty and fitness fade and clothing wear out and they're a poor substitution for a relationship with God. Are you putting your hope in wealth? Thinking that more money can provide the happiness and security you need. Friends, wealth is fleeting. As soon as you set your eyes on it, Proverbs says, flies away. Right? It is fleeting. And it cannot provide the security that God provides. What is it that you're most longing for today? If it's not more of Jesus, then ultimately you're putting your hope in something that simply won't last. And here's the thing: this doesn't mean that we need to become separatists and stay away from the world. Now for those who put their faith in Christ, in Christ, we have the freedom to live in the world and to experience the common grace, gifts that God has given to the world without making the world and its cultures and civilizations our ultimate hope, because we know that every good and perfect gift in the world comes from the Father above. The people of God should be marked by enjoying the good gifts that God has given while keeping those gifts in their proper place and reserving their ultimate praise, their ultimate hope, and their ultimate joy for God alone. And we see this. So clearly portrayed in the text itself. Look at how the passage ends in verses twenty-five and twenty-six God gives to Eve another seed. Now the chapter begins. Adam knew his wife Eve, and she conceived a son Had Cain, had Abel, Abel died, Cain killed Abel, then he goes on to tell us about the seed of the serpent, and you think the seed of the woman has been murdered. All hope is lost. Genesis 3. 15 is done. How is God going to continue? But you see, at the end of the passage, God gives to Eve another seed. Adam knew his wife, they conceived, and gave birth to another son named Seth. And notice what she says about him. God has appointed for me another offspring, another seed instead of Abel, for Cain killed him. Seth is the new seed of the woman, the one through whom the true seed would eventually come, the true seed who would crush. the serpent's head. And notice how different the genealogy the seed of the woman is from the seed of the serpent. Look at what starts happening when Seth has a son. People begin calling on the name of the Lord. This is the way the Old Testament, especially the book of Genesis, describes worship. worship of the one true God, Yahweh, the covenant Lord of Israel. The seed of the serpent, Cain and his family, are marked by empty worship Being ruled by sin and loving the world more than God, and those who are aligned with the seed of the woman are marked by calling on the Lord, by worshiping Him and depending on Him. Friends, the war has begun. The seed of the serpent Cain has attacked the seed of the woman Abel. And though he killed Abel, the war was not over. God preserved the seed of the woman by giving life from the dead. Dead Abel is replaced by the life of Seth. And that war between the seed of the serpent and the seed of the woman will continue throughout the whole book of Genesis and through the rest of the Old Testament as God works miraculously to preserve and protect the family line of the seed of the woman until the promised seed would come. And who is that promised seed of the woman who would finally crush the serpent's head? It's none other than the Lord Jesus Christ. Who in his genealogy, in the Gospel of Luke, we learn was the son of Seth, and the son of Adam, and the Son of God. Jesus alone is the seed of the woman. He alone is the one who perfectly worshipped God. His worship was never empty. He alone is the one who perfectly ruled over sin. And he alone loved God more than the world. Jesus is the true Abel who was killed by his brothers, you and me, because we hated him, because his deeds were righteous and ours were evil. He bore in his body on the tree our sins. He was nailed to the tree because of us and by us. And yet, he gave his life as a sacrifice so that we who would repent of our sins and trust in him could be forgiven. Friend, as you read this passage, you're supposed to come away thinking, I am only like Cain. If you do well, will you not be accepted? None of us has done well. For all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. But the free gift of God is forgiveness of sins. and everlasting life through the Lord Jesus Christ who did well all the time. The righteous for the unrighteous, so that we might be accepted by God. We were all born of Cain. We were all seeds of the serpent, but Jesus came so that we could be born again. into a new family, into his family, not by the will of the flesh, nor by the will of the blood, but by the will of God. And those who put their faith in him are given his spirit so that they might go from being empty worshipers to true worshipers. By being ruled by sin to ruling over sin, albeit imperfectly, we still fail. But praise God, he's given us our spirit and he keeps us because Jesus is the true keeper of his brothers and he will keep us until the end Now, friend, the war between the seed of the serpent continues even today. But we can be hopeful in the midst of this war because Jesus has promised to be a keeper of his brothers and his sisters. And he will keep us through the storm until he comes once and for all to end the war and finally and fully crush the serpent's head. Friends, the end of that war is approaching. My question to you is what side of the war are you on? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you. That by the death of your Son Jesus Christ and by the regeneration that comes through the Holy Spirit, you have allowed your people to be born again by the Spirit We pray, Father, that for any who are here today who have not given their lives to following Jesus Christ, that you would grant the Spirit to open their eyes, to cause them to repent, to give them the gift of faith. That they too might be welcomed into your family. And we pray to you, Lord Jesus, that as we go throughout this week and seek to honor you and glorify you by giving our whole lives to you, we ask that you would keep us. Hold us fast. Show us your mercy. This mercy that we know is greater than all of our sins. And we pray this in your most holy name. And all God's people said, Amen.