Good afternoon. Good to see you all, to have this opportunity to open up God's Word with you. I'm going to pray again briefly, and then we will dive in. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come to you in the name of your Son Jesus and by the power of your Holy Spirit. Asking that you would bless the preaching of your word, that you would cause all of our hearts to be opened That you would tend the soil of our hearts, making it good soil. We can't give ourselves good soil. We need you to do that And we pray then that you would also plant the living and abiding word in our hearts, that it would grow up to bear the fruit of righteousness and love and joy and peace and gentleness. and all of the fruits of the Spirit and that ultimately, Lord, would lead to eternal life. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Friends, we're gonna jump right in. We're gonna jump right into our passage today. So I want you to go ahead and turn with me to Colossians chapter 3 Verses 12 to 17, you can use the pew Bible that's there in front of you, or you can open up on your phone if you're using a phone or tablet, whatever it might be, as you're turning there. I want to go ahead and provide some context to our passage today because it's been some time since we were last in Paul's letter to the Colossians We want to remember that in chapters 1 and 2, Paul tells the Colossians all that God had done to save them. Right? We think about things like Paul telling them that God had done all that was necessary to qualify them for salvation. He also transferred them into the kingdom of his beloved Son. He lifted them out of the kingdom of darkness and gave them a standing in his kingdom. He redeemed them. He forgave them through the death and resurrection of Jesus and fully canceled the debt that stood against them when Jesus died on the cross to bear the punishment for their sins. And then Following the resurrection and following them, putting their faith in Jesus, God gave them new life in Christ. Behold, the old is gone and the new has come. They had become new creations in Christ. And then at the beginning of chapter 3, if you look there with me, chapter 3, verse 1, Paul tells them that their new life in Christ is to be accompanied by new pursuits. They were to seek the things that are above. And then in the following paragraphs, he goes on to tell them how to do that. In verses 5 and 11, we saw that seeking the things that are above means putting off the old self. And now in verses 12 to 17, we see that seeking the things that are above looks like also putting on the new self. And let me read verses 12 to 17 for us now, and then we will look more closely at them. This is God's word. Put on, then, as God's chosen ones, holy and beloved, compassionate hearts Kindness, humility, meekness, and patience, bearing with one another, and if one has a complaint against another Forgiving each other. As the Lord has forgiven you, so you also must forgive. And above all these, put on love, which binds everything together in perfect harmony. And let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, to which indeed you were called in one body, and be thankful. Let the Word of Christ dwell in you richly, teaching and admonishing one another in all wisdom, singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs with thankfulness in your hearts to God. And whatever you do. In word or deed, do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him We're going to slow down on this passage and we're going to study it over the next three weeks because I want us to carefully consider what it looks like to live the Christian life. And so this week we're going to especially focus on Paul's instruction in verses 12 to 14. So if you're taking notes, I think there's going to be a lot of stuff in here that you're going to want to take notes on, but it's different than most of my sermons that have multiple t multiple points. There's just one point. I have one point for us today. If you're taking notes, the main point of verses 12 to 14 is this: Christians should clothe themselves. With Christ's character. Christians should clothe themselves with Christ's character. You're the type of person who's like, yeah, John, but like could you give me any more insight into like what the structure will be? We're basically just gonna go through each of the virtues Paul lists off, touching on each of them, working our way towards the end. So that's that's gonna be the structure. That's our only point. Christians should clothe themselves in Christ's character. So we're just going to walk through the passage and consider what it means, what it looks like for us to clothe ourselves with Christ's character. So Look again at the very first words of verse 12. Paul begins, put on then. Put on. As in, go into your spiritual closet and pull out the following pieces of spiritual clothing to clothe yourselves with. Put on. These things. But before he tells them what to put on, we got to recognize that Paul reminds them Of who they already are. Look at verse 12 again. Look at what he calls them. They are God's chosen ones. Right? Before the foundation of the world, Ephesians 1, and before they had done anything good or bad, Romans 9. God set his electing love upon them and chose them to be recipients of his lavish grace in Christ. They are God's chosen ones. He's already chosen you. You are his. Not only that, but they are holy and beloved. So when the Colossians put their faith in Jesus, his record became theirs, his perfect righteousness became theirs. Because Christ is perfectly holy, and they had been united to Christ by faith. His holiness was now theirs, such that Paul could look at them and us today who have put our faith in Christ and say, holy. And not just holy, also beloved. If you have any doubt that God looks on you, dear Christian, with the same sort of affection that he looks upon the Son, let this description of you. Dispel all that doubt. What does the Father say about the Son in the Gospels? This is my beloved Son. And through faith in Christ, we are now also his beloved children. Right? God looks upon us with the same affection that he looks upon the Son. So when he looks at the Son, he says, My beloved Son. And when he looks at all his children through faith in Christ, he says, My beloved children, holy and beloved. We gotta emphasize this, we gotta recognize this because it's so easy to come to passages like this in the New Testament and forget everything that God has already done for us and think, I need to earn my salvation. By putting on kindness. I need to do it. I need to work it up in me. And when I do it and I fail, I've somehow failed the Lord. And now He's displeased with me. But you don't become holy by putting on these virtues. You are holy. So put on these virtues You don't become beloved. You don't earn God's love and affection by putting on these virtues. You have God's love and affection. You are beloved. Now put on these virtues. Right? This is crucial for us to understand. The virtues he's about to call them to put on are in response to what God had already done for them. They aren't requirements that we need to meet to be allowed into God's family. They're virtues that we put on because we already are in God's family And so in my family, we we tell our kids, Leah and I, we tell our kids, Joseph's obey, Joseph's show respect, and Joseph's speak the truth. That's what we do. By virtue of the fact that we we share the family name Joseph. But do my kids cease to become Joseph's or cease to be Joseph's when they fail to do that perfectly? Of course not. They can no more cease to be members of our family than God's holy and beloved children cease to be members of his family when we fail at doing these things. perfectly when we struggle to put on all the things Paul is going to tell us to put on. And that is good news for us today. So when we come to these lists of things that we want to put on as Christians, we're putting them on because of what God has done for us and because of what he's doing in us. by conforming us to the image of his son. And as we'll see, these are not abstract virtues, but the very character of Christ Himself. That's how we want to approach these virtues. So what what virtues does God want his holy and beloved children to clothe themselves with? Look again with me at verse 12. We're going to take them one by one. Paul says, put on then, as God's chosen ones, holy and beloved, compassionate hearts We should clothe ourselves with compassionate hearts. We should have Hearts of mercy, as another translation translates this passage. We should be the type of people who are filled with sympathy in the face of misfortune. Suffering, struggling, and need. The phrase in Greek is actually compassionate bowels The gut was viewed as the seat of the heart and the place from which emotions arose, the place from which compassion, mercy, and sympathy arose. We all know what it's like. To be so moved by the misfortune, the hurting of others, that we feel it in the depths of our stomachs, right? That's what it means to have compassionate bowels, right? When we see someone in want or in need, we should be so moved to the core of our being that we move towards them with hearts full of compassion, mercy, and sympathy. Christians should be the last people on earth who are indifferent, cold, or uncaring to the misfortune of others, whether in the church or outside the church, because we know that we were dead in our trespasses and sins, and yet rather than coldly and differently and uncaringly passing by us without sin. Stopping, the Lord looked down upon us. Said, live. Not just live. But take these robes of righteousness. Not just take these robes of righteousness, but have all of my love. Goodness and mercy will now follow you the rest of your day. Rest of the days of your life. His heart was moved with such compassion that the Lord took our entire burden and put it on his back. As his children, we should do the same. We should clothe ourselves with compassionate hearts. Likewise we also see as the list continues, we should put on kindness. Clothe yourself with genuine, heartfelt goodwill towards others. Don't be a jerk. Don't be rude, sharp, inconsiderate. Condescending, harsh, sarcastic, or mean-spirited. Show genuine care and concern for others What does kindness look like in action? What does it look like in action? I think it looks like a lot of what I see all of you doing, but here are some examples. It looks like greeting one another warmly. It looks like asking questions in conversation conversation that show an evident care and concern for the person. It looks like then following up with people who've shared their struggles and trials with you to let you know that you've been praying for them. It looks like showing up when people need help. Like dropping off a card, flowers, or a meal for those who are in the midst of a trial. It kindness also looks like standing up for the truth and at times confronting others who are in sin because nothing is more kind than calling someone back from a path that leads to death. And for the teens, I want to nuance this a bit for you. I think it's important for you to understand this because kindness can be easy to misunderstand Kindness is not niceness. Nice people don't want to offend anyone, confront anyone, or rock the boat. Nice people just want to be liked. Kind people want others to be respected and honored as they deserved, as preachers made in the image of God, right? So for the teenagers, the nice teenager Sees a kid getting picked on but doesn't stand up for them, then after the ordeal is over, goes and tells the kid who was picked on that they're really sorry that that happened to them. Right? I'm so sorry that happened Right? The kind teenager though stands up for the kid being picked on and tells the one doing the harassing that what they're doing is wrong, and so shows kindness to the one doing the picking on by calling them out and the one getting picked on. Or you can give a different example. The nice teen says hi to everyone. Hey, how are you doing? How are you doing? Hey, hey there. Good to see you. Hope your day's going well. The kind teen seeks to be an includer. And is on the lookout for kids that maybe don't have as many friends or are new in town or don't fit in the same way as everyone else in a particular situation. Kindness is action. It's not passive. We move out in kindness towards others, and we are to clothe ourselves with kindness. But look again at verse 12. Paul keeps going After kindness, he says, we're to put on humility. The word used here means lowliness of mind. And this also can be easy to misunderstand. Lowliness in mind, not that we go around like Eeyore telling telling everyone how we're not great at anything we do. just such bad people, right? That's not what the Bible means by humility. You can do that and still be filled with raging pride. You just want everyone to look at you and say, no, no, you're actually a great, great guy there, buddy. Oh yeah, thank you. I am. Right? Like you could still do that and be filled with pride. That's not humility. Biblical humility is what Jesus calls being poor in spirit. People who recognize that were it not for the mercy and grace of Christ, they would be utterly destitute and entirely without hope of ever entering God's kingdom on their own merits. And because they recognize That their standing in God's kingdom is entirely by his grace, they're just thankful to be there at all. They're not easily offended because they know how much they've offended God. They're not easily angered because they know how much their sins have angered God. They're not clamoring for the spotlight because they can't fathom why God would love them in the first place. Kids, humble people genuinely enjoy when other people succeed and do great. great things. They're not spending that time comparing themselves to others because what they're most concerned about is other people and not themselves. And they're also concerned that God is glorified in whatever other people do. So if other people do great things and receive the spotlight and the praise for it, they're just glad that God is being glorified because they recognize that everything we have Our personalities and skills included are gifts from God to be used for his glory. So we don't try to take the spotlight from others. We don't get frustrated and complain when others have the spotlight are being praised. We give thanks to God. Humble people think about what God is doing in other people and give thanks for it and thank Him for those gifts and the way that those gifts are being used to build up the body. How are you doing with humility? Would you describe yourself as a humble person in that way? Poor in spirit, concerned more about others than you are about yourself I think it was Tim Keller who described defined humility as not thinking less of yourself, that would be Eeyore, but thinking of yourself less. Being focused on what God is doing in other people. Humble people are people who think more about others than they do about themselves. But it's not just humility that we're to put on. Let's look back at the list. Paul says compassionate hearts, kindness, humility, meekness. We're also to put on meekness. This same word is translated elsewhere as gentleness and perfect courtesy In the Old Testament, the Hebrew word for meek refers to someone who bears up under affliction, who endures hardship without complaint. The meek person thinks not of serving and glorifying himself, but of serving and glorifying God. By enduring hardship without complaint and willingly sharing in the suffering of others. I think one of the most important things that we need to hear today about meekness is that meekness is not weakness. Just like kindness is not niceness, meekness is not weakness. It's not being mousy or timid. It's not being a doormat or a pushover or someone who's easily taken advantage of. Meek men and women in the Bible were full of resolve, courage, and conviction They were full of spiritual strength, but their spiritual strength was administered in a spirit of gentleness and a willingness to endure hardship for the sake of God's glory and the good of others. So for all all the men in the room, and not just the men, but the young men and even the boys in the room, I especially want to call all of you to pursue meekness. In your lives. Meekness is a mark of true manliness You see, Jesus was the most fully man man that ever walked the earth, and Jesus was also the meekest man to walk the earth. And was Jesus weak? Well no, of course not, right? I'm not calling us to become weak men, but meek men. Men who use their strength to help and protect others Men who use their strength to stand up for the truth and a spirit of gentleness. Men who use their strength to bear others' burdens. Men who endure hard things all while telling others why God can completely keep be completely trusted. In the midst of those hard things. Be meek, not weak But Paul keeps going. Look again at verse 12. Paul tells them to put on patience. Can any of the kids or teens give me your best definition of what patience is? What is patience? You can just shout it out. How would you define patience? Lois? Slow to anger, the ability to wait without becoming angry, right Lois? Like that's a great definition. Slow to anger I think I want to nuance patience just a little bit to show that it how it appears in our lives. I think I want to define patience just like that. but in two separate but related ways. One I'll call situational or circumstantial patience, and one I'll call interpersonal patience, right? Situational patience is the power to remain peaceful while awaiting an outcome. That's the type of patience we're being called to put on. Let's say I'm waiting on employment. I'm without a job and I'm waiting for a job to come through, but I can't find a job. The impatient person is filled with and controlled by turmoil. Frustration, despair, possibly takes matters into their own hands while the patient person does everything they can do to find a job and then also entrusts God with the results. They will likely experience fear, anxiety, and frustration as we all would, but they don't let those control them, remembering that their God made heaven and earth. And will provide for them at the right time. And so they turn their fears and frustrations into prayers. That's what it would look like to be a patient person in the midst of difficult circumstances. Right? For the kids here, you can practice this kind of patience now in your life by not yelling or getting upset when something isn't done for you right away. So for the younger kids especially, if you're five or six, raise your hand. You're five or six. I want you guys to pay attention here and think about this. You don't have to start yelling and getting mad. If you ask your mom and dad for something and they don't do it right away, you don't want to start yelling and like saying, hey, do this for me, do this for me. A patient child is gonna wait. Trusting that mom and dad heard them, mom and dad are gonna come through at the right time. I'm also trying to bless the parents here a little bit, right? Right? But kids, you you can practice putting this patience on now. For all the members of our church, one specific way that we can all show patience is by not responding to the numerous difficulties of not having our own building with complaining, griping, frustration, or bitterness. But instead doing all that we can to find our own building and pursue one of our own and trusting that the Lord will provide at the right time. So one church planner I recently heard about shared that it took his church ten years. Let that sit for a second. We're going on year four. Took them ten years to finally acquire a building of their own. That may take us ten years or longer. Who knows? The point is, though, that situationally patient people trust that God is doing good in all of the wanderings, and whether we ever understand all that he's doing or not, we can trust him. Interpersonal patience, on the other hand, is the power to remain peaceful when provoked by other people. The patient parent doesn't snap or bark at their kids. The patient employee doesn't respond to a coworker's snark by becoming snide or sarcastic. The patient's spouse doesn't respond to coldness or callousness from their spouse by doing the same things back to them. They were kind of rude to me I'm gonna be kind of rude to them. And the patient church member bears with others who sinned against them or hurt their feelings. By recognizing that they've done the same thing to other people countless times, and they also in those experiences wanted the other person to show them kindness and mercy, and so now they are going to show kindness and mercy to the person who hurt their feelings or sinned against them. And I think Paul has interpersonal patience most in mind when he calls them to put on patience because of what he calls them to next. Look at verse 13. Paul says, bearing with one another. Paul tells them to bear with others. That is put on forbearance. Right? Forbearance is like patience. It's a stronger sibling of patience. It's patience flexed. It's patience enduring through difficulty with other people. Forbear with one another in your relationships within the church so that the unity of the church might be maintained. I think that forbearance and forgiveness, which he'll turn to next, are the two ways that the Colossians and us today can express all of the virtues Paul has just listed. I think Paul wants above all else harmony and unity in the congregation. And those virtues, when they are put on, produce harmony and unity in the congregation. But Paul's also a realist. He has a right understanding of the fact that sin remains in us even after we've been saved. And because of indwelling sin, we will all experience things like misunderstanding one another. Annoying one another, hurting one another's feelings, and frustrating each other with our peculiarities and idiosyncrasies, and in all of that God wants us to forbear with each other. Because sin remains, all of these things will happen. And if we want to pursue unity and harmony, we're going to have to bear with each other. And bearing with one another may sometimes mean bearing with others without speaking up. What's the proverb say? It is to a man's glory to overlook an offense. It's a man's glory, honor to overlook. An offense. Bearing with others may sometimes, maybe even often, mean overlooking an offense. But there are times where bearing with others might also require speaking up to them. Hey, when you when you do X, really hurts my feelings. Or it really bothers me. Or another one that might happen in the church. Listen, I know you have a lot going on. This is the third time that you've shown up late to children's ministry, and that places an unexpected stress on the rest of the volunteers. Right? Sometimes you speak up because that's a kindness. But if you decide to speak up when in the midst of forbearing with others, how should you do it? Well, you do it with kindness, humility, meekness, and patience You see how all of these virtues, it's like kind of like, I feel like I'm defining the same thing just in different ways. It's like they all work together to produce love and unity and harmony. And that's why God wants us to put them on in the life of the church. But we also need to recognize that overlooking an offense and speaking up aren't mutually exclusive. You may choose to overlook it first, then speak up, and then return to overlooking when it continues to happen, right? Ultimately, bearing with others means fighting for a spirit of love towards the person you're being provoked by. But we not only forbear with one another, we're also called to put on forgiveness. I want you to look again at verse 13. Paul says. Bearing with one another, and if anyone has a complaint against another, forgiving each other. As the Lord has forgiven you, so you must also forgive Three times in one verse, Paul mentions forgiveness. He wants to press home the importance of forgiveness in the life of a God-glorifying church. Not only does Paul know that because of indwelling sin we'll misunderstand, annoy, and frustrate each other, he knows that we will also inevitably sin against each other. The question is, what are we going to do? What are you going to do when that happens? The answer that Paul wants us to choose is right here in verse 13. He wants us to forgive. Forgive one another. How many times should I forgive my brother who sins against me? Seven times would Jesus say. Seventy times seven. We should forgive constantly because we've been forgiven immeasurably. According to Paul, we should forgive others as the Lord has forgiven us. That means we forgive freely and graciously, right? But they don't deserve to be forgiven. Yes, neither did you or I, and yet God still forgave It also means we forgive completely, right? As far as the East is from the West, so far has He removed our transgressions from us. In the same way, when we forgive, we're also agreeing to move on without holding the transgression over their head. It also means pursuing Reconciliation and restoration. Harmony in a church can only be achieved when relationships are in w right working order. But I do want to caveat some of the things I'm saying about forgiveness just to clarify a few questions you might have. First, Paul's instruction to put on forgiveness Assumes that the person committing the sin has sought forgiveness. If you've sinned against someone in this congregation and you're you're aware of it, the instruction for you is go to them. Go to whoever it is that you've sinned against and repent. Confess your sin and trust in the Lord. Go to that person and ask for forgiveness. We also want to think about what is what do we do when we've been sinned against in extremely serious ways, like adultery, physical abuse, or worse. What does it look like for that person to forgive as the Lord has forgiven them? I think first it means recognizing that forgiveness is a process. When you've been sent against in serious ways, you're going to experience waves of emotion over long periods of time. You shouldn't expect forgiveness to be an on-off switch that fixes everything going on in your heart. Forgiveness in that sense is more of a process. But I'd also say, I think sometimes Christians can think, yeah, the Lord He casts our sins into the sea, they're east from west, and he remembers them no more. I need to forgive and forget. But forgiveness in the Bible is not Forgetting. When the Bible says that God remembers our sins no more, it doesn't mean he literally forgets them. He's all-knowing. Like he knows what we've done. He simply chooses not to hold it against us. And that's what you But finally, serious sin when it comes to reconciliation and restoration, we have to recognize that in in certain Serious sin situations, relationships cannot be restored to their prior state because of what's happened. Divorce may occur in certain cases. A spouse or a child may need to be removed from a home for their safety. There are times when restoration of relationship to the pre-send status is just not possible or even wise. And if you happen to be in a situation like that, dealing with some type of serious sin that has happened against you, please talk to the elders. We'd love to help you think through what forgiveness looks like in your situation. Finally, let's keep going. Paul tells them to put on love. Look at verse 15. And above all these, put on love, which binds everything together in perfect. Paul commands the Colossians to make their outermost spiritual garment that of love. It's the piece of clothing that ties the whole outfit together. Right? Love is the most important of these. It is the chief Christian virtue. Jesus said to his disciples that the world will know them not by their kindness, compassion, humility, on and on, but by their love. Right? And you can't help but think about 1 Corinthians 13, where Paul defines and describes love. Love is patient. Here in Colossians. Love is kind here in Colossians. It is not rude, not boastful, does not insist on its own way. It's not envious. It bears all things, endures all things. We see So many similarities to what Paul is telling the Colossians to put on here. These virtues are all various expressions of love. But are not in and of themselves love. In that sense, the individual virtues are like individual photos that make up a larger mosaic, which when put together create a picture of something Greater than themselves and distinct from themselves. Love, then, is the perfect outworking, expression, and balance of all these virtues in our relationships with one another. Love is the conductor who brings the musicians into perfect union, that they would produce a harmonious sound. Right? And we're called to put love And if we're going to be bound together in harmony, we're going to have to actively put these things on. Paul's describing it like clothing, so let's think about it like clothing. The clothes you're wearing right now didn't just appear on you. No, you opened your drawers or your closet door. You picked out clothes. That goes with that. That'll look good with this, right? And then you actively put them on. It's not like you picked the outfit out, laid it on your bed, and we're like, okay, job done. No, you you took the clothes and you clothed yourself in them. Right? And that's what we are to do. Not only that, but I'm guessing that to one degree or another, you gave consideration to how the pieces of clothing would complement one another. No sane person blindly picks out clothing when they get dressed. Now you can imagine that if I showed up to preach wearing a tank top, a tie, business suit, pants, flip-flops, and a top hat. You think we need to find a new church. Dude's gone crazy, right? Those things don't go together. We need to put on these virtues, which all go together and they're bound together by love. Beautiful outfit you have. on beautiful spiritual outfit that's going on there. Oh yeah, I picked out patience and kindness and joy and gentleness and then I put them on. Right? We're to actively put them on. In the same way, we must put on Christ. We must put on the new self that God has created in us by His power. When we wake up each day, we'd have to actively put on compassion, kindness, humility, meekness, patience, forbearance, forgiveness, and love I don't know about you, but I wake up a lot of days with a bad attitude. Just another day. And so what's gonna happen if I just go into my day like that? Well, I'm gonna growl at my kids. My wife's gonna be like, what's wrong with you? Like there's so much to be joyful for him like I mean I have to actively put these things on. Right? What are the situations where you're prone to lack compassion? How can you put on compassion in those situations? What are the situations where you consistently lack kindness? You can think of maybe other people that you're really struggling with. How can you put on kindness in those situations? It has to be put on. By the Spirit. What provokes you to being harsh rather than gentle? Boastful rather than humble? Impatient rather than patient? And how can you be prepared to put off the old and put on the new? It's not just going to happen. I don't know how many of you have ever been driving, right? And you you arrive at a place and you realize, oh, I don't really remember how I got here. It just kind of drove and ended up here. Well, what's going on there? Well, it's probably a route that you've driven you a hundred times, and in your subconscious, you're just familiar with it, so you can just put it on autopilot and you're thinking about other things, and then you arrive at your destination. That is not what is going to happen when it comes to putting on the fruits of the Spirit. If you put it on autopilot, Because of the flesh, your heart is going to be directing you towards selfishness, pride, envy, etc. You need to give thought to how you're going to navigate your day and actively put on the new self. So what are you doing to put these things on? How is the word shaping your outlook on the day? Are you spending time Considering God's word, whether it's at the beginning of the day or throughout the day, to help shape your focus and your outlook on the world and on yourself. Also recognizing that God works by His Word in unseen ways to make us more like Jesus. How is prayer functioning in these things? Are you asking God to help you in these various ways? If you ask him to help you put these things on, he will help. Because if we pray anything according to his will, he hears us. And we have what we asked for. And he will begin working in us to grow us in all these things. Because God has promised to make you more like his son and becoming more like Jesus. Means putting these things on more and more. Friends, these are not abstract virtues that Paul is calling us to put on. put on here. Paul is ultimately calling us to put on Christ self. Why should you put on compassionate hearts? Mark tells us that when Jesus saw the crowds, he had compassion on them because they were harassed and helpless, like sheep with Why should you put on kindness? Because God Himself has displayed the riches of His kindness to us in the gospel. Titus says that the goodness and loving kindness of God appeared. Kindness in action. God just didn't sit back and say, I'm going to be kind to them. He came. The goodness and loving kindness of God appeared to save us. Why do we put on humility? Because even though he was in the form of God, he did not count equality with God something to be grasped, but instead emptied himself, taking the form of a servant. And being found in human form, Jesus Humbled himself to death. Yes, even death on a cross. Why should we put on meekness? Because Jesus Christ himself came in meekness. Think about Isaiah's prophecy of what his manner would be like in his day when he came A bruised reed he will not break. A smoldering wick he will not put out. Jesus walked in meekness. Jesus said, Come to me, all who are weary and burdened, and I will give you rest, for I am gentle, meek, and lowly. This is why we also put on patience, because Jesus Christ is perfectly patient. Think about what Paul says in 1 Timothy. I received mercy for this reason, that in me as the foremost Jesus Christ might display his perfect patience as an example to all those who would believe. We clothe ourselves with patience because Christ himself is patient. And Christ now dwells in us by his spirit. Why do we put on forbearance? Because we serve a long-suffering God. It's the same reason we put on forgiveness. We forgive as the Lord has forgiven us. Our God is the Lord, the Lord, the compassionate and gracious God who is slow to anger, abounding in love and faithfulness, maintains love to thousands and forgives. Wickedness, rebellion, and sin. That's why we also put on love. For God so loved the world. He gave his only son, that whoever believes in him would not perish but have eternal life. God himself. Love. We clothe ourselves in God's nature. We put on as members of his family all the things that he already is. We are not putting on abstract virtues. We're putting on the very nature and character of God. We are putting on Christ. And this is one of the goals of God Paul says in Colossians 1 about his own preaching of the gospel that he was commissioned to make the word of God fully known The mystery hidden for ages and generations, but now revealed to his saints. To them, God chose to make known how great among the Gentiles are the riches. of the glory of this mystery, the gospel mystery. And what are the riches of the glory of this mystery? Christ in you These are not just random abstract things that we put on. Through the gospel, God is creating a new people who more fully and fully and fully across all the days of their life, however long that journey might be. look more and more like his son, Christ, in you. Not just dwelling in you, making you more like him. Put on then as God's chosen ones. Holy and beloved. All of these things. Clothe yourself with Christ. Let's pray Heavenly Father, thank you That it's it's not our faithfulness that is our standing place. It is the faithfulness of Christ. We are beloved, been made holy in Christ. And we are your children. And now you call us to put these things on. Help us to put them on in greater and greater. Measure for your glory and our good. In Christ's name we pray. Amen