Well good morning. All right. Good to see you. In case I haven't met you yet, my name is Garrett Kell, lead pastor over at uh Delray Baptist Church. And it's good for me to be here with you this morning for me because I love seeing some familiar faces Haven't gotten to say hello to all of you who uh new from CHBC, but uh it's a joy to be here uh with you and good to meet some uh some some new friends as well. Also, uh our church right now is in pastoral prayer, so they're praying for us. So uh thank you, John, for for praying for us. Uh our church prays for you guys often. We're thankful for what God's doing here, and it's a joy to be here with you this morning. We're going to pray once more and ask for God's help in both the proclaiming and receiving of his word, and then we're going to dive in. So let's pray. Father, your word tells us that neither life nor death, nor angels nor demons Sword, nor suffering, nor trial, nor temptation, nor anything in heaven, on earth, or under the earth can separate us from your love if we are in Christ Jesus. But Father, we also know that being in Christ Jesus and being in your love does not guarantee that we will be separated from those things. But that in this life we will most certainly endure sufferings of all sort. So we pray that this morning you would fill all of us with your Holy Spirit. And that you would help us to be ministered to by your word and what you did in your servant Job. God, would you help us Fill me to proclaim clearly and truly your word in a way that would be helpful for myself and for all of us. And God would you help all of us in receiver? Give us ears to hear and eyes to see, minds to understand, hearts to believe, and wills that are surrendered to trust you no matter what may come. In the name of Christ. Amen. Well in this room this morning, there's a lot of things that yeah, that's different among us. Probably have different political ideas. Different ethnic backgrounds, different economic situations, different political affiliations Some of us, yeah, know the Lord Jesus. Others of us are trying to figure out whether He's He's real or not. We could go on. There's lots of things that that make us different. But there's one thing that all of us have in common. Everyone suffers. Suffering, yeah, it it shows no partiality in this life. If you live on this planet, you will know pain. Some of us have suffered very little so far by God's grace in our lives. Others of us, it seems like every single chapter in our life is filled with nothing but suffering. Some of us have known the betrayal of friends, the abandonment of a spouse. Abuse. Financial woes. Loneliness. Maybe even a room filled here you still feel very alone. Some of you can never seem to escape that dark cloud of despair and fear. Some of your bodies just never stop hurting I think one of the questions that we must ask in the midst of our pain is, do you believe that there is meaning in your misery? Not just this idea that oh everything has a purpose and everything's gonna turn out fine. But do you believe that there is a God Who uses everything, everything good and everything evil in this life for your good if you are in Christ Jesus For a glorious purpose that is beyond our understanding. Deep down, all of us feel this tension. And I think that's why, if there's any book in the Bible that that really every human being is at least intrigued by, it's the book of Job. Because in the book of Job, we find a man who suffers in ways that seem unfathomable to most of us, and maybe a little bit too familiar for some of us. If you have a Bible, I'm going to ask that you would turn with me to the book of Job. We're going to go to the last chapter of the book of Job, chapter 42. If you don't have a Bible, there's Bibles provided here for you. You can just grab one of those. It's on page 446 in those Bibles. And it's not stealing if you take it because they're giving it away. So that's that's a gift from Chevly Baptist to you. Page 446. As you're turning there, let me catch you up in the story of Job, just in case you're not familiar with it. In the first two chapters, we see a man named Job. He's a good man, he's not a perfect man. There's no such thing as a as a perfect man other than the Lord Jesus. But but God says that he's blameless and that he's he's upright and that he indeed fears God and he turns away from evil. But mysteriously, God gives Satan permission to afflict Job. And Satan brings two catastrophic waves of destruction upon Job's lives. Job's life. He's stripped him of everything, of his fame, of his fortune, and of his health, and even his ten children. All gone Complete and utter devastation. Job's initial response is the most famous of all the things that he said. Naked I came from my mother's womb. Naked I shall return. The Lord gave and the Lord has taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. And then after the second wave of destruction, speaking to his wife, he said, Shall we receive good from God? And shall we not receive evil or calamity? Then it goes on to say, in all these things, Job did not sin. And then after that scene, Job drug out to the city dump, to what's called the ash heap. It's where the trash would be burned, and he climbs there upon that heap, and he sat. With a heavy heart and a broken body, seeping sores and weeping eyes, he sat And then three friends come on the scene: Eliphaz, Bildad, and Zophar. And they come, the Bible says, to show sympathy and comfort to Job in his day of distress. And all is well for the first seven days. They sit in silence with their broken friend. But then they start talking. And things begin to unravel a little bit. Conversations take place in chapters 3 through 31 of Job, and Job's friends begin to accuse him of having a secret sin. That the reason that God is punishing you is because you've got something hidden in your life. To which Job begins to reply and argue about his innocence, and he even gets to the place where he begins accusing God of treating him wrongly Treating him like an enemy. And after three rounds of conversations, things fizzle out a little bit, and a new guy named Elahu arrives on the scene. He's he's the young guy, but he seems to be the wisest of all of them. And he says that actually both Job and his friends are wrong. That Job's friends are wrong because it wasn't suffering that brought this upon Job at all. But that Job Job had actually sinned in what he had said in the midst of his suffering. That Job had wrongly tried to justify himself at God's own expense Then chapters 36 and 37, we see the wind begins to blow, the horizon darkens, and a storm comes in. It's because God himself shows up. Job has been requesting an appointment with the Almighty for chapters and months, and now he's got it. And in chapters 38 and 39, God asked Job 40 rhetorical questions that begin with: Where were you when I laid the foundation of the earth? Displaying that Job doesn't know what's actually going on and that there's one who's wiser than him. It's God himself. And Job, after that first round, he's silent. And God says, I'm not done. And then for two more chapters, he talks about his power over the behemoth and the Leviathan, these beasts of the sea and the land that personify evil. And he's showing Job that I rule over evil. Everything forty-two, our text for this morning. Where we're going to watch now God bring resolutions to Job's life and his suffering. We're gonna see here there's there's three of them. First, we're gonna see that God refined Job's faith, which should be the longest of the point of all the points. God refined Job's faith in verses 1 through 6. And then we're going to see that God reconciled Job's friends. God reconciled Job's friends. That's in chapters 7 through 9. And then chapter 42, 10 through 17, we're going to see that God restored Job's fortunes. God restored Job's fortunes. So faith, friends, and fortunes. Look with me here at God refining Job's faith, beginning in verse 1. Then Job answered the Lord and said, I know that you can do all things, and that no purpose of yours can be thwarted. Then God says, Who is this that hides counsel without knowledge? Job says, Therefore I have uttered what I did not understand, things too wonderful for me, which I did not know. God says, Hear and I will speak, I will question you, and you make it known to me. Then Job, I have heard of you by the hearing of the ear, but now my eyes see you. Therefore, I despise myself and repent in dust and ashes. Job's faith, it began strong, and he worshiped God when all was well. And initially, he worshiped when everything was lost. But as the minutes turned into hours, and the hours turned into weeks, and the weeks turned into what chapter 7, verse 3 calls months of emptiness. Job's faith began to struggle. Now, I'm not implying that Job lost his faith. I actually think that his dark moments serve as a wonderful example of how to keep looking up when everything calls you to look away from God. I think he serves as a wonderful example for us in the midst of that. To look to God in our pain. But as Job looked to God, he saw nothing. And as he listened for God, he heard nothing. It strained his faith. He began to doubt things that he had never doubted before. He asked questions like: Has God made me his enemy? Has he forgotten me? Has he forsaken me? Has he left me out here to die all alone? I don't know about you, but I I think that suffering often tempts us to wonder if if God still loves us. This is why Hebrews 12, verse 5 says, My son, do not regard lightly the discipline of the Lord, nor be weary when reproved by him. For the Lord disciplines the one he loves. You see, God did indeed love Job. But he was using his pain and affliction to refine his faith. So, still under refining Job's faith, there's three ways I think that we see just in this text here that you refine Job's faith. The first is that he taught Job to believe that God can do all things. He taught Job to believe that he can do all things. Look again in verse 2. I know that you can do all things, and that no purpose of yours can be thwarted. You see, God was refining Job to trust and to rest in the fact that he is indeed the creator, but not only that. He's also the orchestrator of every event, that he's the sustainer of every heartbeat in the midst of our misery. And that no purposes, no purpose of his can be thwarted. The word thwart means to cut off or to restrain. Nobody can stop God from what he's doing in the midst of life and history, including in our sufferings. See what Job was learning was that he He didn't need to fear while he sat in the pit of despair because God's arm is not too short to reach us there. He was learning that that God could stop his suffering at any time that he wanted to. And that if he didn't stop his suffering, it's only because God had more good to give him from it. Romans 8. 28 tells us we know that God works all things for the good of those who love him and have been called according to his purpose. Job is learning to believe that God can use even evil, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, the death of children, the loss of his health, all things that he endured. That God can use those things to bring about good. That our afflictions are wisely prescribed by a great physician And this is not simply a matter of theology. This is a matter of of survival. Job needed to learn these lessons in the midst of his afflictions. Because if you don't know that God rules over your suffering every moment of it, you've got to ask another question. Then who's in charge of your suffering? If God's not the one who rules over every bit of it, then you've got to ask, well then who is? Am I in charge? Is the world in charge? Is Satan in charge? Charles Spurgeon, who is a well-known pastor from the 1800s in London, he said this. I mean he suffered much in his life, and he he said this in reflecting upon it. He said it would be a very sharp and trying experience to me. to think that I have an affliction which God never sent me, that the bitter cup was never filled by His hand, that my trials were never measured out by Him, nor sent to me by His arrangement of the weight. And quantity. One of the things the Bible is very clear about is that there is nothing, absolutely nothing. That comes into our lives that did not first pass through the hands of a good God. God never does evil. God did no evil to Job But as Job was learning here, that God can do all things, even use evil that's done to him, every bit of affliction for our good and for his glory. So I want to ask you, how are you tempted to doubt God's good sovereignty in your suffering? Are you tempted to doubt it? I know for me, very often, the sovereignty part is really easy. Yep, God's in charge. Praise him. Amen. We'll sing songs about that. We'll sing it as well at the end. I'm on board with that. But the part about him being good is the part that I find Satan most frequent attempt And maybe I know that he's good, certainly in in categories, but is he is he good to me? And does he love me There's something about suffering that causes us to wonder. Encourage you to talk about that question with others, maybe over lunch or something in the days ahead. Another way that Job's faith was refined, so we saw there that to believe that God can do all things, also to believe that God knows all things. God knows all things. Look at verse 3 there. Therefore I have uttered what I did not understand, things too wonderful for me which I did not know. That's a confession from Job. Now we just had a prayer of confession. The reason we do that in our services is because God teaches us to do that. This is what happens when we interact with the living God. We see that we were off. Job heard from God, and now he's coming to trust that God is wiser than he is. He's learning to rest in one of life's most basic truths, and that's that God knows what you don't know and he sees what you don't see. He sees the whole picture where we just get a little bit of it. He sees beginning to the end, and every teardrop in between. The things that are above our capacity to comprehend and out of our jurisdiction to judge. God just knows what we don't. I asked my daughter if I could share this example. A couple days ago we were at the house and we were about to go to my son's basketball game. And I told her, hey, listen, you're gonna stay here and you're gonna ride with your mama. Um and I'm gonna take I'm gonna take a couple of the other kids and we're gonna go. And she's like, no, I want to go with you. I was like, listen, I love that you want to go with me, but you're gonna stay here and you're gonna go with your mama. And she began to get really upset, like mad upset. She's like, No, I wanna go with you. And I was like, honey, I love you. You're gonna ride with your mama. See what she didn't understand is that mama and I had just been on the phone and she had just told me that she went to pick up a couple of my daughter's friends and was going to come to the house and surprise her by taking her with them to the game. See, I had good for her, and she thought I was against her. And the reason is simply because she didn't know the whole story And the longer I'm a parent, the more I'm like, yep, I don't know anything about life. God rules everything. I've got to trust him. He gives these living illustrations all the time that God knows what we don't know and sees what we don't see. We get to read a line at a time. He's writing the whole book. Isaiah 55, 9, my ways are higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts. I mean, even if God explained everything that he was doing to Job, Job couldn't have comprehended it. That's why God just asks him a ton of questions exposing his ignorance that you don't know, but you've got to trust me My wife's father, um, he was a difficult man to love Among many things, he he left their family when she was 11. Left left Carrie's mama and her brother to fend for themselves. And uh it was it was hard for Carrie to love him. But then God, um, through Carrie's witnessing with another uh another person taught taught her To love her father as a reflection of Christ's love. It was a hard lesson for her to learn, but one that when she got it, she said it changed everything. And she began to really love her father well. He was a very hard man. I mean, I could tell you stories about Mike, but um I remember watching my wife interact with her father and pray for him and try to speak truth and love. And how difficult it was. But in the midst of it, one of the things that my wife did for 20 years she loved him that way, believing that God was going to use her gospel-centered love to bring Mike to faith. But Mike died in 2013. And we don't know what happened in his last hours. He was he had clearly heard the gospel. He knew who to cry out to, but But there's no evidence of him repenting. And as you might imagine, it was terribly hard for my wife and utterly confusing, wondering, God, why Why would you make that change in my heart and put this hope in front of me and then it just didn't happen? She never got any emails from Jesus explaining. No angels showed up and said, Here's what was going on. But God gave her a passage of scripture. That has helped to quiet her soul. It's one we read earlier, Psalm 131, O Lord, my heart is not lifted up. My eyes are not raised too high. I do not occupy myself with things too marvelous for me, meaning things above my pay grade. But I have calmed and quieted my soul, like a weaned child with its mother. Like a weaned child is my soul within me. O Israel, hope in the Lord from this time forth and forevermore One of the things that God wants his people to know is that we don't have to wonder about things too wonderful for us. It doesn't mean that he doesn't understand the tears and the sorrow and the pain. That's why you have a whole book of the Bible of Psalms that are filled with examples of people crying out when they don't understand what in the world God's doing. One of the things God wants us to know in the Job is learning is that you can cry and you can rest in God's care So another good thing to maybe talk about with one another or just reflect before the Lord is how might God be calling you to trust his perfect knowledge today? What pains or questions must you cast your cares upon him, knowing that he knows what you don't know and sees what you don't see? Job was learning to believe that God knew all things and that he could rest in that. And the third way he was refining his faith is to believe that God is greater than all things. He's greater than all things. Look at verse five again. I had heard of you by the hearing of the ear, but now my eyes see you. Therefore I despise myself and repent in dust and ashes. In chapter 40, Job was sobered and silenced, but here he's got an even different posture. He is surrendered and submitted. God is growing him here past merely believing truths he'd heard about God, and now he's beholding truths that he'd never seen before. He said, I had heard of you. So before Job endured his inflictions, he knew truths about God. We don't know how he knew them, but he did. He says, Now, but now my eyes see you. The suffering had removed the spiritual cataracts from his eyes. And now he could see God, not just theological concepts, but he could see God himself in a way that he never could before. You see, God took everything from Job so that Job could see God more clearly. And how did seeing God affect Job? Well, verse 6, I despise myself and repent. You see, till till now Job had felt justified in his complaint. He thought he could, I mean when you read through it, it sounded like he thought he could run the universe better. But now Job sees God rightly as holy and wise, which makes him see himself rightly as sinful and foolish. Job had been put in his place, and God had taken his. I think one of the things that's important to notice about Job when you're studying it is that Job didn't suffer because he had sinned, but he did sin in the midst of his suffering. And he is learning that here. By seeing God, Job saw his sin. I mean, think about it, the day that he called down a curse. On the day of his birth, his complaints raised up against God, his desire to even die, his accusations against God, his boasting of his own righteousness. But now, how did God treat Job? Gave him grace. He gave him grace. God drew near to Job at his worst hour. Did you notice? Job had not even repented yet. But God came anyway. This is one of the ways that Job's story points us to the greater story of Jesus Because we are all naturally blind in our sin. We're all naturally rebellious, speaking words against God that aren't true, not trusting his ruling of the universe and in our lives But the Bible tells us, Romans 5. 8, that God demonstrates his own love for us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. And that by turning from our sin and trusting in him. It means we're born again, and God gives us new eyes to see him, and now he's transforming us day by day all the more to see him and know him and enjoy him. That's the hope of the believer: that we get more of God. The last thing we'll note on this is that God revealed himself to Job through suffering. And if God had not taken everything from Job, He never would have known God as deeply. So I want you to think about this. Would you be willing to lose everything if it meant you would get more of God? Would you be willing to for him to take everything if it means that you would see him more clearly? Lord, help us to trust you. God then moves on to Job's friends in verses seven through nine. God reconciled Job's friends. After the Lord had spoken these words to Job, the Lord said to Eliphaz the Temanite, My anger burns against you and against your two friends, for you have not spoken of me what is right, as my servant Job has. Now therefore take seven bulls and seven rams and go to my servant Job and offer up a burnt offering for yourselves, and my servant Job shall pray for you. For I will accept his prayer not to deal with you according to your folly. For you have not spoken of me what is right, as my servant Job has. So Eliphaz the Temanite and Bildad the Shuhite and Zophar the Namathite went and did what the Lord had told them, and the Lord accepted Job's prayer. So after God dealt graciously with Job, now he's going to deal graciously with Job's friends. The conversations between Job and his friends. They're difficult to sift through because there's truth and there's error, and sometimes it's hard to tell which one's which, but judgment is not difficult for the Lord. He sees everything perfectly. His friends said true things, but they also said a bunch of things that weren't true. And this is why God comes to Eliphaz, who's the oldest and the first to speak, and he calls him to account. Now, when God says that Job had spoken rightly, what he means is that he had referring to Job's confession and repentance back in chapter 42. That's what he's talking about there. God had forgiven Job. But Job's friends needed forgiveness as well. Because they had continually slandered God by saying that God brought wrath on Job for a secret sin in his life, which was not true. God did not afflict Job because he was unrighteous. It's actually the exact opposite. God chose Job to suffer because he was righteous. Now, I think it's an interesting thing to note that Job's friends certainly sinned against God, or against Job. They hurt him, they offended him, they slandered him. But their sin against Job was not as nearly as significant as their sin against God. Notice God doesn't even say, hey, y'all sinned against Job pretty bad. You hurt his feelings. He does not do that. He said, You sin against me. The important things for us to always learn to do is to see our sin vertically first. How is what I'm doing and my sin affecting God? And then go horizontally. And there's strong irony here. Eliphaz and his crew thought Job was in sin and being punished by God, but it's actually they who were guilty before God because of their sin. Those who'd stood in judgment over Job became the ones who are now in need of forgiveness from the God of Job. And God graciously warns them so they can repent and escape the judgment. God commands them to take seven bulls, seven rams, and bring them to Job and to offer up a burnt offering. And then to ask Job to pray for them. And they do, and God accepts Job's prayer on their behalf. Which again, we see here another picture of the greater story to which this points. Job acted as an intercessor. Job isn't their savior, but God tells Job's friends how they can be forgiven. They're to bring an offering of an innocent animal that must be killed in their place. Its flesh will be consumed like fire in front of them as a picture of what would have happened to them had they not had their sins forgiven. And received God's gracious pardon. You see, Job's friends received forgiveness of their sins. How? By grace, through faith, according to the promise of God. We see a really clear picture here that people in the Old Testament are saved in the exact same way people in the New Testament are. By grace, Through faith in God's gracious provision. It always works that way. And this scene foreshadows Jesus Just as Job's friends, who knew many truths about God, hurled insults at Job, so also Jesus had religious leaders hurl insults at him. Just as Job was accused of suffering because God's hand was against him, so did Jesus. The parallels are striking here. We have a broken, beaten man outside the city, weeping and bleeding. And it appeared that God was against him. But the reality is that neither Job nor Jesus were on that hill because of their sin, but actually because of their righteousness. And God said that Job, he said of Job that he was blameless and upright and feared God and turned away from evil. But Job and his sufferings were just the shadow of Christ. Jesus was truly righteous. He had no sin. He was truly innocent. And he died on a cross. On the top of a hill called Calvary, to receive the wrath of God, not for his sins, but for the sins of all those who have sinned against him. He became the burnt offering, the one that God was pleased to accept. And Jesus didn't just perform an offering for his friends like Job did. He was the offering The offering for his enemies. He died in their place. He took the wrath that they deserved. And then just as Job was raised up to come off the ash heap, To intercede for his friends? Jesus was raised from the dead. Exalt and now is exalted as the Lord, the Savior, and the High Priest, who right now, if you are in Christ, is interceding for you. The whole scene of Job acting as an intercessor foreshadows Christ, the greater intercessor. The one, the 1 Timothy 2, says that there is one mediator between God and man, the man, Christ Jesus. Jesus is the greater Job. He's the hope of both suffering and straying saints, like Job and his friends, and you and me. So if you're here today and you you know yourself to to not be a Christian, you're just kind of coming here checking out Christianity or you you're not sure about this whole Jesus thing, I think one of the things that's really important to notice here is that all of your dealings with people that are around you matter very much. But there is one s one primary relationship that is that is the most important one to understand that you've rebelled against a holy God. But that God in his mercy does not wait to you get everything together and then come and say, here's a reward for what you did. No, he gives we what gives us what we don't deserve, which is grace. Which brings us to our final our final scene here, that God restored Job's fortune. God restored Job's fortune. Beginning in verse 10. And the Lord restored the fortunes of Job when he had prayed for his friends, and the Lord gave Job twice as much as he had before. Then he came to him, then came to him all his brothers and sisters, and all who had known him before, and they ate bread with him in his house, and they showed him sympathy and comforted him for all that the evil the Lord had brought upon him And each of them gave him a piece of money and a ring of gold. And the Lord blessed the latter days of Job more than all his beginning. And he had 14,000 sheep and 6,000 camels and 1,000 yoke of oxen and 1,000 female donkeys. He also had seven sons and three daughters. And he list the name of the daughters here. Verse 15, and all the daughters, there were no women so beautiful as Job's daughters And their father gave them an inheritance against their brothers, and after this Job lived a hundred and forty years, and he haul he saw his sons, and his son's sons four generations And Job died, an old man full of days. The end of the story, there's resolution. A new day dawns for Job, sorrow fades, wounds begin to heal. God brings restoration for Job. And not just giving him what he had before, but giving him exceedingly abundantly more than what he had before. God turned the hearts of brothers and sisters and friends, which in chapter 19 were said to be estranged. Now they're sitting with him, showing sympathy to him, comforting him. They gave him gifts of money and gold. God multiplied his livestock. Twice more than what he had before. And he gave him ten more children. Three daughters with legendary beauty. Also, we're told that he lived to see his great-great-grandchildren. Can you imagine what time with Pop around the campfire was like? Tell us the story of when God put you in your place again. I mean, can you imagine the richness of the discipleship that Job could pour into the next generation because of what he suffered? Stories of sufferings and of the hand of a gracious God who brought him through it all. Which is what I believe eternity be filled with. One thing I think is important to note out and to note here though about the restoration is that whatever measure God restores someone in this life It doesn't mean that suffering's forgotten. There's still scars. There's still questions. There's still ten empty spots at the Thanksgiving table for Job and his wife. There's still sorrow. So I don't want you to be under the illusion that if you're if you're a Christian, you just gotta trust God and that however He heals you, that's fine, and you just gotta forget all of that. That's not that's not how it works. God will give help and he will give healing. One that foreshadows the ultimate restoration that is to come. I think it's important to notice here when these blessings happened for Job. They happened after Job cried out, Now my eyes see you. That's significant because Job was blessed after he repented. Job's devotion to God wasn't dependent upon God making everything better in his life. It's not like God blessed Job and then Job says, ah, you're pretty good after all. I'm just gonna go ahead and worship you now No. Just as in the beginning of the story, Job does not worship God because God gives him stuff, because God makes his life easy Job worships God because God gives himself to Job. That's Job's ultimate treasure. So yes, he got stuff restored to him, but he got more of God. When Job repented before God, he had no certainty that God would give him one cow or friend or child more than what he had while he was sitting on that ash heap out there. But if he has God, Job believed that he has enough. Which again, Job proves that Satan was wrong. Job didn't just worship God because God gives Job good stuff. Job worships God because he knows that God is worthy of worship. Another thing we need to notice here is why the blessings happen. These blessings weren't a reward for worship. God doesn't look at Job and say, wow, look at his faith, look at how righteous he is. God blesses Job after God rebukes him and exposes his sin. Again, this kind of blessing is grace. God's blessing of Job is rooted solely in God's grace toward Job. It's unmerited, it's unearned, it's undeserved blessing. Most of us are probably tempted to think, at least I wasn't studying through this, is that, now listen, if anybody's got some blessing coming, it's Job. I mean this guy kind of deserves it. But the fact is that Job doesn't deserve anything. And if you were to ask him that, he would fully agree. He's a sinner to whom God showed grace. Job knows that this, that he knows this, and that's why he repented. This brings us to the final thing to consider. What these blessings foreshadow. The story ends with Job finally dying. He's got a long life, but death seems like pretty normal at this point. All right. But this is the though it's the end of the story, it's not the end of the story. In many ways, Job's story foreshadows the grand story of what God is doing in history. The book of Job begins in a seemingly perfect world where Job knows nothing but the blessing of God. He and God were friends, but then something terrible happens. Satan the adversary comes with the with the permission of God and brings great pain into Job's world. There's death, there's mourning, there's crying, there's pain. Job is filled with despair. Even his best friends turn on him. And there he sits in a world of suffering, with confusion, with truth and lies swirling all around him, just like the world we're in right now. And it drags on and on and on until finally God intervenes. And God speaks truth into Job's suffering and he brings him to repentance. And then after restoration Job helps other people to repent so they can know God rightly as well. God speaks truth into Job's suffering, and he brings him to repentance. And Job knew God. Saw him. This is the story of the Bible We began in a garden and sin ravished everything. And ever since we've been left in a world filled with all of the sufferings that we could go around here and fill books with that you and I have gone through in this life What the story of Job is intended to do is to point us to a Savior who entered into our suffering, who took the judgment that we deserve, and then rose from the dead. and ascends and promises that he is gonna return t soon to take us to a land where suffering shall be no more. And God will restore everything out of his own fullness that he has taken away. Just as we sang a few moments ago. As we close, I want us to consider this scene from the end of the book. Revelation 21. Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth. The first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and I saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man, and he will dwell with them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God. and he will wipe away every tear from their eyes. And death shall be no more. Neither shall there be mourning, nor crying, nor pain any more, for the former things have passed away And he who is seated on the throne said, Behold, I am making all things new. Write this down, for these words are trustworthy and true. We've seen it in Job's life, and one day we will see it when we stand with the Lord Jesus. Christ will show our sufferings and how they all pointed to his perfect purpose. On that last day, God will never, never be accused of anything but being faithful. Let's pray Father in heaven, we pray that you would give us grace and strength to trust the God of Job. Now we thank you for his story and his sufferings and the way that you have preserved them for us to read and relate to. God, we pray that today you would help us wherever we are in the midst of our sorrows and afflictions, to look to you and to trust you. And God, we know that most of us will never have a personal encounter with you in which you speak to us in this life. God, we welcome it and pray you'd give it. But Lord, if not, would you help us to take the word that you have spoken this morning through Job and the other scriptures, and might you help it to still our soul that we may say it is well? As we await the day when you make all things right. Come soon, Lord Jesus, in his name. Amen.