Good morning, Saints. It's uh good to see you face to face, even with masks on. I enjoyed seeing you on Zoom, but I think this is a little better, right? Um thank you, Luke, for shepherding us through recollecting, remembering Tom and the and the and the good we all knew through him. Uh I had a former pastor, some of you know him, he talked about enjoying as a pastor funerals more than weddings. And I remember the first time I heard him say that. I was like, what kind of fatalist attitude is that? And he made the point that one of your goals as a pastor is to see people safely home. And the thing is, I think we all here know as Luke led us to reflect on so well, our brother's safely home. And at this point, as Luke said, he's standing before God. And that's right where I want to begin. I want to begin with this question of what will we behold when we stand before God? What will be that like? What will that be like? Or more to the point, what is God like? What do you think God is like I remember watching a movie a number of years back about Superman. It was one of the ones that came out in the late 90s. And I remember watching that and thinking to myself, this is a little embarrassing to admit, I hope God is like Superman. You know, really nice. He's always anxious to save if he can get there on time. He's a gentleman. He doesn't impose himself on people's wills. He's all about truth and justice and does that movie put it all that stuff? What do you think? What is God like? Is he like Superman? Or maybe you wonder if he's like Morgan Freeman. I watched another movie a number of years ago in which God was played by Morgan Freeman. You know an older kind gentleman he's got a grandfatherly chuckle, likes to play a practical joke or two. Is that what you think God is like? What is God like? Well, I think I can say theologically, something that I know about all of our hearts from Scripture is that all of us, in one way or another, hope that God is like Us. At least that's what Satan in the garden tempted us to believe when he talked to Eve about knowing that she can be like God. Meaning he is like us. I mean we know that God is better. We know that he knows more. We know he's a little bit more moral than us, but at the same time we all kind of hope, expect that when we get to the end and we stand before God He's gonna kind of think like we do. Right and wrong like we do. He'll view sex and politics kind of like we do. Pill regard an evening worth spent, a life worth living kind of like we do Over and over again, we do things trusting, assuming that God is like us. And He'll say, Yeah, yeah, yeah, I I understand that That makes sense why you made that decision. It makes sense why you pursued that with your life, and therefore we basically assume that is God is like us. But here's the question that we need to start with. Is God really like you or me? Or is it that he is unimaginably better? Unimanageably wonderfully holy Well, that's the picture that our text for this morning challenges us, which with which Luke alluded to. The chapter is set, the year that King Uzziah dies Turn to Isaiah 6. That's what we'll be looking at. Isaiah 6. And Isaiah had been a comparatively good king. But his final years were marked by the consequences of his pride. The people, too, they professed religion with their lips, yet their hearts were increasingly far from God and were proud. So God at this moment in Israel's history decides to make an appearance. He decides to show up. Isaiah 6, chapter 1. I'll read. In the year that King Uzziah died, I saw the Lord seated on a throne, high and exalted, and the train of his robe filled the temple Above him were seraphs, each with six wings. With two wings they covered their faces, with two they covered their feet, and with Two, they were flying, and they were calling to one another, holy, holy, holy is the Lord Almighty. The whole earth is full of his glory At the sound of their voices the doorposts and thresholds shook, and the temple was filled with smoke. Woe to me, I cried. I'm ruined. For I'm a man of unclean lips, and I live among a people of unclean lips, and my eyes have seen the King, the Lord Almighty. Then one of the seras flew to me with a live coal in his hand, which he had taken with tongs from the altar. With it he touched my mouth and said, See, this has touched your lips. Your guilt is taken away and your sin atoned for. I want to make three very simple points from the text this morning. The first point is God is holy. God is holy. Now the text reveals a number of things to us. Not just that God is holy. For instance, first, it reveals that he is living. Uzziah may be dead, but God is not. And how many kings and princes and presidents and prime ministers have come and gone since the time of Uzziah? And yet the Lord is still seated on his throne. And in a billion billion years, the Lord will still be seated on his throne. So he reveals this morning that he's living. He reveals that he sovereignly rules. Notice as I said, he is seated on his throne. He is king There's no one who is a threat to him. And how many election cycles and news cycles have come and gone since the days of King Uzziah? How many days and seasons have come and gone in your life and mine, and yet God is still seated on his throne, and he will remain there. This text reveals that he is living, that he sovereignly rules, that he is majestic. The text tells us that he is high and lifted up. He is exalted. It says the train of his robe fills the temple, this picture of grandeur and majesty. He is not our equal. We can't casually walk up to him, slap him a high five. He is not like that. He is above us in every way. He's sovereign. He's alive. He's majestic. He is a fourth thing it reveals to us about God this morning. He is revered and worthy of reverence. The word in your text there for the serif says the seraphs that they're flying. The word there for seraphs translated literally literally means Fiery ones. If you're looking at your Hebrew Bible just says fiery ones. These mighty creatures of fire. Forever before the Lord Almighty. What kind of and yet they have wings covering their eyes What kind of resplendence must it be that fire has to cover its eyes? It's too bright for me. I'm fire. I can't look at that What kind of being is that that they behold? Day after day, night after night, forever and ever. I wonder if that sounds boring to us. I can't imagine sitting there forever, constant worship service, beholding God. I trust you know what it is to lose yourself and beholding a maybe a beautiful mountainscape. You just sit there and you look and you You think, oh, that's beautiful. I don't want to go home. I want to keep looking at this. Or looking at a at a beautiful family or looking at a beautiful person. And you lose yourself in the looking and you say, This is truly beautiful. Could it be That there is a being in this universe, above the universe, beyond the universe, a being, a supernatural being, so great, so beautiful, so glorious, that you would never tire of beholding him. You behold him and you would think, creative for this. This is what I'm for. This is the completion of me, is beholding and praising him. Could there be a being who is that great and mighty? Isn't that what Isaiah is looking at? Is that who Tom is looking at? So God reveals all of these things about himself in this chapter. But the principal thing that he reveals about himself is that he is holy. Uh the structure of verses 1 to 5 put verse 3 right in the middle, and in in Hebrew poetry the climax is always in the middle, kind of goes up and You know, crescendo and then and then down the hill from it. Right there in verse 3 is is the the grand moment of revelation, the main thing Isaiah God wants us to see. What is it? That God is holy. That's it, right? And in Hebrew poetry, often you would say things twice to give it emphasis. You would say something like pit, pit, to say that's a really deep pit, or you would say that's gold, gold, in order to say that's really pure gold. Well here we have the Hebrew writer pulling out all the stops and saying it three times. Holy, holy, holy. It's it's almost triangular. Trinitarian. Like, no matter where you stand, What do you see? You see the holiness of God. God's goodness is holy. God's mercy is holy. God's love is holy. His justice and judgment are holy His character and being are holy. His holiness characterizes everything about God. God never has an unholy thought. He never loves in an unholy way. He never completes an unholy task or has an unholy ambition. He never makes an unholy joke. Even though I trust the creator of laughter laughs. His interactions within the three persons of the Trinity are Holy. His interactions with human beings are holy. His interactions with the devil are holy. His plans for the rise and fall of nations are holy, his law is holy, his determination of salvation and damnation is holy It's no good for us to say we love God and not love His holiness. Because to speak about God's holiness is to speak in some sense about the very Godness of God. Whatever it is that makes divinity divine You might as well say, hey, I love dogs, but I don't really love furry creatures with four legs and waggy tails that slobber a lot, but I like dogs So you're missing the very essence of what a dog is. All of that. That's what a dog is. The holiness of God is of the very essence of God. So when I speak of the holiness of God, friends, is that at the very center Of your affections for God. Something to ask yourself. When I speak about the holiness of God, is that at the very center of your affections for God Still, okay, what exactly is the holiness of God? Well, sometimes we define holiness as indicating the fact that God is set apart from His Sin, but being set apart is only the first half. If he's set apart from sin, what is he set apart to? Answer his own glory. Look at verse 3. Holy, holy, holy is the Lord Almighty. The whole earth is full of his glory. The whole earth. The depth and power of sun-crested ocean waves display his glory. The height and weight of rock built mountains display his glory The complexity of animal life, the intricacy of atomic life, or just the diversities of colors Show his glory. His glory is evident in every man and woman's individual life story. It's evident in the prospering and the collapsing of economies, the rise and the fall of nations. His glory Resounds in the determination of salvation and damnation. God is holy. In that he is utterly dedicated to the proclamation and pleasure of his own glory in everything. The whole earth is full of his glory. Again, let me ask. When I speak about the holiness of God, is that at the center of your affections for God? The problem, of course, is that we want God to be, what did I say before, like us. Consecrated to our glory. I mean if you want to add a little bit of superpower to God, make him a really nice guy so that he gets there on time like Superman, that's fine but basically we want him to think that we are at the center of the universe that whatever is going on right now In this bedroom, at this dinner table, in this office, in this classroom, in the service, it's kind of about us. And so we're thinking about us. Uh movie actor Brad Pitt explaining why he abandoned the Christianity of his youth spoke for many of us, I think, when he said I didn't understand this idea of a God who says, you have to acknowledge me. You have to say that I'm the best. And then I'll give you eternal happiness. If you don't, then you won't. It seemed to be all about ego. I can't see God operating from ego, and it made no sense to me. I think honestly that Pitt's words resonate with us. Why do we have to say that he's the best? What's that all about? Well, the problem with Pitt's idea here is that he places God in humanity in equivalent moral positions as if we both deserve the same things. By that assumption. Now, those of you this morning who are here as Christians, you understand that being a Christian means that you have realized that you are a creature and that God is a creator. with no sin. And you understand that you do have sin. You understand that you are worthy of, you are entitled to Nothing, finally, because everything you have comes from him. What do you have that you did not receive? Did you bring any glory into this relationship between you and him? What does you show up with that God didn't give to you? Dirt, ground, let me take some dirt, let me make it into a person. The dirt starts screaming, I deserve. So you dirt. What are you talking about? What'd you give to this relationship? And friends, if you're here this morning as a Christian, you understand, you remember That our salvation depends not on what we do, but on what Christ has done so that Christ gets the glory. Or as A. W. Tozer put it, who sounds very different than Brad Pitt, and very much like a Christian, when he writes in his book on God's holiness, he says, I tell you this. I want God to be what God is. The impeccably holy, unapproachable, holy thing. The all-holy one. I want him to be and remain all caps the holy. I want his heaven to be holy and his throne to be holy. I don't want him to change or modify his requirements. Even if it shuts me out, I want something holy left in the universe Or as Phil Riken has written, a love for God's holiness is one of the best indicators of true Christianity. If we love God for his holiness, it shows that we love him for who he is in himself rather than what he does for us. So again, friends, I ask, what do you think when I speak about the holiness of God and the glory of God? Is it at the center of your affections for God? Let's confess together in our fallen natural selves know We despise it. If as I've been talking, you've been thinking to yourself, that's nuts Love is holiness and glory most? No way. Well, friend, that's your natural fallen self-speaking You want your glory, not his. That's all of us. You, me, everybody here, in our natural fallen selves. And that brings us to our second point this morning. Point one, God is holy. Point two, we are not. Look at verses four and five. At the sound of their voices, the doorposts and threshold shook, and the temple was filled with smoke. Woe to me! I cried. I am ruined. From a man of unclean lips, and I live among a people of unclean lips, and my people have seen the King, the Lord Almighty. Why why unclean lips? Well, m perhaps because these people don't praise God with their lips as as the fiery ones. do, perhaps because the lips reveal the heart, and the heart is corrupt, as Jesus talked about eventually. Or perhaps because as Isaiah would put it in a later chapter, chapter 29, these people honor me with their lips, but their hearts are far from me. Hypocritical lips. Isaiah is talking to a religious people. Like a church. The point is Isaiah knows himself to be guilty, and he knows he's in a nation that's guilty before this holy God. The experience of standing before God and beholding him in all of his holiness leads to the feeling of being morally undone, as the King James Version puts it. It leads to feeling taken apart. dismantled, melted. The promise that one day, friends, each one of us, you and I, will stand before this holy God and give an account of every thought, word, and deed. Should do that to us. Think about it. All of our invisible thoughts come visible. All the things that we do in the dark will be brought into the light. Silent lusts played over loudspeakers What we really worship will be made known, whether it's a job or a relationship or a pleasure. The fact that we serve others at church to make much of us will be placed on the table for everybody to see. It will be shown where we find our true rest. What is it we look to to kind of calm down, feeling anxious? I need to feel better. I seek refuge in this. What is that? Well, that will be made known. Our dislikes and hatreds will be made public. What we really thought of this person, what we thought of that person, our fantasies. The fudging on the tax forms, the lies, the exaggerations, the dissatisfaction with what God is giving you when behold that person's house, that person's car. The embarrassment we felt when we identified with Jesus. People made fun of us. All that in the throne room made evident The desire for our own glory, made evident. All this will be made plain when we stand before the one who is holy, holy, holy. Would we, would Brad Pitt, be so self-assured if we were standing in the throne room with God with Isaiah? Consider Isaiah's response. Woe is me. It's like for the first time in his life, Isaiah saw himself For what he truly is. His eyes, for the first time in his life, were utterly open to the utter contradiction of a creature thinking he can stand in for his Creator, the folly of dirt saying, I deserve glory here. All of that suddenly evident Isaiah. And the only proper response is whoa. Lost. Undone When I was in seminary, I remember having the thought one day I was on a long walk. What if I got to the end of my life and learned that The whole time I wasn't actually a Christian. I was kind of a false professor. I was a nominal Christian. And God says to you, Jonathan, you never knew me. And eternal judgment awaited me. What what would I think if that was the case? And I remember reflecting on that for a second, but I didn't need to reflect long because immediately I knew the answer in my heart. I'd be mad. What do you mean? I forsook I quit my job. I I went to seminary. I I wanted to be a pastor. I do these quiet times. I outline the Bible. I pray. I go for these long prayer walks like I'm on right now. What do you mean you're gonna send me there? By God's grace, almost as quickly as I thought that a follow-up thought came. Jonathan, who do you think this is all about Who do you think this is all for? What do you have that you did not receive? What claims can you make against the Almighty? Who are you? What where's this entitlement coming from? Are you really bringing something to this relationship with me? Jonathan? It's difficult to do. But we need to stop and ask ourselves, whose glory have we been pursuing? Why do we work hard all day? Why do we work into the evening? What are we aiming at in this marriage or this parenting or these friendships or these financial decisions? Whose glory are we seeking, strategizing to maximize. In the midst of personal trials or family trials or work trials, what what's your primary concern? What are you desperate to hold on to? I can't lose this Is it your testimony to the glory of God, or is it something else? And I think with a little bit of honesty we can all admit, yeah. My glory, my life, my preservation, not his. We've not been holy But if God is utterly dedicated to the furthering of His glory, and we are utterly dedicated to the furthering of our glory, what's going to happen Only one of these can survive. Which is it gonna be? Friend, you and I cannot survive Or again, did you think the universe was about you or me? Think about it this way. If there's anything in your life, any desire, any habit, any practice that is not devoted to God and his glory, it will, friend, not endure. So so the question is, if if this desire, habit, ambition Goal, whatever, if you know, sitting here right now, you're like, I know that's not going to endure. And God's glory will endure. Why is it That we hold on to this, kind of coddle it. When that could lead to our damnation To enter the throne room of God, like Isaiah, like all of us will do one day, is to behold a king and his righteous and his fiery splendor. It is to be undone. This is God. God is not Superman. God is not Morgan Freeman. He is altogether more terrifying. Beautiful, mighty. He is the one before whom we will fall on our faces. Gratefully, that's not the end of the chapter. Point one, God is holy. Point two, we are not. Point three, Christ will forgive Christ will forgive. And notice what happens in verses 6 and 7. An angel takes a coal from the altar, and the the altar where sacrifices are offered for sin, and he applies this sacrifice represented by the coal, which is still burning, to the sinner's lips, to the place where he confessed sin. And then we're told in verse 7, your guilt is taken away and your sin atoned for. Because God is holy, the violation of his law must be paid for. He cannot simply sweep it under the rug, say, ah, don't worry about it, no big deal. No, our sin must be punished. Which means either we have to be punished or a sacrificial substitute has to be punished in our place. Well, where will we find this sacrificial substitute? Please, if you could Turn to Isaiah 53, verse 3. Isaiah 53, verse 3. We're going to look at this at a couple of places in it, so keep your finger in there. Isaiah 53, verse 3. He was despised and rejected by men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief And as one from whom men hide their faces, he was despised, and we esteemed him not. Look at verse 5. But he was pierced for our transgressions He was crushed for our iniquities. The punishment that brought us peace was upon him, and by his wounds we are healed. We all like sheep have gone astray, each of us has turned to his own way, and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. Okay, again, keep your finger here. Who is this substitute? Well the New Testament is going to tell us very clearly, quoting this numerous times, that this. This substitute, this sacrificial substitute is none other than Jesus Christ. He is the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. And friend, if you are here this morning and you are not a follower of Jesus Christ, know that these sins of mine, yours and mine, will be made plain. And on that day, because God is good, he must punish those sins. And so either you will endure, I will endure that punishment, or This sacrificial substitute will take on that punishment And so, friend, the the most important thing, if you were visiting again today and you don't understand yourself to be a Christian, the most important thing for you to hear today is turn from your sin and turn in trust to this Christ. He he died for our sins and he rose again from the root from the dead, defeating the power of sin and death, indicating that the penalty was paid. The debt is cleared. So that if you hold on to him and say, Yes, he is my savior and Lord, and you follow him, you will be saved If you have more questions about that, please talk to me or one of the Christians you see sitting around here. Here's something else amazing. I want you to get this. Okay, you're keeping your finger in Isaiah 53, and you're also turning in your Bible. If you're on a device, you can't do that, but go with it. John chapter 12 John chapter 12 verse 37. Well it tells us the people around Jesus don't believe him and the word that he spoke so that the word of Isaiah might be fulfilled. And then The first quote, if you're looking at John chapter 12, verse 37 and following, you'll see a first quote, and it's from Isaiah 53, right here But then it sticks in a second quote. And that second quote in John 12 is from our chapter, Isaiah 6. John puts Isaiah 6 and Isaiah 53 right here together. And then notice what John says in verse 41 of John chapter 12. Isaiah said this because he saw Jesus' glory. And spoke about him. Whose glory did Isaiah see? John says, Jesus glory. Wait a second. We know that Jesus is the suffering servant from chapter 53, but not only that, John tells us, Jesus is the one in chapter 6. Isaiah saw his glory and spoke about him, says the apostle Holy Spirit revealed John Jesus is the one who is high and lifted up. It's Jesus robe that fills the temple It's Jesus before whom the fiery ones, two covering their eyes, two covering their feet, two flying, forever and ever Say holy, holy, holy is the Lord Almighty. Who are they talking to? They're talking about and to Jesus The whole earth is filled with his glory. Sure enough, look back at Isaiah 53, but turn one page before if you have a Bible Look at verse 13 of Isaiah 52. It says, See, my servant will act wisely. He will be raised and lifted up and highly exalted. Isaiah 52. Just like verse 1 of our chapter, where the Lord is high and exalted. But who is the one who is raised high and lifted up in Isaiah 52? To suffering servant. Think about what this means. Isaiah beholds Jesus in his righteous and fiery splendor high and lifted up on a throne. And then it's as if he gets off his throne and he climbs up onto the altar. For he is burned and turned into a live coal. And that coal is taken and placed on the lips of the sinner In Isaiah six, he is so glorious that fire cannot behold him to cover their eyes Then, in Isaiah 53, verse 3, we just read, says, like one from whom people hide their faces, why do they hide their faces? Because he's so beaten up and bruised and despicable and despised. I can't look at him because he's so beautiful. I can't look at him because he is so marred and destroyed. And he did this for hypocritical sinners with false slips like me and you. That's who he got off this throne and stepped onto this throne for. People like us. Christian friend, do you ever struggle taking the gospel for granted? Well, recognize for a moment who it is who died for you. The one Who is living the year King Uzziah died, he is the one who died for you, my Christian friend. The one who is seated high and lifted up and rules over the nations, this is the one who died for you. The one whose train of his robe fills the temple, this is the one who died for you. The one who fiery creatures from all eternity. Hide their eyes and worship. This is the one who died for you. This is the one who was pierced for your transgressions crushed for your even today your iniquities of today your iniquities of this morning your iniquities of last week this is the one who climbed off this throne got onto this throne this is the one Who loves you, died for you? Do we take for the granite gospel for granted? Again, just stop and reflect. Who was it who died for you? Isaiah 6 reveals them Look at verse 8 of Isaiah 6. What's the only response? Here I am, send me. I want to tell others about God. This is good news. I want people to hear it. Friends, God is not like you. He's not like me. He's not like Superman. He's not like Morgan Freeman. He is mightier. Fiercer, more majestic, he is holy, holy, holy Let's pray. Father God, we know that we do not see you as you are. We take you for granted. Forgive us, Lord. Our eyes are closed. Thank you for opening our eyes through Isaiah 6. Help us by your spirit to see you as you are. And then we look, and who do we see? We see Jesus Christ. The one who lived the life that we should have lived but didn't, the one who died the death that we should have died, but we can now live through him. Help us to follow today in Christ's name. Amen.