Well, this morning we continue in our study of the Gospel of Mark. And so if you have your Bibles with you, please open with me to Mark chapter 2 If you're using one of the Black Pew Bibles around you, you'll find Mark 2 on page 837. And what I want to do real quick with the few minutes before we get into our passage is just to show you Kind of the way that Mark is laid out. We've talked a lot, especially in my intro comments, when we talk about how the Gospel of Mark is all about teaching who Jesus is. I want to show you where we actually see that in the text and why we actually look at the Gospel of Mark as one of the premier places that you can turn to see who Jesus is, who he taught, what he taught about himself. So if you have your Bible open, I want you to turn me right to the beginning of Mark chapter 1. Mark chapter 1, verse 1. The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ. the son of God. So Mark front loads this gospel by telling us that this gospel is about Jesus, the Son of God. And then between chapter 1 and chapter 8, Jesus goes about Galilee and Capernaum doing works to confirm that he is the Son of God. And then turn with me to chapter 8 of Mark. Turn to chapter 8. All of the first half of the Gospel of Mark is building up to chapter 8, halfway through the Gospel of Mark, right in the middle. Verse 27, Jesus went on with his disciples to the villages of Caesarea Philippi, and on the way he asked his disciples, Who do people say that I am? And they told him. John the Baptist, and others say Elijah, and others say you're one of the prophets. And he asked him, but who do you, my disciples, who do you say that I am? And Peter answered him. You are the Christ. So Peter confesses Jesus as the Son of God halfway through the Gospel of Mark. And now turn with me to Mark chapter 15. You're going to find that in the second in the first half and in the second half, the disciples who confess him as the Christ continue making mistakes identifying him. They're like kind of bumbling along, trying to figure out who Jesus is. They confess him and then they show that they really have no idea who he is. But Peter confesses him But the true work of Christ that truly reveals who Jesus Christ is is upon the cross. It's on the cross that we find that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. So look at me, chapter 15. Verse 39. And when the centurion, the Roman soldier, who stood facing him, saw that in this way he breathed his last, he said, Truly, this man was the Son of God. So you see how at the beginning of the Gospel of Mark, and in the middle of the Gospel of Mark, and at the very end of the Gospel of Mark. Mark wants you to see that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. You're supposed to walk away from this gospel saying, truly, This man is the son of God. So we can turn back to chapter 2 now. Just wanted to give you a little bit of the lay of the land of where we're headed in the Gospel of Mark. If you're not familiar with reading the Bible, chapter 2 is that big bold number, and then the smaller numbers after it are the verse numbers. We're going to be in chapter 2, verses 1 to 12. And it's been about a month and a half since we were last in the Gospel of Mark, so we want to do just a brief recap of what we've seen. So back in chapter 1, we saw that the Gospel begins with the proclamation that Jesus is the Son of God. And then we saw that confirmed at his baptism when he came up out of the waters, the heavens parted. And the Father spoke from heaven. This is my beloved Son, and the Spirit descended on him. And after that he began his ministry. And he immediately began doing works that confirmed that he was the Son of God, right? So he taught with authority, and people recognized his authority as a teacher Then he healed diseases, cast out demons, and cleansed a leper. And we remember that in our last sermon, because of his popularity after cleansing the leper, he was driven out into the wilderness. because people were flocking to him and he was trying to get away from them. That's interesting, isn't it? Jesus doesn't care about popularity. And then he comes back from the wilderness, and this is where our chapter picks up. So I'm going to go ahead and read our passage for us now. This is God's word. And when he re when he returned to Capernaum after some days, it was reported that he was at home, and many were gathered together, so that there was no more room, not even at the door. And he was preaching the word to them. And they came, bringing to him a paralytic carried by four men. And when they could not get near him because of the crowd, they removed the roof above him. And when they had made an opening, they let down the bed on which the paralytic lay. And when Jesus saw their faith, he said to the paralytic, Son, your sins are forgiven. Now some of the scribes were sitting there questioning in their hearts, why does this man speak like that? He is blaspheming. Who can forgive sins but God alone? And immediately Jesus, perceiving in his spirit that they thus questioned within themselves, said to them, Why do you question these things in your hearts? Which is easier? To say to the paralytic, your sins are forgiven? Or to say, rise, take up your bed and walk? But that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins, he said to the paralytic, I say to you, rise, pick up your bed, and go home. And he rose and immediately picked up his bed and went out before them all, so that they were all amazed and glorified God, saying, We never saw anything like this. The main point of our passage this morning is crystal clear. It's not often that the writers of the gospel hand you the meaning of a passage on a silver platter, but we cannot miss it. The meaning of our passage this morning is that Jesus has the authority to forgive sins. And that's the first thing that we're going to look at this morning: that Jesus has the authority to forgive sins. And then what we're going to do is we're going to look at three different responses to his authority that are present in this passage. and see what we can learn from them this morning. So first, we see that Jesus has the authority to forgive sins Alright, so look at me in verse 1. We see that Jesus returns to his adopted home of Capernaum. You'll recall that at the end of chapter 1, went out into the wilderness. Now he's back. But we also notice that his time in the wilderness did nothing to dampen his popularity, did it, right? As soon as he's spotted, a report goes out throughout Capernaum, and a crowd gathers at the home that he's staying in. Now the text doesn't tell us whose home this is, but if we think back to chapter 1, there is one home that Jesus has been to in Capernaum already. And that's Simon Peter's home. You'll remember that he healed Simon Peter's mother-in-law. And that's, I'm assuming that's what the home is, but not confidently. I'm just assuming that's the case. And the crowd has gathered to hear him preach the word. The word is the message that the kingdom of God had come in the presence and life. And so remember back in chapter one, Jesus comes to Galilee and he comes proclaiming a message of what? Of repentance Repent, for the kingdom of God is near. So I'm assuming what he's doing in preaching the word to them is he's opening up the Old Testament, the scriptures of the Jews, and showing them how they promised that a Messiah would come to bring forgiveness of sins. and reconciliation between God and man and healing to the world. And when he's preaching the word to them, he's telling them, I am the one who has come to do this. Then in verses 3 to 5, we're introduced to some guys who've clearly heard about his miraculous healings. Right? So four men are bringing their paralyzed friend to Jesus to be healed. But you notice that when they get to the house, the crowd is blocking the way to Jesus. And so these four men and the paralyzed friend do what any sane person would do. They climb on the roof and tear the roof down. Right? I mean this is not a normal decision. Right? Even though the text doesn't give us many details about what this was like, you cannot help but imagine. Right, so homes at Comperdium were probably about the size of a normal kind of average size American living room. That's about what the size of a home in Capernaum was. They were probably about five yards by five yards. They were built of stone. And then there were cross beams laid across the stone structure with a thatch-like material on top. And then on top of that thatch they would pour this type of mud that would then solidify and dry and harden it. And then you would go up there with a heavy roller and they would roll out the mud to flatten it. compress it and pack it down. And people in Palestine and Capernaum in those days would use their roofs for sleeping. for eating, for fellowship. Remember you even find Peter in the book of Acts. He's up on the roof praying when he has a vision. Right? So you could stand and sit and hold a number of people on top of these roofs. These were not a flimsy thing that were easy to tear apart. So just imagine this scene with me. Imagine Jesus is in there preaching to a packed house, sardines. They're all in there packed in like sardines. There's a crowd outside the door, and then all of a sudden, this shaking from above. And right, what's gonna happen? Particles of dust are gonna start falling, mud's gonna start falling through the cracks, maybe the thatch is gonna start breaking apart. And what's Jesus, what are Jesus and the people gonna do? They're gonna stop. Now Jesus knows what's going on. We don't have any we don't have to worry about that. But the people just what is happening about us? There's a rustling and a shaking and then all of a sudden This hole starts forming and the hole gets bigger and bigger and bigger, and then lo and behold, four men look down Hey, don't mind us, carry on, right? Everyone inside's like, what are you guys doing up there? And then they break apart the hole so that it's big enough so that they can lower their friend down on a mat Whether they load him upright or laid out, I don't know, but it would have been shocking no matter what. And here's what I want to point out to you, and especially to you kids It's so easy to read the Bible and forget how so many people went to amazing lengths to pursue Jesus. The guy was amazing. He was impressive. The Bible tells us he was not impressive in stature, but his teaching and the things that he did amazed people, and people went to extreme lengths. To pursue him. This passage is a great reminder of just how far people would go to pursue Jesus Christ. So as you open up your Bible, my adult friend, don't forget that. Jesus Christ is amazing. And so this man is lowered into the room, and Jesus says to him, son, your sins are forgiven. And we notice this declaration of forgiveness gets the attention of these scribes who are present. So who are scribes? Anyone know? Any of the kids? Can any of you tell me who scribes were? Excellent. They were religious authorities. So they were responsible for writing down and copying The holy teachings of the Old Testament, of the Torah, the Pentateuch, God's law, all the prophets, and they were not only responsible for writing it down, but for teaching it to others. And so they know that claiming to be able to forgive sin was something that only God could do. And so they respond with internal outrage at his audacity to clare this man forgiven. But we know from the text that Jesus knows what they're thinking. And so he calls them out on it. And then he poses them with a question. And this question helps us to get right to the heart of this passage. Look at verse 9. Jesus asked them, which is easier to say to the paralytic, your sins are forgiven, or to say, rise, take up your bed, and walk. So essentially, what Jesus is asking me is he's saying, this is what he's saying here. Which is easier? For me to simply pronounce that the man has been forgiven of his sins and you guys have no access to what to know whether that's true or not? Or is it easier for me to heal this man of his paralysis? And then you'll know if I have the power to heal or not. So clearly he's saying that Ultimately, we know that it's harder for God to forgive sin, if you think in terms of God, anything being hard for God. Jesus isn't comparing the two. What he's trying to say is It would be much easier for me to just say your sins are forgiven and you guys have no clue whether I'm telling the truth or not than it would be for me to tell this paralyzed man to get up, because then I'd have to prove my authority. But so that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins, I say to you, paralyzed man, rise, take up your mat, and go home Right? Because that's what he's wanting to do. He's proving that he does in fact have the authority to forgive sin. So you would you got to assume that at this moment you could hear a pin drop in the home. Right, a paralyzed man has just been lowered into the room from a hole torn in the roof. Jesus has confronted the religious authorities who didn't say anything to him. He just calls them out. Hey, why do you think these things in your hearts? Again, the people are like, they didn't say anything. Right? And so then he he poses them with a question, challenging them. To see who has greater authority. We already learned in chapter 1 that he has greater authority than the scribes to teach. Now he's going to prove that his authority is greater than them again. And you see that he tells this man to get up and walk. And he does. You can picture people standing there in stunned silence, right? The the man gets up and walks out of the house and you just picture the people partying. What is what is happening, right? And he walks out of the house in stun silence and then Whoa! We've never seen anything like this. Right, by healing the paralyzed man, Jesus shows that he not only has the authority to heal He has the authority to forgive sins. He has the authority to forgive sins Now, if you're here and you don't follow Jesus, I am very glad that you're here. There's nowhere else that I'd want you to be. You're always welcome to come. I want to underscore to you the importance of understanding sin. Without understanding the concept of sin, you will never fully grasp who Jesus is and what he came to do. So what is sin? Sin is the breaking of God's law. It is the rejection of his rule. It is rebellion against his cosmic reign. J. C. Ryle, who was an Anglican bishop from England in the early 20th century or late 19th century, said sin is a vast moral disease. that affects the whole human race of every rank and class and nation and people and tongue. Sin has tainted our very being. Every aspect of it. We are radically corrupt. There is no part of our life our thinking, our relationships, nothing that isn't tainted by sin. Now I don't mean to say that we can't do good things, right? We do many amazing things. Things. Humans are responsible for amazing works in the arts, in architecture, in music, in all manner of things But the fact remains that because of sin, all of us are spiritually dead before God. Sin brings death. The wages of sin is death. Romans 6 23 Sin separates us from God. Your sins have made a separation between you and your God. Isaiah 59, 2. And sin brings us under God's wrath. For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men. Romans chapter two. Sin has corrupted all mankind. Sin has separated us from God and made us worthy of eternal judgment. And the only way that sin can be dealt with in our lives is if we are Forgiven by God. And praise God. God has not left us without a way, but He has made a way by offering forgiveness to us through His Son, Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ, the eternal Son of God, came into the world to offer forgiveness for all mankind and to receive that forgiveness. We are called to repent of our sin. That means to turn away from it and to put our trust in Jesus Christ and to follow him. And if we do that, it's as though Jesus says to us, Son, daughter. Your sins are forgiven. And if you are here today and if you have repented of your sins and put your trust in Jesus Christ, consider what this means for you this morning. Those who have been forgiven have been released from the power of sin's reign in their life. Those who have been forgiven have been regenerated and brought from a state of spiritual death and made alive in Christ. Those who've been forgiven have been justified and declared righteous in God's sight. Those who've been forgiven have been adopted into God's family so that he can call you son. Those who've been forgiven have been and are being sanctified to become more like Jesus Christ. And those who have been forgiven will be glorified. Sons and daughters of God through the Lord Jesus Christ, hear what Jesus says to you this morning. Your sins are forgiven. That's what that means for you today. And the question we need to answer this morning is how? How do we respond to that great news? How do we respond? How should you respond to Jesus' offer of forgiveness today? Well, to find the answer to that question, the passage introduces us to three groups of people who have three different responses. to Jesus' authority and each of their responses teaches us something about how we should respond today. So first, first Don't respond with unbelief. Don't respond with unbelief. That's what we learn from the scribes. Now it's possible to read this passage and think that they're asking honest and understandable questions, but this is where we need to pay attention to how scribes are portrayed and characterized throughout the gospel. of Mark and throughout Mark's gospel they are presented as fairly flat characters. They're almost exclusively presented as opposed to God and opposed to Jesus. And we don't have to have many much of a question about this, right? Chapter 2, all of these passages that we're going to do in the upcoming weeks in Mark's Gospel in chapter 2. Show Jesus in conflict with the religious authorities throughout chapter 2, such that by the very beginning of chapter 3, 13 chapters before the end of the book, look with me at chapter 3, verse 6. The Pharisees went out and immediately held counsel with the Herodians against Jesus. How to destroy him. They are already plotting to kill Jesus They are murderously opposed to him. So these are not honest questions. Their questions reveal a deep-seated opposition to an unbelief in God. Right, if you were to turn over to the Gospel of Matthew, Matthew records this same account. And you'll note that in Matthew's gospel, Matthew records Jesus as saying, why do you think evil in your hearts? Jesus understands their questions as evil unbelief in him. And let's not miss what we learn about unbelief. Unbelief isn't always visible. These men never said these things out loud. Maybe if you are inclined towards you're just one of those people we all have different struggles, right? Uh if you're one of those people who's inclined towards self-righteousness. You've kind of had you get you have that eye roll like what is that guy doing? Like you don't say it out loud, but you know how to self-righteously criticize somebody by like rolling your eyes or something. Maybe they did that. But we have no idea that he only presents it as though they had questions in their hearts. Their unbelief was never visible to him. But the fact that it's not visible to us doesn't mean it's not visible to God. Right, look at this. Jesus doesn't only show that he's God by forgiving sin. He shows that he's God by reading their hearts. This isn't like some kind of like Vague mind reading where Jesus is like, I sense that somebody in the room is suffering today. That's not what he's doing. He he calls out their very questions. Why do you think these things in your hearts? I know what you're asking. Why do you ask these things in your hearts? Because He's God, He's able to search our hearts. Everything that we think is laid bare before him. Have you ever had that experience where you've just quickly opened up your phone? and shot a text off to a friend and it said something in it that was only for that friend and then you went back to your phone later and you realized I sent that to the wrong person. This was only for them to know. Right that you you may live your life like that as a Christian, thinking like I'm gonna keep these thoughts hermetically sealed in my heart away from the Lord and away from his sight. I'm never gonna share this with him. And you forget that everything is laid bare before God's eyes. There is nothing in your heart that he does not know. And I want to encourage you in that today There's nothing in your heart that he does not know, and yet he loves you. That's amazing news for you today. To the kids, I want to I want to encourage you in this. Think about this. The fact that God knows all of the thoughts in your heart. That can be a thought that that provokes fear But here's what I want to encourage you in today. If you have questions about God, if you have doubts about who Jesus is, if you're not sure that you believe the Bible, but you don't want to share that with anybody, just You want to keep it in your heart. If you don't think anyone's gonna know, I want to encourage you, talk to others about it. All of us, everyone in this room has questions. Everyone in this room has had doubts. Share it with others. If you if you don't feel like you can share it with your parents, email me. I would love to talk to you about it. You don't need to be afraid about keeping questions and doubts tucked away in your heart. The Lord knows that they're there And that's a comforting thing because he gives wisdom to those who ask, and you can ask for help with those questions and know that he will provide it. And the scribes are also a great picture of the reality that unbelief is ultimately a heart issue. Right? Unbelief may show itself in temper tantrums and shouting, and unbelief may look like somebody who's really good at following the rules. Unbelief may look like someone who openly rejects God, and unbelief may look like someone who knows a whole lot about God. These scribes were experts in the scriptures. It was their job to know that when God's Messiah came, his ministry would be marked by healing of diseases, even healing those who are lame and paralyzed, and yet God is sitting right in front of them in the flesh. and they do not believe. Now before we begin begin to judge the scribes and think that we are any different from them, we need to remind ourselves, those of us who are here who follow Christ that belief Faith is a gift. Faith is a gift, for it is by grace that you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing. It is the gift of God. God's grace is the only thing that distinguishes you and I from the scribes. And what's truly remarkable is that we, we who've received such grace from God, are still more like the scribes than we are like Jesus. Are we not? I mean think about this. How many of you? How many of you have doubted God's power to save certain people in your life You've looked at them and you said they are too far gone. There's no point in me even sharing the gospel with them. And yet you forget that Jesus holds the keys to life and death, that when Jesus opens a door to faith, everyone will rock walk through it. It doesn't matter how far they are from the Lord. You may be like me. I was one of those people who was impossibly far from God. And I still, at times in my life, doubt that God can save others. That's ridiculous. Maybe you've doubted God's power to fix a particular struggle with sin in your life, right? You struggle with it over and over and you keep losing and you think God can't fix this. And you forget that God is able to do far more abundantly than all that we ask or think. And it's God's will for you that you be sanctified in Christ Jesus. Maybe you're doubting God's ability to provide, to provide a job or a spouse. or a friend, or some sense of financial stability, and you forget that if God so clothes the grass of the field which is here today and gone tomorrow, will he not much more clothe you? Oh, you of little faith. You and me of little faith. And when he doesn't provide the things we ask for, we doubt his goodness. Forgetting that God will not withhold good from his children. So the fact that he has not given to you what you've asked for must mean that it would not be good for you to receive it. And you doubt God's goodness in not giving you the thing that you asked for. And as difficult as that may be, not receiving those things that you asked for We can still trust God because God is good. Our doubts about God's goodness and his power ultimately expose our unbelief. And yet, when we're faithless, he remains faithful. For God cannot deny himself And insofar as you have been united to his very son, it would take him denying himself to deny you because of your faithlessness. Praise God that He is faithful. He has committed Himself to you to save, preserve, and prepare you for heaven. Don't respond to Jesus' authority with unbelief. And next, don't respond with shallow excitement. Don't respond with shallow excitement. Notice how our passage begins. As soon as Jesus comes back into Capernaum, the crowds are immediately electrified. So they flock to where he is to hear him preach and to see him do some miracles, right? We've heard about this guy who's been healing people. We want to see some healings. We want to see what this is all about. But does their flocking to him reveal true faith? No. In fact, when we encounter crowds in Mark's Gospel, as we thought about the character development of the scribes, the crowds specifically play a continual role in Mark's gospel. And more often than not, they are filled with a bunch of people who just want to be entertained. They want to see if he'll do a trick. See if he'll do something amazing. Maybe he's gonna make some more food from heaven again. Let's flock to him and see him And the crowds in Mark's gospel on multiple occasions are an obstacle for those who have genuine faith to reach Jesus, like the paralyzed man. And then the woman who has an issue of blood. She has to fight her way through the crowd who just wants to see who just wants to see him do some works Being part of the crowd around Jesus is not the same as being a disciple of Jesus. The crowds respond with shallow excitement to his ministry. They see that he can heal and they think, well, I need to be healed. They see that he can make food from heaven and they think, well, I'm hungry. They want Jesus as long as Jesus gives them what they need, but they're not interested in giving anything in return. And we see just how shallow their excitement is after Jesus heals the paralyzed man. Look at verse 12 again. It says the crowd was all amazed and glorified God, saying, We never saw anything like this. But you may read that statement and think, well, what's wrong with that response? Everything. Everything is wrong with that response. Instead of saying we've never seen anything like this, what should they have said? Forgive us of our sins. He just raised a paralyzed man from the ground to prove that he could forgive sins, and all they can say was, Whoa, that was amazing. That's all that they do. It is possible that there is no more dangerous place to be in life than in the crowd following Jesus. At least the scribes knew that they were opposed to God. But my guess is many of the people in the crowd thought they were on good terms with Jesus. I wonder if that describes you this morning. I wonder if that describes you this morning. Maybe coming to church is something you do Something you were raised doing, and so you're going to carry on this tradition. Maybe it makes you feel good. Maybe you're somebody who's impressed by Jesus and curious about him, want to hear more. Or better yet, you're someone who wants something from Jesus. Maybe if I follow God, he will finally give me this, whatever that may be. Well, if that's you, you need to understand that Jesus did not come for shallow excitement. He came for worship. He came for worship and he commands all people everywhere to repent and believe in him for the forgiveness of sins. He's not interested in people who show up every once in a while to church to get a fix so that they can feel good about themselves. He's looking for people who will take up their cross. And follow him through the wilderness of this life as he leads us to the new heavens and the new earth Taking up your cross is something we say a lot, but we don't think about what that means. Jesus died on that cross. He's looking for people who worship him and who die to themselves every day, imperfectly, yes. imperfectly, but our heart's intention is to die to ourselves. So let me ask you to think carefully about your life. Do you look back on a profession of faith that you made when you were younger and think, you know, that I do follow Jesus because I profess faith, even though there's no evidence of a changed life? Jesus said, some seed of his word sprouts up for a little while, and then the cares of this life choke it out and the faith dies. Have you seen a change in your desires? Have you taken sides with God to make war against your sin rather than taking sides with your sin to make war against God? That's a good way to look at it, a good way to describe it. Or are you content to go on living according to your own rules? Scripture is clear that if anyone is in Christ, He or she is a new creation. The old passes away and the new has come Where's the change in your life that you can look back on and say like I can see it? I've I've had periods of struggling, I've gone up and down. I think following Jesus is a lot like if you ever look at a visualization of the stock market You're up and down, up and down. It's trending the right direction. Not a perfect analogy, but a good way to think about it. And the reason I want to ask you these questions is not to be harsh I ask them out of love for you. Paul calls Christians to examine themselves, to see that they are in the faith. I love you. and want to see you walk with Christ, but it's so easy. It is so easy to just be part of the crowd around Jesus. And hear those terrible words on that last day when you stand before Jesus and He says to you, Away from me, I never knew you. I don't want that to be true in your life. And that's why we as pastors make time to meet individually with everyone who wants to be a member of this church, right? So everyone who wants to join as a member of CBC, we ask them to share the gospel with us because we want to know that they understand what the message of Christianity is, because it's central to following Christ. And then we ask them to share their testimony with us because we want them to even be able to articulate for themselves. I look back, this is when I became a Christian. It was either a very distinct moment in life Which was the case with me, or it was just I've always followed the I seem to have always followed the Lord and I've seen him grow me in many ways, which would be the case for my wife, and I'm sure would be the case for so many of you. But you can look back at your life and see, I have been following Christ. That's why we ask you to share your testimony with us. But not only is membership important at the beginning when you talk with the pastors about what it means to follow Christ But membership in a church is crucial throughout. Jesus created the church for this very reason. He created it to be a body of believers who live in community with one another. This is why you find so many instructions in the New Testament for Christians to hold one another accountable, to encourage one another, to instruct one another, and to even admonish and correct as occasion may require. And the reason Jesus gave these instructions to the church is because of how easily you and I can deceive ourselves. How easily we stray from the Lord. How easy it is to walk away. We need other people around us to help us see ourselves rightly. So are you fighting against just being part of the crowd by welcoming other Christians in this congregation into your life? Christians who know you and who you share how you're doing spiritually with. If you don't have someone like that in your life Find somebody after the service. Just be bold. Walk right up to them. Ask them, hey, can we get together regularly? Whatever regularly might look like in your life, so we can talk about how I'm doing spiritually If you have someone like that in your life and you get together with them and you kind of talk, you guys, you guys kind of make your way towards spiritual things, here's something I think I would encourage you to do in your relationships. Find people who you're close to and let them know, hey, we're not just gonna meet together. I want you to know that you have an open door to ask me any question anytime It doesn't just rest on me saying, okay, it's it's right for you to ask me now. Christians want to be open and transparent with one another. Find somebody and tell them, anytime you can ask me how I'm doing, I give you those keys. Find somebody to do that with in this congregation. We need one another so that we wouldn't be deceived by responding to Jesus with shallow excitement. And so if you shouldn't respond to Jesus' authority to forgive sin with unbelief or with shallow excitement, then how should you respond? You should respond with genuine faith. And that's what we see exemplified by the paralytic and his four friends So there are two questions that this passage commonly raises that we need to address first. The first question is whether or not this man's paralysis was caused by a particular sin. Right? So he comes to be healed and Jesus says your sins are forgiven. He seems to be making a connection between the man's paralysis and his healing of sin. But I don't think this passage says enough to give us a clear answer about whether there was a particular sin that caused this man's paralysis. But when we look elsewhere in Scripture, we find that in some situations, sickness and disease are directly attributed to particular sins. Paul in 1 Corinthians says, the sin of taking the Lord's Supper without examining yourself and taking it in unrepentant sin has led some to be sick and even die. Ananias and Sapphira died because they sinned against God. There was a direct one-to-one connection between their particular sin and what happened to them. But we also find in other passages, the disease or malady was not a direct result of a particular sin. So think of the blind man in the Gospel of John. Whose sin caused this, the disciples asked. And Jesus says, no one's sin caused this. It was so that God would be glorified. So whether or not an illness you're suffering from or someone you know is suffering from is directly related to a particular sin, we can't say with confidence. Jesus can say in his scriptures. He he can tell us which ones are and which aren't But what we can say with confidence is that all disease, all sickness, all disabilities, all death are the result of capital S sin. The sin that came into the world through our first parents brought with it death. But the passage also teaches us that more important than any physical healing Is being forgiven of sin. I think we even see this in Jesus' response to the man, right? When you look at the passage and the man is lowered down in front of Jesus. Jesus could have just said right away, get up and walk, and then proved by that that he had authority to forgive sins. So I think the reason that he starts with your sins are forgiven is to underscore the fact that more important than physical healing is reconciliation with God that comes through the forgiveness of sin. Jesus is underscoring that our greatest need is not physical but spiritual. And then the second most common question is whether this man is being forgiven based on the faith of his friends. So these four men carry the paralyzed man, and it says Jesus, seeing their faith, says to him, Son, your sins are forgiven. So is he being healed on the basis of their faith? I think the answer to that question is no. When it says that Jesus saw their faith, he's just using a third-person plural. It's all of them. The four men and the paralyzed man have faith. Jesus recognized that they all had genuine faith. And this passage, because of this and others like it, are often cited as proof by word faith preachers or name it and claim it preachers These preachers kind of fall under the large rubric of prosperity gospel teaching. They teach that we can use the power of faith To get what we want. We can affect reality by the power of our faith. We can bring it about if we just have enough faith. If we have enough faith, we can get the job we want. If we have enough faith, we can get more money. If we have enough faith, we can heal ourselves. But these preachers misunderstand healing passages in the Gospels. There are numerous healings in the Gospel in which faith is not occurring at all. And why is that? Because the healings in the gospels were meant to mark that the ministry of the Messiah who would bring about the kingdom, a kingdom that would give signs of the restoration to come had arrived. That's what the healings are about. It's actually more rare to find healings attached to faith in the gospels. So that is what's going on. It is about the Messiah who would bring about God's kingdom. He is the point, not the healing. And the way that these men pursued Jesus shows that they understood something about him that the crowd didn't understand. They didn't come for party tricks. They didn't come to be wowed. They weren't after healing. They were after him. And see this. See that genuine faith stops at nothing to pursue Jesus. Now we don't know how far these guys traveled carrying with them their friend. It's possible that they only carried them a few blocks. But if you've ever carried a full-grown person, it doesn't matter if it's a few blocks. You're gonna be dead tired within a few blocks. Right? They carry with them a full-grown person on a mat, and then they go up to the house, are blocked by the crowd, and they say to themselves, I have an idea. Let's tear the roof off. Tear the roof off? Let's tear the roof off. Let's tear the roof off. You see the paralyzed man. Tear the roof off. Right? Don' Wait and they go and they do it I mean picture that combo. Consider the lengths that they went to and the barriers they tore down to get their friend to Jesus Think about the mocking and the ridicule they risked by the crowd around them. What are those guys doing? How embarrassing. How improper They totally lack all etiquette. They're tearing the person's roof down. Let us never be like them. Why would they do this? Why would they do this? Because they knew that Jesus Christ has the authority to forgive sins. They reckoned that his power was such that even their paralyzed friend would be given new legs if Jesus wanted him to have new legs. They understood. That without Jesus, their faith, they or they had no hope apart from God. It's this recognition that apart from God, that they had no hope, that drove them to dig through the roof. Now, dear brothers and sisters, this passage isn't teaching you to go out and be crazy for Jesus. It is not teaching you to go out and do something radical for the Lord. This passage is teaching us that we are all like this man, without hope, apart from the saving work of Jesus Christ. And so what will turn you into the type of person who will tear down a roof to get your friend to Jesus is not conjuring up the work in your own heart to do something crazy It's in beholding the one who has the power to forgive your friend, your neighbor, your family work, your family member, your co-worker, your friend of their sins. You behold him in his glory and his power. He can do this When you recognize that everyone around you who doesn't know Jesus is separated from God and without hope in the world When you meditate on that reality and you also realize that if Jesus wants someone to be forgiven, he can do it and he will do it if you bring them forward. If they put their faith in Christ, He delights to forgive people of their sins. That is what drives these men to go up on the roof and to tear a hole in it because they know that He can do it. That is what it's all about. They can be reconciled to God. He has the authority to forgive them. This isn't the last time that we'll see the unbelief of the scribes and the shallowness of the crowd in Mark. Right? This isn't the last time. And this isn't the last time that we'll see Jesus charged with blasphemy. The next time that we'll see him charged with blasphemy, the final time is at his trial. I'm sure some of these same scribes were present to declare that sentence, that the Son of God be put to death for his claims to be God. And then later that day, when Jesus stood before Pilate, and Pilate asked, What shall I do with this Jesus? The shouts came back, crucify him! Crucify him. And where did those shouts come from? The crowd. The same crowd that was dazzled with his miracles and his healings, the shallowness of their excitement was shown in their fickleness and ultimately their wickedness, that they would agree to put the Son of God to death. Yet we find in Acts chapter 2, those same scribes, those Pharisees, Are being presented with the reality that God in His wisdom, before the foundation of the world, planned from eternity past that as the means by which we would be forgiven of our sins, that Jesus Christ would die in our place. On the cross, he took the punishment we deserved and give to gave to us his righteousness. By his wounds we have been healed. And three days after he died, he rose again from the grave, proving forever. Proving forever that he has the authority to forgive sins. If you're here and you're considering what it means to follow Jesus, these five men are a great picture for you today You should tear down every obstacle in your life. You should climb over every barrier, any relationship that keeps you from Christ, any job that keeps you from Christ. You should remove every single barrier and tear the roof off to get to him. Because Jesus Christ has the authority to forgive sin How will you respond to him today? Let's pray. O Lord, only you can forgive sins. In your hands are the keys to life and death. Father, it is you who reveals in our hearts the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior. And I pray that by your Spirit you would reveal Him today in our hearts, that we would behold Him in His glory. Spur us on through faith in Christ, keeping our eyes fixed on him, the founder and perfecter of our faith. Help us to chase after him today with genuine faith. May no one among us be in the crowd. May no one among us respond with unbelief. But you, Father, are able to heal. You are able to save. I pray that you would do it. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.