Good morning, friends. It's a pleasure to be with you all this morning. Normally it's our practice to have uh a member of the church come up and read the passage for us before I come up and begin preaching But this morning we begin a new series in the book of Genesis. And since we're beginning a new series in the book of Genesis, that means we're beginning at the beginning. of Genesis and the beginning of creation. And if you're familiar at all with the Bible, then you know that there is much debate Over how to correctly interpret Genesis chapter 1. Should it be interpreted literally? Does it teach a young earth? Does it teach an old earth? Is it poetry? Is it allegory? Is it something else? We could spend a long time this morning answering these questions and never actually deal with the point of the passage. And I don't want us to do that this morning because when you move all of those questions out of the way, all of those interpretive questions, and when I talk about moving them out of the way, I don't want to dismiss them as unimportant. They're very important. How we interpret the Bible is very important But they can cloud over and be a fog that lies over the glorious and obvious point. of Genesis chapter 1 and I want us to be able to look at the main point of Genesis chapter 1 clearly. I want us to see it clearly, see what it meant for the original audience. And then see also what it means for us today, because it is very relevant in our lives today. But also, so that I don't just immediately gloss over some of those interpretive issues, I want to direct your attention to page eight of the bulletin. On page eight of the bulletin, we've provided three, three, not all of them, but three prominent evangelical views of creation with a brief description of each. And you can read about those there. You see the literal view that's also known as the, could also be described as the young earth view or the calendar day view. If you're wondering what position your pastor holds, kind of like, hey, it's maybe important for you to understand where your pastor is coming from. This is a position that I hold. I hold it loosely, and I hold it with a lot of love towards those who hold different interpretations You also see there the day-age view. This view says that the days in Genesis should be interpreted as long expanses of time. They could be ten years, a hundred years, a thousand years, don't even just a long period of time. And then you have the framework view. And we're going to actually see a little bit of the framework view in our uh read-through of the passage this morning. It says that the first three days and the second three days are kind of framed together. First God forms, then he fills. It's not meant to teach us about how old the earth is or any of those things. Those are three of the prominent evangelical views. You don't need to agree with me to be a member of this church. Even some of the elders on our elder board have different opinions on how to best interpret Genesis chapter 1. So what we've done in the conclusion is just help you to see regardless of which position you hold on how to correctly interpret interpret Genesis 1, Orthodox Christian theology entails those four points. And I would encourage you to look over those four points. and you can discuss them with one another after the service, or if you have questions for me about those four points or any of the other views. uh or why I hold to the literal view, uh I'd encourage it. I'd love to talk with you about it. Um but I'm not gonna like try to persuade you. We have different views on these things, right? It's okay. So that's kind of what I wanted to get out of the way, and the reason I want to get that out of the way is because I'm not going to talk about any of those things in the so in the sermon. I'm going to talk about what the point of Genesis 1 was. for the people of Israel and for us. And it is a glorious point. So I'm gonna pray, and then I'm gonna read, and then we're gonna look at the passage closely. I'm gonna read the whole passage for us, so it'll take a few minutes So let's pray. Let's pray that God will give us wisdom to understand His Word. Heavenly Father, we come to you this morning, and we know that we are coming to the Lord of all creation, the one who spoke. And it was so. You created all things, Lord. And so we pray that this morning you would create faith and understanding. Nothing is too difficult for you. You can bring the whole universe into existence with a word. And so we know that you can create faith in our hearts with a word. So we pray that you would speak to us through your word. We pray that you would grant the Spirit to awaken our hearts and our souls and our minds to the glorious truth of of Genesis 1 and uh and even into Genesis 2 and then the whole book of Genesis and the whole Bible it's glorious it's your word it grants it gives us faith it strengthens our faith it helps us to hold fast to you And so we pray that as we spend time in your word this morning, you would strengthen our faith. Open our eyes. Help us to behold your glory. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, I would encourage you to open with me in your Bibles to Genesis chapter 1. If you're not familiar with the Bible, all you got to do is open the cover and you're just a few pages away. Get through the table of contents. Genesis chapter 1 is going to be shortly after that. This is the beginning of the Bible, and as we'll see, this is the beginning of the universe, where it recounts it. Genesis chapter 1, all the way through, Genesis 2, verse 3. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. The earth was without form and void, and darkness was over the face of the deep, and the Spirit of God was hovering over the face of the waters. And God said, let there be light. And there was light. And God saw that the light was good. And God separated the light from the darkness. God called the light day, and the darkness he called night. And there was evening and there was morning the first day. And God said, let there be an expanse in the midst of the waters, and let it separate the waters from the waters. And God made the expanse and separated the waters that were under the expanse from the waters that were above the expanse. And it was so. And God called the expanse heaven. And there was evening and there was morning the second day And God said, let the waters under the heavens be gathered together into one place, and let the dry land appear. And it was so God called the dry land earth, and the waters that were gathered together he called seas. And God saw that it was good. And God said, Let the earth sprout vegetation, plants yielding seed, and fruit trees bearing fruit, and which is their seed, each according to its kind on the earth And it was so. The earth brought forth vegetation, plants yielding seed according to their own kinds, and trees bearing fruit in which is their seed, each according to its kind. And God saw that it was good. And there was evening and there was morning the third day. And God said, Let there be lights in the expanse of the heavens to separate the day from the night And let them be for signs and for seasons and for days and years, and let them be lights in the expanse of the heavens to give light upon the earth. And it was so And God made the two great lights, the greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night and the stars. And God set them in the expanse of the heavens to give light on the earth, to rule over the day and over the night, and to separate the light from the darkness. And God saw that it was good. And there was evening and there was morning the fourth day And God said, let the waters swarm with swarms of living creatures and let birds fly above the earth across the expanse of the heavens. So God created the great sea creatures, and every living creature that moves, with which the waters swarm according to their kinds, and every winged bird according to its kind. And God saw that it was good, and God blessed them, saying Be fruitful and multiply and fill the waters in the seas and let the birds multiply on the earth. And there was evening and there was morning the fifth day And God said, Let the earth bring forth living creatures according to their kinds, livestock and creeping things and beasts of the earth according to their kinds. And it was so And God made the beasts of the earth according to their kinds, and the livestock according to their kinds, and everything that creeps on the ground according to its kind. And God saw that it was good. Then God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness. And let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the heavens, and over the livestock, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. So God created man in his own image. In the image of God, he created him. Male and female, he created them. And God blessed them. And God said to them, be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth And subdue it and have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the heavens and over every living thing that moves on the earth. And God said, Behold, I have given you every plant yielding seed that is on the face of all the earth, and every tree with seed in its fruit, you shall have them for food. And to every beast of the earth, and to every bird of the heavens, and to everything that creeps on the earth, everything that has the breath of life, I have given every green plant for food. And it was so. And God saw everything that he had made. And behold, it was very good. And there was evening, and there was morning, the sixth day. Thus the heavens and the earth were finished And all the host of them. And on the seventh day, God finished his work that he had done. And he rested on the seventh day from all his work that he had done. So God blessed the seventh day and made it holy, because on it God rested from all his work that he had done. In creation. This is God's word. Realities and responses. Realities and responses. That is how I want to teach Genesis 1 this morning. Realities. There are four realities that Genesis 1 declares unequivocally about God and about the world that we live in. And responses. There are three ways that we should respond today to the realities declared in our passage. So that will be my outline for the morning. Uh point one, realities, to help you follow along. There will be four subpoints under that main point. And point two, responses. There will be three subpoints, three responses that I think we should draw from what we learn in our passage this morning. So let's begin. I want to encourage you as I begin to keep your Bible open. We are going to look at it over and over and over again to see what God's glorious Word has for us this morning. So reality number one that we see in Genesis chapter one, God is the creator of the universe. Reality number one, in the creation account, we see that God is the creator of the universe. There may be no chapter in the Bible that is more radically God-centered than Genesis chapter 1. 35 times. 35 times in this single chapter, God is referred to directly as the subject of all that is created. And it's radically God-centered appropriately, because in the beginning there was nothing. There was only God. It is only Him. It is Him who creates. It is Him who brings all things into creation by the power of His Word. This passage is about God. And it's about how God created the universe. Look at verse 1. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth Noted astronomer and cosmologist Carl Sagan once said, the universe is all there is, or was, or ever will be. That is actually not true. There was a point at which nothing existed, and then God, who existed outside of all things and before all things, with his infinite power created Everything. That is what's meant by heavens and earth, the totality from heaven to earth, from what is above to what is below God created all of it and everything that's in between it. And his work as a creator is laid out in a very clear pattern in Genesis 1. First, he forms the earth in days one to three. Then he fills his creation in days four to six. Look at verse 2. It says the earth was without form and void. That's a common Hebrew phrase that means uninhabitable or inhospitable. And so what's going to happen after verse 2 is God's going to take the creation that is still kind of in this form, less that's that's inhospitable to human life, and he's gonna form it to make it hospitable. And so on days one to three God begins forming it to make it hospitable for man and woman, for all his creatures. Look at me first, at his first act of forming on day one in verse three. God creates light. Let there be light. Darkness had already existed as something that he had created in verse 2. And then God pierces the darkness by speaking light into existence. Now we know if we're familiar with all of the problems regarding the interpretation of Genesis chapter 1 that the sun and the moon and the stars are not created until day five. So where does this light come from? I think Tom already referenced it in his prayer. God is light. In him there is no darkness at all. I believe that God provides the light necessary for creation by his own glorious being. And we see that this happens elsewhere in Scripture, in the book of Exodus. God calls down the plague of darkness on the people of Egypt. Yet while it was dark in Egypt, the Israelites had light The light of God was shining and allowing them to see. We see in the new heavens and the new earth. What won't exist anymore, kids? Anyone know what won't exist anymore? What's one thing that won't exist anymore? Cole? The C or sin won't exist anymore. I'm thinking of something material that also starts with an S and it's up in the heavens and it gives light to the earth. Ava The sun, the sun won't the sun won't exist anymore because God will be our light. I believe that God is providing the light here that pierces the darkness. Then on day two in verse six, look down there with me. Day two in verse six, he forms the expanse Or the sky. You might have another translation that says firmament, or another translation that might say vault. I think those words are they were correct in the context in which they were used, but I think today they are a little bit misleading. It makes it sound like there's some some solid mass up in the heavens that separates these layers of heaven. The expanse is merely the sky. God stretched out the sky above us because we're going to see it's the birds that then fill the expanse. They fly around in it. Right? He forms the expanse or the sky and he forms them in the midst of the waters. The sky separates the atmospheric waters that are above that come down on the earth in the form of Rain, like we saw this morning, and he separates it from the water below, which will become the seas So God stretches out the sky above on day two, and there was evening and there was morning the second day. Then God continues creating, forming. Look at verse 9. On day three God forms the seas and the dry land. He gathers the waters that were below into seas and then causes the dry land to rise up out of the earth. Islands of Hawaii arise, right? It causes the land to rise up out of the Mount Everest, come up, right? Just draws the land up with a word. He's starting to form the land. He gathers the seeds into place. He causes the dry land to appear. Now look at verse 11. On day three, he creates the plant kingdom. Vegetation, trees, fruits, flowers, all of it. And there was evening and there was morning the third So what we see on days one to three, God, the Creator, has formed the component parts of earth to make it habitable for his creatures. And now on days four to six, he is going to fill what he has formed. Look at verses 14 and following. On day four, he fills the darkness with the heavenly lights. The lights in the heavens, the sun, the moon, and the stars. He calls them the greater. The greater light, the sun, and the lesser light, the moon. Right? God made the sun and the moon. I think we got to like you gotta read through day four, and you just have to appreciate the casualness. With which this is stated. Right? Look at this. Let there be lights in the expanse of the heavens to separate the day from the night, and let them be for signs and for seasons and for days and for years. And let them be lights in the expanse of the heavens to give light upon the earth. And it was so. And God made the two great lights. Yep. The greater light. He made the sun to rule the day. He made the lesser light to rule the night. And the stars. Like you got to you have to kind of sit with that and appreciate it. The one glorious thing about God's wisdom that He's given to mankind so that we can have technology that sees deep into space. is you realize how unbelievably vast it all is. How unbelievably powerful he must be to just poof, son. The sun can fit like we could spend hours here just recounting amazing facts about the universe. The sun can fit 1. 3 million earths inside of it. What? Like sun exist. Moon exists. Like pebble. Right? And then And he created the stars. Estimates are currently at, and these estimates will change because they always do. That the universe has three sextillion stars inside of it. That's a three, followed by 23 zeros. I don't even know what that means. Right? When we have pictures of the deep space of the universe, you think you're looking at stars, these little specks, you're looking at galaxies that are full of billions of stars. Man, God created the stars. This is this is what you should picture in in verses 14 on day four. God walks out and he he says, oh you need you need some change? And he pulls and sorts it up. Yeah, I got a quarter. Here's the sun Uh I've got a penny or dime. Here's the moon. And then I've got some lint on my hand. Let me just sprinkle those stars all over the universe. Right. That is the way it's stated. God created the sun and the moon. Oh, yeah, and the stars too. That is how powerful our God is. Now on day five, look at day five. He fills the sky and the sea. Right? Look at verse 20 and following. All the amazing creatures that fill the ocean from tuna, to whales, to sharks, to the octopus, to everything in between. And then he filled the sky with all types of birds, eagles. Blue Jays, Hawks, Cardinals, all the host of them, and there was evening and there was morning the fifth And finally, on day six, he fills the dry land with animals and with man. Look at verse 24. He creates livestock and creeping things. Basically anything that moves on the earth, that's what this is describing. Then in verse, any animal life kind of that that that moves on the earth, then in verse 26. He creates again. One uh Christian biologist noted as he looked at this, he thought, oh, it's interesting Uh will be talk about evolution and how uh there's a blind process Darwinian evolution by by by blind processes uh Adam's cells and what whatnot gathered itself into higher forms of life and then from the goop came forth man, right? Like that's Darwinian evolution. But he noticed as he looked at this, he said, you notice, in one single day, God speaks twice. Speak once to create man, animals, and once a separate time to create man. They are distinct spoken creations of God, not related to one another in a Darwinian sense. All creations of God, though, in that sense. Right? And on verse 26, he creates man. Man, then we see is created as the sole creature. who bears the image of God. Notice how many times it says there that man is made in God's image. In verse 26 He says it twice. First he calls it image. Then he calls it likeness. Then again in verse 27, God created man in his own image. In the image of God, he created them. You, friend, if you feel worthless this morning If you feel like you are not valuable, let me encourage you to understand that you are immensely valuable in God's eyes because you Bear the stamp of the divine upon your very being. You are made in God's image and we're gonna think more about that next week as we think about the beginning of human dignity. We're gonna look more closely at these verses. We're not gonna look at some of the things that we would normally think about when we talk about being made in God's image today, but we'll think about it l uh longer next week. However awesome, however mysterious, however intelligent all other creatures of the earth might be, and there are some seriously intelligent creatures on earth that are not human beings. None of them, none of them are made in the image of God. God reserves his image for the creature that he has set apart in all of creation. And that creature is mankind. Man and woman. The final act of his creation is the crown jewel of his creation. When you read the creation account, it's all building to day six. And it's all building to the creation of man and woman. And so we see in chapter 2, verse 1, that God's work as creator was complete So we read in verses 2 and 3 in chapter 2 that on the seventh day God rested from his work. And we know from elsewhere in Scripture that God is always working. He's actively sustaining the universe. He's actively sustaining it by the power of his word. He's actively always upholding his church. What this means here is that God rested from his foundational work of creation. He was done laying the foundations of the earth and filling it with everything that he intended to create in it. There was nothing to add to what he had done, and so he rested From creating and a rest that was marked by the knowledge that He had created that created everything very good. God is the creator of the universe Second reality, and I promise they get shorter as we go. Second reality. Reality number two, God is the king of the universe. He is not only the creator, he is the king. He rules over his creation and he rules over all of the universe and he expresses that rule very clearly throughout the chapter and throughout the creation narrative. Look at verse 4. After creating light God saw that it was good, and then God separated the light from the darkness. Light go there, darkness go there. Now look at verse 6 Let there be an expanse in the midst of the heavens, and let it separate the waters from the waters. Waters above you go there, waters below you go there. Now again in verse 7. God, he says it again, God separated the waters below from the waters above. Now look at verse 9. Look at verse 9. God gathered or separated the sea from the dry land. It's an act of separation. Sea go here. Dry land go here. Later he separates male and female. From the one man two were created. God is envisioned as a king determining the boundaries of his kingdom and bringing order to it. Right? He determines the boundaries of light and darkness, of sky and sea, of dry land and sea, and he does he goes on to do the same thing with the rest of his creation. Look at verse 11. Notice in verse 11, all the different plants in the plant kingdom are made according to their kind. And in verse 21, the sea creatures are made according to their kind. The birds are made according to their kind. In verse 24, the land animals are made according to their kind. What does this mean? It is mean that God has created boundaries for his created beings, his trees and plant life and creatures Watermelon seeds will never ever naturally produce an orange tree. Dolphins will never naturally give birth to a squid. Blue jays will not lay chicken eggs. Cows will not give birth to sheep because God the King has determined the boundaries for all living things. They are made according to their kind. But there's more evidence of God's rule in the passage. Look back again at verse 5. God called the light day, and the darkness he called night. Later, he calls the expanse heaven or sky. Then he names the dry earth, the dry land earth. God is assigning names to his creation in the Bible. To name something is to express authority over it Ownership of it. God is expressing his royal authority over his kingdom by naming the component parts of it. But his kingship isn't only seen in setting boundaries or naming. Just as a good king, a good human king blesses his subjects. So God, the eternal King, blesses his creatures. Look at verse 22. He bless the sea creatures and birds, commanding them to be fruitful and to multiply. Reproduce, fill the earth and fill the sky. Then again in verse 28, he blesses man and woman in a similar way. Be fruitful and multiply. Have children and fill the earth. Now if you think about this. If man reflects the glory of God by bearing his image, and man and woman are supposed to reproduce and fill the earth, what is God commanding them to do? Fill the earth with the glory of God. As you reproduce and bear my image, you will fill the earth with my glory, which was his purpose for creation, so that he might be glorified. But we also notice that their blessing is different from the blessing of the birds and this blessing shows us that God is a king. Why? Because God tells them to have Dominion over all the creeping things, over all the animals on the earth, over all the things that move and live and have their being. Man is to subdue the earth and have dominion over the created order. Man is made in the image of God. He is to rule because God is a ruler. This is what it looks like to reflect the image of God It shows us that God in Himself is a king. So man and woman as king and queen are to work together to subdue the earth and have dominion over the created order Because our God is a king and ruler. We see that God is the creator of the universe and God is the king of the universe, which brings us to reality number three. Reality number three, God's creation was good. You can't help but notice the repeated refrain through the chapter that God's creation was good. At verse 4, after creating light, God saw that the light was good. Then in verse 10, after forming the sky, land, and seas. God saw that it was good. Then in verse 12, after creating plants, God saw that it was good. Then after verse 18, after creating the sun, moon, and stars, God saw that it was good. Then after verse 21, after making the sea creatures and birds, God saw that it was good Then at the end of verse 25, after making the animals, God saw that it was good. And then finally, after creating man, in verse 31, look down there with me after looking back at everything that he had created. God saw that it was very good. Very good. Seven times Seven times in chapter one of Genesis, it says it was very good. Seven, the biblical number of perfection, completion, and fullness. He's intending to show you that God's creation was perfectly good, completely good, fully good. God's creation was very good. God, the Creator King, is creating his good kingdom. Which brings us to the fourth and final reality. God, the Creator King, creates his good kingdom by his powerful word. Can't miss how obvious this is throughout the chapter, right? Every single act of creation is preceded by the words and God said. And God said, Let there be light, let the skies be stretched out, let the seas be gathered, let the dry land appear, let the plants appear, let the sea creatures and birds appear, let the land animals appear, and man appear. Ten times he speaks and ten times he creates. His speech, his word is the means by which all things came into existence, and his word is clearly powerful. That it's powerful is not only evident in the fact that he created by his word, but that he goes out of his way to tell us that it's powerful. Do you notice that throughout the passage? The author tells us after God speaks, it's like this editor is kind of like speaking in and just telling you again. You're like, why is you why are you repeating yourself? Let there be light. And there was light. And you're like, that's not God speaking there. That's like the Moses writing. God said it, it happened. And it was so throughout the chapter, over and over, and it was so, and it was so, and it was so. Why are you supposed to hear that over and over and over again? Because you need to know that God's word is powerful. When God speaks, it happens. God's word is powerful. He creates by his powerful word. Psalm 33, verse 6. By the word of the Lord the heavens were made, and by the breath of his mouth all their host. The word of God brought all of creation into existence. Right, like have you ever like stood in your like kitchens? Let there be dinner and there was not dinner. Right? Let my hair grow. My hair did not grow. Let me get taller. My hair did not get taller. Let me be stronger, and I did not get stronger. Like I I don't know about you, but I can't create by the power of my word. Only God can create, and his word is Powerful. Friend, if you want a summary of these four realities, what Genesis 1 is teaching us is that God, the Creator King, creates his good kingdom by his powerful word. God, the Creator King, creates his good kingdom by his powerful word. And that should lead us to respond, which brings us to our second point, responses But I do think before we consider how we today should respond, we need to consider what this passage meant to the original audience and why it's important that it's in the book of Genesis at all. Right, this passage is hugely important for us to understand in its original context. Can any of the kids raise your hand and tell me who the book of Genesis was written to? Who was the book of Judah? Was it written to Adam? Was it written to Noah? Who was it written to? Any of the kids tell me? Caleb? It was given to Moses and it was written to who did Moses lead? What were they called? What was that nation called? Israelites, the book of Genesis was written to the Israelites. This is so important for us to understand. The creation account in particular was written to teach the nation of Israel that the God who saved them out of slavery in Egypt Was the same God who created the world. Why is that important? They would need to know this because they had just been enslaved in Egypt for 400 years. Did Egypt worship the one true God or did Egypt worship lots of created gods? They worship lots of created gods. You have a nation of people who have been immersed in Egyptian culture for 400 years, who had never heard of Yahweh before, had never heard his name. Remember, Moses says, hey, when I go to them What what do I say is your name? Tell them I am sent you. Tell them Yahweh sent you. They had never even heard of Yahweh before. They've been immersed in a nation that had gods that were all over the place. They had gods of light and darkness. They had gods of sky and earth and sea. They had gods of the sun and the moon and the stars. Does that sound familiar? Yes, God is coming to the people of Israel. God is saving the people of Israel. And then God is saying to the people of Israel, I want you to know. That all of the so-called gods of Egypt or Sumaria or Mesopotamia or Babylon, they are false gods. I am the one true God. And I am going to give you the creation narrative, and I'm going to show you that all of the so-called gods of Egypt, the gods of light and darkness, I created those. I created light and darkness. It's a created thing. The gods of sun, moon, and stars. Oh yeah, no. That was me. I created the sun. You notice here that in verse chapter 1, verse 16, if you look down there with me. Notice that Moses doesn't call it the sun or the moon. Some commentators think that's that's too intentionally distance the sun and moon from the gods of sun and moon of Egypt. No, it's just the greater light and the lesser light. God created it and the stars The God who saved you is the God who created you. And that's why in the book of Genesis you see these careful narratives tracking the genealogies He wants the people of Israel to see, I, the God who created the world, am with you. I have been intentionally pursuing you. I am the one who called Abraham. I am the one who made you out of Abraham. I, the God who saved you, am the one who created you. The creation account is meant to show the people of Israel that Yahweh is God, not Horus. Not Osiris, not Rey, not Darwin, not evolution, God created all things That's why Moses is so careful throughout the book of Genesis. He's trying to say, you people, Israel, you have been chosen out of all the people on earth to know the one true and living God. He has chosen you to reveal himself to you. And he didn't have to do that. Right? We are called now to worship him. Yahweh, the God of Israel, the God who saved and redeemed his people out of slavery. Is the creator God who created the universe by his powerful word. And if Yahweh is the creator God who created by his powerful word, then the people of Israel were to respond by worshiping Him. Relying on his powerful word and resting in him. And friends, that is the same way. the same way that we should respond today because the God who saved us is the God who created the universe. Yahweh, the Creator King, revealed himself fully in his Son, Jesus Christ You see this throughout the New Testament. Jesus is the creator, according to Paul in Colossians. He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation, for by him. By him all things were created in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible. All things were created through him and for him. What is the purpose of your life? You were created for God. You were created to glorify God by worshiping Him through His Son, Jesus Christ, who is the creator of all things. But Jesus isn't only the Creator. We see in the New Testament, Jesus is the King. He says in Matthew 28, what has been given to him in heaven on earth? All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Jesus sits on the throne at the right hand of God David said, the Lord said to my Lord, sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet. Jesus is the Creator King. And Jesus is the powerful word of God. John says, well, why does John start his gospel in the beginning? Because John is trying to say, echo. Echo of Genesis 1, echo in the beginning was the Word. And the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things were made through him, and without him was not anything made that was made. All things, nothing was made that was not made through him. What fits into that bucket? Everything that was made fits into that bucket. Jesus, by the powerful word of his voice, the powerful word of God, brought all things into existence. And Jesus the Creator King and Word of God is also our Savior Redeemer. This Is a trustworthy saying that is deserving of full acceptance. Jesus Christ, the creator, king, and all-powerful word of God, came into the world to save sinners. In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our sins according to the riches of his grace. Jesus. The creator of the universe left heaven above to take on human flesh and to die for his creatures who rebelled against him. God is merciful. God is gracious. God gave his own son that whoever believes in him will not perish, but have eternal life. Oh, friends, don't you see how Jesus is the fulfillment of Genesis 1? He is the creator, King, and Word of God who creates by his powerful word. And so we are called to respond the same way that Israel was called to respond. By worshiping God alone, by relying on God's word, and by resting in God Right? We respond by worshiping God through Jesus Christ alone. And we worship him for his wisdom and his power Psalm 33, verse 6, the second half. Let all the earth fear the Lord. Let all the inhabitants stand in awe of him. Why? For he spoke, and it came to be He commanded and it stood firm. Creation, friends, creation should cause you to fear God. He is powerful But you don't have to fear him as though you can't come to him because if you follow Christ, he's given you his son as an atoning sacrifice, and you can now come to the throne of grace. through Christ, but do not let that ever diminish in your heart or mind how eternally powerful our God is He is mighty. We worship him for his wisdom and his power. Right? Creation testifies to the power of God. The heavens declare the glory of God. His glory is manifest in all of creation. And his glory is so patently obvious that Paul says in Romans that all humanity that denies his existence is without excuse, just by the testimony of creation. Without excuse for what? Without excuse for not believing in him. One of my favorite illustrations of what does it look like to Look at creation and deny that God exists. One of my favorite illustrations of this happened during a National Geographic special that I was watching, this is like 10 years ago. But it was just Whoa, I can't believe what just happened. A scientist, he's leading a team, he's you know doing a special on National Geographic. He was an avowed atheist, clearly, and uh he was studying giraffes Uh and he with his team had a cadaver of a gir a recently deceased giraffe. And while his students were standing around kind of doing stuff with the giraffe and with their tools The scientist was describing the amazing way that giraffes are able to take in oxygen while they're running. And it's amazing, right? Think about it. Their lungs aren't like in their mouth. The oxygen that goes in those little nostrils, relatively speaking, has to go all the way down that gigantic neck. To make it to its lungs. Like how how do giraffes take in enough oxygen to run? And they run really fast They have uh what's going on is that the scientist starts he starts describing it and they put a picture up on the screen behind him saying that because of their unique running motion, they kind of run two legs and two legs They lean, they rock forward and then they rock backward, and that's kind of how they run. And he's he he's saying to the he's saying to the guy, he says, what happens is Uh when they rock onto their back legs, their entire diaphragm shifts to the back of their body, giving their lungs room to expand as they're taking in oxygen. And then when the giraffe falls onto its front legs, that diaphragm Like shoots forward like a piston, it compresses the lungs against the chest cavity of the body, pushing the air out of his lungs, and then they rock backwards and it happens again. And so the cameraman's like Whoa, so so you're saying it's a piston. It's like a piston in a in an engine. He was like, that's exactly what I'm saying. And then he goes on to say, and he says, it is beautifully, he's British, he's beautifully done. Beautiful design. Then he stops. He looks at his team and he says, I mean evolved. That's what it looks like to push down the truth, but you get you realize what happens when you try to push down the truth. It's like whack-a-mole, it's gonna come out Right, oh yeah, Freudian slip. Like I can't help it. It is a beautiful design. You know why I said it's a beautiful design? Because it is a beautiful design and it has an amazing designer. All of creation testifies to his wisdom and power. They are plainly evident to all. Denying that God exists does not make him go away. We can claim all that we want that the impossibly complex and ordered world around us arose out of a puddle by chance. But that's not going to make it true. And on the last day, when caught when God comes to visit the earth, he will hold us all to account for the ways that we have denied his existence. Secondly, we don't only worship God, we rely on God's word. We rely on God's Word, and we rely on it because we recognize that His Word has the power to create and to reveal. Evidence of the creative power of God's word isn't just contained in Genesis 1. He not only created the world by his word, he creates his people by his word. By his word, he called Abraham. Abraham, here I am. Go to a nation that is not your own, and through you I am going to create the nation of Israel. And he created the people of Israel by his word. by giving them the Ten Commandments and the Law. One of the most interesting things about Genesis 1 and the creation of the world and God's work and creating his church or his people first Israel than the church is that in Genesis 1 God speaks ten times and God said and God said and God said Those who uh Hebrew scholars who study Genesis 1, they call that the 10 words of creation. And then what did God give to Israel? Ten commandments It's the commandments that form the nation of Israel. They are the formative word which brings Israel into existence. God's word creates creation and it creates. His people. You see in Ezekiel 37, if you've never read Ezekiel 37, please read it. It's one of the best pictures of how God's word creates spiritual life. You have the vision of the valley of dry bones. God sends Ezekiel into the valley of dry bones. He's surrounded by tons of bones that are very dry, and he's standing there, and God says to him, Ezekiel Speak to the bones. Right? If I if I'm Ezekiel, what are you talking about? What are you talking about? He says, speak my word to the bones. And Ezekiel Speaks, he begins prophesying, and what starts happening? The bones start rattling and then they click and they clack and the skeletons come and then the tendons and muscles and skin Eyes, and then they stand up a very strong army. God's word has the power to create creation and to create life in his people. God's word is powerful, and he created his church by the word First, the word made flesh in Jesus Christ, and then his word in the gospel. The gospel is God's word of salvation and the means by which God saves sinners and creates new life. in our hearts. Friend, if you're you're you're you're probably like me, I get uncomfortable wanting to share the gospel with people. I don't think it's gonna work. I don't think it's gonna work. And then I read Genesis 1 like his word works His word is powerful. Now friend, if you're thinking about sharing the gospel with other people or just doing a Bible study with somebody and you're like embarrassed, like I don't I don't know, I don't understand it God doesn't need you to understand. He can speak to people through his word. His word is powerful and it creates spiritual life in his people. Right? For God who said, let light shine out of darkness, has shone in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. And how did He make that light shine in our hearts? by his word. And this is why the word is central to the life of the church, not just the universal church, but this church One theologian William Gurnel said the church is bred by the Word, and so we must be fed by the Word. The word is the blood in our spiritual veins and the breath in our spiritual lungs. A church that isn't built on the foundation of the word is a church that just it just not gonna last long. And I'm not saying that like judgmentally, like we're better and you you guys are worse like It's just what happens, right? You're removing the kind of concretizing power out of the powder of the cement. Like you can't you can't turn it into cement without the word going into it. Right? The word is the foundation of the church. This is why in Paul's final letter to Timothy he commanded Timothy to preach the word. Right? You don't need gimmicks. You don't need innovation. Just preach the word In season and out of season. And then he commanded them, have the word read when the church gathered. Why? Because the word is the creating and sustaining power of the church. This is why we make the word central to what we do, try to try to make the word central to what we do in our services here. In the call to worship, Psalm 19, verses 1 to 6. God speaks to us and then we respond with songs that we try to make, try to pick songs that are full of scriptural truths. We praise God for how he's revealed himself in his word. We hear God's read and we respond by doing a confession of sin, recognizing that we have fallen short of God's glory. Then we preach the word, and then we celebrate the visible manifestation of the word in the Lord's Supper, which symbolizes the Word made flesh dying on the cross for us. Martin Luther said, the true Christian church is the work of the word communicated by every available means. And that's what we're trying to do. Each Sunday. We're trying to communicate the word by every possible means, right? Like monsoon rains that sweep over a desert and cause it to explode with greens and purples and yellows. The word sweeps over our dry hearts each week and brings forth spiritual life to sustain us for another week. Right, and when you think about it, it's not just Sunday, friend, like you need to be exposing yourself and taking in the word throughout the week You can't cut yourself off from the power of life. It's the power of life. Right? You're thinking about like, gosh, I want to be more patient. I want to be more kind. I want to be more gentle. I want to control my tongue. I want to have more self-control. With what I do with my body. Are you exposing yourself to the word? Are you taking in the word? It is the word that creates. God created the heavens and the earth by the power of his word. Surely, surely, he can create patience in you and me. How does he do it? Does it by his word. Finally, we respond by resting in God As the Bible unfolds, we learn that God's resting from his work of creation on the seventh day becomes the basis for his institution of the observance of a weekly Sabbath among the people of Israel. So on the seventh day of each week, the Sabbath, the people of Israel were to cease from their labors and enjoy a day of rest And it was given to them so that they might enter into and enjoy the rest of God. Right? If our God created the world, and then we can rest from our work in confidence that He will sustain us and provide for our needs. Life in God's kingdom was to be marked by rest. And that weekly rest was intended to point to a deeper spiritual reality. That God's people were to always rest in him. They would entrust themselves to him completely, being confident that he could protect them, sustain them, and provide for them at all times. But the people of Israel failed to enter into that rest. They sinned against God. They broke his Sabbath commandments and all his other commandments. They didn't rest in God as God intended them to. And none of us has. That has been the issue with humanity since Adam and Eve chose their own way over God's. Man has been toiling, trying to work his way back into God's presence, but that is an impossible task because our sins have separated us from God. To try to work your way back into God's presence is to be like a hamster on a hamster wheel. You are running hard, but you are not going anywhere. You're not getting any closer to God. Right? No amount of good that we can do can pay for the sins that we have committed. We need God to do the work of paying for our sins, and in Jesus, that is exactly what God has done. Jesus has done all that is necessary for us to enter into God's rest. Jesus lived the perfect life that we should have lived. He died the death on the cross that we should have died, and he rose triumphant from the grave, proving that all who turn to him in faith can be certain that they will find rest from trying to work their way back into God's presence. Jesus himself said this, right? Come to me, all who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Are you searching for rest today for your soul? Are you filled with anxieties, fears, frustrations, discontentments, a sense of desperate toiling, trying to find your purpose in life? Does that describe you today? A man by the name of Augustine, because this is common to all humanity. It's been common throughout all time. A man by the name of Augustine said this about God. He said, You have made us for yourself, O God, and our heart is restless. until it rests in you. That's the truth. The rest that we so desperately need and spend our lives searching for is found only in Jesus. Only the Creator King and powerful Word of God can provide the rest that we need. And we need not doubt that He can replace our anxious toiling with restful hearts. Because if He has the power to create all things, surely He can give us rest. Jesus offers to all a deep soul rest that surpasses the rest that we all seek in comfort, money, vacations, and on and on. Those are flimsy shadows of the true rest that Jesus offers. And unlike the rest we seek in the things of this world, the rest that Jesus provides never ends. And you see that even in the passage. Look at Genesis chapter 2, verse 3. Did you notice every day of creation 1 through 6 ends with the refrain, and there was morning, and there was evening, and there was morning the first day. There was evening and there was morning, the second day, the third day, and so on. Every single day concludes with this refrain, except for the day of rest God, even in Genesis 1, Genesis 2, verse 3, is hinting to the reader that there is a rest that never ends. There's a rest without evening and morning the seventh day. And he offers this rest in Jesus And this eternal rest will be found in him. And it's a it's a rest that can begin now for you and has begun for all who've trusted in Christ as we cease from trying to work our way back into God's presence. And instead rest by faith in Jesus' completed work of redemption. And it's a rest that will carry us through death because Jesus has promised that all who enter that rest now by faith will also enter the eternal rest that he is preparing for those who love him in the new heavens and the new earth And we can be confident of this because the one who said, let there be light, will one day say, behold. I am making all things new. God's work of creation in Genesis 1 ultimately prepares us for his work of recreation. When he creates a new heavens and a new earth for the people who have put their faith in Jesus. And that work of creation will be very, very good. There we will worship God forever for His wisdom and His power. There we will rely on the Word made flesh, the Lamb of God, and there we will find an eternal rest for our souls. Look to Jesus and enter into that rest today. Let's pray Heavenly Father. We know in Hebrews talks about by faith we believe that all things came into existence by your word. Any are here today who are who are who are struggling with that? Any who are saying in their hearts, we believe, help our unbelief. Lord, create faith, stronger faith, deeper faith. Help us to worship you. Help us to rely on your word. And help us to rest in you this day and the days to come. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.