Well, being present to experience the birth of a child is uh it's an astounding experience. Uh more so probably for me in certain ways, because I'm the father, the rather than for my wife Leo, or anyone who's given birth to a child. But but One of the things that tends to happen just after a child is born that I find uh amusing is the immediacy With which everyone in the room begins determining who the child looks like He has his father's nose. Ah, yes, yes, he definitely has his father's nose. But he has his mother's eyes Oh yes, yes, he does seem to have his mother's eyes. But his father's forehead. Yes, he has his father's forehead. But his mother's chin, his mother's chin. It is it is such a beautiful chin Then the grandparents visit, and the father's parents say, he looks just like his father. Well concerned that their opinion will stick and become the prevailing opinion, the mother's parents speak up. We think he looks more like his mother. Yes, he looks more like his mother An awkward silence ensues. Then the mom speaks up. He has his father's toes. But definitely, definitely, as my fingers. Meanwhile, the father, standing off to the side, in a silent stupor, is wondering how any of these determinations is possible. The baby is only a day old. How can we tell who he looks like? Well now, I don't mean to give the impression that you can't tell, you know, you can't say that what a baby looks like that he a baby looks like their mother or their father. It's not uncommon to see traits of both parents present in children from the very very beginning. So if you were to compare my son Jack's birth photo with my birth photo, you would see a staggering resemblance, a resemblance that has continued to this day. He looks a lot like me. But then if you saw my son Knox standing next to me with his curly blonde hair, you would know that did definitely did not come from me. He got his curly hair from his mama. And this is only the beginning, right? This is only the beginning of a lifelong experience. So as a child grows, not only do you begin to begin to see each of the parents in their physical likeness But you begin to see mannerisms from each of the parents show up in the children. So a child like might begin laughing like his father, or using his hands to speak like his mother. And not only do kids look like their parents and pick up their mannerisms. You might think about your own children if you have them, how they look like you and pick up your have picked up your mannerisms. But it's often the case that the children also make the values of the parents their own, right? So think of the Johnson kids. The Johnson Johnson kids are independent and self-sufficient. Why Well, because their parents prize those values. Or the Marshall kids. Those kids are fiercely loyal and tight-knit. Why? Well, because the parents prize those values and cultivated them in their children. And whether we're talking about physical likeness, mannerisms, or values, all of these are simply different types of Family traits, right? Family traits are the things that distinguish Joseph's as Joseph's, or Klausers as Klausers, or Brogis as Brogis. And family traits are important for us to understand because there's another family that exists that has distinct family traits. Traits that don't leave you guessing which parent they come from, but traits that definitively declare whether or not a person is part of this particular family. And what family am I talking about? I'm talking about the family of God. The problem is in our culture and in our world, There are a lot of differing opinions about who is in the family of God and who isn't. Right? Think about how many different opinions there are about the family of God. Muslims believe the family of God has specific traits. What are they? Well, according to Muslims, those traits, those traits are belief in Allah and complete submission to His will. They believe that Allah is the one true God. They completely reject the Trinity and they reject that Jesus is divine. They merely believe that He's a prophet. They completely or they don't believe in having a relationship with God. They are simply and always to submit to Allah. And the traits that display their obedience to Allah are known as the five pillars of Islam. The first is the testimony of faith known as the shahada, which proclaims that a person believes in Allah alone. The second is salat, which are the five daily prayers. Third is giving alms. Fourth is fasting during Ramadan. And fifth is the Hajj or the pilgrimage to the holy city of Mecca. And it's based on obedience to these pillars. that a Muslim believes that they'll obtain entrance into paradise, according to Muslims. These are the basic traits of the family of God Is the Muslim right about God's family? That God's children share in those specific traits. Now think about the Buddhist. The Buddhist believes a family of God has different traits. First, they probably won't call it a family of God. They'll probably call it a family of those who are enlightened because they don't believe in a personal being known as God. They say something like, the family of those who are enlightened have these traits. They follow the teachings of Buddha who live sometime around 500 BC. They believe that the cause of all our suffering is our desires, and that suffering itself is an illusion that we need to be freed from And those who are enlightened, those who've rid themselves of all desires, achieve enlightenment through the eightfold path, which includes things like meditation. Achieving perfect speech. I just don't know how anyone reaches enlightenment in Buddhism. Achieving perfect control of emotions. Again, how on earth does this happen? They need perfect understanding. That will never be me. And then through this eightfold path, members of the Buddhist family achieve nirvana or enlightenment. Is the Buddhist right about God's family? That those are the characteristics that you would understand someone who is enlightened to have, someone who knows God. But not only do you have Muslims and Buddhists, but you have Jehovah's Witnesses and Mormons and Jews and Hindus. And in our culture today, you're far more likely to find the pluralist. The person who believes that all religions are part of God's family. All these religions simply reveal different traits of the one grand family of God. They're all included And so one person who would be considered a pluralist wrote this, whether a person has received their teachings from Confucius, Zoroaster, Moses, Muhammad, or Jesus Just so long as they believe in the universality of the fatherhood of God and the universality of the brotherhood of man, that we're all the same, Meet upon a common level. The Jew returns to his synagogue, the Muslim to his mosque, and the Christian to his church, each better prepared for the solemn duties of life by the associations in this universal brotherhood. You see what's present in that quote? The Muslim goes to his mosque, he's in the family of God. The Buddhist to his temple, he's in the family of God, the Christian to his church. We all just worship this one God in different ways. And there are major problems with that belief. We're not going to dive into those today. But is the pluralist right? That all religions, all people, no matter what religion they're part of, are a part of God's family And these are questions that we today at CBC need to be prepared to answer because the face of our country is changing. Over the last 50 years, the size of the immigrant population in America has increased from 9 million to 43 million individuals And over the next 50 years, between now and 2068, it's expected to double again. So you're looking at somewhere between 85 and 90 million people who have moved here to live here from other countries. And this means That as people from other parts of the world move to the United States, they will bring with them their gods. They will bring with them their religious systems. Their beliefs on what traits characterize the family of God. So you understand this is a conversation that you are going to be in as a Christian. You're going to need to be able to explain what distinguishes Christians and their understanding about who God is and who Jesus is and what he taught from other religions in the world. So let me ask you this morning: if someone asked you. What trait or traits characterize the family of God? What would you say? Think about it for a minute. What would you say? Well, thankfully, we are not left to figure out the answer on our own. God has stated clearly in his word what trait So if you have your Bibles, go ahead and turn with me to the Gospel of Mark chapter 3. This morning we're going to be looking at verses 20 to 35. If you're using one of the pew Bibles around you, those Black Pew Bibles around you, you'll find our passage on page 838. And if you don't own a Bible, I want to offer that Pew Bible to you as a gift. While many religions have holy writings, we believe that the one true God has spoken only through the Old and New Testaments of the Bible and in his Son, Jesus Christ. And so we want you to have a copy of this word. So you should Feel free to take one of those Bibles with you. I'm going to go ahead and read the passage for us. Again, it's Mark chapter 3, verses 20 to 35. This is God's Word. Then he went home, and the crowd gathered again, so that they could not even eat. And when his family heard it, they went out to seize him. For they were saying, he is out of his mind. And the scribes who came down from Jerusalem were saying, He is possessed by Beelzebub, and by the Prince of Demons he cast out the demons. And he called them to him and said to them in parables. How can Satan cast out Satan? If a kingdom is divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand. And if a house is divided against itself, that house will not be able to stand. And if Satan has risen up against himself and is divided, he cannot stand, but is coming to an end. But no one can enter a strong man's house and plunder his goods unless he first binds the strongman. Then indeed he may plunder his house Truly, I say to you, all sins will be forgiven, the children of man, and whatever blasphemies they utter. But whoever blasphemes against the Holy Spirit never has forgiveness, but is guilty of an eternal sin. For they were saying, He has an unclean spirit. And his mother and his brothers came, and standing outside, they sent to him and called him. And a crowd was sitting around him, and they said to him, Your mother and your brothers are outside seeking you. And he answered them, Who are my mother and my brothers? And looking about at those who sat around him, he said, Here are my mother and my brothers, for whoever does the will of God, he is my brother and sister and mother. What trait characterizes the children of God God's children do God's will. God's children do God's will. How can I know that I am a children of God? Do you do God's will? How can I know if my neighbor down the street who says that they're a Christian, but I just I don't I don't see a whole lot going on in their life, how can I know that that they're actually a Christian? Do they do God's will? What trait characterizes the family of God? God's children do God's will. Let's look at the text I want you to notice two major surprises that the passage provides us this morning. And these are two major surprises because these are two groups of people that we would expect to be included in the family of God, but apparently who weren't. And the first group of people that we'd expect to be a part of God's family, but who may not be, are those who work in ministry. Being a pastor, a priest, an imam, a bishop, a Dalai Lama. A reverend, whatever you want to call it, does not automatically make someone a member of God's family. How do I know that? Look at verses 22 to 28. In verse 22, Jesus is apparently casting out demons again. So if you've been here through the study of the Gospel of Mark, you see that he's basically doing what he's been doing the whole time. He's going around preaching the gospel, he's healing people of sickness, and he's casting out demons. This is something he does regularly in his ministry. And we see in verse 22. What do we see there? That scribes have come down from Jerusalem. Now, this is important, right? Because Jesus has been dealing with the scribes in and around Capernaum. But now he's gotten the attention of the big dogs, right? These aren't any old scribes. These are scribes from Jerusalem. The best of the best, the top guns, the Navy SEALs, the top chefs. They're the ones who know God's word. And they they they would certainly recognize God if he was standing in front of them because they are scribes from Jerusalem. We work in ministry. This is what we do for a living. Jesus' fame had spread so far and wide that the religious authorities from the capital of Jerusalem have come to inspect his work. They want to see what he's all about. And when they see him cast out demons, what do they say? Look at verse 22. He is possessed by Beelzebub, and by the prince of demons he cast out demons. But they call him Beelzebub. Now honestly it's not exactly clear who that is because that name is used almost nowhere else in scripture and it's used Nowhere that people know of outside of Scripture. So they're not exactly sure who it is. But I honestly I think their second statement tells us who Beelzebal is Beelzebal is some demonic power that they believed, I would say a person, some demonic person that they believed ruled over the demonic realm. So I think it's a combination of two different things, the word Baal, which was used to refer to the Syrian gods, and the Hebrew word Zabul, which means prince or ruler Foreign gods plus ruler. This is the ruler of foreign gods, Beelzebub. And we even see that Jesus, if you look at the passage, you look at those verses, such as eyes scanned down, he even equates Beelzebub with Satan. So they are basically saying that Jesus is possessed by Satan. They're ascribing Jesus' power to cast out demons to Satan himself. This is ridiculous That's what you should think when you read this. It's ridiculous. And Jesus calls him out on it in verses 23 to 26. He points out how evidently ridiculous and irrational their reasoning is. Essentially, he says, that is ridiculous. If I'm empowered by Satan and I'm casting out demons, then I'm at war with myself. And who goes to war with himself? My kingdom will not stand. Then in verse 27, he tells them by way of an illustration where his power actually comes from. So look at verse 27. Satan is the strong man. This world is his house or his kingdom. And the people who are possessed by demons are his goods. And no one can bind the strong man, no one can possess his goods unless he first binds the strong man. And there is one strong enough to bind Satan, and that is Jesus Jesus is the only one strong enough to come into Satan's house and bind him and plunder his goods. And because they ascribe Jesus' work to Satan, Jesus sternly warns them in verses 28 and 29. He says to them, truly, I say to you, All sins will be forgiven, the children of man, and whatever blasphemies they utter. But whoever blasphemes against the Holy Spirit never has forgiveness, but is guilty of an eternal sin. What does this verse mean? I think this verse has understandably caused a ton of confusion throughout the centuries. People have struggled with The meaning of the text. What does it mean to blaspheme the Holy Spirit? And I think genuine believers have been anxious about whether or not they've committed the unforgivable sin, the eternal sin. But I think if we look carefully at the passage, there are some things that we can be confident about. First, Mark tells us what blaspheming the Holy Spirit is. First, before we look at this part, can any of the kids tell me what blasphemy is? Raise your hand if you think you know the definition of blasphemy. Anyone? In the back, what's your name? Sam, what is blasphemy? Cursing, yeah, and cursing in particular God. It's cursing against God and slandering his name. But Mark, again, he tells us what blasphemy of the Holy Spirit is. Notice in verse 30. He says For they were saying he has an unclean spirit. It's as though Mark knows that people are going to be confused by what Jesus says, and so he clarifies what Jesus is talking about Jesus and Mark are saying that blaspheming the Holy Spirit is to be so hard-heartedly opposed to God that a person would ascribe to Satan the work of God. It suggests a total perversion of the truth in order to deny the rule of God. And so when a person commits themselves to the utter opposition of God, to the point of not being able to distinguish good from evil or evil from good, light from darkness, or darkness from light, Jesus warns He's not telling them that they have done it. He's warning them against it. Jesus warns that that person is approaching the point of no return. That is a sin that will be punished eternally. So now, if you're here as a follower of Christ and you're worried in any way that you have blasphemed the Holy Spirit, let me encourage you that if you have repented of your sins and put your trust in Christ, Those things show that you haven't blasphemed the Holy Spirit, right? I think when I read this verse, I don't know if anybody else has this reaction, I tend to think there must be a specific formulation of words that if I say them, oh, that's it. I've done it. I like I can't be forgiven now. I I I said these words and it was blaspheming the Holy Spirit and now God won't forgive me But I don't think that's at all what Jesus is talking about. And I think we can use an illustration from Scripture to prove that point. Right? So consider this. The Bible says that if a person says, declares with their lips that Jesus is Lord, they will be saved. If I say Jesus is Lord, I will be saved. Well, the Bible is not saying that a complete atheist who remains in his or her atheism can say Jesus is Lord and be saved while come while while remaining opposed to God. Right? That's ridiculous. It's saying that when you say Jesus is Lord and you believe it and you've turned from your sins, that person will be saved So the person who is so hard-heartedly opposed to God, who remains in their opposition to God, that person is blaspheming the Holy Spirit. They ascribe to God the work of Satan It's not a particular formulation of words. It's a hard-hearted opposition that refuses to acknowledge the work of God in the person of Jesus Christ, which is exactly what those scribes are doing. And we shouldn't miss this. We shouldn't miss this. But Jesus is addressing this warning to the scribes. We need to recognize that throughout the gospels, Jesus' harshest words and sternest warnings are for those who are in ministry. Or for those who are in ministry, they mistook knowing about God for knowing God. Knowing about God and knowing God are two completely different things. And so there is a warning here for the elders of CBC. And any other man who desires to be an elder. Being a pastor does not necessarily make someone a child of God. If we're going to be known as pastors, as God's children, it won't be because we're recognized as elders, but because we do God's will. We turn from sin. We trust in Christ, and we take up our cross daily. But yet this warning isn't just for the elders, right? There's a lot of people in this congregation who've been walking with the Lord for a long time. And it can be really easy to think that we know everything there is to know about God. I think that's one of the problems with the scribes They thought there was every that they knew everything there was to know about God. They filled themselves up on Bible knowledge and Bible trivia, and they mistook that for a relationship with God, so much so that they didn't even recognize God in the flesh standing in front of them. So let us never make the mistake of thinking that because we know a lot about God, that we have a relationship with God. Let our relationship with God be shown in our evident humility. That we don't know everything there is to know about God. None of us does. And so my desire and prayer for us as a congregation is that we would be marked. By humility, a humility that recognizes that Jesus is Lord and not us. And a humility that commits itself to a life of growing in the knowledge of God. Being in ministry does not automatically make someone a member of God's family. Only those who do God's will are part of his family. And the second group, the second surprise here, the second group we'd expect to be a part of God's family, but who may not be, are our very own family members. Those of us who are Christians. Look at verses 20 and 21 with me. So Jesus has just called the apostles. He's given them their mission that they're going to go out and preach the gospel. And we looked at that a few weeks ago. He returns home to Capernaum, and such a large crowd gathers that he can't even eat. And his family up to this point has been hearing about everything that Jesus is doing from chapter 1 to chapter 3. He's going around preaching that the gospel has come in him, that the kingdom of God has come. He's calling people to repent and believe. He's telling people that he can forgive sins. He's calling himself the Lord of the Sabbath. He's healing people of diseases. He's exercising demons out of people, and his family has had enough of it, right? They're like this guy is tripping out. Enough is enough with our son. He's gone mad. He's lost his marbles. Who does he think he is? And so they go to seize him. So they're coming probably from Nazareth to Capernaum to seize him. They're going to grab them. We're taking you home right now. We are taking you and you are coming with us. And so they go out to seize him. Then Mark breaks it up, he pauses to address the scribes, which we just looked at, but then Mark picks back up in verses 31 to 35 to show what happens with Jesus' family when they arrive. Look there with me. Jesus' mother and brothers arrive at the home that Jesus is in, but such a large crowd is around him that they can't get in the house, right? So they have people in the crowd deliver a message. To Jesus to let them know that they're outside. But when the message arrives that his mother and brothers are outside, Jesus responds with a frankly odd response. Right? The crowd has no idea about the family of God. They're still learning about who Jesus is, and they say, hey, your mother and your brothers are they're outside. And Jesus says, Who are my mother and my brothers? Here are my mother and my brothers, right? I mean this is just that's excuse me? No, they they're outside. Your mother and your brothers are outside. We we're the crowd. We aren't your mother and your brothers. Right? But Jesus says, here are my mother and my brothers, for whoever, whoever does the will of God, he is my brother and sister and mother. Right? It's not by religious authority or by blood relationship to another believer that we become members of God's family. It's by doing the will of God. Notice even how Mark has communicated this just in the way that he has structured the passage. Look at how he set up the scene. In verse 31, where is Jesus' family standing? What does it say? Kids, where does it say? If you can. There are what where is Jesus' family standing? His mother and his actual mother and his brothers. Where are they standing in verse 31? Outside. But who's around him? The crowd. Jesus' actual family is outside, but the crowd is around him. Mark is even showing us the distinction. Between those who are outside and those who are inside. And we'll see next week in our sermon on the parable, Jesus will talk about how the parables are for those who are outside. But the secret of the kingdom of God is for those who are inside. Right? In John's gospel, you might be saying, wait, wait, you're telling me that Jesus' very own mother and brothers were not part of the family of God? That is what Jesus is saying. And in John's gospel, John says very clearly in chapter 7 that Jesus' brothers did not believe in him. They did not believe in him. Blood relationship does not result in spiritual favor. Blood relationship does not result in spiritual favor. So for the kids. When I was in middle school, I lived in Panama, and we were living in Panama because my dad had a pretty important job with the American embassy there. I can't tell you exactly what it was that he did, not because it was a super secret job, but because I just don't really understand what it was that he did. But I did know that it was an important job because We got a ton of perks. We got a ton of perks. We were given a gigantic condo to live in. I had a huge pool. a basketball court, a tennis court, a ping-pong table. I had all of those things and I had access to them anytime that I wanted. But not only that. We got to go to some really important places, and I got to go with my dad to some really important places. So I went to the president of Panama's house. I had dinner with him. I called him by his first name. I think that was a huge mistake, but I called him by his first name. I should have shown more respect to him. But not only that, when I went to school, I didn't ride the bus to school like all the other kids did. I had a driver, Mr. George. who took me and his land cruiser to school and picked me up every day. So I'm sitting over here like, oh, you kids got to get on the bus, but I got my driver coming up, right? Mr. George, he would pick me up from school every day And all of this, all of these perks were because of who my dad was. That is not the way that Christianity works. That is not the way that Christianity works. You guys have been given perks, privileges, you might say, right? You all have been given the amazing privilege of being raised to know God's word And to hear the gospel preached on Sundays and at your houses throughout the week. But even though your parents know Jesus And are part of his family, that doesn't mean you automatically become a member of God's family. To become part of Jesus' family, each of you has to personally choose to do God's will. Each of us individually has to do it. Your mom and your dad had to do it. Your mom and your dad don't get they don't get into heaven based on the other one's faith. We all have to personally choose to do God's will So you might be saying, what does it mean to do God's will? That's so vague. Everyone says that who believes in God. Who wouldn't say that Well, there are three things that the Gospel of Mark teaches about doing God's will. And we'll call them the three T's. They are turning, trusting And taking up what does it mean to do God's will? To turn, to trust, and to take up Here's where I'm getting that. The phrase, the will of God, is used only once in the Gospel of Mark. It's used nowhere else. So Jesus doesn't give us a a custom fit definition. Here's what I mean by the will of God. But I think if we look closely at the Gospel of Mark, as we've been doing the last few weeks, and as we'll Continue to do, we see that there are three things that dominates Mark that dominate Mark's gospel that define what it means to do the will of God. And so this isn't for the children, this is for all of us here. The first of those things is turning. To do the will of God means to turn from sin, right? So think back to chapter 1, John the Baptist. John the Baptist came preaching a message of Repentance for the forgiveness of sins. And then Jesus shows up. John says, Hey, just want to let y'all know someone greater is coming after me. I can't even stoop down to touch the thong of his sandals. I can't untie his sandals. Right? And then Jesus shows up. He has the miraculous baptism where the Father speaks from heaven and the Spirit descends on him. And what is the first thing Jesus does after he defeats Satan in the wilderness? He preaches a gospel. And what is the message that Mark summarizes? What is that? That's the summary of that message. Repent and believe For the kingdom of God has come. Repent. That means to turn from sin, to turn from the course of life that you're on, and to return to God's way and to walk in his paths, and to to return to God. You go the other direction. So doing the will of God involves turning. Turning from sin. Second, doing the will of God means trusting Trusting in Jesus for salvation. Repent and believe. Believe to trust in Jesus for salvation. All of Jesus' miraculous work, as we've been studying so far in the Gospel of Mark, is meant to drive us to believe and trust in Him. Why do you think Mark wants us to know that Jesus could heal a paralyzed person with a word? Because no one else in the history of mankind has ever done that. You can trust in him. Why does Mark want us to know that everywhere Jesus went, demons were falling down at his feet, saying, You are the Son of God, so that you and I would trust in him as the Son of God. When Jesus stills the storm in two chapters from now, when he says to the storm, be still, and it stops, he wants you to know you can trust me that even all of the forces of nature are under my control. We turn and we trust in Jesus. Everything is about teaching us to turn and trust in Him. And the third thing, the third thing. Is that we should take up our cross, taking up, that's the third way we do the will of God. Throughout the gospel, Jesus calls his disciples to follow me Simon and Andrew, James and John, Levi, the 12 apostles, 12 disciples, follow me. Follow me. They're going to follow him, which means they're going to walk on the path that he's on. And he's on a path to pick up a cross and to go to his death. So we too, to do the will of God, must take up our cross daily. The third thing that we see dominate the Gospel of Mark is teaching on what it means to be a disciple. And in the weeks to come, one of the most convicting things that I have found about Mark's gospel as I have been reading through it from cover to cover, even in order to prepare for weeks to come, is Jesus' teaching that those who want to be first are going to be last. Which means I'm going to be last because I want to be first. And that's not a compliment to myself. Right? It's like you must die to yourself. He is going to turn the world on its head. Those who are going to be who are going to be last, they're going to be first. But anyone who wants to be first, get to the back of the line. Right? He's going to teach us what it means to be a servant and to take up your cross and to follow him. The gospel is the message that all of us have sinned. All of us have fallen short of the glory of God. All of us have rebelled. We've been angry with our spouse. We've been angry with our kids. We've yelled at other people. We've taken things that aren't ours. We've lied. We've cheated. We've done all of the things that we shouldn't do. guilty when we do those things wrong, and God, in his just uh government of the world, will judge us for those sins because we are guilty. We stand condemned before him. But God, like a kind judge, has said, you know what You are guilty. You are going to pay. But I am going to get off this bench. I'm going to send my son to come live a perfect life, the life you should have lived. He's going to die in your place. He's going to bear the punishment for your sins. And if you turn and trust and take up your cross, you will be forgiven. You will be welcomed into the family of God. I will call you my child. That is the gospel, the good news, and that is for all who are here today. If you're a Christian and you think you need to move on from that message and now you need to study the I need to move to 300 and 400 level Christianity because I got the gospel. That's 100 level. No, the the gospel is PhD level Christianity. We never fully understand it. Give yourself to studying the gospel. That Jesus Christ would die in your place. Why would he die for me? I would never do that for another person. It's because I'm not like God. And God is merciful and kind. Now, if you're here and you're think you're you don't follow Jesus, you may be thinking that like we're like, all right, I could do those things I could turn and trust and take up, but you just think that there is no way, there is no way that God is going to forgive me for the things that I've done in my life. John, I get it. Like, thank you for offering this message to me, but I have done awful things. If that's you, let me point you in this passage to the mercy of God that we're describing. Do not miss the jaw-dropping promise in verse 28. Look at verse 28 again. Truly, I say to you Will be forgiven the children of man. Not some sins, not most sins, all sins Why do you think we could pray for Mr. Ramos who committed that horrible crime? All sins will be forgiven, the children of man. If they turn and trust and take up their cross. Do you think that God will not forgive you for what you've done this week? Of course He will. Why? All sins will be forgiven. All All. All. The only sin that won't be committed is denying to the day of your death that Jesus Christ is not God. How can you be saved from that? But all sins will be forgiven, the children of man. And how can you know? How can you know for certain that if you turn from sin and trust in Jesus and take up your cross, that your sins have actually been forgiven? How can you know that? Well, for the same reason that you should believe what Jesus says about God's family instead of believing what Muhammad said Or what Buddha said, or what anyone else said. And that is because three days after he was crucified, murdered, and buried, Jesus Christ performed the ultimate miracle. And got up from the dead. It showed that God accepted his sacrifice, showed that he was pleased with his sacrifice, showed that he accepted his sacrifice, and he also proved. That everything that Jesus taught is true. So, kids, as you grow up, you are gonna wonder why do we believe Jesus and not other gods? You believe Jesus and not other gods because there are no other gods because no one else has gotten up from the dead. Our faith is founded in the resurrection. When Jesus Christ got up from the dead, everything he taught proved true. Everything he said. And he said that if you wanted to be a member of God's family, All you needed to do was God's will. Turn. Trust. And take up. You should do that today. Do you want to be a member of God's family today? Do God's will. Turn from sin. Trust in Him. Take up your cross. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come before you this morning marveling that you would call us your children. See what kind of love the Father has for us that we should be called children of God. And so we are. Oh Lord, we rejoice in the adoption that you have given us through Jesus Christ. We pray. We pray, O Father, that those who are here who are not doing your will, who are not Turning from sin and trusting you and taking up their cross that they would do so today. And we pray that those who have done that would continue doing that. Oh, give us comfort. Give us joy. Give us love for one another, remembering that we are each other's family. Because we are part of your family. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.