Grace and peace, brothers and sisters. It's good to see you guys. Usually when I guest preach somewhere, I feel like a guest. Uh but here I feel like I'm with family. So there's Luke Murray and Jonathan Lehman and Sunshine Whiting sent me an email with like 40 exclamation points when she heard I was coming. It was like this is just like old times Um, all of that really is just a long way uh for me to say on behalf of CHBC that it is wonderful to see you guys We miss you guys. We're encouraged by you guys. Even just seeing this gathering. I mean, John, what an answer of prayer, brother. What an answer a prayer. But I think it's fitting and right as we begin this sermon to give thanks to God and pray as we ask Him to bless our time. So will you pray one more time with me? Let's pray together. Father, your word says that we are to enter your gates with thanksgiving and your courts with praise. For you are good, and you have been good to this church this year Would you let us know more of your goodness through your word now? In Jesus' name. Amen. How would you finish the following sentence? The year 2020 has been Fill in the blank. How would you fill in that blank Friends, a group this large could offer lots of different answers. And some of them would represent polar opposites. So you might say, for me, the year 2020 has been my best year. Someone else might say, for me, the year 2020 has been my worst. At the risk of speaking for you, though, I think most of us could agree, 2020 has been. A surprising year. That's how I would finish the sentence. Uh the year 2020 has been surprising. To say the least. Proverbs 27. 1 has never seemed more true. Do not boast about tomorrow, for you do not know what a day may bring. Even this past week I was emailing with Caroline Sazanit because originally the service was to be indoors, but then given COVID spikes, we had to move outdoors, and Caroline did a great job updating me as things were changing on the fly That you all as a church know to not boast about tomorrow, for we do not know what a day may bring. Proverbs 27:1 bears repeating In the Bible, we find obvious verses like that one in Proverbs, and we also find surprising verses. Like the one we'll look at in John 6. Before we turn there though, let me give you a breakdown of this sermon because, like our circumstances this past year, this sermon will be a bit different than a normal exposition. But what I'm going to give you this morning will be a meditation specifically on John 6. 37. And I'm going to look at that verse In light of an article from your statement of faith, specifically article six, which you can find on page six of your bulletin So I'm going to briefly explain this article, Article 6, and then we're going to focus in on one phrase of that article as we look at a word in John 6. 37. So again. I'll briefly explain this article and then I'm going to deal with a chunk of it as we deal with a chunk of John 6. 37. So here we go. Uh friends, the reason I think it's useful to think about your statement of faith is because it is the most important document in your church outside of Scripture. So visitors, uh, if you want to know what this church believes, the statement of faith is the best document for you to find. Uh it's on the church website Uh, I loved going to ChevrolyBaptist. org and right there on the front, it's service logistics and what we believe. Uh the members of this church may disagree on some things, even important things, but every member of this church believes the important doctrines in the statement of faith. And so the statement of faith is the chief document of unity within this church. Second only to the scripture it summarizes. And today I want to think with you all about Article 6 in your Statement of Faith on the freeness of salvation. It's an article that speaks to how widely God offers salvation. Friends, the good news of the gospel is not just that salvation is free, but that it's free to all. For all. Oh, let me just read the article for you now. Look at page six in your bulletin. Says, we believe the blessings of salvation are made free to all by the gospel. It is the immediate duty of all to accept them by a heartfelt, penitent, and obedient faith. Preventing this salvation is every sinner's inerrant depravity and rejection of the gospel, a rejection that aggravates a sinner's condemnation. Here's a summary of this article in a sentence. No one is barred from coming to God except those who reject God. No one is barred from coming to God except those who reject God. That's what sin fundamentally is: rejection of God. All of us. Have sinned. All of us are without excuse before God, and so we deserve God's wrath. Now, beloved, I recognize uh this is a hard word. But I have good news for you. This article we're considering today is not primarily hard, but sweet. How is that the case? Turn to John 6. John six. There we find Jesus who has walked on water And just miraculous miraculously fed 5,000 people. And he goes on to explain that he, not the food he supernaturally gave them, but he is their greatest need And yet his own people did not believe him. Which brings us to what Jesus says in our verse, John 6 37. Follow along as I read. The Lord says. All that the Father gives me will come to me. And whoever comes to me, I will never cast out Who ever comes to me, I will never cast out. Whoever comes to me Whoever. Friends, that word whoever is the is the word I want us to meditate on as we think about the blessings of salvation, which are made free to all by the gospel Those words to all are the chunk of Article 6 we'll meditate on. So if you're taking notes, circle that word whoever in John 6. 37 and those words to all in the first line of Article 6. Those are the words we'll think about as we meditate on the freeness of God's salvation. What can we learn from such meditation? Three things. Number one: anyone can come to Jesus. Point number one, anyone can come to Jesus. Jesus said, whoever comes to me. Not whoever cleans themselves up enough and comes to me. Not whoever has all their questions answered and comes to me with enough faith. Kids. Jesus doesn't say whoever is old enough And comes to me. No, kids, friends, Jesus simply says, whoever. Now, there are stipulations to be sure Uh to come to Jesus in no small part means we're signing up to do what he wants, even when it's not what we want, and we'll talk more about this later. But my but friends, my question for you now is this. Are you surprised by that simple word? Whoever. Does it arrest you that in an official document of your church you say the blessings of salvation are made free to all? That means anyone. Think about the worst sinner you know. If they're here, don't look at them, but just think about it And I would say if you were tempted to look at someone else, I would submit to you that the worst sinner you know is the person you see in the mirror. That said, I understand in normal human experience we all have a category for people who are obviously a mess. Who more obviously have a ton of sin in their life. Earlier I said all of us are sinners, and that's true, but it's also true that different sins lead to different natural consequences that manifest themselves. more evidently, more tragically. So I think of a recent person I met at Boxcar Tavern in Eastern Market. Many of y'all have been there. I had scheduled a lunch with a white man whom I didn't really know. So in he walks, and he is as old as a grandpa and as sweet as one too. You'd never guess it from looking at him now, but decades ago this man, Tom, was a member of the KKK. He hated black people. He bombed the homes of Jews. He served time in prison. Now, we would all agree Tom was a great sinner. But guess what happened? In prison, he came to faith in a greater savior, the Lord Jesus Christ Who radically changed his life. And at our lunch, Tom and I talked about how happy we were to be brothers. And friends, if there is hope for Tom There is hope for you. Anyone can come to Jesus. And my question for you, brothers and sisters, is this. Do you share the gospel as if that's true? Do you pray as if that's true? Who are some of your evangelistic yeah rights? Like if someone put a megaphone to your thoughts, we'd hear, yeah right. Will that person ever come to Jesus? You know Kimberly, that girl in my office who is always drunk on the weekend, you think she would come to Jesus? Yeah, right Well beloved, if I looked at Tom's life when he was terrorizing people, I would have said, yeah, right. But then again, if you would have looked at my life when I was a freshman in college, acting a fool, you would have said, you're right. If you would have looked at your pastor in his former life, you would have said, you're right. But Jesus says, whoever comes to me, anyone can come to Jesus And as John 6. 37 says, all the Father gives the Son will come. And the means the Father uses for them to come is people like us sharing the gospel. So pray for surprising people. Whether they be Emiratis in Dubai or family at the Thanksgiving dinner table, pray for surprising people. Scatter the gospel widely because after all, we don't know who belongs to the Father and who doesn't. Could be anyone, and anyone can come to Jesus. And that means Different people will come to Jesus. What can we learn from meditating on the freeness of salvation? Point number two, different people. Will come to Jesus. And Jesus said, whoever comes to me, not whoever among this particular political party And not whoever among this race or ethnicity, not whoever in this certain socioeconomic class, kids, not whoever gets these grades in school. No, kids, friends, family. Jesus said, whoever. Comes to me. Isaac and Tom. Shanita West and Chris Colbert. Arika Lipford and Kessid Brogi. Akhil Booker and Maya Reju. You get it. Different people come to Jesus. Beloved, God has always taught us that his Messiah would have a diverse following. In a passage you can check out uh this afternoon in 1 Samuel 22, we find King David on the run for his life. And the text says, and everyone who was in distress, and everyone who was in debt, and everyone who was bitter in soul gathered to him. Friends, all these different types of people gathered around David, not because he was nice on the harp, but because David foreshadowed the ministry of a greater king to come. Who would have a diverse following? The Jewish Apostle Peter and the Roman soldier Cornelius. You can read about that next 10. And thinking of Peter, I think we do well to think about Jesus' disciples. Because brothers and sisters, sometimes I think we can think of Jesus' disciples as if they were all cultural. When we just think about them in the abstract, like they were just Jesus' friends, just some neutral dudes But they were fallen humans, just like you and me. Which means they had backgrounds and cultures And jobs, and opinions, and preferences, and sin, which means they would wrongly elevate all those things about themselves Just think of Matthew, the tax collector, the slimy servant of the oppressor, Rome, and Simon, the zealot, the Robin Hood who worked against Rome Two different men who came to the God man, Jesus. And I love what our brother Garrett Kell said as he spoke about Jesus' diverse group of followers. He said. Matthew was a tax collector who loved Rome. Simon was a Jewish zealot who hated Rome. They came to Jesus with radically different political views, yet found unity in Jesus. Matthew learned to love Rome less. Simon learned to love Rome more They both learn to love Jesus most. Chevrolet Baptist May you love Jesus most. If you do, you will show a divided and dividing world, a different world. But friends, we can't do that if we wrongly divide from each other over our differences Brothers and sisters, let me ask you: have you cast out of your heart a fellow church member whom Jesus has welcomed into his heart? Because they differ from you Imagine this. Imagine your best friend is throwing a party, a feast, and at this party is your favorite fruit. So for me it's pepperoni pizza and Oreo milkshakes. Like I'm just like this part is gonna be good. Just imagine you're at your favorite party with your favorite food, your favorite music, your favorite people. As someone knocks at the door, you look up, expecting to see another person you love, walk in, and in walks your enemy. And to make matters worse, your best friend who's throwing the party invited them and walks over to them and gives them a huge hug. As big as a hug as they gave you. Friends, what would you be thinking? I'd be standing there, jaw dropped, pepperoni pizza falling out of my mouth, being like, what is happening? Now, imagine if I walked over to my enemy, grabbed them by the collar, and shoved them back out the door. My best friend Would rightly look at me and say, Isaac, who do you think you are? It is not your place to disinvite anyone from this party that you did not plan or pay for. But friends, isn't it scary how easy it is to throw people out of God's party, if only in our own hearts? When we don't like how they differ from us. When we, let's be honest, think we're better than them. Isn't that what we see in the prodigal son's brother in Luke 15? Isn't that what we see in Jonah scorning the Ninevite's salvation Friends, is it what you see in your own heart? If it is, repent And remember that greater than any of our differences are two things we all have in common. Number one, we're all made in God's image, and number two, we're all in desperate need of Jesus. So we might look at someone and think Republican, uh, Democrat, uh White, uh, young uh homeschooling family, uh We might say those things But Jesus says, whoever comes to me, anyone can come to Jesus Different people will come to Jesus. Which means finally, you can come to Jesus. And you should What can we learn from meditating on the freeness of salvation? Point number three, you can come to Jesus. And you should Jesus will never cast you out. In Psalm 27, that Psalm John opened this service with, the psalmist writes, My father and my mother. The most foundational relationships in his life, my father and my mother have forsaken me, but the Lord will take me in In 2 Kings 17, God explains the exile of Israel, saying he cast them out of his sight because of their sin. Friend, that is exactly what Jesus will never do to you if you come to him in faith. Why? Because he was already cast out of God's presence on behalf of all those who would trust in him by faith. On the cross, Jesus experienced to an infinite degree what Adam and Eve experienced after they sinned: Exile from fellowship with God. On the cross, Jesus, who lived a perfect life, the life you and I could never live, he died in the place of sinners by taking the wrath, the aggravated condemnation we deserve for our sins. And Jesus was raised three days later so that anyone who turns from their sins and trusts in him would be forgiven of their sins and welcomed into his fellowship forever. If you're here and you're not a Christian, hear this gentle but clear command from God, come. Stop trying to run your own life. Trust in what Jesus did on in the cross on the cross in your place. Come to him in faith today. Doesn't matter how young you are, how bad you are, how old you are, how rich you are Jesus says whoever, meaning you come And if you are a Christian, this is not a one-time deal. Like we come to Jesus and then we just go on with the rest of our lives. No, beloved, like the tide of the shore, we keep coming back to him for more. Brothers and sisters, we're only saved once, of course, but make no mistake, we keep coming to Jesus. We don't ever leave. Where else would we go? He has the words of life. What else would we do? He's done it all. I love in earlier in John 6, people ask Jesus, what must we do to be doing the works of God? Jesus answered them. This is the work of God, that you believe in him whom he has sent. In other words, believe in Jesus and keep believing in Jesus. Do you see the surprising simplicity? If you asked a bunch of successful suburban types who didn't have God's grace, hey, how do you do the work of God? You get all these complicated answers, full of ingenuity, but Jesus simply says, believe in me. And does it surprise you, beloved? The one who is so holy, Jesus, would always welcome you if you do. It should. It should surprise us. But then again, the more we get to know Jesus, maybe it's not so surprising after all We are weak. We are those who fear our faith will fail. But whoever we are If we are his, we will never be cast out. No, Jesus will hold us fast. Let's pray Father, we do pray that you would make the salvation of those who trust in you here. Wonderfully surprising to us yet again. Father, we pray that we would not write anyone off. Because as long as there is breath, there is hope. Cause us to share this hope widely. As you offer it freely. And pray for this church that you would bless their evangelistic ministry as they minister to all different types of people. In Jesus' name. Amen.