Well, good morning, friends. It is a pleasure, a privilege, and an honor to have this time together with you to open up God's Word. And to hear him speak to us from Paul's letter to the Colossians. As Joel mentioned, we are finishing our study through Colossians today. So what I want to ask you to do is go ahead and open your Bible now to Colossians chapter 4. I want to direct your attention to the final verses of Colossians 4. And what you see there in chapter four of Colossians, verse 16, Paul says. And when this letter, that is the letter that he just wrote to the Colossians that we've been studying, and when this letter has been read among you, Have it also read in the church of the Laodiceans and see that you also read the letter from Laodicea in obedience. To Paul's instructions here in chapter 4, verse 16, I'm going to read Paul's letter to the Colossians to us in its entirety So that as we close the letter off, we might be reminded of all the things that we've learned throughout, and we might see maybe more clearly how the entire letter hangs together. It's going to take me about 15 minutes to read through it, maybe 13 to 15. But there's a special wrinkle this morning in my reading of scripture. I want us to also read all of this together as a congregation, a part of it. So what I want you to do is if you have one of these Black Pew Bibles here, if you don't have a copy of the ESV In your hands. I want you to use this pew bible, because it's the ESV. It's gonna have the same language if you go if you have like the NIV or the NASV. Just gonna be slightly different interpretations on words, ultimately the same meaning. But when we read, I want us all to be reading the same words so that we are confessing our faith together. And just to give you a heads up What you guys are going to read together with me is in chapter 1, verses 15 to 20. And I want us to stand and read this together when we get to it. This is one of the most glorious passages about the preeminence of Christ in the entire New Testament, and we're going to treat this like our confession. of Christ's preeminence together this morning. So I'm going to start reading the letter. When I get to verse 14, I'm going to stop. Ask y'all to stand, and then we will read verses 15 to 20 together. Then y'all will be seated and I'll continue through the remainder of the letter. So Let's begin. Colossians chapter 1, verse 1. Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, and Timothy, our brother. To the saints and faithful brothers in Christ at Colasse. Grace to you and peace from God our Father. We always thank God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, when we pray for you, since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and of the love that you have for all the saints, because of the hope laid up for you in heaven. Of this you have heard before in the word of the truth, the gospel which has come to you, as indeed in the whole world it is bearing fruit and increasing As it also does among you, since the day you heard it and understood the grace of God in truth. Just as you learned it from Epaphras, our beloved fellow servant. He is a faithful minister of Christ on your behalf and has made known to us your love in the Spirit And so, from the day we heard, we have not ceased to pray for you, asking that you may be filled with the knowledge of his will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding. so as to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing to him, bearing fruit in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God. Being strengthened with all power according to his glorious might for all endurance and patience with joy, giving thanks to the Father Who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints in light? He has delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son, in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. Friends, let's all stand together and read verses 15 to 20. He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation For by him all things were created in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities. All things were created through him and for him, and he is before all things, and in him all things hold together. And he is the head of the body, the church. He is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in everything he might be preeminent For in him all the fullness of God was pleased to dwell, and through him to reconcile to himself all things, whether on earth or in heaven, making peace by the blood of his cross. Friends, you can be seated. And you and you Who once were alienated and hostile in mind, doing evil deeds, he has now reconciled in his body of flesh by his death in order to present you holy and blameless and above reproach before him, if indeed you continue in the faith Stable and steadfast, not shifting from the hope of the gospel that you heard, which has been proclaimed in all creation under heaven, and of which I, Paul, became a minister. Now I rejoice in my sufferings for your sake, and in my flesh I am filling up what is lacking in Christ's afflictions for the sake of his body, that is the church of which I became a minister, according to the stewardship from God that was given to me for you, to make the word of God fully known, the mystery hidden for ages and generations, but now revealed to his saints. To them. God chose to make known how great among the Gentiles are the riches of the glory of this mystery, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory. Him we proclaim, warning everyone and teaching everyone with all wisdom, that we may present everyone mature in Christ. For this I toil. Struggling with all his energy that he powerfully works within me. For I want you to know how great a struggle I have for you and for those at Laodicea and for all who have not seen me face to face. That their hearts may be encouraged, being knit together in love, to reach all the riches of full assurance of understanding and the knowledge of God's mystery, which is Christ. in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. I say this in order that no one may delude you with plausible arguments For though I am absent in body, yet I am with you in spirit, rejoicing to see your good order and the firmness of your faith in Christ. Therefore, as you received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in him, rooted and built up in him and established in the faith, just as you were taught, abounding in thanksgiving. See to it that no one takes you captive by philosophy and empty deceit, according to human tradition, according to the elemental spirits of the world, and not according to Christ. For in him the whole fullness of deity dwells bodily, and you have been filled in him, who is the head of all rule and authority In him also you were circumcised with a circumcision made without hands, by putting off the body of the flesh, by the circumcision of Christ. having been buried with him in baptism, in which you were also raised with him through faith and the powerful working of God who raised him from the dead. And you who were dead in your trespasses, and the uncircumcision of your flesh, God made alive together with him Having forgiven us all our trespasses by canceling the record of debt that stood against us with its legal demands. This he set aside, nailing it to the cross. He disarmed the rulers and authorities and put them to open shame by triumphing over them in him. Therefore, let no one pass judgment on you in questions of food and drink. Or with regard to a festival or a new moon or a Sabbath, these are a shadow of the things to come, but the substance belongs to Christ. Let no one disqualify you, insisting on asceticism and worship of angels, going on in detail about visions. puffed up without reason by his sensuous mind and not holding fast to the head, from whom the whole body, nourished and knit together through its joints and ligaments, grows with a growth that is from God. If with Christ you died to the elemental spirits of the world, why, as if you were still alive in the world, do you submit to regulations? Do not handle, do not taste, do not touch. Referring to things that all perish as they are used, according to human precepts and teachings. These have indeed an appearance of wisdom in promoting self-made religion and asceticism and severity to the body, but they are of No value in stopping the indulgence of the flesh. If then you have been raised with Christ Seek the things that are above, where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God. Set your minds on things that are above, not on things that are on earth For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ, who is your life, appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. Put to death, therefore, what is earthly in you, sexual immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry. On account of these, the wrath of God is coming. In these you two once walked when you were living in them, but now you must put them all away Anger, wrath, malice, slander, and obscene talk from your mouth. Do not lie to one another, seeing that you have put off the old self with its practices and have put on the new self which is being renewed in knowledge after the image of its Creator. Here, there is not Greek and Jew, circumcised and uncircumcised, barbarian, Scythian, slave free, but Christ is all And in awe. Put on, then, as God's chosen ones, holy and beloved, compassionate hearts Kindness, humility, meekness, and patience, bearing with one another, and if one has a complaint against another, forgiving each other. As the Lord has forgiven you, so you also must forgive. And above all these, put on love, which binds everything together in perfect harmony And let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts, to which indeed you were called in one body, and be thankful. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly, teaching and admonishing one another in all wisdom. singing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs with thankfulness in your hearts to God. And whatever you do, in word or deed, Do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through him. Wives, submit to your husbands as is fitting in the Lord. Husbands, love your wives and do not be harsh with them. Children, obey your parents in everything, for this pleases the Lord Fathers, do not provoke your children, lest they become discouraged. Bondservants, obey in everything those who are your earthly masters Not by the way of eye service as people pleasers, but with sincerity of heart, fearing the Lord. Whatever you do, work heartily, as for the Lord and not for men. Knowing that from the Lord you will receive the inheritance as your reward. You are serving the Lord Christ, for the wrongdoer will be paid back for the wrong he has done, and there is no partiality. Masters, treat your bondservants justly and fairly, knowing that you also have a master in heaven. Continue steadfastly in prayer, being watchful in it with thanksgiving. At the same time, pray also for us that God may open to us a door for the Word to declare the mystery of Christ. on account of which I am in prison, that I may make it clear which is how I ought to speak. Walk in wisdom toward outsiders, making the best use of the time. Let your speech always be gracious, seasoned with salt, so that you may know how you ought to answer each person. And these are our verses that we're looking at today. Tishekus will tell you all about my activities. He is a beloved brother and faithful minister and fellow servant in the Lord. I have sent him to you for this very purpose, that you may know how we are, and that he may encourage your hearts And with him, Anesimus, our faithful and beloved brother, who is one of you. They will tell you of everything that has taken place here Aristarchus, my fellow prisoner, greets you. And Mark, the cousin of Barnabas, concerning whom you've received instructions. If he comes to you, welcome him. And Jesus, who is called justice These are the only men of the circumcision among my fellow workers for the kingdom of God, and they have been a comfort to me. Epaphras, who is one of you, a servant of Christ Jesus, greets you, always struggling on your behalf in his prayers. That you may stand mature and fully assured in all the will of God. For I bear him witness that he has worked hard for you and for those in Laodicea and in Hieropolis Luke, the beloved physician, greets you, as does Demas. Give my greetings to the brothers at Laodicea and to Nympha and the church in her house And when this letter has been read among you, have it also read in the church of the Laodiceans, and see that you also read the letter from Laodicea, and say to Archipus, See that you fulfill the ministry that you have received in the Lord. I, Paul, write this greeting with my own hand. Remember my chains. Grace be with you. This is God's word. Thanks be to God. Well, friends, uh, before we dive into our sermon today, I just wanted to give an opportunity to open it up to all of you Uh after after having just read through the letter and perhaps having your memory jogged about things we've covered through this series in Colossians, I'd love to hear if anyone has anything that uh to share today about things they've learned been challenged by, convicted by, grown by through our study in this letter to the Colossians. I want to open that up to y'all. And that is also For teens, for kids, things that you guys have learned, I would love to hear from y'all. So if you just want to raise your hand or shout out something that has been helpful to you in this study, we'll take just a few minutes. We'll go, Adam, and then Akhil. There you go. We learn that our parents should be listened to because they might actually know something you don't. Very good, Adam. That's right. I wish my parents, I know my parents wish I would have learned that sooner. Akil. Yeah, so VBS, focusing on those verses. That's right. Yep. Anyone else? Don't be shy, Liana in the back. Amen. Yeah, letting the word dwell in us richly We'll take two more, Scott, and all the various ways that it works itself out. We see like in the New Testament throughout Paul's writings High theology always connects with practical living. Day-to-day relationships. The preeminence of Christ should change how we live every day. One more. Mm-hmm. Yeah, that's that's exactly right. We should be struggling on behalf of one another in prayer so that God would bless us and provide all the things that Paul talks about in his letter to the Colossians. Well, friends, we're gonna uh you can think about things that that blessed and encouraged you and share those with one another after the service. We're gonna go ahead and turn to our text for today. Let me pray briefly for us uh for wisdom uh and then we will dive in. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for Paul's letter to the Colossians and all that is contained in it. We pray that you would press home upon our hearts the preeminence of Christ. How all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge are found in him, how redemption is in him, how sanctification is in him, forgiveness of sins come through him. It's all about him. So help us to live lives that honor him by setting our minds on things above, putting off the old and putting on the new by the Spirit of God who dwells in us. And use this time to that end we pray in Jesus' name. Well friends, whenever whenever I get a chance to talk with friends who live in different parts of the of the country or different parts of the world, one of the things I always enjoy hearing about is what life in that part of the country or world is like and how it's different from life where where I live. So Leah and I visited friends in Santa Cruz, California earlier this summer, and I love learning more about all of the world-famous surfing breaks and all of the famous surfers who either lived there or spent time uh surfing there and what the culture and vibe of Santa Cruz is like Or hearing from one of our supported workers, Danny Spandler Davidson, earlier this summer, who shared with members of CBC about the cultural differences between living in America and living in the Asian context where he was ministering at the time. Or having the chance to interview Conrad Mbewe, a pastor in Zambia a couple months ago, and being fascinated by the fact that it's normal in Zambia, apparently. for complete strangers to sit down and meet, let's say on a on a on a public bus or something like that. And by the time they reach their their stop, they know about each other's families and backgrounds Because it's just the norm in Zambia to to talk to people that you don't know and get to know them. I'm like, oh, that is not what life in America is like. I pull out my cell phone as soon as I get on the subway or the metro or something like that. I love hearing about what life is like in different parts of the world. And I bring that up because our passage this morning gives us a glimpse into life. Not in a particular part in the world, but life within the kingdom of God. What is life like in the kingdom of God? I have six brief takeaways From these final verses about what life is like in God's kingdom, some of which have already been mentioned this morning by you all. If you're taking notes, I'm going to list the points as I go. Point one is the longest of all of them. They'll get briefer, shorter from there. What is life like in the kingdom of God? The first thing that we learn in these final verses is that life in the kingdom of God is marked by the mutual dependence of believers on one another. Now, obviously, before we get into this, obviously we're all ultimately dependent on God. But when God saves us, he brings us into a community of believers among whom we live out our faith and on whom we depend for all sorts of things. And we see that in our passage. I want you to go ahead and look at verse 7. Paul is in prison. He says at the end of the letter, remember my chains. He says earlier in the letter, I'm in prison. He's in prison in Rome. Paul's in prison, and so we see that he's dependent on Tishekus and Anesimus to deliver his letter to the Colossians. There was no email There was no text message. There was no way to call and say, hey, write this letter out as I speak to you. He had to write the letter and hand it to Tishicus and Anesimus for them to deliver the letter to the Colossians. Or look at verse 11. Paul describes being spiritually comforted and encouraged by other believers, not even an apostle. Is a bottomless pit of self-contained encouragement and comfort. He's dependent on others for encouragement and comfort in the faith. Or in verse 13, we see that Epaphras' ministry among the Colossians is in part dependent on Paul commending him to the Colossians That's why Paul speaks the way that he does about Epaphras, so that when Epaphras comes to the Colossians, they would receive him. They say, You have the seal, the approval of the Apostle Paul on you. And so now we are going to listen to you, possibly without the skepticism that we would have listened to you before. Or in verse 16, look there. The church in Laodicea is dependent on a woman nympha, who has opened up her home for them to gather there. This entire passage, when you take a step back and look at it Screams to us that life in the kingdom of God is marked by the mutual dependence of believers on one another. And the place where this mutual dependence between believers most clearly works itself out, the kingdom of God on earth, is the local church. The local church is where Jesus's people gather in committed relationships to love one another with so unique a love that Jesus says the world should know us by our love. The local church is where we seek to serve one another in the same way that Jesus came to serve us. The local church is where God's people live in mutual dependence on one another. I want you just to consider with me what this passage teaches us about life in the the local body. It should be normal. It should be a normal thing to both rely on others. and be relied on by others in the local church. And that, for both practical matters, can you take this letter from me to Colasse, because I'm in prison And in spiritual matters, I'm in prison in Rome. Will you come see me and comfort me and encourage me? I wonder, are you the type of person Who's willing to ask others for help? I'm not sure if it's an American thing or just a human thing. But lots of people today don't like to ask for help. But to not ask for help from fellow Christians in practical and spiritual matters robs the church body of the grace. Of serving one another in the same way that Christ served us. Not only that, but not asking for help seems to deny what I'm sure we'd all readily admit, right? Which is that we all need help. None of us has all the answers. None of us is perfect. None of us is omnipresent or omnipotent. So when you need help. In practical matters and spiritual matters, let me encourage you to reach out to the local church body, your body, for help And not only that, but when members of this church ask for help, I wonder if you're the type of person who can be relied on for help. Now that doesn't mean that you have to help every time someone asks. We're simply unable to do that because we are limited and finite and we have uh limited time and other obligations in our lives. So it doesn't mean that you have to help every time someone asks. It simply means that when you commit to help, you follow through to the best of your ability. Or being the type of person who can be relied on in a church body might also look like just knowing another person is in need and not waiting until they ask you for help, but showing up with that meal. or that gift card for a meal or that personal note of encouragement, right? We want to be the type of people who can depend on one another and live out the love that Christ calls us to. So if you don't have a copy of the book that Joel mentioned this morning that we're giving away for free on the book table, side by side by Ed Welch, I want to encourage you to grab that copy. And if you go to the table, you want a copy, and they're already gone Reach out to me and I will happily buy you a copy. It is one of the best books I know of for teaching church members how to practically love one another. and mutually depend on one another in the same way that we see commended in these final verses to the Colossians. We want to be the type of people who can depend on one another and live out the love that Christ calls us to, which also means That you need to be thinking about how you order your life. And whether the choices that you're making in life about where to work or where to live or where to go to school and so on Whether those choices are making it easier or harder for you to live out this mutual dependence on other believers, right? God intends for us. to live out our faith in the context of committed, loving, and mutually dependent relationships in the local church And so one of the main things that we should take into consideration as we make those larger life ordering decisions is will this decision Or how will this decision hinder or help my ability to be able to be a committed member of a local church where I can live out this mutual dependence that marks life in God's kingdom? And perhaps you're visiting with us today. I wonder if you have a church family that you're a part of. Mutually dependent on. A people that you're committed to and who you know are committed to you Right? The Christian life is to be lived out in the context of a local church. This is why you see in the book of Acts, when people come to faith in Christ, it says that they are added to the church. The church is God's kingdom. The outposts of God's kingdom on earth appear when believers gather gather together under the authority of Christ in his word To practice baptism and Lord's Supper, to hear his word preached rightly, right? That's where the kingdom of God appears on earth and the Christian life is to be lived out in the context of a local church. It's the people among whom God dwells through his spirit and whom he's called out to called to live out their faith in mutual dependence on one another. So if you're here and you've been visiting for some time and you're not a member of CBC, I want to encourage encourage you to consider joining. Right? Consider joining this church. We're holding membership classes next Sunday from 1230 to 4. 30 at my house. There's a should be a link in the bulletin to sign up for those classes. Attending doesn't obligate you to join, but it's a great way to learn about what we believe. How we intend to live in mutual dependence on one another, why you should join a church, and what life at CBC is like. But if you don't want to join CBC, that's totally okay. I just want to encourage you to join a gospel preaching church somewhere where you can live in mutual dependence on other believers. Because life in God's kingdom is marked by the mutual dependence of believers on one another. Again, that's the longest of the points. All the rest gets shorter from here. Second. We see in these final verses that life in the kingdom of God is marked by surprising relationships It's marked by surprising relationships. And those relationships are surprising because they're the types of relationships that wouldn't normally happen in the world What do I mean by that? Well, I want us to think about who's writing the the letter here. This is the Apostle Paul. So kids, hey, let me get your attention real quick. I want to see if you can help me with some Bible trivia going on here. Can any of the kids or teens tell me anything we know about Paul's background whatsoever? Do you know anything about Paul that you think is worth sharing? Bridget His old name was Saul. He wasn't a Christian. He was totally against God. And he wasn't a Christian. Bridget, can you tell me what was he if he wasn't a Christian? Okay. Cole? He hunted down Christians. He was so opposed to Jesus, right? Anyone else? What else do we know about Paul? Can anyone tell me what ethnicity was Paul? Any of the kids? What ethnicity was Paul? Lois? He was Jewish, right? He was a Hebrew of Hebrews. Think about how he described himself in Philippians. He was as Jewish as they come. Growing up, kids, was Paul an obedient kid or a disobedient kid? Do you know what he said about himself What do you think? Was he obedient or disobedient? Mercy? He was obedient as to the law, blameless Right? He kept all the rules. Paul was a really good kid and a really good adult. He did everything right. Can any of the kids tell me what type of education did he receive? Did he receive a really, really good education or a not so good education? In the back? Dorothy. Oh, really good education. He was trained by Galiel, right? One of the best Pharisees around who was able to teach Paul, all the nuances of Jewish law for understanding God's word. What was his profession, kids, when he got older? What was he before he became a Christian? A Pharisee, right? He was part of the religious elite in Israel. So you have a Jewish man, not just a Jewish man, but a Hebrew of Hebrews, as to the law, blameless, as obedient as they come. Trained under one of the most esteemed Pharisees in Israel, and was himself as zealous as they come, persecuted the church of Jesus. Now, this won't be a perfect analogy, but let's just bring this, try to bring this into our day. Imagine with me a young man born into a wealthy and esteemed family in the upper west side of Manhattan. Groomed for life in politics from the time he was little. Did everything right growing up. Graduated from an Ivy League school and is on the fast track to a life of political success. I bet. You could imagine with me and guess what type of friends that man would have in his life. Other people who were born into esteemed and wealthy families. Other people who graduated from Ivy League schools, other people who are on the fast track to success in their professional lives. But I want you to stop and notice Who Paul is surrounded by? Look at chapter 4, verse 7. Tishekus. What's up with that name? Tishekus is a Gentile from Asia Minor. Verse 12, Epaphrus, a Gentile from Colasse. Luke the beloved physician, maybe he's got something going on in his life. No, a gentile. Demas, a Gentile, and not just Gentiles. Look back at verse 9. Traveling with Tishekus is Anesimus, a Gentile slave. Paul is surrounded by Gentiles and slaves, and his relationships with these Gentiles isn't superficial. Look at what he says about them in verse 7. Tishekus is A beloved brother and faithful minister and fellow servant. Anesimus, the Gentile slave, is your faithful and beloved brother. So why would Paul, who was formerly a Pharisee, befriend Gentiles? Gentiles who he would have Formerly viewed as unclean and far beneath him and unworthy of being interacted with. An unclean people he we never associate with, and not just Gentiles, but slaves. Why would this Paul befriend them and now call them his brothers? The answer is the gospel. The good news of Jesus Christ crucified for our sins and raised for our justification That gospel opened Paul's eyes to the reality that all of his righteous deeds as a Pharisee, all of his blamelessness according to the law, were like filthy rags before the holiness of God. The gospel opened his eyes to the fact that he and a Gentile slave were no different in God's eyes. both equally made in the image of God and both equally fallen in Adam, but through God's mercy, both had been redeemed by God and were both being transformed into the glorious image of God's Son. Jesus Christ. And in Christ, there is neither Greek nor Jew, circumcised nor uncircumcised. Barbarian, Scythian, slave, free. But Christ is all and in All. Friends, Christ is all and in all. Look around this room at your fellow church members. Is Christ in them? Yes. If you've repented and trusted in Christ, if you've turned from sin and put your faith in him, Christ is all and in all, all equally worthy of being loved. Fellowship with, associated with, Jews and Gentiles, millennia's worth of enemyhood between them, wars and all of that going on between them. Now they are to Paul beloved brothers in Christ. In Christ, friends, we are built into a new spiritual family. And that spiritual family is filled with people with all sorts of differences Different ethnicities, different education levels, different upbringings, different professions, different interests, some of whom may have even been enemies in the past but who all now share the most important thing in common. And that is Christ. Christ is all and in all. And because we share the most important thing in common, it doesn't matter what differences there might be between us in the world's eyes, we have Christ together in common. You see, the gospel breaks down all the relational barriers that the world erects and turns people with nothing in common into brothers and And sisters in Christ. Paul even says in Ephesians that the gospel's power to unite Jews and Gentiles displays God's manifold wisdom, God's manifold wisdom to the rulers and authorities in the heavenly places. When people with little to nothing in common build loving relationships together, centered around Christ. God is glorified and the world is astounded. Right? The gospel explodes. Relational paradigms Our relationships here at CBC should make people shake their heads in disbelief. It should be normal for people who have nothing in common. And nothing to gain from one another to spend time together in the kingdom of God. It should be normal for members of CBC who have little to nothing in common to spend time together building relationships. Now, this is not to say that you shouldn't have friendships with people who you have thing things in common with. You absolutely should, that's normal. But if all of your relationships in the church are with people who are just like you, Then I think you're missing out on what it means to be part of a local church. Being part of a local church means loving people who are different from you, getting to know people that take a little more work to get to know and investing in people that you have absolutely nothing to gain. From. So I'd like you to take a look at your relationships. Even think about them now or after the service. How are you doing getting to know people you have nothing in common with here at CBC? Who can you strike up a conversation with after service that you don't know yet and maybe haven't even talked to? Who can you invite to lunch after church that you normally wouldn't think of inviting? Or maybe grabbing coffee with them? This week, you may find that some of those relationships turn out to be the sweetest because you have nothing to talk about but Christ. Life in the kingdom of God is marked by surprising relationships. But those relationships are between sinners who still sin Which brings us to the third thing we see about life in the kingdom of God. Life in the kingdom of God should be marked by a willingness to forgive. I want you to look at verse 10. Paul says. Aristarchus, my fellow prisoner, greets you, and Mark, the cousin of Barnabas, concerning whom you have received instructions. If he comes to you, welcome him. This is the same Mark in the book of Acts, chapter 15, who 12 years earlier fell back from the gospel work going on in Pamphylia. And was the cause of a sharp dispute between Paul and Barnabas, which led to them parting ways with each other for what we know to be the remainder of their ministry. But that dispute that Mark caused also would have caused relational damage between him and Paul as a result. But now. Twelve years later, that same Mark is on Paul's ministry team. And Paul is commending him to the Colossians so that they warmly receive him when he comes. It it's even possible that Paul is commending Mark because Mark had abandoned him all those years earlier, and the Colossians may have heard about it, and might have been s suspicious of him when he came. Yet rather than harboring bitterness, carrying around anger or holding a grudge, Paul forgave Mark. And we shouldn't be surprised that he forgave him though, right? Should we? What did he tell the Colossians in chapter 3, verse 13, about what it looks like to put on the new self? It looks like Bearing with one another. And if one has a complaint against another, hey, you fell back from me in pamphylia. You left my side when I was going to do the gospel work. If one has complaint against another, forgiving each other. As the Lord has forgiven you, so you also must forgive. Paul practices what he preaches Kids, how many times should we forgive our brother who sins against us? Seven times How many? Jack? Seventy times seven, right? Infinite amount. We should forgive constantly, right? To the teens here today. How are you doing forgiving others? Are you carrying around anger? Are you holding a grudge? Are you harboring bitterness towards anyone? One author said bitterness is like drinking poison and waiting for the other person to die. Your bitterness isn't gonna kill them. It's gonna kill you. Bitterness will destroy you. Teens, is there anyone at school who slighted you, left you out, insulted you What would it look like for you to forgive them? To the adults, life in God's kingdom should be marked by forgiveness. We forgive as the Lord has forgiven us. Perhaps you're angry at someone in your life right now, maybe a family member, extended family member, a spouse, a child, a coworker. And maybe you're angry at another member of this church for something they did or failed to do. Even something as serious as Mark abandoning Paul when he was going to preach the gospel. Have you forgiven others as the Lord has forgiven you? And we don't want to be like the wicked servant who, after being forgiven of a debt that he could never have repaid, Went out and demanded repayment from another servant for a debt that was inconsequential in comparison. Life in God's kingdom in the local church should be marked by a willingness to forgive. Fourth, we also see that it's marked by a need for perseverance. We must endure in the faith if we're going to receive the inheritance that God has prepared for us. Where do we see that? Look with me at verse 14. Luke, the beloved physician, greets you, as does Demas. Now it's obvious this verse doesn't say anything about perseverance, but it is a great example of the need for perseverance in the kingdom of God. Because five years after wrote Paul, after Paul wrote this letter to the Colossians, Paul would write his final letter to Timothy. And in that letter, he would tell Timothy in chapter 4 that this same Demas walked away from the faith because he was in love with the world Friends, we must persevere in putting to death the love of the world in our lives. We must persevere in putting off the old self, as Paul calls it in chapter three. And we can't fall prey to thinking that proximity to a thriving Christian or ministry is a substitute for our own personal perseverance in the faith. Demas was on Paul's ministry team. If anyone was set up for success, it was him And yet he still didn't guard his own heart from the love of the world. Friends, are you guarding your hearts Against the love of the world. I want you to realize when it when it when it comes to John's instructions in 1 John 3, do not love the world or the things of the world for the desires of the world and the pride of life, right, the lust of the flesh, right? When it comes to loving the world as as Christians, typically the love of the world doesn't break down our levees in one massive storm. You know, these hurricane waves come in and it just collapses all at once and we yeah I didn't see that coming from anywhere. No, that that that's not what the love of the world is like in our life. I trust that's not what the love of the world was like in Demas's life that led him away From the faith. Instead, the love of the world slowly erodes our love for Christ through everyday cycles of allowing the tide of the love of the world to creep higher and higher on the shores of our Faith. It's subtle. It's slow. You would need a time-lapse camera to see it spiritually happen in real time. Just so that it would make sense. Otherwise, it would just seem like nothing's happening. But the love of the world slowly erodes our love for Christ. I wonder if there are things that Paul tells us to put off, like all forms of sexual immorality All forms of anger, all forms of sinful speech that you're increasingly comfortable with in your own life. Maybe you find yourself wanting to look away. Think of a dirty bedroom. Maybe you just find yourself, I'm just going to ignore that And pretend like that pile just doesn't keep growing, right? Are there things that you just, wow, I felt like I was convicted of this sin in the past, but Kind of okay with it now. Just really not concerned about my my heart. Just kind of don't want to look at that area of my life. Right. I'm guessing Demas did the same thing. I'm guessing he noticed certain affections for the world growing while his love for Christ was waning. Friends, let Demas be an example to us that we all need to persevere In putting off the old and putting on the new. Friend, if you're struggling with sin and you fall into sin, this isn't to say that you failed in doing that. We all still sin. If anyone says he has no sin, that man is a liar and the truth is not in him. We all still struggle. The issue is when that struggle no longer becomes a struggle Just becomes the way that things are. If you're still struggling, still walking in the faith, you're still fighting the good fight, keep fighting. The inheritance that we're walking towards, the full realization of the kingdom of God is completely worth it. Right, keep persevering and putting off the old and putting on the new. Life in God's kingdom is marked by the need for perseverance And if we're going to persevere, we need to rely on God's word. That brings us to the fifth thing that we learn about life in God's kingdom. It's marked by a reliance on God's word. Look at verse 16. When this letter has been read among you, have it also read in the church of the Laodiceans, and see that you also read the letter from Laodicea. Now you you may be wondering, why why my why doesn't my Bible have a New Testament letter called Paul's letter to the Laodiceans in it? Paul wrote a letter to them. Where is it? Well, scholars and commentators who look at this issue think that there's possibly two main reasons. It's possible that the letter to the Laodiceans is actually the letter to the Ephesians. The names of the letters came later. Paul didn't say like this is my letter to the Ephesians, even though he addressed them. Ephesians uh Ephesus was in the same vicinity as Laodicea, and it's possible that his letter to the Laodiceans is actually his letter to the Ephesians. But it's also possible that in God's providence, it was lost to history. We just don't know. But what we do know is that we need to rely on God's word. And this isn't the only place that God com uh that Paul commands the reading of God's word in 1 Timothy. Paul tells him to give himself to the public reading of God's Word. We need to hear God's word read week in and week out, not just preached on. But read, declared from the front, right? When we read scripture in our services, it's a visible representation of God's power as the God who speaks. Who brings all things into being and sustains all things in being, all through the power of his word. And it visibly represents our dependence on his word. as we sit silently like parched and dry soil waiting for the spring rains of God's Word to fall on us as it's read each Sunday. And then we return to those life-giving waters by taking up God's word throughout the week. Right? We have a trampoline in my backyard. The kids love it and I love that they love it. But what I don't love about my trampoline is that wherever I put it in the backyard The grass underneath that thing eventually dies because it doesn't get any water. The water spreads off the side and it doesn't get any sunlight. So I've got to get out there like every three or four days. and move it around and because I try to be consistent, I commit I'm gonna do it this week, but I have big patches of dead grass in my backyard because I inevitably just let it sit for way too long. Friends, I wonder what the trampoline in your life is that's keeping you From opening God's word and letting the light of it shine on your soul each day. We can't go along. We are like the grass of the field, right? The grass withers, the flowers fade. We're like grass. We need sunlight and water every day How can you remove the trampolines in your life so that you might receive the light of Christ through God's word? It doesn't have to be much. What did it take me? 15 minutes to read this letter. You could do that. You could read a whole letter out loud to yourself each day. Or even shorter. Just read a chapter. But we want to be taking in God's word, life in God's kingdom. Is marked by a reliance on God's word, and God's word tells us of the riches of his grace to us in Christ Jesus. And that brings us to our sixth and final point. Life in God's kingdom, friends, is marked by grace. From beginning to end. Look at the end of verse 18. The end of the letter. Grace be with you. This is the same way that Paul started the letter. Grace to you and peace from God the Father And our Lord Jesus Christ. Now at the end of the letter, Grace be with you And the reason that he begins his letter and closes his letter with God's grace is because life in God's kingdom begins and ends with God's grace. Kids, how how would y'all define God's grace? What would you say that God's grace is? What is it? Cooper? Forgiveness. And would you say that we earn that forgiveness, that we deserve it? No. Yeah, we we don't deserve right. God's grace is what we call his unmerited favor. Shylin, uh in one of his songs uses grace as an acronym and he defines God's grace as God's riches at Christ's expense. We receive the riches of God because Christ died in our place. It's by grace, friends, that God's word has come to us and produced the spiritual fruit of salvation and sanctification. It's by God's grace that we're filled with the knowledge of God's will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding It's by God's grace that we believe that Jesus is the preeminent ruler of all creation. It's by God's grace that we've been reconciled to God. Through the death of his son. It's by God's grace that we who were enemies were made God's friends, and it's by God's grace that we will be presented holy and blameless before the throne. Friend, if you're here today and you don't understand yourself to follow Jesus, God holds out that grace to you today. Even though you and I have sinned and fallen short of his holy standard and are under God's judgment, God graciously sent his son Jesus. into the world as an atoning sacrifice for our sins so that whoever believes in him would have eternal life. And for those who've trusted in Jesus, That grace is always on tap for you. Have you begun thinking that after having believed, you now need to earn God's favor? Have you forgotten that all your obedience flows from grace? It doesn't secure or earn grace. So friends, if you've failed to obey God this week as you should, God says to you, grace be with you. My grace to you. Turn to Christ again. Repent again. Stand in the grace that He has secured for you by His own perfect life, death, and resurrection God's word to his people begins and ends with grace. God's kingdom is a glorious place to live The gates of his kingdom are open to all today through faith in Jesus Christ, but those gates won't remain open forever. God has given us this life only to put our faith in Christ. And to all who do, those gates will open to an eternal life in God's fully right realized kingdom that will far surpass All of our wildest imaginations. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your grace, and we pray that you would help us to walk in that grace and live out all that you've commanded and called us to do in the book of Colossians because of The grace that you have shown us in your Son who is preeminent over all creation. And we pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen.