If you have your Bibles with you, I want to encourage you to go ahead and open to Isaiah chapters 52 and 53. If you're using the Bibles that we've provided to you, you can find our passage on pages 613 and 614. And also, if you don't own a Bible, we would encourage you to take the Bible that we've provided as a gift from us to you, especially during this Christmas season as we're thinking about the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ. There's no greater gift that we can give to you than a copy of God's word, which tells us not only about Christ's life and his death and the purpose, but also the great predictions. in the Old Testament that point us forward to and prepare us for the coming of God's very own Son. So please do take one of those if you don't have one of your own. Today we come to the fourth and final sermon in our current Advent series in Isaiah. We've been looking at four passages in Isaiah that are traditionally known as Servant songs. These servant songs predict the coming of a servant who was given the mission by God of bringing salvation to God's people. We saw that predicted in the first two servant songs. So three weeks ago in Isaiah 42, we saw that the servant was given the mission of establishing justice in all the earth. He was sent to restore right order to all of creation. Then in Isaiah 49 we saw that he would do that by bringing God's message of salvation, like a sword coming out of his mouth He would bring God's message of salvation not only to the people of Israel, but to the whole world. Yet in Isaiah 42 and 49, we receive clear signals that the servant's work will be marked by difficulty. He would labor in vain, apparently. And in the third servant song, last week In Isaiah chapter fifty we found out that the difficulty he experiences comes in the form of personal humiliation Persecution and physical suffering. But even in Isaiah chapter 50, we're left wondering why? Why would the servant, God's Chosen servant who would bring salvation to the world, why would he suffer in this And what we realize when we come to the last servant song, our passage this morning, is that these four servant songs form a mosaic When you line them up together and read them together, it tells the the whole story of the servant, of why he came to establish justice. how he came, he came tenderly, not lifting up his voice, that he would face persecution and suffering. His beard would be ripped out, his face would be spit upon. And then we find out why Why all those things would happen in our passage this morning. Our passage reveals not only why he suffered, but shows us how God would use his suffering to accomplish a salvation. That the servant was sent for. Now in past weeks, before we dive in, I just want to mention this. We've talked about how there is qu there were questions and still are questions about uh among some people about who the identity of this servant is. Uh in the Old Testament, the servant is called Israel. The nation of Israel is called God's servant. This Great group of people, they're called God's servant. The prophet Isaiah is called God's servant. Other Israelites who were faithful Israelites, they were also called God's servants. But as we looked at each of these servant songs the last three weeks, we've talked about how none of those people, not the nation of Israel, nor any individual Israelite, fits the description of this servant. It cannot be any of those because this servant is innocent. He is perfectly righteous. He never rebels unlike All of those people that we've already named, and what we'll see some more this morning, are some of the specifics that make it clear that this servant cannot be any of those people, but must be a unique individual. So we're going to look now at Isaiah chapter 52, verse 13, all the way through the end of chapter 53. I'm going to read that for us now, and then we'll dive in. This is God's word. Behold, my servant shall act wisely. He shall be high and lifted up and shall be exalted As many were astonished at you, his appearance was so marred beyond human semblance, and his form beyond that of the children of mankind, so shall he sprinkle many nations. Kings shall shut their mouths because of him. For that shw that which has not been told them they see, and that which they have not heard, they understand Who has believed what he has heard from us? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? For he grew up before him like a young plant. And like a root out of dry ground he had no form or majesty that we should look at him, and no beauty that we should desire him. He was despised and rejected by men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. And as one from whom men hide their faces, he was despised, and we esteemed him not. Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows Yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God, and afflicted. But he was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace, and with his wounds we are healed. Oh, we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned every one to his own way, and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. He was oppressed, and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth, like a lamb that is led to the slaughter, and like a sheep that before its shears is silent, so he opened not his mouth. By oppression and judgment he was taken away. And as for his generation, who considered that he was cut off out of the land of the living, stricken for the transgression of my people? And they made his grave with the wicked and with the rich man in his death, although he had done no violence, and there was no deceit in his mouth. Yet It was the will of the Lord to crush him. He has put him to grief When his soul makes an offering for guilt, he shall see his offspring. He shall prolong his days. The will of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. Out of the anguish of his soul he shall see and be satisfied. By his knowledge shall the righteous one, my servant, make many to be accounted righteous. and he shall bear their iniquities. Therefore I will divide him a portion with the many, and he shall divide the spoil with the strong, because he poured out his soul to death, and was numbered with the transgressors. Yet he bore the sin of many and makes intercession for the transgressors This is God's word. In order to help you see the sheer majesty of this passage. To help you see the beauty of this passage, I want to take a step back with you before we dive into this passage and help you to see how it fits into Isaiah's broader scheme. We've talked about in the past few weeks how Isaiah's book, the 66 chapters of his book, are divided into two parts. The first 39 chapters are a message of condemnation. It's God's promise to the people of Israel that He is going to send them into exile in Babylon, because they have repeatedly and flagrantly and without repentance continued in sin against him. And so he sends Isaiah to them to let them know This judgment is coming. There will be no turning back. It is coming. Chapters 1 to 39. Then in chapter 40, there is this sudden turn. God's message is not always just judgment. It's always with judgment. He also provides a way out. He provides a message of hope. So from chapters 40 to 66, there is a message of comfort. The very first words of chapter 40, comfort, comfort my people. When you read this book, you should say, what How is this possible? This message of judgment immediately turns to one of comfort. Here's why I'm pointing this out to you. The last 27 chapters of Isaiah's book begins where the New Testament begins and ends where the New Testament ends. Sometimes these chapters are referred to as the fifth Gospel because they so clearly proclaim God's merciful and gracious salvation to the whole world I said in chapter 40, that chapter 40 begins where the New Testament begins because verse 3 of chapter 40, a voice cries in the wilderness. You turn to the New Testament, Mark chapter 1, verse 2. A voice cries in the wilderness. Mark saying, The prophecy in Isaiah of comfort coming to God's people in the form of the Lord appearing in the wilderness is coming true. It begins where the New Testament begins, and it ends where the New Testament ends. Chapter 66, verse 22 of Isaiah: for behold, the new heavens and the new earth are on their way. Go to the end of the New Testament, Revelation 21, 22. For behold, the new heavens and the new earth descend from heaven. Why am I pointing this out to you? Well, because of the 27 chapters that make up the last part of Isaiah's message. His message of comfort, those chapters are broken into nine equal sections. Chapters 40 to 48 proclaim salvation to Israel from exile in Babylon Chapters 49 to 58 or 4057 proclaim God's message of salvation to all of mankind. And then the last nine chapters. Proclaim God's message of redemption to the created world from the curse that is upon it for sin. Three equal sets of nine chapters. And then right in the middle of the middle nine, at the heart of God's message of salvation to Israel, God's salvation to all of mankind, and God's redemption of creation from the curse is chapter. 53 and at the heart of chapter 53, this message of the suffering servant, you read these verses. He was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace. And with his wounds we are healed. You lay out the last 27 chapters of Isaiah's book, which proclaims God's salvation to all of creation, and the very middle of the book. Is the atoning sacrifice of God's suffering servant. It's like he's saying to you: everything that happens in this chapter is what my salvation will be built upon. When my suffering servant dies for sin, Israel will be rescued. Mankind will be rescued, and creation will be redeemed. If you have any questions about what Jesus died for, you will hear people talk about how Jesus died as an example to us. About how Jesus died to teach us how to live. That is true. He does teach us how to live. But if you do not understand the gospel of Jesus Christ to hinge on His atoning substitutionary penal sacrifice in your place. Condemned he stood. That is the heart. of the gospel it is the heart of Isaiah's gospel it is the heart of the gospel in the New Testament it is the heart the beating heart of salvation Isaiah 53 You walk through this passage and you walk up to the mountain peaks of Scripture. This is arguably the most important passage in the entire Old Testament. Apart from Genesis 1:1, God created all things, Isaiah 53 is a mountain peak. And from there you look out to Romans 8, and from there you look out to Revelation 21. We are standing in the presence of God's glory today in His Word. We could spend weeks in this passage. And I've got like 30 minutes left. So we're going to try to do this. We're going to try to look at it. But the reason I wanted to point all that out to you is to show you that the main point of this passage today is that the suffering of God's servant For the sins of his people is the defining act that makes salvation for mankind possible. The suffering of God's servant for the sins of his people is the defining act that makes salvation for all of mankind possible. And we're going to look at this passage in three different points. We're going to look first at the servant's life, then at the servant's death, and then finally at the servant's resurrection. So first, the servant's life. Right, in the first two servant songs, we learn that the servant was being commissioned by God to carry out an expansive mission of bringing salvation to all of the earth. And with such an expansive mission, one would expect the servant to be a physically imposing person, a person who's kingly in his stature. Who else would say, you know, who else would come to to carry out God's justice on the earth but someone who is evidently a king, right? Someone like a LeBron James type figure, like just beast mode, right? That's what you'd expect. But what we find is that the servant was totally unremarkable. Look at chapter or chapter 53, verse 2 And the first half of verse 2, Isaiah describes him like a small plant or root coming out of the ground And the fact that he describes him as growing from the ground is a way of saying that he's made out of the same stuff that you and me are made out of. But you'll recall in Genesis 2 that God makes Adam out of the ground, out of the dirt, the dust And the servant will be made out of the same. He'll be a man just like us, and a physically unremarkable man at that. He's like a tender shoot or a root that grows out of the ground. He's not going to be a redwood. He's not going to be a sequoia. Right? He if he was growing in your backyard, you'd probably cut him down without thinking twice and toss him in your Lowe's yard waste bag and then put him out on the curb That's the type of guy he's going to be. You just, oh, look at that little weed. I'm just going to hack that down. Let me toss it in the bag. I'm going to go about my business. You're going to overlook him. You're just going to, huh? No. Just pass right on by him. Totally unremarkable. And that's why you see Isaiah in the second half of verse 2. He emphasizes there's absolutely nothing about his physical appearance that would draw any attention to him. No form, no majesty, no beauty. So it's like saying today, if he showed up in our service today, sat somewhere in the back, you probably wouldn't notice that he came in. And if you did notice after the service, you'd probably be like, hey, see that you see that guy who came in just sitting in the back? Well what did he look like? I think he had a beard. I don't know if he had a beard. I can't really imagine. Did you did you see him? I didn't see him. It's totally unremarkable. Passes by all of our notice But there's something else also going on here in this description of the servant that I don't want us to miss. It's like God is nudging us ever so slightly to pay attention. Look at verse 50 or chapter 52. Verse 13. He says, God says, Behold, my servant shall act wisely. That is, his wisdom will lead to his success in carrying out his mission. But then he says, He shall be high. and lifted up and shall be exalted. Now if you're familiar with the book of Isaiah, then you'll remember Isaiah's astounding Vision of God Himself in chapter 6. What does Isaiah say about the Lord Sitting on the throne when the trail of his his uh his robe fills the temple. What does he say about the Lord Himself? Listen to how he describes God. In that year, King Uzziah died. I saw the Lord sitting upon a throne. Now, kids, kids, real quick, any of you, what type of people sit on thrones? What Kings kings sit on thrones. Great job, Cooper. Kings sit on thrones. The Lord is a king And now listen to what Isaiah says about him. In the year that King Uzziah died, I saw the Lord sitting upon a throne high and lifted up. The exact same description of the Lord seated upon his throne is the description that is given of this servant. He will be high and lifted up and greatly exalted. That is a way of saying the servant will be God himself. He shares in the attributes and nature of God. Yet he'll be a man who grows out of the ground like a root. He'll be totally unremarkable, and yet he'll be a king How would this happen? How would this how would this come to pass? You can imagine how this would have baffled Isaiah. And if it wasn't baffling enough, notice what else we learn about his life. It would be a life of sorrow and rejection. Look at chapter 53, verse 3. Notice the repetition. He was despised, rejected. Men hid their face from him. He was despised. We esteemed him not. That means he wasn't worth anything to anyone. People looked at him They accounted his value and they came up with a value zero. He is worth nothing. He is a nobody. That's why Isaiah calls him a man of sorrows in verse 3. He's acquainted with grief. He's used to being treated like he's nothing. That's not to say that he'll be somber or morose, but that he'll know what it's like to be overlooked. To be rejected, to feel like you have no value, to feel like people want nothing to do with you. I wonder if any of you feel like that today. You know what it's like to feel rejected? You know what it's like to feel like nobody thinks you have any value? Be a total outcast. Maybe you're experiencing sorrow or grief for another reason. Maybe you've lost a loved one Or your health is failing, whatever it might be that would cause you sorrow and grief. I want you to understand when you look at this passage, the servant This coming God man, this unremarkable king, he would experience sorrow and grief as well And he would know what you were going through. He would he would know what that experience is like. And he would know harsh rejection from his very own people, rejection that would lead to a tragic and terrible death. Which brings us to our second point, the servant's death. We learn a number of different things about his death in our passage. The first thing that we learn is that his death will be terrible. Notice the various descriptions. Look at verse 5 of chapter 53. He'll be pierced. He'll experience some sort of death blow from a sword or spear or other sharp object. Then notice the second line of verse 5. Not only will he be pierced, he'll be crushed. He'll be trampled down like wine, like grapes in a wine press. And look at the last verse of the last line of verse 5. Right before verse six, he'll suffer suffer multiple wounds. With his wounds, plural, we are healed. Now look back at chapter 52, verse 14. He'll be pierced. crushed and wounded so many times that he won't even look like a human being anymore. People will be astonished at him. That is to say, they will be appalled when they see him They will look at him and think, oh my gosh, that does not even look like a human being anymore, which is why they will hide their faces from him They can't even not look at him anymore. His death will be so terrible. And not only will his death be terrible, it will be unjust. Look at verse 8. By oppression and judgment he was taken away. When those words are linked together, they describe an unjust act That led to him being taken away. And it's unjust because he did nothing to deserve it. Look at the second half of verse 9. He had done no violence, nor was any deceit in his mouth. Think back to the servant song if you were here last week where the servant says, I was not rebellious. I turned not backwards. In contrast to the nation of Israel, who in chapter 1 of Isaiah we find out has been rebellious and has turned backward from the Lord. The servant will be innocent. The picture that's coming into view is of a completely innocent man being unjustly arrested, unjustly sentenced, and then taken away to be brutally tortured and murdered. He won't even look like a human anymore. But we also learn the bewildering truth about his death that it was planned by God. Look at verse 10. Yet it was the will of the Lord to crush him. He has put him to grief. You gotta understand, like when Isaiah wrote this, there's no New Testament He's probably writing this and then reading it after he writes it, thinking, what? What? It's the will of the Lord to crush him? But it's not only the will of the Lord to crush him. You read this passage, you also see that the servant agrees with the plan. Look at verse 7. He was oppressed and afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth. Like a lamb that is led to the slaughter, and like a sheep before it cheerers is silent, so he open not his mouth. Remember last week's servant song, we said that the servant Would set his face like flint to the suffering he would endure. He was resolved to endure this suffering because he knew that his mission to bring salvation to all of the earth would include this suffering. He's not going to cry out for a fair trial. He's not going to speak out against the injustice he would suffer because it was part of the plan. of God's will for him to bring salvation to the world through his suffering servant. And the servant agreed with the plan. He set his face like flint to do it. But why would the Lord will that his servant be crushed? And why would the servant willingly offer himself to be brutally and unjustly murdered? I think the answer to that question comes from Israel's own history. Think back with me, shortly after God rescues them out of Israel, out of Egypt, slavery in Egypt. He institutes a sacrificial system where priests would offer sacrifices on behalf of the people. And broadly speaking, there were two purposes for the sacrificial system. The first purpose was to teach the Israelites that sin brings death. Right? When they sinned, they were commanded to offer sacrifices. So this was a visible representation of the consequences of sin. The Israelite would stand there, see the animal be killed for their sins, and they're supposed to think, sin, my sin, caused this animal to die. But the second reason for the sacrificial system was that it provided cleansing and reconciliation The blood of the sacrifices cleansed the people of their sins, and by being cleansed by the blood of the animal, they were able to be reconciled to God. Sin brings death Blood brings cleansing and reconciliation. But those animal sacrifices, when we look at the Old Testament, we know we're clearly not sufficient to cleanse the people completely of their sins, because how can the blood of bulls and goats sufficiently cleanse a human being of their sin and bring them into a reconciled relationship with God? You can't do it. They're not worthy of doing it. The sacrificial system and the repeated sacrifices was meant to teach the people that a greater sacrifice was needed. They were supposed to get tired of offering these sacrifices day after day for the sins that they were committed. They were supposed to say, God Send a sacrifice who can cleanse us once and for all so that we don't have to keep offering these sacrifices and that is why the Lord willed to crush his servant and why the servant willingly offers himself God had planned all along to send a sacrifice that would cleanse his people of their sins and the servant is going to be the sacrifice that cleanses his people once and for all. Look at the repetition in verses four to six. Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. He was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. Upon him was a chastisement that brought us peace. His wounds have caused us to be healed. The Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. The servant, the God man, the unremarkable and overlooked and despised king will be the sacrifice for the sins of God's people. That's why he's described as a lamb being led to the slaughter. It was lambs that were offered as sacrifices at the temple. And not just any lambs. Kids, what what type of lambs had to be offered? Ones that had not eaten anything but cra grass, anything else? Ones that were White or spotless, they had to be perfect lambs, they couldn't have any blemishes, and here you have the completely innocent servant The spotless lamb offering himself as a sacrifice to bear the punishment that God's people deserve. And he's not only the sacrifice, he's also the great priest. It was priests who were responsible for offering the sacrifices and then taking the blood of those sacrifices and sprinkling the people to cleanse them. Now look at the second half of verse 10. When his soul makes an offering for guilt. He's pictured as a priest bringing the guilt offering forward. He's doing what priests do and offering himself as a payment for sins. Now look at chapter 52, verse 15. After he is marred and disfigured, he will be bleeding profusely, and he will sprinkle many nations to cleanse them by his blood. The blood of the servant lamb will be sprinkled by the servant priest on many nations to cleanse them of their sins. And his sacrifice will result in his death. We see that even in our passage. Look at verse 9 They made his grave with the wicked and with a rich man in his death. In the Old Testament, the place of the wicked was called Sheol It was understood as the place where souls went after death, and they remained conscious. And because people believe that this servant's death was a sign of God's judgment against him. The second half of verse 4 tells us that people believed that he was going to rest in Sheol with the wicked. Yet somehow, somehow, a rich man would also be involved in his burial. So what we've learned so far is that in his life the servant would be an unremarkable man, a man of sorrows. Despised and rejected by his people. He would be unjustly arrested, condemned, unjustly tortured, beaten so badly that he would no longer appear to be human. Yet he would do it willingly as part of God's plan to atone for the sins of his people, and he would be buried. Which brings us to our third and final point. Servants resurrection. Servants resurrection In a chapter full of bewildering predictions, perhaps the most bewildering prediction of all is that the servant will rise from the dead. Look at me at the second half of verse 10. When his soul makes an offering for guilt, that is, when he has completed this guilt offering by dying as a sacrifice. He shall see his offspring. He shall prolong his days. The will of the Lord will prosper in his hand. Now look again at verse 11. out of or after, this is a temporal word, after the anguish of his soul, he shall see and be satisfied We just got to notice here the post-mortem vitality of the servant. He was dead. Now he's alive. He was crushed, marred beyond human semblance, and now he sees and is satisfied and is surrounded by his offspring Death will not be the end of the spotless servant. He will rise again. And like a king who's gained victory over his enemies, the servant will receive a king's reward. Look at verse 12 Because of all of his work, therefore, I will divide him a portion with the many, and he shall divide the spoil with the strong I think a better translation that's supported by a number of commentators for the word strong is numerous or many So that it would read, therefore, I will divide him a portion with the many, and he shall divide the spoil with the many. Well, here you've got this risen Savior, servant, who was crushed to death, but now who is dividing his spoil, his reward with the many. Well, who were the many? I want you to see what's going on here. Look back at chapter 52, verse 14. Beginning of our passage As many were appalled at you, this is the same word used throughout the passage, as many were astonished at the sight of him being marred beyond human sentence uh semblance, so the many are people. Now look at chapter 52, verse 15. So he shall sprinkle many nations, many people. from many nations will be sprinkled by his blood and cleansed by him. Then after the section predicting his sacrifice, look at verse 11 By his knowledge shall the righteous one, my servant, make many to be accounted righteous That is, by coming to know the servant, by knowing him, by his knowledge, not his possessive knowledge, but by the knowledge of him, shall my servant make many to be accounted righteous So the many who were astonished and appalled at the sight of him, that many will be sprinkled, that many will be made righteous. And it's those people, the many who were made righteous. with whom the the the servant king will share the rewards of his victory. We just have to realize that we are living two thousand years after the birth of the New Testament. Isaiah is writing 750 years before the first book of the New Testament. 750 years. He doesn't have any of the knowledge that you have in your mind right now. That's just kind of all these pictures are popping in here. He has none of them. This is a bewildering prophecy. To this point in the Old Testament, this is the most remarkable prophecy, the clearest and most precise that has been given about how God's work of salvation will come to mankind. It is crazy. I mean, can you imagine being Isaiah? So 2 Peter tells us that the prophets, they did not write based on their own interpretation. They were carried along by the Holy Spirit as they wrote from God. So Isaiah is being carried along by the Holy Spirit as he writes this prophecy, and then he's reading this prophecy because Isaiah of all people is going to want to know how is this going to happen and and who is this who is this servant going to be? And you just you think about this. He's reading, God's servant, who's high and lifted up a king like Yahweh will become a man, he'll be completely unremarkable. He'll be hated and despised by his people, then brutally put to death by him, but all this would happen according to God's plan. The servant would die as a a sacrifice for the sins of his people, be buried But then live again and share the rewards of his victory with his people. What? I mean, seriously think about what he's writing and what he would have looked after and tried to study and understand. And to understand how mind-blowing it is, this passage is bringing together the most mega massive avenues of biblical theological truth into one person. He is the great prophet who speaks a better word. He's greater than Moses, greater than Isaiah. He is the true king, the root who grew out of the stump of Jesse. He is the high priest who offers the sacrifice. He is the Lamb of God. My mind is exploding right now. I mean, this everything is going to come together in this one person, this servant. It's no wonder that Peter says in chapter 1 of his book, the prophets searched diligently, diligently trying to figure out the time and way in which these prophecies would come to pass. They wanted to know. Lord, let us know this servant. Let us see who this servant is. This man is going to be glorious. And none of them, none of them got to see him. The prophets died. Isaiah to Malachi, it ends. God apparently seems to go silent for 400 years. No prophets come, no more predictions about the servant. Silence from God. Heaven stop speaking. When will the servant come? Then one day, roughly seven hundred years after Isaiah's prophecy Root sprang up out of dry ground. A baby. Was born in Bethlehem. It's as if the circumstances of his birth foreshadowed just how unremarkable he would be or seen. Wasn't born in a castle Wasn't born in a palace, but in a lowly and dingy manger, surrounded by camels and other animals. And hey, you ever been in one of those places? They stink. Like this is his home. This is where he's born. Unremarkable. Ry root. Cut him off. Throw him in the bag. Let's keep going. Yet this unremarkable baby was also a king. What did the wise men say to Herod when they came to Jerusalem? Where is he who has been born king of the Jews? This baby was none other than the Lord Jesus Christ. There is no one else who comes close to fulfilling the predictions of this prophecy, the numerous, specific, precise predictions. It is ridiculous. How he fulfills them. But it would take years until it became clear that the prophecies of this coming servant would be fulfilled in Jesus' life. He spends his childhood and teenage years in obscurity. He grows up in a podunk town of about 50 families called Nazareth, just slightly larger than the number of people in this room. Just a tiny town. We know almost nothing about his life outside of his three-year ministry. And as if to prove that he had no form or majesty, nothing to attract us to him, the Gospels contain zero descriptions of his physical appearance. He was your average Joe, maybe even less than that. You remember how unremarkable he was when he goes to his hometown to teach in Mark chapter 6? What did the people say? Isn't this a carpenter's son? Who is he? He's a nobody. The carpenter. Come on, man. You're blue-collar, just like us. You're not anybody He was physically unremarkable, nothing, nobody. Yet when he began his ministry of proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom of God, he faced terrible opposition. He was rejected by his very own mother and brothers. He was rejected in his hometown. He was despised by the Pharisees who hurled insults at him and plotted to take his life. And he would even be despised and rejected by one of his very own disciples. And that disciple worked with the religious authorities to hatch a plot to take Jesus' life. They wrongly arrested him, falsely charged him, unjustly condemned him to die. He was oppressed, and he was afflicted He was taken away and handed over to Pontius Pilate, who, after questioning him, told the chief priest, I find no guilt in this man. He's done nothing wrong. And why did he find no guilt in him? Because he had done no violence, nor was there any deceit in his mouth. I turned not backwards. I was not rebellious. But even though he was completely innocent, when Pilate asked the crowd what he should do with Jesus, what was their response Crucify him. Crucify him. And so Pilate handed him over to be crucified By oppression and judgment, he was taken away to die. He was then beaten Beaten mercilessly and whipped by Roman soldiers, a whipping so bad that he wouldn't look human anymore He was marred, disfigured, beyond all human semblance. Then he was forced to carry the cross to the hill where he would be crucified Nailed to the cross with giant spear-like nails. Then he has a spear thrust through his side. He was pierced for our transgressions. And he hung, suffering the terrible agony of death upon a cross. He was crushed. Crushed. And on his right and on his left were two men being crucified for crimes they had committed. He was numbered with the transgressors Surrounded by them even in death. Then after it was clear that he was dead, Jesus' body was taken down from the cross. And according to Matthew's gospel, when it was evening There came a rich man from Arimathea named Joseph Who asked for the body of Jesus, and Joseph took the body and laid it in his own new tomb. They made his grave with the wicked and with a rich man in his death. And through it all, Jesus never defended himself. He opened not his mouth like a lamb that is led to the slaughter, so he opened not his mouth. But why? Why would Jesus go to the cross like a lamb to the slaughter? Because he understood and agreed with the Lord's will, that it was his very purpose to come He was coming like a lamb that would take away the sins of the world. Remember what John the Baptist says about Jesus when he sees Jesus coming to be baptized? Behold, the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. I mean, this is ridiculous the way that this all comes together in Jesus Christ. He came to offer himself as the atoning sacrifice for our sins, the sins of the many. What does Jesus say about why he came in the Gospel of Mark? I came not to be served, but to serve and to give my life as a ransom for many. Many. The blood of the covenant which is poured out for many. It is this passage from Isaiah 53 that Peter is referring to when he said He himself bore our sins in his body on the tree, that we might die to sin and live to righteousness. By his wounds you have been healed, for you were straying like lost sheep But the na have now returned to the shepherd and overseer of your souls. Even though Jesus was cut off out of the land of the living, being stricken for our transgressions, he did not stay dead. After he made an offering for guilt, he rose from the dead. He saw his offspring and was satisfied, having accomplished the task that he was sent for. And after his resurrection, he ascended into heaven, where he sat down at the right hand of the Father, and about his ascension into heaven and his glorification. Paul in his letter to the Philippians wrote this, therefore, God has highly exalted him, the one who is high and lifted up. and greatly exalted, the crucified King will sit on the throne and bestow on him the name that is above every name, so that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, in heaven and on earth, and under the earth, and every tongue confess. That Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Kings will be silenced in his presence. The true King, the Lord Jesus Christ. Well friends, I hope you see how clearly this, how Jesus fulfills this prophecy in Isaiah 53 and what that means for you today. Jesus is the fulfillment of God's plan of redemption, the long-awaited Messiah who would come to crush The head of the serpent and rescue God's people from the kingdom of darkness, reconcile them to God by offering his life as an atoning sacrifice for our sins, and that has happened. You are recipients of that today by faith in Jesus Christ. How should you respond? Look at the first verse of chapter 54 after this passage. Sing, O barren one, who did not bear. Break forth and singing and cry aloud. The barren woman's being being pictured there to symbolize the people who are suffering under their the weight of their sins. And he's telling them: sing! The Savior has come in this suffering servant. The completed work of God's suffering servant is cause for celebration. Celebration. Why? Because you have been healed completely. By his wounds, we are healed. Completed. Done. Nothing left to do. It is finished, Jesus said on the cross. Why was it finished Because with his death you were healed when you were sprinkled by his blood and cleansed by him, by his perfect life and sacrificial death. He has offered the perfect sacrifice. by which our spiritual brokenness and sickness has been fully and completely healed Friends, grab hold of this 2,700-year-old promise. By his wounds, you have been healed completely Oh kids, I've said this a couple weeks ago. I just want to impress this upon you. It's likely that you are going to be tempted, that God will only accept you as long as you are obedient. That is not true. That is not true. If you put your faith in Jesus, then his completed work on the cross brings you complete Instant healing. The record of your sins will be completely wiped away, and in Christ you will always have a clean slate with God. By his wounds, we are healed. That's not to say that we shouldn't obey and do good deeds. We absolutely should, but obedience to God and doing good flow out of receiving forgiveness from God. They're the results of being forgiven by God and never the basis of our salvation and our healing. He makes many to be accounted righteous. Not you, not me. He does by his death and his blood through faith in him. He makes us righteous. Oh, what good news We see here, he makes us righteous, and we should rejoice not only because we've been healed and made righteous, but because we now have peace with God. We have peace with God. Friends, when you read the letters in the New Testament and you see in the introduction Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, and Timothy, our brother, to the faithful saints in Christ at Colossae. Grace to you and peace from God the Father. And then you just keep on reading Recognize that when you pass over that introduction that says grace and peace to you, you are staring in the face of the greatest three theological truths that could be presented to you in all of Scripture. God, who was once your enemy, the Lord of hosts. Why is he called the Lord of hosts? Because he's the Lord of all armies. He has a massive arsenal that we cannot stand against, has laid down that arsenal by pouring out the judgment that we deserve upon. his son and now you and I can look at God and say peace he says peace to you Through Christ, we have peace with God. No more enmity. No more warring. Reconciled. Did you notice even that when Jesus rises from the dead, we become his offspring, his very own children, adopted into his family. We're no longer transgressors. Well, we are, but we're his children now. Because Christ's atoning sacrifice was made for us. And you can be certain that you have peace not only because God declares that you have peace. But because of what Christ continues to do for you even today, look at the last line of chapter fifty-three. He bore the sin of mess many and makes intercession for the transgressors. The Lord Jesus, when he sat down at the right hand of God, sat down not only as a king but as a priest. And he now intercedes for you and me, who are still transgressors because we struggle with sin. But we have peace with God because Jesus says, Father, your punishment was on me. Grant them peace, even though they still continue to sin. And God's going to listen to him because he's the Lord Jesus Christ. He did what he was called to do, and he sits at the right hand of God, and he's the sympathetic high priest, one who experienced grief and sorrow and temptation in this life, yet was without. Sin. And because he pleads our cause continually before the Father, and because he will never die, he lives to intercede for us, we will always have peace with God in this life. Friends, Christmas is a time for celebrating. It is a time for celebrating. The presents are great. The reuniting with family and friends are great. Those are all things to be celebrated, but far more worthy of celebration. is the fact that 2,000 years ago, a root sprang up out of dry ground. Christ came to offer his life so that we could be healed So that we could have peace with God and so that we could be made righteous. No other gifts compare to this incomparable gift. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your kindness and mercy to us. Thank you for being a God who keeps your word. 700 years would pass, and you didn't forget your promise. You sent your son. He lived the perfect life. He died the death that we deserve. He rose again to newness of life. And we have we have Joy and peace now with you and can even remember today as we come to the Lord's table, remembering, being reminded of the sacrifice that He made on our behalf. Oh God, for those who do not trust in Christ today, reconcile them to Christ. Cause them to put their faith in this servant, the Lord Jesus, and to know that peace that comes through the knowledge of Him. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.