We're going to turn now to the preaching of the word. I want to encourage you to go ahead and open in your Bibles to Colossians chapter 1. We're going to be looking closely at Colossians 1, verses 9 to 14. And we're continuing today in our study through Paul's letter to the Colossians. This is a letter that he wrote to a church. that was hearing a lot of competing claims about the type of life that pleases God. As some religious teachers were coming around the Colossians and they were pushing the need for strict observance of the Jewish law. Others were pushing the need for asceticism, getting rid of every worldly comfort, you know, even punishing yourself physically. They were also pushing the need for having visions and worshiping angels. And the Colossians are starting to wonder, is the gospel enough? Is Jesus Christ enough? Is simply repenting and believing in Jesus enough to please God? And so Paul writes his letter to cut through the noise. To dispel all these competing claims and to clearly describe the type of life that pleases God So this morning we're looking at Colossians chapter 1, verses 9 to 14. I'm going to go ahead and read those verses for us now. Follow along as I read. This is God's word. And so, from the day we heard, we have not ceased to pray for you Asking that you may be filled with the knowledge of his will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding, so as to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord. fully pleasing to him, bearing fruit in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God Being strengthened with all power, according to his glorious might, for all endurance and patience with joy. Giving thanks to the Father who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints in light He has delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son, in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. In our first study a few weeks back of these verses, we saw a description of the type of life that pleases God in verses 9 and 10. I wanted you to look there again with me, verses 9 and 10. The type of life that pleases God is a life, Paul says, of being filled with the knowledge of God's will so that we can walk in a manner worthy of the Lord. We said that it's a life of growing in knowing God's will and growing in doing it. But it's as though Paul knows that the Colossians are going to ask, Paul, specifically, what do you mean? by walking in a manner worthy of the Lord. What does it look like look like specifically to do it? How do we do God's will? And so in verses 10 to 12 He goes on to describe specifically what he means. This is what it looks like. This is what it looks like to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, bearing fruit in every good work. Increasing in the knowledge of Him, being strengthened with all power, according to God's glorious might, so that you would be enduring and patient with joy, and that you would give thanks to God, who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints in life. That's what it looks like to live a life that is pleasing to God. And today, because we have such limited time, we're gonna look at the first thing that Paul says pleases God in the second half of verse 10. Now I want you to look at the second half of verse 10. You'll see two things listed there. Paul says, bearing fruit in every good work, and the second is increasing in the knowledge of God. Now, these two things are closely linked together and feed off of one another. The reason that we're breaking them up is because we don't have a lot of time to explore them, and I want us to meditate as deeply as we can on each of them. So I want you to treat this upcoming week as an intermission between Act 1 today, bearing fruit in every good work, and Act Two, next Sunday, increasing in the knowledge of God. We'll see that those are a they're they're not a vicious cycle, they're a virtuous cycle. That lead to more and more of each. So we see today that the type of life that pleases God is a life of growing in doing good works. Look again at the second half of verse ten. The very first thing that Paul says about the type of life that pleases God is that it is a life of Bearing fruit in every good work. It's a life of growing and doing good works. Good fruit. Good works, good deeds are a necessary and inevitable part of the Christian life They are not necessary to be saved, right? The Bible is crystal clear that our good deeds can never save us because it is impossible for us to do enough good works to pay for the sins that we've committed against an infinitely holy God. So Francis Schaefer put it well when he asked the question, how many buckets full of finite works would it take for us to fill an infinite gap between God and man? What's the answer to that question? You can't. You can't take finite works and fill an infinite gap up between God and man, right? It is impossible for mankind to earn his way into God's favor through good deeds alone, because we are separated by an infinite chasm that no man can cross, right? It is God who saves. It is God who redeems fully and completely. We were dead in our trespasses and sins. He makes us alive together with Christ. God qualifies us to share in the inheritance of the saints in light. And yet. When God brings his children out of darkness and into his glorious light, they will, by necessity. and inevitably begin bearing fruit. The the vivifying sap of the Spirit Fills our tree trunks, works its way out to our branches, and causes us to bud and flower fruit. Good works are necessary not for salvation. But because we have been saved to do good works. Right? We are not saved by good works, but for good works. And this is a testimony of the entire New Testament. Listen to the way that Paul puts it in Ephesians chapter 2. For by grace you have been saved through faith. By grace, completely. It is a gift of God. You didn't earn it at all. For by grace you have been saved through faith, and this is not your own doing. It is the gift of God, not a result of works, so that no one may boast, for we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus. Four good works which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them. Or think about James chapter 2, verses 14 to 17. James says quite simply, What good is it, my brother, if someone says he has faith but does not have works? Can that faith save him? If a brother or sister is poorly clothed and lacking in daily food, and one of you says to them, hey, go in peace, be warmed and filled. Without giving them the things needed for the body, what good is that? So also faith by itself, if it does not have works, is dead Genuine faith produces good works. Martin Luther said it this way: truly, if faith is there, the believer cannot hold back. He breaks out into good works. True faith. Will no more fail to produce good works than the sun can cease to give light. Good works are the fruit and proof of salvation. Jesus put it quite simply, right? You will know them by their fruit. To the teenagers and kids who are here, this is so important to understand. You are not saved by your obedience. You're saved for obedience You're saved by Jesus' obedience. But when you repent and believe in Jesus and he fills you with his spirit and unites him to unites you to his body, you will now desire to be obedient. You are not saved by your own obedience, you're saved For obedience. God saves us through his Son Jesus, gives us His Spirit, and as the Spirit works in you, He will make you more and more obedient to God over time. That's why, if you're younger and you're wrestling with trying to figure out whether you're a Christian or not, one of the main ways that you can know is by looking at your life. You should notice a change, a change in your desires, a change in your thoughts A change in your behavior and your words. These are the fruits that Paul is talking about. Now let me let me be crystal clear. Your words. Your thoughts, your desires, your behaviors will never be perfect in this life. You will be battling against sin your entire life. But if you're a Christian, there will be a battle. To the teenagers and kids, do you notice a desire to fight against sin in your life? Do you notice a desire to study and obey God's Word? Do you notice a change in your behavior towards your siblings and your parents? Right, think about this. Maybe maybe in the past when you argued you with your siblings or disobeyed your parents, you got punished and that made you sad, but you didn't really care what God thought about it. But now, when you do those things, you feel broken over it and are trying to fight against it. Those are the fruits of salvation and are examples of the types of works that you should see in your life. If you're a Christian, good works are a necessary and inevitable part of the Christian life Because they reveal the regenerating and sanctifying power of God's Spirit at work within us. But what what what kind of works does Paul have in mind here? What are these works when Paul says bearing fruit in every good work? You know, it's common for Christians to think of works as limited to certain acts of mercy, right? Helping the poor. uh feeding the hungry and caring for orphans and things like that. And make no mistake, without a doubt, those are Good works. And I would even say that those works are particularly pleasing to God because they are done for people who can give us absolutely nothing in return. But I don't want you to walk away this morning thinking that if you aren't doing those specific things, then you aren't doing good works and therefore aren't pleasing God. And the reason I say this is because Paul isn't limiting good works to certain acts of mercy. It's clear from what Paul says that he has all of life in mind, as in bear fruit in every good work. In everything seek to do good. In every area, in every role, in every domain, in whatever you do, offer your whole life as a living sacrifice to God. That means for us, is we're feeling burdened, like what can I do to do good works? This passage should free you up. Should be like a breath of fresh air. God is saying to you, look at your entire life, right? The horizon is before you. That means the stage upon which our good works are performed, not performed for others, but completed, is so expansive that it encompasses every role we may fill and every task we might accomplish within those roles. That means that you have the glorious freedom. Privilege and opportunity to bear fruit that is pleasing to God in every situation and circumstance you find yourself in. What does that look like? It looks like bearing fruit in every good work looks like husbands sacrificially laying down their lives for the sake of their wife. And wives humbly submitting to the leadership of their husbands. Those are good works. It looks like parents not inciting their children to anger through harshness and unreasonableness, but instead patiently, day in and day out, as long as those days may seem gently, lovingly leading and discipling their children in righteousness. Good works look like looks like children obeying their parents because this pleases the Lord. It looks like grown children seeking to care for their aging parents. It looks like employees working hard and not giving in to underhanded office politics. It looks like citizens of a country showing concern and seeking to care for the needy, the poor, and the powerless Good works looks like not flying off the handle in anger towards others, but being filled with patience, gentleness, meekness, and peacefulness It looks like not gossiping, but instead assuming the best of others. It looks like not showing favoritism, but instead showing respect to all people, because we're all made in the image of God. It looks like being a voice for the voiceless. A protector for the powerless, a nourisher of the needy, a helper for the hurting, a light to those in darkness It looks like Jesus Christ is still on the earth as his body, the church, proclaims his message and embodies his love to a watching world around us. One Christian put it this way: He said, the norms of the kingdom worked out in the lives of the heirs of the kingdom constitute the witness of the kingdom. Such Christians refuse to rob their employers by being lazy on the job, or to rob their employees by succumbing to greed and stinginess They are the first to help a colleague in difficulty and the last to return a barbed reply. They honestly desire the advancement of the others' interests rather than their own, and they honestly dislike smutty humor. Transparent in their honesty and genuine in their concern, they reject both the easy answer of the doctrinaire politician and the laissez-faire stance of the selfish secular man. meek in personal demeanor, they are bold in righteous pursuits. For a variety of reasons, Christians have lost this vision of witness and are slow to return to it. But in better days and other lands the faithful and divinely empowered proclamation of the gospel of Jesus Christ, who is Himself the light of the world, so transformed Christians that they in turn became the light of the world as well Prison reform, medical care, trade unions, abolition of slavery, abolition of child labor, establishment of orphanages, reform of the penal code, in all these areas And more, the followers of Jesus spearheaded the drive for righteousness. Bear fruit in every good work. Do you see how expansive the altar is upon which you can offer up your good works to God as an act of worship How are you doing bearing fruit? What does it look like in your life? A few years into marriage, Leah and I took a trip to New Hampshire to visit some of her friends. It was fall, I think it was late October, fall in New Hampshire. Glory. Right? It's also the season for harvesting apples. So we went to an apple orchard to pick apples. And after I had housed a box of apple cider donuts, because they were also selling those there, we went out to pick apples. And one of the things that I remember is just how fruitful the orchard was. There were apples everywhere. The trees were full of them. The ground was littered with them. I struggled to keep my footing because every step I took, I was in danger of stepping on another apple and crushing it. Why do I bring this up? I want you to imagine your life as an orchard. Your life right now as an orchard. Now picture God walking through it. What would he find? Would he find an abundance of fruit like the apple orchard in New Hampshire? Or would the trees be bare? What would he find? Genuine faith produces real fruit Friend, I want to encourage you away from just easy believism. If you've ever been taught that all you got to do is just pray a prayer and you're gonna be good, you just go on living life however you want and you're gonna be on good terms with Jesus. I just want to encourage you, that is a lie. That is not what the Bible teaches. The Bible teaches that true, genuine faith, saving faith, is difficult. We repent and believe in Jesus, and then we take up our cross daily And then God fills us with His Spirit, and you should notice a distinct change in your life. If that change isn't there, if that fruit isn't growing, not perfectly, right? We're all going to have bad fruit on our trees, but if that change hasn't occurred, you should ask whether you've actually ever believed. Genuine faith produces real fruit. Think about the ways that artists they sign or they seal or they engrave their signature upon their creations. Well, in the same way, God signs, seals, and engraves his signature in us. His divine craftsmanship is signed in our works. Our works reveal His work in us. And because of that, our works please God. But why do they please God? One author put it this way. Now, the whole offer which Christianity makes is this: that we can come to share in the life of Christ. If we do, then we shall be sharing a life which was begotten, not made, which always existed and always will exist. If we share in this kind of life, we also shall be sons of God, because we are united to Christ who is the Son of God. We shall love the Father as He does, and the Holy Spirit will arise in us. He came to this world and became a man in order to spread to other men the kind of life he has by what I call a good infection. Every Christian is to become a little Christ. The whole purpose of becoming a Christian is simply nothing else. Growing in doing good works pleases God, because in them he sees the little Christs growing up more and more into the maturity of the fullness of his Son, who is fully pleasing to him. Growing and doing good works, right? It pleases God for a variety of reasons. They please God because they reveal his worth as they as we give up living to please ourselves and instead live to please him. Our works please God because they reveal his power to change people who were seeking glory for themselves, but who now live for his glory. Our works please God because they tell others what God is like, right? Through our Our works we manifest the love, justice, mercy, tenderness, and righteousness of God to the world. But chiefly our growing and doing good works pleases God because his work is to make us more and more like his son, to make us little Christs. And as he works in us by his spirit, and we bear fruit in every good work, we are being shaped more and more into the image of his son, Jesus. And Jesus is fully pleasing to God. There is no image more beautiful, more lovely, more attractive, more pleasing to God than the image of Jesus, who in his earthly life bore good and perfect fruit. And now, united to Christ by faith through God's grace and abiding in Christ who is divine, God is working in us to make us more like Jesus. By giving us his spirit to cause us to grow in doing good works. And that growth in Christ-likeness pleases God Next week, we'll consider what it means to grow in the knowledge of God and how bearing fruit and growing in the knowledge of God form this virtuous cycle. But for this week, I want you to consider What are the ways that you can see the horizon of your life and all of the roles and domains and the various roles that you're in in this life? And how that that horizon is so expansive that you can do good works in every one of those areas of life. Even as you go today, think about what does it look like for me to bear good fruit? Next week we'll come back to think about what it means to increase in the knowledge of God. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we confess together that we cannot save ourselves by our works. It is you who saves us We think even about the vision of the valley of dry bones in the book of Ezekiel. That is us. We were very dry bones, but then you spoke. You gave life and we came to life. And now filled with your spirit, Lord, we desire to honor you and to glorify you We desire to grow in bearing fruit in every good work, and we pray that you would grant the Spirit to empower us to do that this week. We pray, Lord, that we would seek to serve and not to be served. That we would love others, speak well of others, offer our time and our resources to help others Help us to consider how we might do good works in every area of life. We desire to do these good works to honor you and to glorify Christ, who is eminently worthy of our worship and all of our lives And we pray this in Jesus' name, amen.