Well good evening, Chevrolet Baptist Church. Uh it is a tr a true joy to be with you this evening. I know that many of you don't know who I am, but since January I've continually heard of uh Chevrolet Baptist Church. And many of you who are former members of Capitol Hill have heard so many wonderful things. So it is a true privilege to be here, to finally meet many of you face to face and be here in this gathering. And I am so thankful for Pastor John for extending this opportunity to me. I know that I'm super excited for them and hope they get rest in the days ahead. And I'm not gonna lie, I feel a little bit guilty because you guys have been meeting outside for so long. That the first sermon preached indoors is not Pastor John. So I feel a little bit guilty about that, but I will savor it for the next few moments. But our passage tonight will be Psalm 121. So if you have your Bibles I invite you to go ahead and grab those and turn to Psalm 121. And if you are like me and my family, there has been a question that we've been asking ourselves continually throughout this year: how will we make it? Looking at all that's going on in our lives, how will we make it? And for us, it began at the beginning of this, at the actually the end of last year, beginning of this year, we moved from Texas to do the internship at Capitol Hill Baptist Church. We sold our home. We packed up our family, we put most of our stuff in storage and made the commute for 25 hours. I thought all we got to do is just get to DC and it will be fine. I actually drove by myself. I had my wife and daughters fly up with my in-laws, and as soon as we got here, all three of my wife and two children got the flu. It's like how can we make it? Are we gonna make it through this for a whole week they had the flu? Two months later the pandemic shows up and it's How can we make it? Will we make it? And we see all that's going on in the midst of our nation. It's a continual question of how will we make it through this year? And if if it's any encouragement to you or to me, it's it's a question that many saints have wrestled with throughout church history As with Luke prayed about a while ago with Martin Luther, if you see his life, he was a man that, yes, he followed the Lord, but there was a great anxiety surrounding the decisions that he made, and many times he was wondering if he was doing the right thing. A question of how can we make it, I imagine that rang through his mind. In the midst of that, in the midst of these saints who've gone before us asking this question, many of them have looked to the scriptures. And even in the very place that we find ourselves this evening, in Psalm 121. So let's open God's word and read it this evening. I lift up my eyes to the hills. From where does my help come? My help comes from the Lord, who made heaven and earth He will not let your foot be moved. He who keeps you will not slumber. Behold, he who keeps Israel will neither slumber nor sleep The Lord is your keeper. The Lord is your shade on your right hand. The sun shall not strike you by day, nor the moon by night. The Lord will keep you from all evil. He will keep your life. The Lord will keep your going out and your coming in from this time forth forevermore. Psalm 121 is the second psalm in what is known as the Psalms of Ascent. From Psalm 120 to Psalm 134, there's 15 Psalms known as the Psalm of Ascent. And most likely, these psalms were sung by these pilgrims who were making their way to Jerusalem for the three annual festivals each year, for Pentecost and Passover and for the Day of Atonement. They would sing these songs as means of comfort and encouragement to remind themselves of who their strength was found in, not in of themselves, but in the Lord who is their keeper. Many of the saints would have sung these songs year after year after year. And as they passed those same ways, those same hills, walk through those same valleys, I imagine these these hymns, these songs, these prayers. begin to take a different shape and different meaning. As many of them face prosperity and sorrow and adversity and life change. I imagine that many of them began to understand in a different way what it meant for God to be their faithful and loyal companion. And so here we find ourselves with a pilgrim who is starting their journey, potentially to Jerusalem. And so to my my sermon is just two simple points this evening. It's a pilgrim and it's a protector. It's the pilgrim and the protector. So we see in verse 1, we have the psalmist saying, I lift up my eyes to the hills. Where does my help come? This is an individual who most likely had been familiar with the journey. They were lifting their eyes to the hills, starting their journey, realizing what lies behead. A long, strenuous task of going after and seeking after what God had laid before them to come and worship with the people of God in the house of God. There was no highway system at this time. The roads were not well cut out. Many of them would have crossed over hills and valleys and mountains and through rivers. Many of them would have faced danger. And so the psalmist is beginning to ask this question: how will I make it? From where will my help come from? Now he asked about the hills, and there's much debate over what these hills are. For some, these hills are a positive thing. It's the mountain range of Judah. They're looking to the hills and they're seeing maybe the house of God, the temple of God. And so they're lifting their eyes to the hills as a means of encouragement to say, I can make it. It'll be worth it in the end. For others, they see the hills as more of a negative sense Seventy-eight times the the high places are mentioned in the Old Testament, and it's always a reference to the negative. As we see in 1st and 2nd Kings, you see that Israel had taken up the custom of the Canaanites and began to worship on the high places, which God forbid them to do. And so maybe the psalmist sees the hills and they're overwhelmed with grief and anxiety as they know what lies ahead, the wicked and the ungodly. And they're not certain how they're going to make it. But either way, it's clear what the psalmist is doing, that this pilgrim is saying, is I I know that I don't have strength in and of myself to make it on my own I see these hills and I need something to carry me through to preserve my life. I want you to notice here the posture of this pilgrim. I want you to notice the posture of the pilgrim. It's a sense of humility. It's not a sense of pride, not a sense of self-assurance, knowing that they have enough in themselves to make it to the end. No, this pilgrim is not self-assured or self-confident This pilgrim is aware that if they're going to make it to the end, they will need something beyond their own strength to sustain them. It's a posture of humility. It looks as though this pilgrim, and even throughout the rest of these Psalms of Ascent, that these psalmists are aware of their own frailty, knowing they don't have their own strength, their own power to make it. And in many ways, and for many people, 2020 has made us reckon and think about and grasp our own frailty. For some of us, this is the first time that we've ever really had to consider the dangers of a pandemic. For others, it's it's we're in the midst of this political crisis and we just feel so anxious about what lies ahead on Tuesday evening. Maybe for us it's the events of this summer with the racial tension in our nation, seeing the injustice take place on the news almost every evening. There's a sense of anxiousness and frailty, sense of sadness and sorrow, wanting to know how will we make it And many people in our nation, Christian and non-Christian, are asking this question: where does my help come? Where is my help going to come from? How am I going to get through this year? For many, they're looking not to the hills of the Lord. They're looking to the hill in which our capital rests on. Many they're putting their hope on Tuesday night. They see this election maybe is the most important thing to ever happen in their lifetime, and they they see that democracy and justice hang in the balance. That freedom hangs in the balance. And so there's a lot of anxiety and unrest on what's going to happen Tuesday and the events that will take place from that. They're looking for help in things of this world. But what about us Christians? In 2020, in the midst of all the unrest that we see, where does our help come from Does our our help come from the government that we live near and the national government that we many of us may work in? Does our help come from what we see Are we like the rest of the world where our lives, our worldview is dictated by what the news says or what social media says? Are many of us dismayed and uncertain about our future because of the way we see the trajectory of our country? Brothers and sisters, I encourage you, be not dismayed. We put our hope not in kings, but the one who sets up and removes kings. We put our hope in what the world sees as foolish. We see our hope not on Capitol Hill, but on Calvary's Hill. We see our hope in the message of the cross, which may be foolish to those who are perishing, but is the power of God to us who are being saved. That is where our hope is found. It's not in what we see. And I know for many of us, these are tense and difficult days. We feel a sense of sadness and sorrow about what is taking place, and we don't know what to do. But I would encourage you Read passages like Psalm 121 and Psalm 2 and realize that those who plot against our Lord, He does nothing but laugh and holds them in derision. That our God is in heaven and He does all that He pleases. That is where we find our help. It's not in what we see in this world, not in the temporary, but it is in the eternal. And I know it's tempting. To find our hope and what the world finds our hope. But for we as believers, we have something greater than what lies before us. It is that heavenly celestial city, as we read about a while ago in Revelation chapter 6. So, not only do we see this pilgrim here, I want you to see something else. Don't you see the protector? So you have the pilgrim who's starting out this journey, wanting to make it to Jerusalem, want to be a part of the annual festival, but we see the protector. Immediately the psalmist says, from where does my help come? It's almost like he's talking to himself and he answers this: my help comes from the Lord who made heaven and earth. I look beyond the hills because I know there's something greater than those hills. It's the one who made those hills. I know that he will sustain me, that he will not forget me, that he will keep me to the end. This is the one that I look to for strength and for comfort. So there's there's really three things we see this protector, the Lord, doing in this passage. The first thing is he watches. So the protector, he he watches. If you go in verse 3, it says, he will not let your foot be moved. He who keeps you will not slumber. Behold, he who keeps Israel will neither slumber nor sleep. What the psalmist is saying is that this God, he's watching my every move. That there's there's nothing that's taking place that my foot will not slip because my God is he's watching me and he's keeping me. My God is is not like the God that In 1 Kings 18, Baal, that when his prophets needed him most, could not show up because he was napping, or even worse. That is not who our God is. Our God is aware of every single detail of our life. He's navigating all those different situations and circumstances that we're in to bring us safely home to Him. It's like a I read a stat in 28 or about 2017 by this company called Flight Aware. They track every single flight. And at any given moment in a normal year, there's almost 10,000 planes in the air at any moment It's almost two million people just flying in the air during the day. And the job of that air traffic controller is to make sure that all those flights land and they land home safely and everybody gets home in the right place. And what's amazing about our God is he's navigating all of our lives and he's working all things out for our good and his glory to bring us safely home to himself. Christian, do you realize that there was not a single thing that happened to your life that God did not see this past week? There wasn't a moment that he was looking away, distracted by Twitter. Or you dozed off for a quick power nap to make it through the night. No, every single second of your life, the Lord was watching over you. He he is tireless. He never tires of watching over his people. We can take great assurance that no matter what happens this next week, that God is not taking his eye off us for a single moment. We are Christ's bride, and he laid his life down for us, and he will preserve us to the end. Not only does he watch over us, I want you to see this next thing. It says he covers us. Because the Lord is your keeper. The Lord is your shade on your right hand. The sun shall not strike you by day, nor the moon by night. What is the psalmist saying here? Saying that all the elements that they will face on this journey cannot harm them. Why? Because God inserts himself between them and the danger they face. We have a proactive God who inserts himself in the difficult times that we face and we experience. He covers us It was like this this morning we as a church at Capitol Hill we we gathered in Anacostia Park. We've been trying to either meet in the field, but if you've been to Anacostia Park, there's this kind of roller rink that's outside with a big pavilion over it. It was like God foreordained many, many years ago to build that for us for this time. The precious gift. But today in particular was super challenging, especially with three little ones, three children, three and under. Was it pouring down rain. Like how am I going to get down from our house over there? And what is that going to be like when we get there? It's going to be soaking wet. It was stressful to get there, but what was amazing is we get to have our whole service under this awning. Not wet at all. It was super dry. We got to hear this word preached, the song sung, and it was a wonderful experience. It was a perfect picture of what the psalmist is saying, that everything around you seems crazy, but you're preserved in the midst of danger. We got to hear the word preach the song sung. We took the Lord's Supper together. It was a beautiful experience. Even though the elements were wild, we were preserved. Because of the Lord's kindness. It's like if you if you were to see, if you were to look over to Nehemiah 9, it's after these exiles are finally coming back into the land and they're reciting and they're remembering God's faithfulness to them through the decades. And they're thinking about how God brought them through the desert. And they say this as a means of praise, but in verse 21 it says, For 40 years you sustained them in the wilderness. And they lacked for nothing. Their clothes did not wear out, and their feet did not swell. This is the kindness and the graciousness of our God, our companion on our journey. This is who God is. That our clothes will not wear out. Metaphorically, and our shoes will not break, our feet will not swell, because he he covers us. Not only is he watched, not only is he covered, once you look at this last thing he does, he he keeps. He keeps. This is actually really the point of the whole psalm. See the word keep in the Hebrew means shamar, which means to guard. And just look at how many times it's mentioned. He will not let your foot be moved, verse 3, he who keeps you will not slumber. Behold, he who keeps Israel will neither sleep nor slumber. The Lord is your keeper. The Lord is your shade on your right hand If you skip down to verse 7, the Lord will keep your keep you from all evil. He will keep your life. The Lord will keep you going from your going in and your coming out, this time forth forevermore. It's mentioned six times. The point is: this is that God, the Lord, the one who made heaven and earth, is our guardian. He is our keeper. He will preserve our lives. He will watch over us. He will keep us to the end. And if you read this carefully, it's almost like you can imagine that the Apostle Paul, while writing Romans 8, had read Psalm 121. That there's nothing in all this world that can separate us from the love of God, the love that we have in Christ Jesus. Or maybe even Philippians 1:6, that he who began a good work in you will bring it to completion at the day of Christ Jesus. Or even Jude 24 and 25. What Jude writes, now to him who is able to keep you from stumbling and to present you blameless before the presence of his glory with great joy. What Psalm 121 is about is perseverance. It's the promise of perseverance that God will sustain his people to the end. He will not lose sight of them. He will not forget them. He will carry them through to the end. And you know what's interesting? This word shamar, guard, really shows up first in Genesis chapter 2 When God gave the charge to Adam, when he said, I want you to watch, to work, and keep. Adam, I want you to work and keep. Why? Because Adam was supposed to mirror God's nature and character. And he failed. So if you're here and you're a non-Christian, we are so thankful you're here. Praise God that you've come to this gathering. The reason why our world is in utter chaos is because Adam and Eve didn't look for help, but they chose to help themselves. And our world has been in chaos ever since. But here's what's amazing about the story of Scripture: God did not leave us deserted and alone and ashamed. He came down to us because we could not help ourselves to give us a life that we do not deserve and died the death that we should have died, to give us life everlasting. Talking a while ago about how God inserts himself between us and danger, well, Christ came down to take our death. He inserted himself between us and God's wrath, and he averted God's wrath for our sake. God has been guarding us all along ever since. If you're not a Christian, we're so thankful you're here. And I would encourage you to come talk to me after. I would love to share with you more about what it means to follow Jesus. It's a wonderful story. Of how God is redeeming a people unto himself and will carry them to the end. It's a wonderful truth that God cannot lose us. What Christ has purchased with his own blood will never be lost. It would require Jesus being taken out of heaven and being put back into the grave, which will never happen. This is the assurance of the promises that we have. Now, if we're not careful, as Americans, we'll take Psalm 121 and we'll abuse it. We'll make it purely about our prosperity. And God, you say in your word that you're going to make me prosperous. You say in your word that nothing will befall me, no harm or danger will come upon me. Is Psalm 121 promising us Christians that we'll never get COVID? Is Psalm 121 promising that we'll never experience injustice in this life? Is Psalm 121 promising that we'll we'll never experience the loss of a job or a family member? Is Psalm 121 a guarantee that we'll make it to the end of the year? No. Psalm 21 is not a promise that we will never face danger. Psalm 21 is a promise that we will be preserved in the midst of all the danger we face. That God will be with us every step of the way, and nothing will befall us without His permission. Nothing will happen to us without God's affirmation. We can trust it. It's not a psalm saying that we're not going to experience pain and difficulty and sorrow in this life. No, it's a psalm that says that no power of hell and no scheme of man can ever pluck us from his hand. That's the reality of Psalm 121. So Christian, I don't know where you find yourself today. Maybe you feel tired. Exhausted by this year, uncertain about your future or a nation's future. I hope that Psalm 121 will be a source of comfort and encouragement In the midst of this year, as I've kind of read through a few different books in my new role, I went back and I reread Knowing God by Jab Hacker since he passed. It's been years, been decades since I read it. There's a chapter, chapter 21, called Thou Our Guide. It's a wonderful chapter. Encourage you to read it if you have it. And I ran upon this quote, and I've I've given it out, and I've read it more. Other than the Bible, I've read it more than to people than any other quote I've read all year long. Listen to what Packer says about God's guidance and how he guards us. Says this. Guidance, like all God's acts of blessing under the covenant of grace, is a sovereign act. Not merely does God will to guide us in the sense of showing us his way, that we may tread it, he wills also to guide us in the more fundamental sense of ensuring that whatever happens Whatever mistakes we make, we shall come safely home. Slippings and strayings there will be, no doubt But the everlasting arms are beneath us. We shall be caught, rescued, restored. This is God's promise. This is how good he is. It's a wonderful just passage of assurance. Really, Packer basically caught his commentary on Psalm 121, this is how good our God is. Yes, we'll have. Yes, we'll have pain. Yes, we'll have sorrow. Yes, there'll be difficult days. Yes, there'll be moments where we'll have to ask this question: how will we make it? But we can rest assured that God's promises stand true. He will not lose us. He will not forsake us. He will carry us to the end. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we thank you. We thank you for your kindness. We thank you that you've given us such a wonderful promise in Psalm 121 that you will protect us to the end, that nothing will befall us. Without your knowledge or your affirmation or allowance. Lord, we thank you for your promise that there we can always know that you will keep us to the end, that you will not lose a single one of us, Father. That one day you will present us with great joy before your glory. Lord, I pray for these saints here. Lord, for the discouraged, Lord, I pray you would strengthen. For the weak, Lord, I pray that you would bind up. Lord, I pray for all of these that you would sustain them. Hold them up, Lord. I pray that this community and wherever this body meets would see in this group of people a difference. That they're not dismayed or discouraged by the events of the world, but they stand strong because they know you are with them. Lord, I pray you would sustain this church. Hold out the gospel through it. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.