Good afternoon. I'd invite you to turn to John chapter 1 in your Bibles. While you do that, uh two things I wanted to share. One, I understand that a 2. 30 meaning time is Right in the middle of a glorious nap time for many children and many of our families. And in recognition of that, uh to prepare myself, we invited the cooksons to stay with us for several weeks. So we have seven kids in our house So bring on the cacophony. Uh it'll be all right. Uh we will we will hopefully be attentive. Uh secondly, I wanted to share my love for this church. Liana, my children. We love this church. And while this church did not exist when we moved to the DC area, it its existence has fueled and motivated our remaining in this area when options uh have presented otherwise. So it's a privilege uh be before you now. Please pray with me. God, I pray that in this next few minutes we have together that the beholder of your word would decrease. That the beheld would increase, and that we together would recognize and be reminded of the great, perfect sacrifice, you, the Lamb of God. Who takes away my sin? Who takes away our sin? Takes away the sin of the world. In Jesus' name, amen. At the website, writeoutloud. com, there is a helpful page titled A Primer for the Gentle Art of Giving an Introduction Speech for a Guest Speaker In it, the author lays out the function of an introduction speech and provides some helpful tips to you to make your introduction speech successful. I'll share a few highlights with you The job of an introduction speech is to introduce your guest speaker. Create a welcoming, attentive anticipation in the audience Essentially, you are the warm-up act. Your task is to focus and unite the audience. Prepare them for what is to come. If you've done your job well, your guest speaker begins without having to establish their credibility or reason for being there. The site continues. To prepare your introduction speech, you'll need the guest speaker's name, and if they have one, their title. The guest speaker's biography. And a surprise to delight the audience, something that is not commonly known, something revealing the personality or humanity of the person. As we will see in our text this morning, the author of this helpful guide clearly used John the Baptist's introduction of Jesus in John 1 as the prototype for how to properly introduce someone By revealing the personality and humanity of the person, and including a surprise to delight the audience. In this case, a world of sinners desperately in need of some good news about their future. Our sermon passage today is one verse, John 1:29. I will read for the sake of context from John 1:19-34, however. Please follow along or listen with me. And this is the testimony of John, when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him: Who are you? He confessed and did not deny, but confessed, I am not the Christ. And they asked him, What then? Are you Elijah? He said, I am not. Are you the prophet? And he answered, No. So they said to him, Who are you? We need to give an answer to those who sent us. What do you say about yourself? He said, I am the voice of one crying out in the wilderness, make straight the way of the Lord, as the prophet Isaiah said. Now they had been sent from the Pharisees. They asked him, Then why are you baptizing, if you are neither the Christ, nor Elijah, nor the prophet? John answered them, I baptize with water But among you stands one you do not know, even he who comes after me, the strap of whose sandal I am not worthy to untie. These things took place in Bethany across the Jordan, where John was baptizing And verse 29. The next day he saw Jesus coming toward him and said, Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. This is he of whom I said, After me comes a man who ranks before me, because he was before me. I myself did not know him, but for this purpose I came baptizing with water, that he might be revealed to Israel And John bore witness I saw the Spirit descend from heaven like a dove, and it remained on him. I myself did not know him, but he who sent me to baptize with water said to me, He on whom you see the Spirit descend and remain, this is he who baptizes with the Holy Spirit. And I have seen, and have borne witness, that this is the Son of God. Our aim today is to see that Jesus is the long-awaited Messiah who alone can take away the sins of the world. To that end, there will be two points from verse 29. Point one, Jesus is the Lamb of God. Jesus is the Lamb of God. Point two, Jesus has the power to take away your sin. Jesus has the power to take away your sin. John begins his gospel account in chapter one with a poem. Verses one through eighteen, wherein John lays out the claims that Jesus is the Son of God, therefore divine, and a human, who came to earth to reveal God the Father to the world. And the poem tells about a witness to the light, who would be John the Baptist. In verses 19 through 28, which is the day before the interactions described in verses 29 to 34, John is across the Jordan, as we read, and priests and Levites come from Jerusalem to investigate. They ask who he is in different pointed ways. And John three times denies their theories. He denies being the Christ, he denies being the Elijah. being Elijah, and denies being the prophet foretold by Moses in Deuteronomy. John is making very clear who he is not, which aligns with the mission God tasked him with, namely proclaiming the coming of the Messiah. When the Jewish leaders press him more, he tells them who he is by quoting Isaiah 40, verse 3: I am the voice of one crying out in the wilderness: prepare the way of the Lord. As the prophet Isaiah said. He goes on to explain more about how minor he is in the shadow of the coming Christ. But John the Baptist's main point here, as well as John the Gospel writers, is getting to the introduction of Jesus as the Lamb of God, pointing to Him, increasing Him, and decreasing self. Because of how much our passage today relates to Old Testament symbolism, I want to provide a bit of historical background During this period, and for centuries prior, as a result of the sin of every man and the just wrath of God against sin, the Hebrew people have been offering sacrifices to God In these sacrifices of an animal, oftentimes a lamb, a bull, a goat, or a ram, the animal's life was a substitute for the life of the one offering the sacrifice the lamb symbolically dying in the place of the person. As Unger's Bible dictionary explains this process, when the flesh of the sacrifice came to be burned upon the altar The man's own body was understood to be at the same time surrendered to the purifying fire of divine love so that in this way he was symbolically covered in body and soul from God's wrath and brought within the sphere of the justifying, sanctifying, and saving grace of God. This practice of sacrifice is a mercy from God, allowing the Lamb to take the place of the person who, as a sinner, deserves eradication or removal through death But this act of sacrifice has to continually be repeated, because people are continually sinning, and lambs are continually dying, staying dead In Israel, at the time of the beginning of the Gospels, a period of 400 years of silence from God had just ended with the appearance of an angel, Gabriel, to Zechariah, the father of John the Baptist In which the angel tells him that his son, John, will, according to Luke 1, repair the way of the Lord. So now, more than ever, people are looking, longing for this Messiah. And the priests and Levites in the text we were just read prove that. They're coming to John to ask him, Are you the Messiah? And that brings us back to John 1. And in verse 29, we come to the next day in this story. John the Baptist sees Jesus coming toward him. He has already seen and interacted with Jesus as the baptism of Jesus is in the past. But again, in keeping with his mission on earth, he is going to make sure. People know who is among them. And so we have the first formal introduction of Jesus Christ Behold, the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world And before we look more closely at the incredible importance of that statement, I want us to not miss the event itself. I was thinking about a beloved brother this week. Thinking about how I would describe him in a sentence, what I came up with was the undercurrent of his life is to make Christ known to others And I would describe John the Baptist with that same one-sentence summary. The undercurrent of his life is to make Christ known to others. So, that is your mission, your purpose in life. And you are presented with the opportunity to literally Introduce Jesus Christ to everyone in earshot for the first time in history. That would be a major moment for John and a major moment in human history. I like to think about the angels. We even sang about it, when Jesus is born, who erupt across the skies before the shepherds. Praising God as if it was a spontaneous celebration that overflowed out of heaven. Christ is born Or I think about the heavenly host holding their breath, waiting for Jesus in the tomb to take that first breath, and for his heart to take that first resurrected beat. Boom boom. And the explosion of celebration that there must have been in heaven. He's alive. And in a similar way, this is a momentous celebratory event. All of Israel, all of the world, and John, all of his life have been waiting for this announcement announcement. He's here. He's here. And I talked about the one-sentence summary I would use to describe John the Baptist. Well, his one-sentence summary for Jesus is what we will look at now. The statement he chose to best encapsulate the person and purpose of Christ. And that is our first point. Jesus is the Lamb of God. Jesus has seven titles given in the first chapter of John, but the first one given is Lamb of God, here in verse 29 and repeated in verse 36 When I read this passage to my children a few weeks ago, the first question Layla had for me was, why is Jesus called a lamb? And I'm sure she's not alone, especially if you are not a Christian or not familiar with this passage. A man being described as a lamb, and that being intended to be a positive thing, is strange. But for the original audience, while a person being described as a lamb may have been unusual, there was probably little doubt in their minds that John, what John was alluding to. And that is that the Lamb of God was going to be sacrificed. Like I said, at this time sin offerings were common, and in preparing for this sermon I discovered it was beyond common, what I understood. It was nearly perpetual. There were regular sin offerings at the new moon, the Feast of Trumpets, Passover, the Day of Atonement, and during the Feast of Booths, an eight day festival, they were instructed in Numbers twenty nine to sacrifice over those eight days Seventy-one bulls, fifteen rams, eight goats, and one hundred and five lambs. Two hundred and eighty-nine total offerings And as I was thinking how they must have felt about all this sacrifice, a very significant present part of their lives, I thought about my two cars. Stay with me. Both of our vehicles have a tire with a very slow leak. And as many of you know, the Chevrolet area is not very accommodating to finding free air at gas stations. And paying for air profoundly irritates me. So every few weeks you could find me in our driveway with a bike pump. I would hook it up to the tire, and I learned that with usually around 150 pumps, the tire would be back to a reasonable tire pressure. But that was pumping and my triceps were burning and my pump was getting hot and Arthur the mailman was laughing at me as he walked past. I was thinking, there's got to be a better way. Can't keep doing this. And for me, that better way came in the form of an air compressor I purchased a few weeks ago. Let me know if you need to borrow one. But That time spent laboring with the bike pump made me realize how badly I needed an alternative to my problem The animal sacrifices would have served to make the Israelite people constantly aware of their sin, the grievousness of their sin in the eyes of a perfect and holy God. Their inability to obey the law and longing for a better way. A way God prepared them to understand all the way back in Exodus, when he first instituted Passover The Passover, which you read about just earlier, is a familiar story for many. It's a topology in that it was created to point forward to Jesus as the Lamb of God In God's act of rescuing his people from slavery in Egypt, he brought ten plagues upon Egypt. And the last plague was the death of the firstborn of every family. But God's Set his people apart and offered them a way to be rescued from God's judgment on the lamb, on the land, through the sacrifice of a lamb. There are many comparisons that could be made between the Passover lamb and Jesus, but for our purposes today, let's just understand this. In the Passover, a lamb was killed. Its blood protected from God's judgment the people who in obedience covered their homes with the blood of the Lamb, and it enabled them to be rescued finally from their slavery in Egypt. In Jesus' story, a lamb was killed, its blood protected from God's judgment, the people who in obedience covered their hearts with the blood of the Lamb He enables them to be rescued finally from their slavery, then. You see the connection there Isaiah sure did. So let's look at one more Old Testament passage that helped prepare God's people to understand John's introduction. Isaiah 53. John the Baptist, as I said, quoted from Isaiah 40, verse 3, when describing himself to the priests and Levites in John 1. And in Isaiah, where it says, the voice is preparing the way of the Lord. The Lord is Yahweh, the Messiah, the suffering servant, that is foretold in chapters forty nine through fifty-five of Isaiah. And in Isaiah fifty three, verse seven, the suffering of this Messiah is likened to a lamb. He was oppressed, and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth, like a lamb that is led to the slaughter, and like a sheep that before its shearers is silent, so he opened not his mouth. And what was this Lamb's purpose? Isaiah 53:5. But he was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace. With his wounds we are healed This lamb will come to take away the sins of the world. So, in Isaiah, the voice in the wilderness is preparing the way for the Lord, described as a lamb. And in John 1, John the Baptist is the voice in the wilderness, preparing the way for the Lord, describing him as a lamb, the Lamb of God. The penalty for our transgressions and iniquities is death. I know I can lose sight of this because the perfect sacrifice died 2,000 years ago. But in the Old Testament, the seriousness of their sin was a part of their lives. They gave up the Lamb. They saw the death. They smelled the blood and the meat. And an entire tribe of Israel, the Levites, was tasked with serving at the temple, and they were slaughtering lambs every morning and every evening, and twice more on the Sabbath. It's not pleasant. Lambs and goats and rams and bulls being slaughtered for your sin should turn your stomach. Today, we don't have the sight and smell of animals being sacrificed, but we see the cost of our sin. It should burn our stomachs. We see strained or broken marriages because of our stubborn selfishness. We see the cold work relationships because of our pride and obviously knowing better than that other person how to solve this problem. We see our children fearful of the anger of their father, or defeated by the biting criticism of their mother. Children, we see our brother or sister or friends not want to be with us because we so quickly cut one another down with our words and are so slow to build us up at times. This sin has a penalty, the penalty of death. And yet we should all the more be moved by the abundant mercy of God, his incomparable grace. That as great as the depth of our sin, as rank as our sin is, depth, his grace is greater still There is nothing you have done, nothing I just listed, nothing you're thinking of right now that is greater than what God can forgive Turn to Jesus. Experience the freedom of your sins wiped clean And if you are here or watching and you are not a Christian, are you burdened? Do you feel the weight of your own failures, shortcomings? Maybe the unique challenges of this year are exposing them in a powerful way. Experience His forgiveness, grace, greater than all our sin. Or maybe, whether you are a Christian or not, you don't smell the stench of your sin, and you don't recognize the deadly seriousness with which God views your sin. I encourage you to think with me on what we have talked about in relation to Romans 6. 23. For the wages of sin is death. Free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. With the Old Testament sacrificial system, Cassel Relamb specifically, Isaiah's prophecy We see how the Old Testament story is pointing us to Christ as taking the symbolism of a lamb. Now let's look briefly at what the perfect sacrificial lamb does with sin. Our second point. Jesus takes away the sins of the world. The book of Hebrews tells us how Christ is greater than the old covenant. Because I said the word Hebrews, Hebrews Bible study, 8 p. m. Zoom, all are welcome, as Pastor John said. And in chapter 10 of Hebrews The author explains how Jesus is greater than the Old Covenant sacrificial system. He writes in verse 11 that every priest stands daily at his service. offering repeatedly the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins. These are the Old Testament sin offerings. But when Christ had offered for all time a single sacrifice for sins E sat down at the right hand of God, waiting from that time until his enemies should be made a footstool for his feet. for by a single offering he has perfected for all time those who are being sanctified. Christ could sit down, because his death was sufficient to satisfy the wrath of God. He did not need to stand repeatedly sacrificing himself for all people as the priest did. By his own one sacrifice, he has made perfect for ever those who are being sanctified Or those who have placed their trust in Christ. This act, friends, is how Jesus takes away the sin of the world He offers himself to you as a sacrifice on your behalf and if you believe in him. Regardless of the wrong you have done, and regardless of sin being in your very nature, your sins will be taken away by the Lamb. And his perfect life will be yours. If you are not a Christian, I behold to you, the Lamb of God takes away the sin of the world. Takes away your sin Ponder on the sacrifice that has already been paid for you. Believe in him. If you are a Christian, your sins have been taken away Rejoice in his grace, and worship him. Jesus sitting down at the right hand of God, the wrath of God satisfied because of his sacrifice, this should compel our hearts to worship. And it will, actually, forever, for all of eternity. Isn't that the very vision John sees in Revelation 5? The heavenly host looks at the only one worthy to open the scroll. What is his appearance? A lamb. Standing as though it had been slain. And when the heavenly host lays eyes on this slain lamb, they spontaneously launch into worship. Again. Worthy are you, for you were slain, and by your blood you ransomed people for God from every tribe and language and people and nation. This should compel our hearts to worship. Does it? Does it cause you to sing as the angels did? Or are you numb to it? Christ is worthy of this worship. And we can begin experiencing heaven now. Reflect on Jesus as a slain, risen lamb worship I'll make it easy for you. Write down two things. Behold the Lamb of God, and is he worthy? Or just remember them. Two songs, both by Andrew Peterson. On your way home tonight. Search for it on whatever music device you use and play them. It'll take about half your drive back to Chevrolet if you if you live in that area. They're great for the Advent season and great to worship the worthy lamb who was slain. Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world This was John the Baptist's one statement summary to introduce Christ's most important attributes. Perhaps the priests and Levites who visited John the day before would have described or beheld their idea of the Messiah differently. Something like, behold the lion of Judah, the lion of Judah, who will reign over Israel, drive out the Romans, and allow us to live peaceful, comfortable lives. My question to you is, how do you behold Christ? How do you behold Christ in your own heart? How do you behold him to others What is your one-sentence summary when you tell others about him? Or what would those who observe you think your one-sentence summary would be Behold Jesus, who I cry out to when times are really bad. Behold, Jesus, who I give thanks to on Thanksgiving, but grumble to many other days. Behold Jesus who saved me, but who I don't really need in my day-to-day life. Or perhaps you are like my friend and like John, and you behold the Lamb of God. Takes away the sin of the world. And that beholding or proclaiming is a calling that we all have, brothers and sisters. Jesus said of John that he was greater than anyone who had come before him. Why? John had a more complete understanding of the Messiah and his mission than anyone before had. And he had, as D. A. Carson puts it, because I would never use this big of a word, the inestimable privilege of introducing Christ But Jesus says of us that we who are least in the kingdom are greater than John. Why? Because we, through the revelation of Scripture. Have the full mystery of the gospel revealed to us. We understand that Christ came first, not in judgment, but in mercy And we also have the inestimable privilege of introducing Christ. We have the commission to proclaim Christ So as you look to Christ's coming, this Advent season, reflect on the immensity of His love for you, His power, take away your sins. Remind yourself, remind your family, and proclaim to others, behold, the Lamb of God takes away the sin of the Please pray with me. God, I thank you for your word that in your word, revealed to us, you behold to us all that we need. Namely the Lamb of God who takes away our sin. And I thank you, all of us who have accepted Christ as our Savior can profess to other people, or groups of people, numbers of people, who Followed this commission and beheld to us the Lamb of God who takes away our sin. I pray that especially in this Christmas season, you would help us to reflect On your great sacrifice and your power that you have over sin. And out of an overflow of our hearts. Enable us to behold him to others. Appray these things in your name. Amen