Good morning. Great to be with you this morning. It's a joy to look at this passage with you this morning. We're going to look at Romans, uh Book of Romans, chapter five, verses one through eleven. So you can go ahead and turn there. In your Bibles, and if you're using the Bibles provided on the seats, that should be page 942. And if you're visiting with us this morning, this hasn't already been said, we would welcome you to take that Bible that's on your seat. You don't have a Bible Or if you don't have one that's in modern English, we would love for you to take that and uh and use it. We don't think there's anything more important than that. And if you're unfamiliar with reading the Bible, you'll notice that there's big numbers. And then there's little numbers, the big numbers are the chapter numbers, the little numbers are the verse numbers. We're going to be looking at Romans chapter 5, verses 1 through 11. And this book of Romans is written by the Apostle Paul. To the church in Rome. Most likely he wrote it from the city of Corinth. And it's somewhat the book of Romans is somewhat of Paul's magnum opus, although he might not have meant it that way. It's Sort of the f it contains the largest and most fullest description of the gospel, the good news of Christianity. And this chapter that we're going to look at this morning, or this passage Really gets at the heart of the gospel, and so it's this gospel that is so incredible that Scripture says elsewhere that angels long to look into it. It's that glorious. And we will indeed praise God for this gospel for all eternity. But this morning I only have forty minutes, and so let's just get into it right now. I'm going to read this passage for us. Romans five, one through eleven. Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ Through him we have also obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand. And we rejoice in hope of the glory of God. Not only that, but we rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that suffering produces endurance. And endurance produces character. And character produces hope. And hope does not put us to shame because God's love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit who has been given to us. For while we are still weak, at the right time Christ died for the ungodly. For one will scarcely die for a righteous person, though perhaps for a good person one would dare even to die. But God shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Since therefore we have now been justified by his blood, much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God For if while we were enemies we were reconciled to God by the death of his son, much more now that we are reconciled shall we be saved by his life More than that, we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received reconciliation. Let me pray for our time looking at God's word. Lord, we ask that you would give light to your word as we study it. Please, by your spirit, empower us to understand it and write its eternal truths on our hearts. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Joanne grew up in a middle-class family. She described her childhood as hard. Her mother's 10-year battle with multiple sclerosis really took a toll on Joanne and her family. But growing up, Joanne was also very imaginative and creative, and she loved to write. The most traumatic day of Joanne's life was the day her mother died, New Year's Day, 1991. Joanne was 25. Later that year, Joanne started a job teaching English and began dating a man, and they soon got married. Joanne had a baby named Jessica. But her marriage only lasted 13 months, and once it ended, Joanne and her daughter moved back to England Joanne and her daughter lived in a cramped apartment, and Joanne was jobless and penniless. Yet around this time, Joanne, while on a train ride, had an idea for a book. It was a fanny uh fantasy children's book involving wizards and castles and a main character named Harry. Joanne submitted this book to various publishers, but she was turned down by all except one. A small publisher printed her book but told Joanne not to quit her day job. And then, a few years later, a larger publisher printed Joanne's book with the title, Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone. Joanne Kathleen Rowling, or J. K. Rowling, as she's better known, became one of the wealthiest and most prominent women in Britain and now all over the world. This woman, J. K. Rowelline, went from penniless and jobless to millionaire, billionaire, whatever she is today. And maybe it's just Americans, but we do love a good rags to riches story. Love a story of someone who went from nothing and then sort of reached the heights of prominence. And our passage this morning tells another rags to riches story, a spiritual rags to riches story. And the reason it matters so much is that we are actually the ones that are in spiritual rags. But as we will see, have been given incredible riches in Christ. So the main theme of this passage today, Romans 5, 1 through 11, is this. It's really simple: three words. God justifies sinners. God justifies sinners. That's the main theme of this passage. And just to give you an idea of where we're going, we'll have three points, the benefits of our justification. the source of our justification and the assurance of our justification. So the benefits, source, assurance. So, first, the benefits of our justification. Paul says in verse 1 here, therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Well what does Paul mean here by justified by faith? Seems like an important phrase. Maybe you've heard that or you've heard Christians talk about that. Well, back in chapter 3, Paul writes that none is righteous. This is Paul writing in chapter 3 of Romans. None is righteous. No, not one. No one understands, no one seeks God. What Paul is saying here is that we are not righteous before God because we've all sinned. We've all turned our backs on God. And the penalty for that sin is death and separation from God. We deserve to be separated from this good God because of our sin. But God was incredibly gracious. He sent his only son, God in the flesh, Jesus Christ. He lived a perfect life we could never live in our place. And then he died in our place, the death that we deserved, because of our sin. So that when we believe in Christ, our sin is paid for by the death of Christ. It's done. It's gone. But not only is our sin paid for, we are now clothed by faith in the perfect righteousness of Christ. We are justified. A way of remembering that maybe is it's just as if I'd always obeyed as Christ did, and just as if I'd never sinned as Christ did. We are justified. By faith. And so God looks at us and it's just as if we've never been selfish. It's just as if we've never indulged in sin. Just as if we've always served others. Always spoke kindly. Always were patient with our kids. Always loved our neighbor as ourself. Always loved God above all things. Because that is the righteous life that Jesus lived God is continuing to grow us to be more like his son Jesus and that that process is ongoing. It's called sanctification. But when someone believes the gospel of Jesus Christ, immediately they are justified. Their sins are forgiven. Notice it's past tense. Therefore, since we have been justified, it's not an ongoing process, it's a one-time finish act, our sins are forgiven. And this is really the heart of Christianity. It's it's this message. You know many believe That Christianity is basically about being a good person or being a better person, improving what kind of person you are. But in fact, Christianity is not good advice. It's good news When uh on D the day after D-Day in World War II, people picked up newspapers all over the world. To read about the successful invasion of Europe by the Allies. And it would have been bizarre if someone would have picked up one of those newspapers and said, man, I've got to be a better soldier. That would be an improper response to that news. The right response would have been to pick up that newspaper and celebrate what had already been done. And in a similar way, Christianity is about something that has been done. It's good news, not good advice It's primarily a message to be believed, but believing this message will change everything about your life. It will change everything. But if this sounds new to you or maybe different, then I would I would love for you to ask me or any of the people here about what it means to be a Christian, more about this gospel, good news that we're talking about because that is really at the heart of Christianity. And so I would love, any of us would love to talk more with you about that after the service. And so this this news, this good news of the gospel is the heart of Christianity. But the truth is many Christians at times Don't necessarily believe in their hearts that this news is that great. What do I mean by that? Well, for some This news isn't that great because sometimes we don't believe we need grace or forgiveness all that much. We certainly don't think or believe we're perfect, but we also don't feel we're that bad. We may feel we need forgiveness at times. But on a day-to-day basis, we don't really feel a deep need for a savior. And so this is where our understanding of our sin needs to deepen. Our repentance, in other words, needs to go deeper. One pastor said that Christians should rightly repent of the bad things they do. But Christians should also learn to repent for the bad reasons that they do good things. We must start to see not only the overt sins. But as Christians, as we grow in grace, we should start to see the more covert sins of our motivations, the sins of our desires, sins of our thoughts. And the more we do those things, the more we see the depth of our sin, the more we'll begin to feel a desperate need of a savior every single day. One pastor named Rob Rayburn said, and I think this is so true and hits the nail on the head, we have to remember as Christians that every day we consume barrels of grace. Every day we consume barrels of grace. And that's how the Christian life goes The longer we follow Christ, the worse in some ways our sin seems to us. Our sin seems to grow deeper. And more disturbing. And yet, God's grace appears bigger and bigger And so for some, we think, you know, maybe we don't need to be justified on a day-to-day basis. We don't need grace all that much. But there's a flip side to it also. For for others. We feel our need for a savior. We know we need forgiveness, but it's difficult to really trust in our hearts that God has really forgiven us, that our sins are really gone. It is difficult to trust that God has forgiven us when we see our sins so tangibly day in and day out. I'm sure we've all seen those laundry detergent commercials. Uh on the TV or infomercial, especially if it's late at night and they're you got the t-shirt with the stain on it and they got the detergent that they're selling and uh some of the commercials are uh I mean honestly ridiculous. There's times the stain is blood Which is kinda concerning, but caused one comedian to say, if you've got a t shirt with blood stains all over it, maybe laundry isn't your biggest problem right now which I think is true. But We've all seen these commercials and we've probably all bought these detergents on maybe some level and we've tried it and we found out that that's not really how it works. We we use a detergent, we you know we we wash the clothes, but There's still somewhat of a stain. And I think we think that that way about justification, about forgiveness We think, yeah, I know God forgives me, but come on. Some some kind of stain remains. God holds some kind of grudge for my sin. He holds it over me on some level. But this is just simply not true. One of the reasons we know that is because on the cross, and so kids, I want to ask you guys a question. On the cross, when Jesus was dying, right before he died, he yelled something really loudly. Does ever does anybody remember what he yelled out? What is it? It is finished. Good job. Jesus on the cross yelled, it is finished. He was saying that sin was paid for. It's done. It is finished, period. There is no punishment for sin left. It is finished, period. But we like to put a comma there, don't we? We like to say, it is finished, but I need to do X, Y, or Z if I'm really going to be right with God. If I'm really going to be in good standing with Him. But that's just not what Jesus says, friends. It is finished. Period. In Hebrews it says, Christ sat down at the right hand of God after making sacrifice for all sins. That signified that the work was finished Period. And we should not put a comma where God puts a period. The stain of our sin is gone because of Christ. And so we have peace with God through Christ. You know, Father's Day for many is a great day. But as John prayed, uh for many, it's a difficult day. It might remind us of a father who's no longer here. It might remind us of a father who wasn't really a blessing, was maybe more of a contentious relationship. How amazing is it, friends, that through Christ, we have peace with God, our Heavenly Father. His father is good. He's just. He's loving. He's faithful. It is finished. One of the other reasons we don't trust that our justification is complete is because of pride. Right? I mean justification tells us that we haven't justified ourselves before God and we never will. And that's a major blow to our pride. And because that's hard to swallow for our pride, we often, maybe it's subconscious, but we often turn the cross into a kind of second chance. We love second chances, right? And so we were tempted to think, God, if you would just forgive me this once, then I'll show you that I can do much better. If you just kind of clean up this mess that I've made, then I'll show you that I'm actually capable of much more. I can make you happy. But one thing we can be sure of is that if we are going to stand before God justified, it will never be on the basis of our life and obedi and obedience, but on Christ's alone. When we get to heaven, our resume as Christians will have one word on it. Christ. And that's it. And that's why Paul follows this verse by saying, through him we have also obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand. We stand in grace as Christians. That means we never move on from it. He doesn't say we've walked through grace. We stand, it's stationary. We don't move on. Grasping the gospel of grace is the last aha moment of the Christian life. We never move on from the gospel. We stand in this grace. And so the first benefit of justification Is that we are perfect in God's sight. We have a perfect standing with God and we have peace with God through Christ alone. But Paul isn't done expounding the blessings or the benefits of justification. Justification also, as we will see in the next verses, It also gives us a heart that worships God. And so look at what Paul says in the next verse, in verse 2. Through him we have also obtained access by faith into this grace in which we stand, and we rejoice In hope of the glory of God. We take hope in the glory of God. Grasping justification in the gospel leads to a desire to see God glorified. It's really hard to get excited about worshiping and glorifying God without understanding the gospel and justification. I think it's just true. I mean only when we grasp this that we've been saved by grace through Christ, only when we grasp that really, will we be able to say in our hearts, praise God and Him alone. To him receive all power and wealth and might and worship and credit. Only a heart that grasps the gospel can truly say that with joy. All glory be to Christ. And in verses 3 to 5, Paul expands on yet another benefit of our justification, our hope and suffering. The reason we can have hope and suffering is because we know that we have peace with God. And so if we have peace with God, then we know that our sufferings are not the rejection of God, but a good and loving design of our Heavenly Father Jonathan Edwards was a American pastor and theologian in the 18th century. He preached his first sermon at the age of 18. And it was on the verse in Romans 828 that I think we'll be looking at, I believe, in BBS, that goes, and we know that God works all things for good of those who love him and are called according to his purpose. Rich verse. And the thesis of his sermon was Christians should always be happy. And maybe you think, ah, he's 18, you know, maybe a little oversimplistic, you know, nice triad words, but listen to his outline of his sermon. Christians should always be happy because their bad things will turn out for good. Their good things can never be taken away from them. And their best things are yet to come. Christians should always be happening, happy. And not even suffering can dim the hope that the gospel brings. But how specifically does suffering bless us? Well, let's look at these verses one phrase at a time. So first, Paul says, suffering produces endurance. Okay, that makes sense. When we suffer, we wait patiently on the Lord. So if we trust him, we endure. That makes sense. It produces endurance. Next, Paul says, endurance produces character. This word character means something that remains or what is left after something has been tested Similar to maybe how silver or gold is refined by a fire. It's what's left after it's gone through a testing. Oftentimes we think in the Christian life that we grow by asking God for something, grow us in faith or grace or whatever, and then God just sort of sprinkles it on us and boom. And we've grown spiritually great. But this process of sanctification and producing character through testing is actually much more arduous. You know, whenever a ship is built, uh especially one that's going to carry people. Uh the ship is subjected to what is called a sea trial. And so the ship is taken out into open sea, and all sorts of tests are done to it to see if it's seaworthy, if it's reliable. And if malfunctions or imperfections are found out there, then they can be fixed, and the result is the ship being certified, reliable, proven seaworthy. Well, in the same way, I think God allows our faith to be tested by enduring suffering. And because we know that we've been reconciled to God through his son. We can see these times not as God's rejection of us, but as his love toward us. God even uses our suffering as a way to grow us, as hard as it is. And to prepare us for whatever work he has for us. Then finally, Paul says that character You see that in the verse there? And then it says, so character produces hope. And so when we see our faith strengthened through enduring suffering, it produces hope in us. Is suffering is kind of like a sifter. And like sand falls through a sifter and just leaves the larger pieces or rocks. The sifter of suffering causes false hopes to pass away until only larger, more substantial hopes are left. And it's in these times as Christians that we discover a hope way too large to be sifted out. This rock of a hope is a hope that we can stand on and depend on. Because it's the hope that we will be forgiven and we will see God after this life. It's the hope that every wrong will be made right, and that one day God will wipe away every tear. We have hope. And so we've looked at the benefits of our justification and what incredible benefits they are. And that brings us to the end of the first point, which is much longer than the last two points. But now let's look at our second point, the source of our justification. How have we received this gift of justification Well Paul explains in verses six and eight that we were all weak and sinful and desperate. Paul really doesn't pull any punches here and preserving anyone's pride. He's explaining the rags we wore spiritually before God saved us. In verse 7, he adds a painful blow to our pride. He says, For one will scarcely die for a righteous person, though perhaps for a good person one would dare even to die. But God shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Paul's saying, look, maybe for a good friend Or someone really important, someone might dare to die, a really righteous person, but you weren't that. You weren't prominent. You weren't righteous. You weren't worthy of dying for. In fact, we were the opposite. We were sinners. We were enemies of God. We didn't deserve it. And it's because we've been saved by grace through Christ that we should be profoundly humble as Christians I mean, a proud Christian is an oxymoron. It makes no sense considering this gospel we've been looking at that's at the heart of Christianity. A human heart's default is to lift itself up above others, isn't it? This kind of spiritual pride says, see, God died for me because I'm worth dying for. But Paul methodically, throughout this passage, and I hope you see this as you're reading through it, he methodically underscores, it's not us, it's not us, it's not us, and at the same time says it's all Christ. It's all Christ. It's all Christ. Christ is the source of our justification, our forgiveness, our peace with God, not us. Sadly, we are so slow to learn this lesson as Christians. It's so easy to grow spiritually proud. And the only thing that can keep us humble consistently is the cross. Keeping a sinful heart humble is kind of like trying to keep a huge balloon submerged underwater at the bottom of a lake. Right? I mean it always just wants to shoot up. But the cross and the gospel is like a 10-ton weight attached to that balloon. It keeps the gospel keeps our hearts low. It keeps us humble because we see that Christ is the source of our justification. Grace alone. We didn't deserve it. It was not us. It is through Jesus, it is through Christ alone that we've been reconciled to God. He is the source of our justification, our peace with God. And that brings us to our final point, the assurance of our justification. Paul writes in verse 9, Since therefore we have been justified by his blood, much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God? Paul here explains that those justified through Christ will escape the wrath of God for sin that is coming. Well, God's wrath is something that I think needs to be explained today. So when we hear the word wrath, we typically picture God maybe with his face distorted and some kind of fury and blind rage But God's wrath or anger is much different from that, and it's much different from any sort of wrath or anger that we as humans experience. So we all agree, we all know that there is such a thing as righteous anger, righteous wrath, at things like human trafficking. Gross injustice, murder, extravagant greed, or abuse, as John prayed about and as we've seen so painfully in the last year or two. In fact, we can probably all recall a time when we saw someone get angry for a really good reason. And I bet in those moments, your response was probably not, wow, what a monster. I could never trust that person In fact, probably the opposite happened, didn't it? If you saw someone get angry over something that was truly evil, you probably thought, wow That's a good and righteous person. I can trust that person. They hate what is evil. If you don't get angry at injustice, if you don't get angry when someone you love hurts themselves or others, the simple truth is you don't care You don't care about that injustice. We know God is good because of his anger and his wrath. And so wrath or anger can be a good thing. But the reason we usually have a problem with God's wrath is because we don't usually see that our sin is something worth getting angry over. We don't see how serious our sin is to God. However, just to put it in perspective, let's just summarize our relationship with God. God created us. Created everything in the world. He gave us everything we would need for life. He gave us his love, his faithfulness. And yet every single one of us. Has spit in his face and said, no thanks. I want to be the God of my life. We betrayed this most faithful spouse. And so God has every reason to be angry, doesn't he? He has every reason to give us the death and separation from our sin, from him that our sin deserves. And this wrath of God for our sin is real. God hates sin, and that is just, and one day he will punish it And yet in his incredible mercy, for a time, it's delayed. Either until we die and we face God or when Christ comes again. But at some point we will face God. Do not bet against it. And we have two options. To die in our sins and face the wrath that is to come, or to die in Christ and be saved. We think God's wrath makes him unworthy of our trust, but in fact, his wrath for sin makes him the most worthy of our trust. He's good, he's just, and the fact that he died for our sins proves that he is the most loving, gracious, and compassionate. Trust in this God, would you? We implore you, in the words of Paul, be reconciled to God through this free, open way that God has provided for us through faith in Christ And that's the final promise and wonder of our justification as Christians in this final paragraph. Because we are justified in this life through faith, we will be saved from the wrath that is to come. Paul uses an argument here in verse 10, from the greater to the lesser. He says, if God was willing to send his son to die in our place when we were not deserving, when we were sinners. Then why would he not save us in the future now that we've been reconciled? Why would he not save us from the wrath that is to come if he saved us now And that's the promise that Christ holds out to us. Trusting in Christ is the only way to be justified before God and be saved in the future. It's a free gift. Trust in Christ. Well, I hope you see that the greatest rags to riches story actually involves us Think of where you would be, who you would be, if it weren't for Christ. In closing, I want to tell you about one more person who went from rags to riches. His name was John. Not our pastor, John, different John. This John was on our uh was on the run. He had served time in prison, but once he got out, he found he couldn't get a job anywhere because of his record. He broke the law again while on parole, and the authorities were after him. He got desperate. He was hungry, living on the streets, and scared A priest took him in to his house to stay the night. And he did something that he never thought he would do He stole all the priest's silver in his house and fled in the middle of the night. He didn't get far. Before the authorities caught him and brought him back to the priest, and John lied. He said that the priest told him to take the silver. And John could hardly make eye contact with the priest He was embarrassed, ashamed, and he knew he was about to serve life in prison. And then the priest opened his mouth and he spoke, and John couldn't believe what he said. The priest said to the authorities, well, in fact, he's telling the truth. John couldn't believe his ears. And then the priest said, but brother. You forgot the most valuable silver of all that I gave you. Here, take this and be on your way. Well that's the story of John or Jean Valjean from Victor Hugo's book Les Mes. And the priest's generosity completely upended John Valjean's life. It changed him. The priest's grace with him was so extravagant, so mind-boggling, that Jean Valjean didn't know what to do with it. And so he prayed to God because he knew the only reason that the priest was that gracious to him was because God had been that gracious to the priest I've thought about this story many times in my Christian life, and I've wondered how I would respond if I was the priest. What if I was at a coffee shop and someone grabbed my laptop and ran out the door? Would I run after them saying, You forgot the charger? I'm ashamed to say that I hold on to my possessions much more tightly than the priest did. I can also harbor pride and self-righteousness in a way that this gospel of grace simply does not allow. What about you, friends? How firm of a grip does this glorious gospel of grace have on you? When's the last time you stared at this radically gracious gospel until it made you radically gracious? When's the last time you stared at this profoundly humbling gospel? Until you were profoundly humbled. When was the last time you gazed at your Lord Jesus Christ until your heart flooded with love toward this precious Savior who loved you and gave himself for you? Has this gospel made you say recently, Lord, use up my life or your glory, so that everyone will see how wonderful you are? With praying. Lord, thank you for your radical, gracious, extravagant grace. Thank you that we are justified. We have peace with you. Father, help us to trust. Both that we need your grace every day, every hour, every minute, every second, and at the same time help us to see and trust that it is finished. We are covered in the perfect righteousness of Christ. Our sins are paid for through faith in Christ. And help us To meditate, stand in this grace, and think often of the blessings of this gospel. Help us to remember that this is a message to be believed, and I pray that by this message you would profoundly transform us into people shaped by your grace. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.