Good morning, friends. It is a pleasure to be with you and to have this opportunity to open up God's Word together with you and to hear him speak to us. Before we dive into the word, I'm going to go ahead and pray for us briefly, and then we'll begin. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come to you this morning needing to be reminded of the gospel. The good news that has been declared and is completed in Christ The good news that where Adam failed to obey and so lost the blessing, and where Israel failed to obey and lost the blessings. And where we failed to obey and had no claim to the blessings, the Lord Jesus Christ. The eternal Son of God obeyed perfectly and so secured the blessings for all of his people and now shares those blessings. Completely apart from our ability to live according to your law perfectly. We rejoice in that good news this morning. And because of the good news, We pray that you would grant your spirit to help us walk in obedience to you today. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Friends, I want to have you turn with me in your Bibles to Colossians chapter 3, verses 20 and 21. That's what we're going to be looking at today as we Continue our study through Paul's letter to the Colossians. Throughout chapter 3, Paul has been pressing home all of the new all of the ways the new life that they have received in Christ should transform their lives. So in verses one to four of chapter three, we see that the Colossians and us should now seek Christ and His kingdom. Rather than chasing after the world and all of its ways and its desires and its values. Then in verses 5 to 11, we see that new life in Christ leads to putting off the old self. We're called to put off all forms of sexual immorality. We're called to put off all forms of anger and all of the different ways that we sin with our speech. But new life, we also learn in chapter 3, doesn't just include putting off the old. New life also leads to putting on the new. In verses 12 to 17, if you just let your eyes fall over those verses, we are to put on the character of Christ We're to be ruled by the peace of Christ. We're to be filled with the Word of God, and we're to do everything in life to the glory of God. New life brings with it powerful transformation to All of life. And then what we find in the next section of Colossians is that Paul gets specific, right? He addresses how new life in Christ should also transform marriages, parenting, and work life. Last week we saw how new life in Christ should transform the relationship between a husband and a wife. Next week, we're going to think about how it should transform our work life. But this week, we're going to think about how new life in Christ should transform the relationship between children and their parents. Now, if you're currently not a child in the home, or if you're not a parent with young children, or you don't have any children at all, you might think that this passage doesn't have anything to teach you. But I want to encourage you to stick with me throughout the sermon because what we'll see is that this passage has something powerful to say to each of us about our own relationship with God. Not only that, but if you don't have children of your own, my hope is that you'll come away equipped to walk alongside parents with children in this church or elsewhere. Right? So even think about my my wife and I, how we've benefited so much from singles and other couples without children of their own who've spoken into our lives, helped us with our own parenting, challenged us along the way. And so I want us to say that to see that there's something for all of us here. But first, let's think about how our new life in Christ should transform our relationship as children and parents. I want you to follow along as I read Colossians chapter 3, verses 20 and 21. And kids, real quick, I want to encourage you guys every week when you're at service. To have the Bible open in front of you and to follow along. That's one way that you can see whether what I'm preaching actually comes from God's Word or not. But this week especially, I want to encourage you to keep your Bible open in front of you because I'm going to be asking you some questions about the passage, and I'd like you guys to answer. This is going to be, our first point is going to be a lot of back and forth. Between me and the kids present. So just be ready to answer questions. All right. Let me go ahead and read the passage for us now. This is God's word. Children, obey your parents in everything. For this pleases the Lord. Fathers, not provoke your children. Lest they become discouraged. New life in Christ should lead to new relationships between parents and children marked by obedience and encouragement. Children should obey their parents, and parents should not provoke their children. If you're taking notes, those are going to be our two points today. Putting on the new self. Looks like children obeying their parents. And parents not provoking their children. So first, putting on the new self for children looks like Obeying your parents. Look with me again at verse 20. Children, obey your parents in everything. Paul clearly addresses children here, but what type of children is he talking to? I mean, let's just observe this room. Take a look around in this room, right? There are infants. There are toddlers. There are very young children, young children, preteens, and teens. And I'm guessing That the Colossian church had a somewhat similar makeup, right? So what age group of children does Paul have in mind here? Who exactly is he talking to? I want to go ahead and open it up to the youth and the kids who are present here today. How would you all answer that question? What age group of children do you think Paul is talking to? Clear? Everyone can flesh out a little bit more. Every kid present. Now would you say that he's talking to infants? They would understand that yeah, that's that's exactly right. I think Paul's right. I think Paul is talking to All children, and especially qualified by those who can understand him, who can hear what he's saying, understand it, and apply what he's saying, right? Right? So I think that's ultimately correct. Paul is talking to all the children that can hear and understand him and who are still at home living under their parents' authority. So he's talking to all of the kids. Kids, pay attention. All of y'all. He's talking to all the children whose relationship with their parents is uniquely defined by obedience. Right? If your parents expect you to obey their instructions, Paul is talking to you Children, obey your parents, right? And that's what Paul tells children to do in this verse. He says, obey your parents. Now, if you're here, you're between the ages of five and eight. Five and eight, I want you to go ahead and raise your hand We have a few five to eight-year-olds here. I'm asking specifically y'all, so I'm going to need some of you to answer this question. What does it mean? You can put your hand down. Because I'm gonna need you to raise your hand again. What does it mean to obey your parents? What does that mean? I can't see all the way in the back. He said, Cooper, what does it mean to obey? You need to shout it out. Follow their instructions. That's what it means to obey. Other five to eight-year-olds, Dorothy, what does it mean to obey? Do what they say, follow their instructions. That's exactly right. It means to follow instructions. It means to comply with what your parents tell you to do. It means to carry out their requests. So Paul is telling the teens. The preteens, the children to do what your parents tell you to do But for all the kids here, all those groups, I want you to go ahead and look again at the passage with me. He tells the children to obey their parents Now, in what way does he tell them to obey? What does it say there? Just shout it out In everything, right? That's great. That's what you're supposed to do. Shout it out. In everything. Obey your parents. In everything. I don't know about y'all kids, but if I was to read that passage, I would think, oh no, oh no, there's no loophole, right? It would be so much better if he said, children, obey your parents in some things. Or some of the time, or better yet, when you feel like it, because then I don't have to obey at all because I never feel like it, right? But he doesn't, kids. He says to obey in everything. Now let's be clear. When Paul says to obey your parents in everything, he isn't saying to obey your parents if they tell you to sin, right? If they tell you to sin, you should not obey. But he's expecting, he's assuming some some level of benevolence and goodness in your parents, that they're going to give you instructions that are pleasing to the Lord, that if you follow them out, that it pleases the Lord But in everything else, you should obey. Right? So let's take a pop quiz. Kids, I want to see if you're tracking with me. I want to see if you're tracking with me here. You can shout out the answer to these questions, and I'm going to give you a hint. The answer will be either yes or no. So you have a 50% chance of getting the question right, even if you just guess. But I don't think you're going to need to guess. So, kids, shout these out with me here. If your parents tell you to put your shoes away, should you obey? Well done kids. If your parents tell you to clean your room, should you obey? If your parents tell you to cheat on a test, should you obey? Well done! Y'all are tracking with me. I thought I was gonna get a couple of y'all to say yes, but man, you are tracking with me. Now we're gonna start we're gonna start making these a little bit harder, a little bit more complex situations. You might still guess what the answer is, but I want you to think with me here. If you are riding your bike in your neighborhood Your parents are at home, but when you went out on your bike, they told you to stay in a certain area of the neighborhood. But they're not around to see you. Mom and Dad, they're not around. Should you obey? Should you obey? Yes, you should obey that. Teens If you have access to screens, iPhone, iPad, computer, let's say your parents let you have it in your room. But they say, hey, at 8. 30, screen needs to go away. You're in your room. 829. Parents aren't there Clock turns over. 8. 30. The hour of reckoning has come. You look at the screen. It's beckoning you to continue looking at it. It's calling out saying, look at me, look at me, they're not around. They can't see you. Should you obey your parents and put the screen away? That's what I'm talking about. Yes, in everything you should obey whatever your parents instruct you to do. Whatever they tell you to do, whatever they ask you to do in everything, you should obey. So for the teens, I want to ask you all, how are you doing obeying your parents in everything? How are you doing with that? In the teen years, it's likely that your parents have given you a bit more freedom and so are trusting you more and more to obey their instructions. Even when they're not around. Are you? Are you? Are you abusing the freedom and the trust they've given you by doing what you want when they're not around? Or are you obeying them? Do you argue with them when they give you instructions? Right? Now I want to be sure I'm clear, there is nothing wrong, teens, with making an appeal to your parents in a respectful way. There's nothing wrong with that. Right about the maybe appealing about the particular struct instructions they've given you. But when they give you instructions and they say, no, no, we do want you to do this, is your instinct to argue? To roll your eyes and to stomp off and let them know how unhappy you are, or maybe even yell at them. Is that your instinct? For my 9 to 12 year olds, why don't you all raise your hands for me? For my 9 to 12 year olds, how are you doing obeying your parents? When they give you an instruction, do you listen to it and do it? Or do you say that you'll do it and then go off and do what you want? Have you lied about obeying instructions that your parents have given you, but they weren't around to see whether you did it or not? Have you told them that you've done things they told you to do when you actually haven't done things? For my five to eight-year-olds, raise your hands again. I want you guys to think about this. How are you doing obeying instructions? When your parents give you instructions, do you respond by screaming and crying? Right? Think about especially when they when they tell you it's time to put the toys away. Do you say, yes, mom, yes, dad? Or do you respond by yelling and getting really mad? Right? When your parents tell you to share with your siblings, do you obey them If you're at the pool or the park and mom and dad says it's time to go home, but you don't want to, what should you do, kids? Shout it out. Obey you should obey in everything. But why Why should you obey? I want to ask all of the kids here today, from the youngest to the oldest, doesn't matter how old you are, why should you obey your parents in everything? Caleb? Look at Caleb reading the Bible. Go ahead and look down there at the passage. That's exactly right, Caleb. Because this pleases the Lord. For this pleases the Lord. There's your reason. Because it pleases the Lord. But I want to ask a follow-up question to the kids that might be a little bit harder for you. Why do you think your obedience to your parents pleases the Lord. What reasons come to mind? Cooper? What's that? Someone tell me what he said? It's a good deed? That's exactly right. That's one reason. Why else does it please the Lord, Dorothy? Because it pleases your parents? Yep, God has given them as an authority over you. Other kids, why does it please the Lord when you obey? Let me get one more, Jack. Because you're obeying God. Yeah, you're showing that you ultimately trust in God. Ultimately, it pleases the Lord. Because it's a display of your trust in and obedience to God Himself. Right? For the all of the kids here, the primary stage. On which your faith in Jesus will be seen at this point in your life is in your relationship to your parents. It's not the only stage, but it's the primary stage. Following Jesus for you will look like obeying your parents. So Jesus says to all Christians: take up your cross and follow me. And you might say to Jesus, follow you how? What does it look like for me to take up my cross and follow you, Jesus? And Jesus would say to you, by obeying your parents. But you might say, but Jesus, you don't know my parents. They're instructions. They make no sense most of the time. And it seems like they just. They just don't want me to have fun. Jesus would lay his hand on your shoulder, look you in the eyes, and say, I know it's hard. And I know it doesn't always make sense, kids. And I'm going to talk to your parents about the ways that they've used their authority, right? But You You still need to obey them. Obeying them now even when you don't understand it, is going to help you obey me when you get older. Because there will be times where I ask you to do things in your life, even as an adult, that don't make sense, that don't feel right to you And you will still need to obey me. Practice now makes it easier later And obeying your parents now will help you in the future obey the other authorities that God is going to place in your life for your good. Teachers, right? Obeying your parents at home helps you obey teachers in school, professors in college, bosses at work, and then ultimately God Himself. But also want to make sure, kids, that we don't make the mistake of talking about obedience as this really hard thing that you just have to do, this thing that you just have to Grit your teeth and do, and it's it's really not a good thing at all. It's just really hard and it's frustrating and grating. No, obeying your parents is good There is good for you in it and through it. It's God teaches us throughout the Bible that obedience brings life, joy, and peace. This was true for Adam in the garden. This was true for Israel in the land of Canaan. Living within the boundaries that God has established for us is good. for us, no matter what age we are, which means obeying your parents is good for you. Right? I want you to think of it this way, kids. Let's imagine that we're all at a church picnic. We're at a big, beautiful park, and there's a huge field out in the park, and so we all decide to play a game of soccer. We set up the goals. We mark off the out-of-bounds line and the other lines on the field. We pick the teams and then we start the game. But as soon as we start the game, nobody pays attention to any of the rules, right? Kids are dribbling the ball out of bounds. Nobody's blowing the whistle, everyone's going off sides, they're scoring on their own goals, they're committing penalties, but not stopping. If you're playing in that game where nobody is following the rules, is that going to be an enjoyable game of soccer? No, the rules bring order and enjoyment to the game itself. The game is most enjoyable when you play within the rules and the boundaries of the game. In the same way, kids. Life is most enjoyable when you play within God's commands and boundaries. He set it up that way. So I want to encourage the young kids, my my five to nine-year-olds, to move from begrudgingly obeying mom and dad to joyfully obeying mom and dad. And for the teens in the room, I want to encourage you to move from duty to delight. Delight to obey your parents. There is good for you in it. And especially for the teens. I want to encourage you all to open up your life to your parents. Bring them into your life. Share with them what's going on in your life and ask for their input. This may trip you out, teens, but your parents were your age once. They were. As much as it may not seem like it, as much as they they may not seem like they understand you, they were that age once And they've been through it before. And I think what some of the frustration that you may experience in your relationship with them is that they have been through it and they just want you to know, hey, that's not gonna bring you life. Go this way. And you might think you're just trying to control my life. And they're like, no, literally. It's not gonna go well. I can tell you stories from my own life about how it didn't go well. We can open up Proverbs 4 and look at Solomon, my son. Listen to my instruction, hold fast to it. You want to know why? Because I walked your path once I made the mistakes that you're about to make, and it's gonna hurt if you make them. And so they're just trying to help you go in the right direction. So I want I want the teens here in this room to think about how can you go the extra step of beyond just obeying your parents and say, hey mom and dad Here's what's going on at school. I got some friends doing this. I got some people in my in my relationship group group doing that. It doesn't feel right. I don't know what to do. How can you give me wisdom? What instruction would you have for me in this situation or that situation? Open up your life to them and listen to the wisdom they they give to you. They've walked that road before. They can share with you wisdom and insight, right? So open up your lives to them. Obedience to God is the path on which we experience blessing from God. Now for the kids in the room, you may be thinking about all the ways that you've disobeyed God. And that must mean, if obedience leads to blessings, that you can't experience blessings from God. If that's what you're thinking, I want you to hold that thought. We're going to come back to it at the end of the sermon. But now, kids, I'm sure you're happy about this. We need to talk to your parents. Right? We need to talk to your parents, which brings us to point two. If children are called to obey Parents are called to not provoke. Putting on the new self for parents looks like not provoking your children. Look at me at verse 21. Fathers, do not provoke your children lest they become discouraged. Now some of the some of the moms in the room might be thinking that they get a free pass on this one, right? Just the dads. Sorry about your luck. I I I get to do whatever I want. This is just for the the fathers here, right? Yes, Paul is addressing fathers, but he's addressing them here because they were the head of the household. It would have been understood that they were responsible for setting the tone for how the children were treated in the home. And so Paul's instruction is directed to Fathers, but it also would have been understood to apply as well to mothers. It's equally applicable for both parents. Parents, do not provoke your children. Don't stir them up to anger. Don't unnecessarily irritate them or exasperate them I want to give a quick but necessary caveat here. If your child, which this happens, is provoked by you kindly, calmly, and patiently instructing them Paul is not saying you should stop that. Right? If you're disciplining or instructing your kids in a loving way and that is making them upset, Paul does not mean for you to stop doing that. Right? He's saying Don't do the obvious things that you know are gonna provoke your kids. Don't do that. Parents Don't treat your kids so harshly, rudely, condescendingly, and unsympathetically that they become discouraged. Right, the the range of possible attitudes and behaviors that Paul might have in mind is so broad that it's difficult to name them all. But the command is simple and crystal clear. Don't do the things that you know are going to provoke them. Don't crush their spirits. Don't deflate them. Don't intentionally hurt their feelings or make them feel small and insignificant. Don't make them feel like you don't care about them Don't do the things that you know will only make them more angry. The things that will make them more likely to explode. More likely to sin, more likely to quarrel, more likely to feel crushed, more likely to feel hurt. And parents need this instruction because it is so easy to do. It is so easy to get provoked. and provoke your children, right? It's easy for us to give into our sin nature. It is easy To yell at your kids after they do something you've told them 10 or 20 different times not to do I literally told you not to do that. Over and over I repeated myself, and yet you've done it. See, I mean I'm provoking. I'm not showing the patience that God has called me to show. Think about how many times he's been provoked or tempted to be provoked with us. Yet he forbears with us. God forbears with his people. It's easy. To want to show your kids that you're upset or annoyed. Unbelievable. Can't believe you did it again How could how could you forget it? Forget it. Unbelievable. Right? You can just show them how upset you are with them. It's easy to provoke your children. But we also need to recognize that there are less obvious ways that you can provoke your children, especially in the modern age. One of the most tempting of those is to provoke them by being checked out. Right? Being physically present, but not emotionally or mentally present. Whether it's just by mentally checking out when you're around your kids, you know, daddy, mommy. Are you paying attention? I just told you to do this with me and you're staring off into space, right? Or worse, by being on your phone when you're with them. Now I recognize that with work there are times where we need to take a call, answer a text, or respond to an email. If you're doing that when you're with your kids. . My encouragement to you is just tell them what you're doing. Hey, real quick, daddy or mommy, we need to take this text. I'm gonna I'm responding to this person, and then I'm gonna be right back with you. Tell them that. But how often are we scrolling Twitter? Checking Instagram, Facebook, TikTok, instead of focusing on and investing in our kids, they are paying attention. They're watching what mommy and daddy are doing and being on your phone is a less obvious way to provoke our kids, which you know leads them to do something, I'm gonna give mommy and daddy's attention. And that will look different at different ages depending on how old your your kids are. But they're gonna act out in in certain ways because that provokes them. And provoking your children is part of the old self that you're called to put off in Christ. In Christ, we're called to put on the new self. We're called to put on the new self of compassion, even when your kids get hurt doing the things that you told them not to do. Do you show compassion in those moments? The new self of kindness when your kids are doing the things that frustrate you. The new self of humility when you pridefully forget that you also are a sinner in need of grace. The new self of meekness and gentleness when you're tempted to be to be harsh and to be too firm and forceful with them. The new self of patience when your patience is wearing thin. Putting on the new self for parents takes daily effort. Right? And that really runs against the grain of the age of automation that we live in, right? Right? There are self-driving cars. That's crazy. There's self-parking cars. Watching a Buick commercial last night and the thing parallel parks on its own. Oh my gosh, that's amazing. There are coffee machines that have your coffee ready for you at your preferred level of strength. Beds that change firmness based on your preferences, desks that can move up and down to your preferred height with a push of a button. Home security devices that will notify you when someone's at your your front door. The list goes on and on. As Christians, we need to remember that there is no such thing as self-driving spirituality. Putting on the new self won't just happen. You can't just push a button and ta-da, all the fruits of the Spirit are there in your life. It takes planning. effort and execution to prepare yourself each day to put on the new self, especially when it comes to parenting. For the parents, how are you doing with that? Right? How are you doing with that? How are you doing preparing your own heart and mind each day with the word and with prayer so that When you're bum rushed by your children and all of the things that just need to be happen that need to happen and be done right away when the kids get up, you're not prepared to put off the old and put on the new. And look, nobody is going to do this perfectly. None of us are. But how are you doing preparing yourself for that? If you're not able to get time alone before the kids get up, how are you doing that throughout the day? Our minds are renewed. We're helped to put on the new self by taking in the word and by asking God for help in prayer. How are you doing that throughout the day? How can you plan to be prepared to not provoke your kids? Because you are going to be put in situations when you're tempted to be provoked. And my guess is you probably know exactly what those situations are. You know when this kid does this, or this one does this, or at this time of day, it just you know when it's going to happen. How are you planning? To be prepared for those moments. What would it look like for you in those situations to put on the new and to put off provoking your children? And notice the very important reason why we should not provoke our children. Look again at verse 21. Fathers, do not provoke your children lest they become discouraged. Provoking our children causes them to become discouraged. The word also means to lose heart, to become deflated, to be dispirited. Right. And that doesn't normally happen right away in in one moment. Normally it happens slowly over time. Right, if you've ever gone to the store for a birthday and you get one of those really nice mylar balloons filled with helium, right, the thing is bursting with helium when you first get it. Looks great, taut, ready to float. And then slowly over time, you know, you start walking down, the thing is sagging. Before one day the thing's just laying on the ground. Right? In the same way. provoking your children day in and day out as that deflating effect It pulls the life out of them. It discourages them. It can deflate them over time. Perhaps you've even experienced that in your relationship with your child. Maybe you have regrets. about how you've parented in the past. If we're honest with ourselves, there is not a parent in here who does not have some level of regret about decisions they've made. Things they've said or done, right? If that's you, my encouragement for you is to remember That we serve a God who is able to redeem regret, who is able to heal broken relationships, who is able to bring encouragement. out of discouragement. And one of the main ways he does that between parents and children is through confession and forgiveness. Because God has freely forgiven your sins as a parent, you can admit them to your kids freely and ask them to forgive you. You can admit the ways that you've wronged them and sinned against them and ask them by the mercy and grace of Christ to forgive you for your sins, recognizing that kids and parents, we are all sinners. You stand on a level playing field with your parents and parents, you stand on a level playing field with your kids in that sense. We have all fallen short of the glory of God. And you can freely admit the ways that you have sinned against your children. And children, you can freely admit the ways that you have sinned against your parents, right? Ask your children to forgive you. I would go so far as to say one of the most important things that you can model for your kids as a Christian, if not the most important, is modeling humility and asking them for forgiveness. When and where you've failed as a parent. In the big ways, right, buddy, daddy just yelled at you. I was really mean to you. And that was sin. God tells us not to do that, and I did it, and that was wrong. Will you forgive me? And in the little ways. Right? Will you forgive dad? Right? You were saying something and I was distracted. Please forgive me. Parents. Ask your kids to forgive you when and where you've fallen short. Right? Is asking for forgiveness from your kids a regular practice in your life? That might actually be one way that God protects your kids from being provoked and deflated over the long term because they see, no, daddy and mommy, when they fall short. They come and they ask for forgiveness. They're doing what Jesus tells them to do. So I also want to do that in my life, right? God uses your humility to redeem your inadequacies. And he also teaches your kids that they don't have to hide their sins either. If mom and dad can admit their sins and still know that God loves them, then I can admit my sins and be confident that God still loves me. And both parents and children who failed can be confident that God loves them in spite of their failures and sins because of the gospel Kids, I want to get your attention again here as we kind of bring it to a close. The command to obey your parents actually comes from the Old Testament. Can any of y'all think about the first place children were told to obey their parents? Abram? The Ten Commandments. And do you remember do you remember? Yeah. Honor your father and mother so that your days may be prolonged in the land that the Lord your God is giving you. Right, in the Ten Commandments, God told children to honor their father and mothers, and that commandment was the first one with a promise attached to it, right? That it may go well with you in the land. God promised To bless the people of Israel with a land that flowed with milk and honey, where he would shower his blessings down upon them if they obeyed. Obedience brings blessings. But kids, did the people of Israel obey God? Shouted out. No, they didn't obey God. They sinned against him over and over. Children didn't obey their parents, and parents provoked their children. They broke all of God's commands. And if we're honest, So have we. None of us in this room have perfectly obeyed God's commands Whether you're a child or a parent or you're not married and you don't have any kids of your own, all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. And that leads to the question, how on earth can we experience the blessings of being reconciled to God if we've all disobeyed as well? Well, the answer to that question is the gospel, the good news that God promised salvation for a sinful and fallen people from the very beginning. Adam was told, if you obey, you will have eternal life. You can eat from the tree of life for all of your days. And what did Adam do? He sinned and fell, was cast out of the garden, lost access to the tree of life. lost his relationship with God, was cut off from him, separated from him. So what did God do? God promised to send a savior, someone to come who would crush the serpent's head. And then God calls Abraham and through him creates the nation of Israel. And the people of Israel get the same promise that Adam had, somewhat. They're told that if they're brought into the promised land, when God brings them into the promised land, he gives them his commandments and he says, if you obey my commandments You will be blessed by me. You will prolong your days in the land. I will shower my blessings upon you. You will receive life and joy, and I will dwell with you, and I will be your God, and you will be my people. And what did the people of Israel do? They did what you and I did. They sinned against God. He sent them out of the promised land just like he sent Adam out of the Garden of Eden But this was all according to God's purposes. It was through the nation of Israel, not the people of Israel. They thought they were God's chosen one who would bring salvation into the world, but they lost sight of God's promise. It was one offspring. one seed who would come through the nation of Israel, who would redeem mankind from sin, and who would do what they couldn't do for themselves. And kids, this is this is why I want to press home the importance of Jesus's life for your life. Why did God send Jesus into the world, kids? Why did he send Jesus into the world? Cooper? To take our sins away? Anyone else? So that the world may be saved through him. That's exactly right. He sent him into the world to take our sins away and so that the world would be saved through him. But we need to go a little bit deeper. We don't just want to stay surface level kids. We want to go a little bit deeper and understand why Jesus' life is important for you as kids and for all of us as adults. Jesus came into the world to do what we could not do. He came into the world to obey all of God's commandments Every single one of them. This I like I I hope this just surprises and amazes all of the kids today. Do you understand what that means? When when did Jesus die? How old was he when he died, kids? Cole? He was like 33, which means Jesus was your age once Jesus had parents. He had a mom and a dad. He had a mom and a dad who gave him instructions who probably gave him instructions that Didn't really make sense to him sometimes. But every time that you and I, even as kids or adults, choose to go wrong, Jesus chose to go right. Even as a child, he kept all of God's law, and he kept all of God's laws and commandments for you. For you. Why is that important for you, kids and adults? It's important because none of us can keep God's commandments to the fullest. We've broken all of them. Even to break one commandment to not honor your mom and dad just once, James says shatters all of the commandments. But Jesus came into the world to live the perfect life in your place, his righteousness for you by faith. Not only that, kids especially, the book of Hebrews tells us that after Jesus was crucified. buried, rose again, he ascended into heaven, and he sat down at the right hand of God, and he sat on a throne as both king, ruler of the world, who should be obeyed and loved, and followed and adored. and priest. He is a sympathetic high priest who offered himself as a sacrifice to God. So that we could be cleansed of sin. Why is it important that Jesus is a sympathetic high priest for you? Because he sympathizes with what it's like to not understand your mom and dad's commands. He sympathizes with what it's like to be a teenager and to go through puberty and all of the craziness that happens and you just go, ah, I feel like I'm all over the place. And he knows what it's like to be tempted to say, no, mom, I'm not going to do that. No, Dad. And he never did it. And yet he sympathizes with you. He says, I offered my life for you on the cross. Not just to die for your sins. But to live the perfect life that you couldn't live. I did it for you. That's how much God loves us The Father sent the Son into the world to be the atoning sacrifice for our sins, that whoever would believe in him would have eternal life That is good news for children. That is good news for parents. In all of the ways that we have failed and fallen short, those who have put their faith in Jesus, the Lord Jesus says. Not your righteousness, but mine. Not your perfect life, but mine. I love you. I gave myself for you, and I will keep you to the end, even when you still struggle with sin. Kids, the gospel is not do this and live. The gospel is live. Now do this. Live. Now walk in his ways Same goes for parents. Same goes for all of us. Live. Don't do this. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for sending your one and only beloved Son who is perfect. To die for us. We need to be honest before you. We were entirely unworthy Amazing grace that you have shown us in Christ. We pray that you would grant us your spirit to lay hold of Christ by faith And now to walk in all of your ways. So help the children to obey their parents. We know this pleases you. Help the parents to not provoke their children. And when we do, help us to ask forgiveness from them and to seek forgiveness from you and to know that because of the righteousness of Christ, we have it by faith. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.