Well, good morning, church. Hope you all are doing well today. It's a pleasure to be with you here this morning. It's a joy and an honor and a privilege of mine to be able to open up God's Word with you. and point you to the hope that we all have in Jesus Christ. And I'm really excited about what the Lord has to say to us this morning from Isaiah chapter fifty. It really is a a marvelous passage. But before we dive in, I think it's right for us to go again to the Lord and pray. Pray for wisdom. He's the one who who grants wisdom from heaven. So let's go to him now and pray. Our Father, you are the Lord of the Heavenly Lights. It pleases you to respond to the requests of your children, and our request this morning is simple. Grant your servants wisdom. Cause the Spirit to help us see the Lord Jesus Christ in all of his glory. Help us to see the one who came not to be served, but to serve And to give his life as a ransom for many. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. How many of you are familiar with the name Friedrich Friedrich Nietzsche? Raise your hand if you are familiar with that name. Any of you feel confident enough To just be able to shout out, describe his worldview. What was significant about it? How would you describe it? What would you say? God is dead. Anything else? How would you describe it? What name would you give to his nihilism? Neilism. So Friedrich Nietzsche, if I'm not pronouncing it correctly, I. I'm I'm not familiar with German, so I'm a little bit off on his name, but Nietzsche was an atheist, nihilist philosopher. So he was an atheist. It means he did not believe that God existed. And because of that belief, he was also a niilist, which means that he believed that life was ultimately meaningless. I believe that comes from the Latin nihilo, nothing, out of nothing. So he believed that life was nothing, meaningless. Now, I think it's important to note that not every atheist is a nihilist, but that's only because they are not being consistent. Nietzsche was consistent. He recognized that his atheism, when you cut God off from reality or cut reality off from God, you end up Floating through life with no objective meaning or morality or truth to ground yourself in. And so it led him to a place where he actually embraced and realized that life is meaningless. There is no God, and we are all just floating around in space. But he also understood and was extremely honest, more honest than most ne uh atheists today. That to cut oneself off from God inevitably plunges mankind into a meaningless darkness from which it cannot return. Nietzsche captured this well in a parable that he wrote entitled The Parable of the Madman. In the parable, the madman realizes the disastrous consequences of atheism And then comes to warn the townspeople that their decision to reject belief in God not only would lead them into meaningless and darkness, but that it would lead them it uh to to utter despair. But he's met by these townspeople who after hearing him, they laugh him out of town square, because the townspeople fail to realize, as Nietzsche did, that without God all is darkness. And this is how his parable of the madman goes. It's very moving and very clear. This is the parable of the madman. Have you not heard of that madman who lit a lantern in the bright morning hours? Ran to the marketplace and cried incessantly, I seek God, I seek God. As many of those who did not believe in God were standing around just then, he provoked much laughter. Has God gotten lost? asked one. Did he lose his way like a child? asked another. Or is he hiding? Thus they yelled and laughed at the man. The madman jumped into their midst and pierced them with his eyes. Where is God? He cried, I will tell you, we have killed him, you and I. But how did we do this? How could we drink up the sea? Who gave us the sponge to wipe away the entire horizon? What were we doing when we unchained this earth from its sun? Where is it moving now? Where are we moving? Are we not plunging continually backward, sideward, forward, in all directions? Is there still any up or down? Are we not straying as through an infinite nothing? Do we not feel the breath of empty space? Has it not become colder? Is not night continually closing in on us? Do we not need to light lanterns in the morning? God is dead. God remains dead. We killed him. Here the madman fell silent and looked again at his listeners. And they too were silent and stared at him in astonishment. At last he threw his lantern on the ground and it broke into pieces and went out. I have come too early, he said then. My time is not yet. This tremendous event is still on its way, still wandering. It has not yet reached the ears of men. Here are Nietzsche's words. What happens when you cease to believe in God? Is not night continually closing in on us? Do we not need to light lanterns in the morning? You see, Nietzsche realized that without God, even in the daytime, all is dark. He realized that whenever man turns away from God, he must create his own lanterns. He must create his own lanterns, his own philosophies. His own ways of looking at the world to navigate the darkness, the spiritual darkness that ensues. But what Nietzsche so honestly captures in his parable that is that man-made lanterns Are not capable of producing the spiritual light that we really need to navigate the darkness of this life. And that's why you see him at the end of his parable, throws the lantern on the ground and smashes it. It's not capable of bringing light to the people. And according to the Bible, it's not just atheists like Nietzsche who have turned away from God and now walk in darkness. According to the Bible, it's anyone who does not love and worship the God of Israel. This is a hard truth, but one that the Bible clearly teaches. That means that people of other faiths walk in darkness. Or your friend who's spiritual but not religious, or your neighbor who just wants to be a good person. These are all ways of looking at the world, man-made created lanterns that are not capable of giving off the light that we so desperately need. And as we'll see this morning, all of these man-made lanterns are lanterns that simply will not provide the light we need and will ultimately lead to a terrible darkness. from which we cannot return. But what we'll also see in our passage this morning is that God has provided a lantern that will not only provide the light we need for this life. But a light that will lead us into everlasting light, because this lantern that God provides will bring us into relationship with the one true and living God who alone gives spiritual light to mankind. So please turn with me in your Bibles to Isaiah chapter 50, which you'll find on page 611 if you're using the uh Bible that we provided on the seats around you. Now, we are in our third of four Advent studies in the book of Isaiah, and we've been looking at specific prophecies of a mysterious servant. A servant whom God promised to send to rescue Israel from exile. Now I've said that the la the last two weeks as we've gone into each of our studies. uh the the last two weeks that the message of the book of Isaiah is a message of condemnation and comfort So it's a message of condemnation. Isaiah was sent to tell the people of Israel that God was going to send them into exile for constantly and flagrantly Breaking his law and violating his commandments. The people of Israel chose to live in spiritual darkness, even while they lived in the land that God had promised them, and so God was now going to send them into the physical darkness of exile in Babylon. Yet the message of Isaiah is also a message of comfort. Exile would not be the last word for God's people. And so in the second half of Isaiah from chapters 39 to 66, We see multiple promises, specific promises from God that God would send a servant. A servant who will see this morning would be responsible for bringing the people back into the light of God's presence. But before we begin, I want to make sure that you understand why I and others who've studied the passage that we're going to be looking at this morning believe it's about a promised servant. This promised servant. Because If you just look down, go ahead and look down at your Bibles at verses 4 to 9. Just let your eyes scan over them. You don't have to read every word. Just let your eyes scan over verses 4 to 9 in chapter 50. You'll notice that you don't find the word servant Anywhere, my servant, this servant, look for the servant. There's nothing about a servant anywhere in the passage. So why am I saying that this passage this morning, Isaiah 50, verses 4 to 9, is about this promised servant of God? Well, we want to look at the context around the passage. You always want to make sure that you're reading verses in the context that they're surrounded in. Oftentimes the context will give you clues as to what the passage is actually about. And we see a very clear clue, not even a clue, but a straightforward answer why we think this is a servant. Look at verse 10. After the speech of verses four to nine, we read this: Who among you fears the Lord and obeys the voice of his servant? So in verse 10, Isaiah is looking back at the speech that was given in verses 4 to 9 that we're going to look at more carefully, and he attributes that speech to this servant. And then he calls on his original audience to obey the servant, to trust him, to follow him. Who among you? Hears the voice of the servant. Who among you obeys the servant? That's a call, a rhetorical call, to listen to the servant and obey him, to follow this servant. And I want you to notice How the people of Israel are described in verse 10. This is where we see the connection to Nietzsche and man-made created lanterns. Look at them in verse 10. They are people who walk in darkness. They walk in darkness. Look at verse 10. Let him who walks in darkness and has no light Trust in the name of the Lord and rely on his God. This is a call to the people of Israel. You are walking in darkness Your sins have separated you from the God of light, and now you walk in darkness, and you must turn to the servant and listen to his voice, and by listening to him, you will be brought back into the light. Throughout Isaiah's book, we need to understand these themes of light and darkness and how they are used symbolically. Throughout Isaiah's book, those who love God and follow his ways are described as living in the light. And those who don't love God and don't follow his ways are described as living in darkness. And because the people have rejected God and walk in darkness, notice what they have to do in verse 11. Behold, all you who kindle a fire, who equip yourselves with burning torches, because they've chosen to cut themselves off by from God by their sins, they now walk in spiritual darkness. So what do they have to do? They have to make their own torches to make it through the spiritual darkness of this life. These are man-made, created lanterns. He's saying to them, put down the lanterns. They are not going to give you the light that you need. The only light that is good enough for you that will help you through the darkness of this world comes through the voice of the servant. Listen to him. So you look at a man like Friedrich Nietzsche and you say, oh, this is a man who grew up in a Christian home. I have no idea what his experience was like. I know that not everybody that grows up in a so-called Christian home has a good experience, but he hated God. Rejected God and cut himself off from the light. And then he made a lantern that plunged him into darkness. That when he finally got to the darkness, he looked around and said, You know what? All I see is darkness That's what man-made lanterns do. They lead us deeper and deeper into darkness. And God is calling us through the prophet Isaiah to put down the man-made lanterns. Put down your human philosophies, put down your own approach to life and turn to the servant. Obey his voice Follow the servant. He alone can give you light. And we must note, we must note, at the end of verse eleven, look there with me, the fearful fate of those who hold on to their lanterns. This you have for my hand. You shall lie down in torment. Those who hold on to man-made lanterns and do not put them down and do not turn to the true light that God offers through his servant. According to God, lie down in torment So this is a call for us this morning. We see the context tells us that this passage in verses 4 to 9, this is a call to follow the servant. We should ask ourselves, well, why should we follow the servant? What is it about him that is worth following? What does he do that makes him worth following? And what we see in verses 4 to 9 this morning are three reasons. That the servant gives from his own mouth. You look at verses 4 to 9, go back to verse 4. The Lord has given me, this is a speech given in the first person. This is the servant speaking himself. Autobiographically, he's about to tell you why you should follow him. So I'm going to read verses four to nine now, and then we'll dive in. This is God's word The Lord has given me the tongue of those who are taught, that I may know how to sustain with a word him who is weary. Morning by morning he awakens. He awakens my ear. The hear as those who are taught. The Lord God has opened my ear. And I was not rebellious. I turned not backward. I gave my back to those who strike in my cheeks, to those who pull out the beard. I hid not my face from disgrace and spitting But the Lord God helps me. Therefore, I have not been disgraced. Therefore, I have set my face like a flint, and I know that I shall not be put to shame. He who vindicates me is near. Who will contend with me? Let us stand up together. Who is my adversary? Let him come near to me. Behold, the Lord God helps me. Who will declare me guilty? Behold, all of them will wear out like a garment. The moth will eat them up So first we see in verses four to nine that we should follow the servant because of his remarkable training. Look with me at verse 4 again. The servant's training is remarkable because it comes directly from God. Notice the very first line of verse 4. Look there with me God has given him the tongue of those who are taught. And then again, look down. Morning by morning, he awakens. He awakens my ear to hear as those who are taught. What we should notice here is the immediacy, the directness, the immediacy of the relationship between God and this servant. God directly equips him with remarkable skill in speaking. Not only that, but you see that God directly awakens his ear. He awakens He awakens my ear. God speaks directly to him. He hears directly from God. Not only should we note the immediacy of the relationship between God and the servant, we should also notice the diligence with which the servant has pursued instruction from God. God has given him the tongue of those who are taught. And again, God has caused him to hear as those who are taught. That is to say, this servant is a pupil. He is a learner. Another way of translating that is God has given me the tongue of the learned. He's given me the tongue of the scholar, the one who gives himself. I give myself to studying the ways of the Lord. And through my study of the ways of the Lord, God has equipped me especially for this task. He diligently pursues studying and knowing God. Notice he even says there, morning by morning he awakens my ear. Now it's it's very easy for us to read this passage and stop and just just make an application directly to our lives. This means that morning by morning I should have my ear awakened. Yes, kind of, maybe. But uh that that's way down the road. What the Lord wants you to see here about this servant is that he's different from you and I. How many of you, since the day you were born, morning by morning, gave yourself to the study of God's Word? Raise your hand if that's you. All of us fail. None of us do that perfectly. What God wants you to see here is the servant is unique. He is different from us. Morning by morning, he does give himself to the study of the law. And though it's not mentioned in this passage, I believe it's right to understand this instruction as coming from God's word. It's not mentioned here, but throughout the Old Testament, God called the leaders. and the people of Israel to give constant attention to the Torah, to the law of God. So you'll even recall, some of you kids might recall this in your study through uh uh some of the storybook Bibles, parents you would remember this in the book of first and uh books of first and second kings, when a king came to power in Israel, he was commanded To write out for himself. He was supposed to take a copy of the Torah, the first five books of the Bible, the Pentateuch, and he was supposed to write it out for himself with his own hand, copying line for line. This was to show That the king was going to be dedicated to the law of God. He was going to make it his own. He was going to devote himself to the attention that the Word of God deserved. But none of the kings did that properly. But what's going on here that you see with the servant is that this servant is different from all the kings than all the people of Israel because he does give himself daily. to the devotion and attention that God's word deserves. He's described here as one who epitomizes the faithful study of God's Word, and he receives remarkable training directly from God. That brings forth in him, it brings forth in him a divine ability to sustain others. Notice again the first half of verse 4. The Lord God has given me the tongue of those who are taught that, so that, in order that I may know how to sustain with a word him who is weary. Now you may think, there's really nothing divine about that. Isn't Isaiah just saying that this servant is gonna He's going to be really good at just saying kind things to people that that make them feel good. Isn't that what isn't that what's being said about the servant here? Well, not quite. In Isaiah, the weary are described as those who, while in exile, will be longing and desiring to be brought back into his presence. That's what the word weary is used to describe. The weary are the faithful Israelites who in exile will be longing to see the presence of the Lord. And it's to those weary. That this servant will speak a sustaining word. What's interesting about the servant and about his ability to sustain the weary is that in Isaiah We see elsewhere that it's God himself who sustains the weary. Listen to Isaiah chapter 40. Have you not known? Have you not heard? The Lord is the everlasting God, the creator of the ends of the earth He does not grow faint or weary. He gives power to the faint. Even youth shall faint and be weary, and young men shall fall exhausted. But they who wait for the Lord shall renew their strength. They shall run and not be weary. They shall walk and not be faint. In Isaiah, it is the Lord who strengthens the weary. And in Isaiah chapter 50, we see that the Lord strengthens the weary through the word of his servant. This is one who speaks directly for God and brings a sustaining word to those who are weary. We might imagine the servant saying something like this. Come to me, all who are weary, and I will give you rest for your souls. That might be something that the servant would say. This servant will speak a message from God that brings strength to the weak. and light into this world of darkness. His message will show that all human philosophies and religions and other ways of looking at the world, though they claim to bring light, are only man-made lanterns that cannot give true light in the darkness. And the reason that he can speak that message is because of his remarkable training. And so we should follow him But that's not the only reason that we should follow the servant. We should also follow him because of his remarkable obedience. We see this stated clearly in verse 5. Look there with me. The Lord God has opened my ear, and I was not rebellious. I turned not backward. And so the servant directly connects his training from God with his own obedience to God. He emphatically declares, I was not rebellious, I turned not backward. And it's the servant's obedience that helps to shed light on his identity. Throughout the history of the study of Isaiah, there have been a number of different proposals given. for who this servant really is, what the identity of this servant really is. Some people would say that the servant is just the nation of Israel, the collective body of Israel because we see elsewhere in the Old Testament, the nation of Israel is referred to as God's servant. Others say that the servant is just Isaiah. This is Isaiah, he's called God's servant elsewhere earlier in the book Still others would say that the servant is just some other individual from Israel, like maybe Eliakim, who's called God's servant earlier in Isaiah. But we should recognize how none of those options match the description of the perfect obedience of this servant. It's impossible, impossible that the nation of Israel as a whole is the servant. Because the first words out of Isaiah's mouth in this book, chapter one. The very first words that Isaiah has to say are these. Hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth. He's calling witnesses. Heavens and earth, come witness. For the Lord has spoken. And what does the Lord say? I have raised Israel as a child, but they have rebelled against me. This can't be the one who says that I have not been rebellious. There's no way that Israel as a nation is a servant, and the servant can't be Isaiah. You go back to chapter 6, when Isaiah sees the presence of God in the temple, what does he say? Woe to me! For I am a man of unclean lips. Isaiah is terrified when he sees the presence of the Lord and he sees his own sinfulness in the light of God's perfect holiness. Isaiah and every other individual Israelite was sinful and in need of God's mercy. And they understood this. Notice what the servant says. I was not rebellious. I turned not backward. The servant stands out as different from Israel from Isaiah or from any other individual in Israel because of his remarkable obedience. What makes his obedience so remarkable? Well, look at what it will include. It will include persecution and suffering. Look at verse 6 I gave my back to those who strike, and my cheeks to those who pull out the beard. I hid not my face from disgrace and spitting. I want us to linger here for a moment. I want us to really notice the way that his obedience is being presented He's not presenting his obedience, or he's not presenting his suffering and his persecution as unfortunate Side effects of his obedience that could have been avoided if he simply would have chosen to avoid them. No, he's presenting his suffering and persecution as part of his obedience. As in an entailment of his obedience. His obedience included his persecution and suffering. And so to be fully obedient, to not rebel, to not turn back, meant he would have to go through suffering and persecution. It was a a way of saying that suffering would be part of the servant's mission This is remarkable obedience because what he chooses to endure is nothing short of utter humiliation. Look at verse 6. I gave my back to those who strike. The striking on the back was a painful punishment that was reserved only for a criminal. And so the servant. Who's done nothing wrong, who has not rebelled and turned not backward, is going to be punished as a criminal. And the humiliation doesn't end with a beating. The beard in this culture, in Isaiah's culture, symbolized freedom and respect. And so to have his beard torn out is to say, you will be in bondage and you will be utterly disrespected. We are gonna pull out your beard, this this symbol of freedom and respect, and we are gonna humiliate you in the eyes of men This is a display of utter contempt for him as a person, as though he's not worthy of respect. And it doesn't end there. It just keeps spiraling downward. He is going to be disgraced by having people spit in his face. Here is an act that transcends all culture and all time. We don't need to be from you know 700 BC to understand that this is a horribly shameful and disrespectful act. that this man is going to this to to endure. But I just want us to understand more of what the Bible says about this The face in the Bible is understood as the reflection of the true self. You go back to Genesis 4. Cain. Your face has fallen. Because Cain was covered in anger You just know this in your own relationships. You know when someone's angry at you. You know when someone's sad. Why? Their face shows it. The face is the reflection of the soul. It shows you the true self in the Old Testament. Go to the book of Job. To honor someone's face was to honor the person. And so to dishonor someone's face was to dishonor who they were as a human being. Spitting in his face. You're not worthy of being a human. That's what they're saying to this servant. So you get this, his obedience. His obedience includes this suffering. And he chose authoritatively to give his back. I gave it. I could have kept it from them if I wanted to. I gave my face to have my beard pulled out. I did not hide my face. No, I could have and would have been right in doing so because I had not done nothing wrong. I gave my face for these people to spit in and to shame me and to disgrace me. The servant is displaying remarkable obedience. And why? Why would he do this? Why would he obey even when his obedience would lead to such disgraceful treatment? Well, the passage doesn't tell us. It doesn't say. It leaves it a mystery. But we must see the servant's willingness to undergo such horrible treatment as part of his absolute loyalty to God and his obedience to God's will Where Israel had rebelled and turned back, he would not rebel or turn back, even though his obedience meant he would suffer and suffer shamefully. The servant is a man who talks the talk and walks the walk He hears from God. He listens to his word. He says to everyone, I am not rebellious. And then he proves it by the way that he lives. The servant is a remarkable man. We're beginning to see as we start to put together these servant songs. The way that you're supposed to read these when you open up the book of Isaiah, even though we we don't know why now in this message, this servant song, why the servant is suffering, you're supposed to take these four servant songs and let them create a mosaic. of this servant. And when you see the mosaic in the fullness of its beauty, you see the full picture of why he came. Isaiah 42, the servant would come. God's chosen, anointed one in whom the god in whom the God of all the heavens and the earth specifically delights in and loves this servant would come to establish justice on the earth. Isaiah 49, he would come with a sword from his mouth. His word would pierce those who came in contact with it. It would pierce their soul and their spirit. But we also know from Isaiah 49 that he would labor. He would labor, and all of his work would seem meaningless at the end of his life. Well, why would it seem meaningless? What is the meaninglessness of this work? Isaiah 50 He's going to suffer disgrace and shame. He's going to give his back to be beaten upon, his beard to be pulled out, his face to be spit upon. And why would he do this? Well, we'll see in Isaiah 53 why he would do this. The picture is starting to become clear about who this servant is, this remarkable servant of the Lord, and we should follow him because of his remarkable obedience. And third, third, we should follow him because he will be vindicated by God Even though he's suffering humiliating punishment as a criminal, the servant speaks with an air of utter confidence in the fact that God will vindicate him. Look at verses 7 and 9. In the midst of his suffering, the servant makes three confident declarations. Look at the first line of verse 7. The Lord God helps me. Now look at the first line of verse 8. He who vindicates me is near. Then again at the first line of verse 9. The Lord God helps me. This servant is supremely confident that God will help and vindicate him. This is what he's saying. I may be suffering. The humiliating punishment of a criminal, but I can and I will endure it because I know that God will declare me innocent and will prove to all that I have done nothing wrong. That's why the servant can so boldly declare his own innocence, which he does in verse 8. Look at verse 8. If any of you are lawyers or like law, this is a courtroom scene of which there are many in the Old Testament. As though we've been transported into a courtroom and the servant is calling out to the entire courtroom, anybody here, anybody here want to bring a charge against me? Who is going to be my adversary? Who will say to me that I have done something wrong? I was not rebellious. You see the rhetorical the rhetorical force of these questions? The meaning is nobody will. Nobody will bring a charge against God's chosen servant. Why will nobody bring a charge? Because I was not rebellious. I was the one who did not turn back. Nobody can bring a charge against him. A servant knows that he's innocent. That's why he asks these rhetorical questions. It's this confidence in God's help, this confidence that he'd be vindicated, even though he was subjected to unjust humiliation and suffering, that enables the servant to say in verse 7. Look back at verse 7 with me. Because the Lord God helps him, therefore I have not been disgraced. Therefore, I have set my face like a flint. Flint is a really hard rock. So this face that's being ashamed and disgraced because it's being spit upon and its beard is being torn out. On the inside, this face is hardened like a rock. And why is it hardened? Because he's going to endure whatever it takes to accomplish his mission. Why can he do that? Because the Lord God helps me. He will declare me innocent. I will be shown and proven to be innocent on that last day The servant is a remarkable man, unlike any other in the Old Testament. And so we need to ask the question that so many who have gone before us have asked. Who is the servant? And when is he going to come? Because these are predictions for the future. What we call prophecies When we ask that question today, who is the servant and when would he come, we need to remember the original audience that Isaiah was speaking to and writing to. We need to recall that this audience was a people who God promised he was going to send into the darkness of exile. So Isaiah is saying to them, you are going into exile. You go back to chapter 39. He says it very clearly, into Babylon you will go. And then what we see, 75 years after Isaiah's ministry ends, 75 years after his ministry ends, those promises come true exactly as God said they would. The Babylonian army came into Jerusalem, destroyed the temple, took everything out of it, and took the people of Israel into exile with them. They went into captivity in Babylon. 75 years later, Ezekiel comes along. Or excuse, excuse me, not 75 years later, 200 years later, when the exile is still happening, Ezekiel comes along and he's prophesying in Babylon. That's where his book opens up, by the rivers of Babylon. There I was, and then this amazing chariot came to me out of the heavens, this unbelievable vision of God. Because God was not going to forget his people in exile, because God had promised in Isaiah to send a servant to rescue the people out of exile. So you need to think about this. This this group of people who then goes into exile, who looks back at Isaiah's writings 75 years earlier, and says Oh my gosh. Oh my gosh. Everything that God said would happen happened. He told us we were going to be sent into exile in Babylon. He told us and now here we are. But you know what else God told us? He told us that he was going to send a servant. So if his promise to send us into exile came true, surely his promise to send a servant will come true also. Seeing that God's promised exile had been fulfilled, you can imagine that the exiles would have lived in constant anticipation of the day. when this servant redeemer would come and bring them out of the darkness of exile and back into the light of God's presence. And 70 years after they went into exile in Babylon, it appeared as though God's promise to rescue his people from exile had come true. Why is that? Because 70 years after they went into exile, a man arrived in Babylon to deliver Israel out of captivity. Isaiah even wrote about this man predicting that he would be uniquely chosen and anointed by God to rescue Israel. Isaiah even names him by name 150 years before he arrived in Babylon, before his life even started. And what is his name? His name is Cyrus. Cyrus, the king of Persia, whom Isaiah writes about throughout his book, is the one who conquered Babylon. He conquered the Assyrian Empire and delivered Israel out of captivity and he conquered the Babylonian Empire. There was no one who could stop Cyrus. He was powerful And in 538 BC, nearly 200 years after Isaiah's lifetime, the people of Israel returned. They returned to Jerusalem. They rebuilt their temple. They built homes and married and had kids. And the story ended happily ever after. Let's pray. Unfortunately, that's not how the story ended. Though the people of Israel were freed from physical captivity. The testimony of the Old Testament, even after their return, is that the people of Israel remained in captivity to sin. They may have been back in Israel. One pastor said though, you can take a man out of Babylon. You can't take Babylon out of the man. They may be back in my homeland, but they're no different. They're just like they were. Though they had been freed physically, they were still in bondage spiritually, and not even Cyrus, in all his power, could free God's people from their spiritual bondage. God's people would need a greater deliverer to bring them back from their spiritual exile. God's people would need God's servant to come. The servant who we've been studying for the last three weeks, the servant who, as we've seen today, enjoyed remarkable training from God. showed remarkable obedience to God and displayed remarkable confidence in God. When would this servant come? Who would he be? When would he come to deliver God's people out of spiritual darkness and bring them back into the light of God's presence? The amazing answer that we celebrate, and the amazing answer to that question that we celebrate at Advent Is that Jesus Christ is the long-awaited servant foretold by Isaiah? Come to rescue God's people from spiritual darkness and bring them into the light of God's presence. All we have to do is look at Jesus' life in the New Testament and see how it fits perfectly with these servant songs that Isaiah wrote. He's the one to whom God has given a tongue to speak as those who are taught. What does Jesus say in John chapter 12 I have not spoken of my own authority, but the Father who sent me has himself given me this commandment what to say and what to speak. And I know that this commandment is eternal life. What I say, therefore, I say, as the Father told me. He's the one who uses his words to sustain those who are weary. Come to me, all who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest for your souls. He is God's better word to a weary world. He's the one who listened to God and perfectly obeyed his commands It was Jesus himself who said, man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God. He's the one about whom Peter wrote. He committed no sin, nor was any deceit found in his mouth. I was not rebellious. I turned not backward. And his obedience included humiliation and suffering. Mark tells us about his trial. Standing before the high council, the priest, the man who'd done nothing wrong, some of the high council spit on him. And struck him in the face. And then he was handed over to the Romans, who repeatedly whipped his back. The punishment for a criminal, for crimes he did not commit. He's the one against whom nobody could bring a charge. Pilate said about him, this man has done nothing deserving death. Nobody is going to bring a charge against God's elect. Who is my adversary? And yet his suffering was part of God's plan to rescue his people from the spiritual darkness that they lived in. The eternal Son of God. The light of the world, the Lord Jesus Christ, came to suffer and die upon a cross for the sins of his people. I just want to stop here and make sure you understand what that means. You and I rebel. All of us do. We have all sinned. If anyone deserves to have their back beaten, their beard torn out, and their face spit upon, it is us. And do you know why we haven't had that happen? Because Jesus suffered our punishment for us. God allowed men to spit in his face so that men could live in the light of his face What glory mercy and grace has been extended to us. He paid the penalty that we deserved so that we could be rescued from spiritual darkness. He is the one who displayed remarkable confidence in God in the midst of his suffering. What does Luke tell us? He set his face to go to Jerusalem. Therefore, I set my face like a flint. He scorned the shame of the cross for the joy set before him, knowing that through the cross he was going to rescue for himself a people for his own glory, his own inheritance, a bride that he will marry for all eternity, the church. Us, we have been brought out of darkness by the Lord Jesus Christ through his suffering on the cross. For our sakes, he took our place on the cross. And he knew that God would vindicate him. And three days after he died on that cross and was buried, Jesus Christ rose triumphant from the grave. Proving his innocence and proving that he alone gives true light to those who live in darkness. It is through Jesus, as Paul says, that God has delivered us from darkness. and brought us into the kingdom of his beloved son. Oh friend, if you're here today and you don't follow Jesus I hope you don't hear my words as condemning the fact that we deserve punishment, but the fact is we do. This is what God says about us And if you don't follow Jesus today and you're trying to make it through life by your own wisdom, by your own lantern, I would just plead with you as Isaiah does to the people of Israel, put down the lantern. Come to the true light. There is one light. His name is Jesus Christ, and he gives that light freely to all who come to him. Listen even to Nietzsche, who said himself, man-made torches don't work. He smashed his own lantern. Come to Jesus Christ. He alone gives true light. There is only one torch that gives the light that we need, and his name is Jesus Christ. Jesus himself said, I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. Oh friend, if you're here today and you're a Christian, I don't want to burden you with applications of ways that you live out this passage. I want you to look at Jesus Rest in him. Enjoy him today. Enjoy the fact that the servant came. You have been brought out of darkness. Completed. It is done. It is finished. There's nothing left to be done The Lord Jesus Christ has accomplished this for you, and you can rest. Come to me, all who are weary, and I will give you rest for your soul. Rest in him today. And if you feel condemned, if you feel condemned because of the sins in your life Joel already brought this up in his prayer of praise this morning. Remember, friend, remember that you have been Bought by the blood of Christ and through faith in Christ, you have been united to his very person. You receive all of the full benefits that he owns and he gives freely. And one of those benefits is that. You have no adversary. Who will bring any charge against you? You've been united to Christ by faith. Let anyone speak against you. Let Satan himself speak against you. You have no adversary. If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things? Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies. God has justified you through faith in Jesus Christ. His training, his obedience, and his confidence is yours by faith in him fully. Rest in that today. And be joyful in it. The servant has come. Christ has come. The light of the world has come. Let's pray. Oh Lord Jesus, we pray to you, knowing that there is no other mediator between God and man. We rejoice that you are a sympathetic high priest. You understand our weaknesses. You were tempted in the same ways that we are, yet we're without sin. We rejoice in that today, Lord Jesus, and we pray that you would help us to rest in you today. We know, Lord, that those who are weary can come to you. We pray that you would allow us to take your yoke upon us and that you would carry our burdens for us. We ask this all in your precious name. Amen.