The sermon passage this morning is Mark fifteen forty-two through sixteen eight. And when evening had come, since it was the day of preparation, that is, the day before the Sabbath Joseph of Arimathea, a respected member of the council, who was also himself looking for the kingdom of God, took courage and went to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus. Pilate was surprised to hear that he should have already died, and summoning the centurion he asked him whether he was already dead. And when he learned from the centurion that he was dead, he granted the corpse to Joseph. And Joseph bought a linen shroud, and taking him down, wrapped him in the linen shroud, and laid him in a tomb that had been cut out of the rock. And he rolled a stone against the entrance of the tomb. Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of Joseph saw where he was laid. When the Sabbath was passed, Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James, and Salome bought spices, so that they might go and anoint him. And very early on the first day of the week, when the sun had risen, they went to the tomb. And they were saying to one another, Who will roll away the stone for us from the entrance of the tomb? And looking up, they saw that the stone had been rolled back. It was very large. And entering the tomb they saw a young man sitting on the right side, dressed in a white robe, and they were alarmed. And he said to them, Do not be alarmed. You seek Jesus of Nazareth who was crucified. He has risen. He is not here. See the place where they laid him. But go tell his disciples and Peter that he is going before you to Galilee. There you will see him just as he told you. And they went out and fled from the tomb, for trembling and astonishment had seized them. And they said nothing to anyone, for they were afraid. This is God's word. Well, if you haven't already, let me encourage you to open your Bibles to the Gospel of Mark. If you're using the Bible that we've provided, you'll find the passage on page 853. And if you don't own a copy of the Bible for yourself, I'd encourage you to take the copy that we've provided as a gift from us to you. There's nothing that we want more than for you to have your own copy of God's Word and to read it for yourself. We started our series in Mark on February 25th of 2018, and today's sermon is the 49th and final sermon in that series. But Some of you may have noticed that Tracy only read through verse 8 of chapter 16. And if today is the final sermon uh uh in this series, what what gives? Am I Am I just disregarding a section of God's Word? Verses verses 9 to 20. Well, I wanted to take uh just a brief moment to speak to this before we get into the passage Uh we could spend hours, we could spend hours carefully working through all of the reasons Why I'm choosing to end at verse eight. It's not just me, but uh I would say the vast majority, there's almost a consensus today that Mark's gospel ends at verse eight. But because we have limited time this morning, I just want to give you the main overarching reason that I'm ending at verse 8 and not at verse 20. And that is the vast majority of the earliest manuscripts of Mark's gospel that have been discovered and at verse 8. That is uh through church history we have discovered and uncovered More and more manuscripts that date back earlier and earlier and closer to the resurrection from the dead, and those manuscripts of Mark's gospel almost universally and at verse It's largely the later and more recent manuscripts that that include it. What I want to say real quick is what's important for you to know. Is that this in no way, in no way should cause you to question the trustworthiness of Scripture, nor does verses 29 to 20 impact any Any any of the core doctrines of Christianity. Everything we believe about God, about Jesus, about ourselves, about sin, salvation, forgiveness in the world to come, that is taught in verses 9 to 20, is also taught elsewhere in Scripture. And so you should be confident this morning that what you hold is God's word. And if you're interested in thinking more about these things, specifically how we got the Bible. and why you can why you should be able to trust the Bible. I'm happy happy to answer any questions that you have after service that get into what why do these manuscripts end at verse 8? Why do some end at verse 20? I'm happy to talk with you after the service if you have those questions. Or I have two free books to give away. The first is a very helpful book called How We Got the Bible. This deals with how manuscripts were copied and passed down through the ages. And another book Why trust the Bible? It's an argument for why you can trust that the Bible is God's word. I will give these away free to anyone who remembers to come see me after the service. Either one of those copies, if you're interested in those, I'm going to give those away. But all that to say, we are coming to God's Word this morning. But we're not here for a class on textual criticism. That is not why we're here. We are here to consider to meditate on and to stand in awe of Jesus Christ's glorious resurrection from the dead and what it means For us today. We we've come into this room this morning to hear the living God speak powerfully to us. And we'll see in our passage this morning the living God's voice. Thunders from the pages of scripture that Jesus Christ has risen from the dead. He is alive today, friends, and that is good news. for us. But the question then that that that then that we're faced with this morning as we are confronted with the reality of Jesus Christ's resurrection is how will you Respond to the reality of Jesus' resurrection from the dead? How will you respond to it? My guess is as I look at this room, typically rooms or churches are made up of three different groups of people as you look out at the room on a Sunday. We'll call them skeptics Seekers and saved sinners. Just for all of those of you who are not familiar with the Baptist tradition, I'm a Baptist preacher, and so I have to find some way to make things alliterate For Baptists, if it does not alliterate, you must eliminate, right? So skeptics, seekers, and saved sinners. Hopefully those groups will make sense as we go. I'm guessing that everyone in this room Everyone here falls into one of those three groups. And so what I want to do is look at Mark's account of the resurrection. And what it has to say to each of those groups. So, first, if you're taking notes, those are going to be our three points. You can take notes underneath those headings. First, the resurrection for skeptics. Skeptics. I think one of the things that we need to recognize when we talk about skeptics or skepticism, being skeptical of certain claims, is that it's Actually not always wrong to be skeptical, right? In fact in our day with the types of technologies that we have at our disposal, a healthy dose of skepticism about truth claims isn't a bad thing, right? Photos can be photoshopped, documents can be forged, money can be counterfeited, videos can be altered. And with the proliferation of these technologies, sometimes we're left to wonder whether we can trust anything at n at all, right? You have like how popular the idea of fake news is today. It's like I don't even know what I can trust that I hear anymore. Like a healthy dose of skepticism isn't a bad thing. But But, and this is an important but, we need to remember that just because there are such things as counterfeits That does not therefore mean that every photo, every document, every dollar bill, or every video is therefore a counterfeit. Right? No, if we have good reason to believe that the photo that we're looking at is authentic or the dollar bill we possess is genuine or the video that we're watching is real, then we should set aside our skepticism and treat them as the real thing. And so it's the same thing with skepticism about the resurrection and about the Bible's claims about the resurrection. If we're provided with enough evidence that the Bible's claims are true Then we should be willing to set aside our skepticism and trust that what we're reading is true. So if you're here today and you are one of these people, you could be described as a skeptic, I would just ask you to to open your mind. You can even be skeptic, skeptical about your skepticism, doubt your doubt. If you're a doubter, you should doubt your doubt also. Right? And just open your mind and see what evidence the Bible holds out for the resurrection. See if it might lead you to trust that what you're reading is true. So the question we have to answer this morning is Do we have evidence for believing the account of the resurrection is true? And I think broadly speaking, we do. If you're skeptical, I think skeptics will often dismiss the resurrection. Or really any miracle in the Bible for that matter on the grounds that people back then were just gullible and they tended to believe these types of things, but we moderns. We moderns who have science, we are much wiser, smarter than they are, and we obviously would not fall for fake stories like the resurrection. But were people back then actually more gullible than we are today? I don't know that it's true. I mean, I how many people have continued to be ripped ripped off by email scams like from you know being written from a person in a foreign country saying, Hey, have you Give me your bank deposit the like bank routing number, I will like deposit a million dollars in your bank. Like no people are still gullible today. We f we fall for things that we shouldn't fall for, but there's no difference between us today and the the people back in the New Testament I think even if you read the New Testament seriously and with a careful eye, you'll see that there are numerous examples in the New Testament itself Of people doubting, not believing, or thinking that the resurrection was ridiculous. Even in Mark's gospel, Jesus said to his disciples I will rise again from the dead after I have been crucified. And what did they say? Yes, you will, and we just believe it because we're gullible people. They said, that's not gonna happen. How can that possibly happen? You go into the book of Acts, and Paul is testifying before the Roman the Roman consulate, telling him about the resurrection from the dead, and the guy says to him, Dude, you have lost your mind. Paul, you have gone crazy talking about a resurrection from the dead. People back then weren't more gullible than we are today. Many regarded the resurrection with the same skepticism that people today regard it. Right? So to think that people were more gullible just because they lived a long time ago would be to commit what C. S. Lewis called chronological snobbery. And we don't want to be chronological snobs. It's to look back and think They lived a long time ago. God bless them. You know, we should pet 'em on the heads. They're ancient people. They didn't have a lot of knowledge at their disposal. That is actually not a great idea to think that because if you go back 2300 years, the greatest philosophers who ever lived in the history of mankind lived 2300 years ago. Like people who study philosophy to say we're all just writing footnotes to Aristotle and Plato and Socrates. And they were ancients. They were very bright. Right? People did not just fall for miracle stories back then. We don't want to commit chronological snobbery. So maybe you're willing to say, okay, I looked in the New Testament and it's clear, you know, people doubted the resurrection back then. Okay, I'm willing to concede that. But clearly the resurrection was made up by a group of people who wanted to start a new religion and control people's lives. That's that's just all the resurrection is. Well, yeah, I think that that that sounds like a decent argument uh when you when you look at it from the outside, but I when you lift up the hood on that argument, there are all sorts of problems with it For instance, in our passage this morning, look at Mark chapter 15, verse 47. Mark chapter 15, verse 47. Mark tells us that Mary Magdalene And Mary, the mother of Joseph, saw where Jesus was laid. These were literal historical people, Mary and Mary. And then in the very next verse, he tells us that the same women, plus a woman named Salome, came to Jesus' tomb to anoint his body. And then these very same women are told by the angel that Jesus has risen and they are to go tell the disciples what has happened. So you look at that evidence and you think, well So what, John? What what's the big deal about women being the first witnesses to Jesus' resurrection? Everything in first century Israel. If a group of first century Israelites were getting together to fabricate the central story to the new religion that they were trying to launch, they would not have chosen to make women the very first witnesses because the testimony of women in first century Israel wasn't allowed in court. Women were largely and obviously wrongly viewed as less valuable and less trustworthy in first century Israel. So if you're wanting your story that you're making up to be believed, you're not going to base the most important single event of your new fake religion on the testimony of people who are already viewed as untrustworthy. That would not be a good move. So that just seems to think why why would they include those details and be so upfront about them? Not only that, but let's be real. If you and I sat down to come up with a new religion, the last thing that we would do is make ourselves look incompetent Right? Any story in which I am going to be a main character, that character is gonna be awesome. Right. And I I trust that you are not much different from me You are not going to write a story in which you are the main character and you look incompetent. And yet, when we open the New Testament and we read the Gospels. The disciples go out of their way to communicate how incompetent that they were. Notice even the women. Look at Mark 15, verses 40 to 41. Mark tells us that the women were watching his crucifixion from a distance. That's interesting. Can any of the kids tell us in got in Mark's gospel who the last person was to keep their distance from Jesus? Anyone remember? Shout it out if you know it. Peter, great job. Peter kept his distance from Jesus at Jesus' trial, right before Peter denied Jesus and fled for his life. The male disciples kept their distance from Jesus and then fled and abandoned him. Now the women disciples are keeping their distance from Jesus. And then look at chapter 16, verse 8. They fled from the tomb. They fled from the tomb. The male disciples and the female disciples have all failed. None of them paid attention to the fact that over and over and over and over and over and over and over again, Jesus said, I'm gonna be I'm gonna rise from the dead. On the third day I will rise from the dead. After I'm crucified, I will rise from the dead. Guys, after I'm crucified, I will rise from the dead. Three days after I'm crucified, I will rise from the dead. And did any of them get it Did any of them understand it? No. None of them got it. They all failed to absorb what Jesus was teaching them, and yet we're supposed to believe that they wrote a story saying, Hey look, we're not that bright. But you can trust in this guy. And then this this message is supposed to spread around the world, right? Congratulations, you're you're incompetent, but the one who's at the middle of this thing is great. And we want you to believe this story, right? Nobody writes a story that way. And this example in Mark's gospel is one of, I don't know, a hundred or more examples in the New Testament of how the first disciples display their incompetence. And we're supposed to believe that they made up the story this way. Like the women were just hanging out with Peter and they were like, hey, hey, at the end of your story, put us in there and make us look terrible. Right? Like that that's not gonna happen. They don't try to hide their incompetence or their sins. Because they weren't making the story up. They don't try to hide their incompetence or their sins because they wanted everyone to know that they had been changed from fearful disciples who abandoned Jesus at his time of greatest need. to courageous disciples who would give their lives for Jesus, literally, and they had been changed by this momentous event. It was the resurrection from the dead that changed him. Jesus had been nailed to a tree. He had died a terrible death, and he was buried, and that same Jesus got up again from the dead. He is risen. And the question that you need to answer if you're skeptical of these claims is will you let the evidence lead you to the truth this morning? That Jesus is alive even today. But this account speaks to another group as well. This account also speaks to what we would call seekers. Seekers. Mark's gospel. is full of seekers, right? Throughout the gospel, when you read it, he is chased down and surrounded by crowds who are seeking to see him do a miracle. Seeking to hear his teachings, seeking simply to be around the man who's creating this great buzz all around Judea and Jerusalem. But we also find, if we are reading the Gospel of Mark carefully, that Few seekers actually leave the crowd behind and follow Jesus. But in our passage, we're introduced to a man. whose example is instructive for all of those who are seeking to know God, but haven't yet committed to following Jesus and His name is Joseph. Why don't you go ahead and look down with me at verses 42 to 47? We see this man named Joseph of Arimathea. This man goes to Pontius Pilate. Pontius Pilate was the Roman governor who condemned Jesus to crucifixion He asks this Joseph asks Pilate for Jesus' body, and after getting permission, Joseph takes Jesus' body down from the cross wraps him in a linen burial shroud, uh a burial cloth, and then lays him in a tomb. We know from the other gospels that this is his own family's tomb. He's a fairly wealthy man, and he has his own family tomb. He lays Jesus in that tomb, and he seals the tomb with a giant stone. It's a It's a pretty straightforward uh account, but we need to pay attention to the details that Mark tells us about Joseph. I want you to look carefully at verse 43. Look at what he tells us about Joseph in verse 43. Joseph of Arimathea, the town that he's from, a respected member of the council, who was also himself looking for the kingdom of God. Joseph is a seeker, right? He is seeking or looking for the kingdom of God. And so a question I would have for you today, I wonder if you resonate with Joseph this morning. Are you seeking something? Are you looking for something? Maybe you're like, I don't know, John. It's a hard question to answer on a Sunday morning. I'm just a little foggy. Here's another way to put it. Do you feel restlessness in your soul today? If you do, I wonder if you've considered that that restlessness that you feel is because your soul wants something that it doesn't yet have. Maybe you don't recognize that it's something that's available to you. You see, the Bible often uses images of thirsting, hungering, or wandering to describe the human condition Thirsting, hungering, wandering, seeking, and each of those descriptions in their own way tell us something about the seeking soul that is looking for something to fill it, something to satisfy it. The problem is, and what the Bible is crystal clear about, is that you and I make terrible choices. about what we use to quench that chur quench that thirst, to satiate that hunger, and to find that rest. You and I We we we seek peace, joy, comfort, and rest in things that simply cannot provide them. Right? We seek it in relationships with other people, but nobody on on earth can provide what our souls need. We seek it this comfort in creature comforts like new furniture, new cars, new clothes, thinking that they'll satisfy us, but they never do, right? It's like, okay, I redid the the living room It's great for like a week and then like the kids spill something on it and it's like, uh, maybe I need new patio furniture. It's like I'm gonna I need to feel happy for a moment again. But it never provides the lasting joy that we look for. We sink it at we seek these things in drink or drug, but those things provide only temporary relief at best. Right? We seek to be filled by so many things, but nothing ever fills because the tank of our souls is broken, right? uh a couple months ago the washer fluid light in my Camry uh came on. Uh and this is typical for me. I put off stopping to get washer fluid until the grime on my windshield became so great that I it was difficult for me to see through it. It was like I'm just gonna keep procrastinating. But eventually I stop at an autozone. I go in, I get a bottle, one of the big jugs of washer fluid, and I head out to my car I pop the hood, open the washer fluid tank, and I open the bottle up and I just start pouring it in, right? It's a big bottle and I start pouring But you know it's like you have that narrow neck that comes up from the tank. I'm watching, I'm watching, I'm like at some point this is gonna overflow, but I'm pouring and I'm pouring and I keep pouring and I keep pouring and I keep pouring until the jug is empty like this jug it's like a gallon and a half and I look down and I see nothing in the tank and I'm just like I take a step back from the car And then I look down and I realize I am standing in a gigantic puddle of new washer fluid and it dawns on me The washer fluid tank has a gigantic gaping hole inside of it. That, my friends, is a picture of our souls. It does not matter how much you pour into it. You will pour and pour and pour and pour and the comfort, the joy, the peace The rest, all that you're seeking in earthly things will go in and flood right out because the tank is broken, friends. You and I need a new tank. We need somebody to replace the tank and then to fill the tank for us with himself He is the only one who gives us this joy, this peace, this soul satisfaction that we seek in our lives can only truly be found in God Because we were made for God. But if you're a seeker, you need to recognize that all of us have turned away from God We've all sinned against him. We've broken his laws according to the Bible. We've chosen, it uses the image of like ruling, being a king and queen. Like, we've chosen to be our own ruler. We don't need God anymore. I can do it myself. But if you're like me, you look at your life and you're like I mess up all the time. I'm not a very good ruler, am I? Right? And surely that's not just me, right? We become the captains of our own souls and the masters of our own fates. And in doing so, we've separated ourselves from the one Who gives life and now we are left wandering and seeking in this life for something to fill our tanks, but nothing ever does because our tank was meant to be filled by God. Kids, I want to speak to y'all real quick just about this idea of seeking satisfaction in earthly things. Uh so for most of my life I was persuaded by advertisements on TV and just persuaded by the rest of the way people lived in the world. that I would be happy if I just had enough money, if I just drank and partied and did whatever I wanted, if I just bought more and more clothes. If I if I just do what I want, I am going to be happy. And that's what you're being sold today. That's what people are going to tell you You just seek satisfaction in ruling yourself and taking care of yourself. So you know what's best for you. But kids, I just want to tell you that will never bring the satisfaction that your soul is looking for. You will only find that satisfaction. in God seeking that satisfaction in the things of this world will never provide you the joy that you're looking for. Only God can provide it. And you know who's a great example of that? Joseph Let's look back at Joseph. Right? Joseph was looking for the kingdom of God. He wasn't looking or seeking satisfaction in the things of this world. He was seeking the kingdom of God. And interestingly, he seeks the kingdom of God by coming to Jesus He doesn't seek it in other religions or in other people or other rabbis. He seeks the kingdom of God by coming to Jesus. Joseph recognizes that the kingdom of God is present in And found only through Jesus Christ. As I was studying this passage, I had to ask myself, why is this man coming to Jesus' crucified body? Is it possible that of all the people in the gospel, the people who should have believed Jesus that he would get up from the dead who didn't believe him, that this Joseph Who we just aren't hearing about until now, that this Joseph knew that he was going to rise from the dead. I don't know, but he seems to see that this story isn't over. The kingdom of God is in this man and will be found in this man. And the kingdom of God, Jesus came to bring the kingdom of God. And in bringing the kingdom of God, Jesus also brings with him the peace, joy, comfort, and rest that we so desperately desire. He is the peace of God. He is the joy of God, the comfort of God, and the rest of God. Which means if you are seeking those things to find satisfaction for your soul, you should seek them only in and through Jesus Christ. Because that's the only place that they will be found. You'll need to seek out and come to Jesus if you are a seeker this morning. But I think what you need to recognize and what this passage teaches us is that coming to Jesus isn't easy. It's not a simple thing that you do. Coming to Jesus will often take courage. Look at chapter 15, verse 43 again. Joseph of Arimathea, a respected member of the council, who was also himself looking for the kingdom of God, Took courage and went to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus. It's interesting. Interesting. It took courage because publicly identifying with the crucified Messiah is hard. It's hard, and it was hard for Joseph. I think one of the most surprising things about this passage, it's not explicitly stated, but it's definitely there. Mark tells us that Joseph was a respected member of the council. That's not like uh that's not like the uh Judean Committee on Building Improvement Council It's not like the pool board council or the refreshing springs council. The council that Mark is talking about is the Sanhedrin. This is the council of religious and political leaders in Jerusalem, and the Sanhedrin were the very men who condemned Jesus to death. They hated Jesus. And now Joseph, one of the members of the Sanhedrin, is going to put his life on the line by taking Jesus' body down from the cross publicly and burying him in his family tomb. And you can be certain, you can be certain that Joseph would have feared for his life. If they would do that to Jesus, what are they going to do to me if they see me identifying with this one that they just crucified? We thought you were one of us. If we killed the com we kill the Messiah, we'll kill you also. Right? This would have been a fearful thing for Joseph to do Right? Of all the people in Mark's gospel who surprisingly turned to Jesus in faith, Joseph is the most surprising. Right? It's like a member of Isis turning to Jesus in faith. Lights come on, praise the Lord. Right? I don't know if that means the Michael Come on, I'll stand back. It may be hot. But Joseph, one of the members of the Sanhedrin, is gonna put his life on the line by publicly identifying with Jesus and burying in his family tomb, right? Now, coming to Jesus, I recognize, may not cause you to fear for your life, but it may absolutely cause your family to turn their backs on you. It may cause your classmates or your coworkers to mock you. Right? It may cause your neighbors to keep their distance from you. Publicly identifying with Jesus is hard. And it also takes courage because coming to Jesus may mean leaving behind your professional aspirations, your goals for personal success, or your desire for a well-manicured public image. Do you think Joseph would have been able to return to the Sanhedrin? No. You're identifying with the Messiah we just killed. Get out of here Everything he had been working for in his life, training for, building for, striving for, he would have to abandon in order to identify with the crucified Messiah. Right? He put everything on the line by publicly identifying with Jesus in this way. But he did it because he knew that Jesus not only brings the peace. joy, comfort, and rest we all desire, but he knew that Jesus brought the forgiveness of sins that we so desperately need if any of us is going to enter into the kingdom of God. I want you to see this about Joseph. I want you to see this. Joseph. Joseph became unclean by Jewish standards when he touched the dead body of Christ. Because touching a dead body, according to Jewish law, made a person unclean. You are now unfit for Jewish society. But when he touched the body of Christ, and no doubt was covered with his blood, he was made clean in God's sight. So you may be thought unclean by your coworkers, your family, the people around you. But in God's sight, if you take hold of his son and are covered with his blood, you are clean in God's sight. And that is a trade that you should be willing to lay your life on the line for if you are seeking Jesus this morning. He was willing to forsake the world, take up his cross, and identify with Jesus And if you're seeking God today, the way that we do that today is by repenting of our sins. We put our trust in Jesus for the forgiveness of sins, and we are baptized. Baptism is the public declaration of our allegiance to Jesus. When we're baptized, we are symbolically buried with him and then symbolically raised to new life. It's how we publicly say, with Joseph, I am with him. I don't care if he's hanging on a cross now. He is going to get up from the grave. I don't care if y'all mock me now. He is going to come again in glory. I am with him. If you have questions about what that would mean for you today, I would love to talk to you after the service about what it would mean to publicly identify with Jesus in your own life. Coming to Jesus may be hard. It may make you unclean in the eyes of some, but coming to Jesus is gloriously worth it, as we will see. Because when we identify with Christ, we aren't identifying with a man who was only crucified. We are identifying with a man who three days later got up from the dead. Jesus is risen. And finally, friends, this passage speaks to saved sinners. Saved sinners. Now listen, when I was coming up with the outline for the sermon, I was thinking of labeling the three groups skeptics, seekers, and saints. It would have been much cleaner, right, labeling it that way. Saints versus saved sinners, huh? What is it like what on earth is that? I the the problem is I was like rolling these words around in my head is that the saints is that it's though it's biblically accurate Sounds a bit pretentious, doesn't it? Like this passage today speaks to skeptics. Seekers. And saints, that's us, right? It's not exactly the vibe that I want to go for, right? So I went for save sinners because let's be real. If we follow Jesus, it's true that we have been saved, but if we follow Jesus, we are still sinners in need of a Savior. Right? So if you're in this room You don't know many Christians, or you're not sure what to make of Christians, we are a people who are desperately in need of grace and mercy from Jesus Christ. Right, if you meet any of us who are self-righteous or proud, we are living contrary to how we should be living. Right? We should live humble lives In desperation, in need of Jesus' grace each and every day. And the resurrection speaks to save sinners For those who have trusted in Jesus Christ. And the women and the rest of the disciples are examples of saved sinners shown grace by a great Savior. And where do we see that? Well, let's look at verses 1 to 8. Let's look at verses 1 to 8, and I think you'll see how they're sinners in need of grace. And grace is what they get. I want you to see the overall picture that Mark paints of the women here, and how nearly identical it is to the picture he's painted of the male disciples throughout his gospel. Throughout the gospel, the male disciples have ignored or misunderstood his teaching. And that's exactly what we see the women doing here. Right, Jesus spent the second half of his three-year ministry telling people over and over again, I will rise from the dead, three days later I will rise from the dead, as we've already talked about this morning And here we are, three days after the resurrection, and are the women preparing to receive their resurrected Savior? Waiting? Waiting? He's going to come out at every moment, any moment. No, they are going to anoint his dead body. They think he's still dead. They have failed to absorb the meaning of his repeated promises that he would be raised from the dead. But they're not only struggling with understanding Jesus' teaching like the male disciples, they're they're fearful and faithless. When they walk in the tomb in verse 5, look there with me in verse 5. They were alarmed. Then after the angel tells tells them that Jesus is alive, do they celebrate? No They flee from the tomb seized with trembling and astonishment. Trembling, alarm, astonishment, all words that Mark uses repeatedly throughout his gospel to describe the way the male disciples responded to Jesus' miraculous power. And whenever they responded with astonishment, amazement, alarm, Jesus accused them of being faithless. Do you not yet understand? They're supposed to celebrate and rejoice in his power. But they're not only hard of hearing and faithless like the male disciples, they're also disobedient like the male disciples. Look at verse 7. The angel tells them, go and tell his disciples that he is risen. Go and share with them the greatest news that man has ever heard. And do they obey? No. Look at the second half of verse 8. They said nothing to anyone. What? You didn't tell anyone? For they were afraid. This is like. Mark, your gospel has been full of people who do not understand Jesus. Will you please give us some glimmer of hope that there is some person on earth who actually understands Jesus' teaching? You think When we get to the last story of the gospel, there's gonna be someone. And you see, hey, at least the women are looking on from a distance. Like the men are not even, they're not even to be found. So maybe it's the women, they're gonna understand. And then you read it and you're just like, oh my gosh Nobody understands. Nobody understands what Jesus came to do. Nobody understands that he's the Son of God, the resurrected Savior. And Mark wants to end his gospel that abruptly to put it in your hands. It's as though he's handing you the gospel and you read it and you get to verse 8 and he's saying to you, do you understand? You've seen all these bad examples. How are you going to respond? What will you say? Right? None of the disciples gets it. None of them have listened to his promises. All of them have fled in fear. They've all failed. They've all sinned. None of them deserve grace. None of them. And yet grace is what they receive, and they receive it in abundance. I want you to see some things about the resurrection and what it means for saved sinners. Because of the resurrection, because of the resurrection, saved sinners now have peace with God. Look at the very first words out of the angel's mouth in verse 6. They come in alarmed, and he says, do not be alarmed. Do not be alum. He's saying to them, do not be afraid. I know that I'm a messenger. We know from the other gospels that he looked like lightning. If you ever have you ever seen a human that looks like lightning, it would be terrifying, right? just brilliant, white, glorious, just kind of the robes gleaming, just shining like the sun. Like that would be fearful. What does he say to them? Do not be alarmed. I know that I'm a messenger of the holy, holy, holy God, and you are a sinful and fallen creature, but you do not need to fear any longer. You have peace with God. And why? Look at what the angel says. You seek Jesus of Nazareth, who was crucified. Why was he crucified? For your sins, dear women He paid the punishment that you deserve and that all who deserve. He was crucified for your sins and the sins of all who would believe in him. And having taken punishment for your sins, And having been raised from the dead, showing that God accepted his sacrifice, you now have peace with God. There is no more judgment for those who have trusted in Jesus Christ. Did you ever notice when you read through the New Testament how nearly all of Paul's letters begin with this? Grace to you and peace from God our Father. You read right by those words and you don't ever stop and think about what that means. Grace to you and peace. From God our Father. Peace from God our Father. His message to you used to be wrath and anger. Vengeance and justice, judgment and punishment to you who have sinned against me, the holy God. But his message to you in Christ now is grace and peace. Do not be alarmed. I bring you glad tidings of good news. Christ the Lord is risen today. Ha ha ha ha ha hallelujah. Right? Like you just want to keep going on that hallelujah. And I know that was brutal because I'm a terrible singer. But it's like you just want to say hallelujah. Alluded to that, right? Christ the Lord is risen today. Do not be alarmed, friends. You have been forgiven. Your sins have been covered over. You may still be struggling with sin, but God's message to you in Jesus is grace. And peace. Do not be alarmed. You don't need to fear God. You can boldly approach the throne of grace and seek forgiveness for your sins And I know, I know, because I'm just like some of y'all that some of you are going to be tempted to believe that your sin is somehow unique and somehow disqualifies you from receiving God's grace, but nothing, nothing, nothing could be further from the truth. The resurrected Lord Jesus generously and daily pours out his grace on all, on all who have repented and trusted in him. Don't believe me? Look at what the angel tells the women to do in verse 7. Go tell his disciples And Peter, that he is going before you to Galilee. Tell his disciples and Peter That he is going before you to Galilee. What? Why? Why would the angel single Peter out? Peter is one of the disciples. Why not just say, go tell the disciples? Why does he single Peter out? Think about Mark's gospel. Kids, which disciple rebukes Jesus, prompting Jesus to refer to him as Satan? Peter. Which disciple does Jesus single out for falling asleep three separate times on him in the Garden of Gethsemane? The right answer is always Peter in this paragraph. Peter, which disciple boldly proclaimed that even if all the other disciples fell away, he would not? Peter. Which disciple then most famously denies Jesus three times and abandons him at his hour of greatest need? Peter. Of all the disciples, Peter is going to be prone to think that even if Jesus had risen, that Jesus wouldn't want anything to do with him. If they come and just say, hey, tell the disciples, you think Pete Peter's gonna be like, okay, he's risen. There's no possible way he will want me. I denied him. I denied my Lord three times and abandoned him in his time of greatest need. There's no possible way that he will forgive me. And Peter would be dead wrong. Jesus wants Peter to know that he loves him and forgives him. He set his love on Peter, and nothing, not even the worst of Peter's sins, would cause Jesus to turn away from him. And if you have repented and trusted in Jesus, Jesus has set his love upon you. In fact, the reason that you have repented is because he set his love on you, and you can know that just like Peter Jesus has determined to show you grace and mercy. It's as though you can replace Peter's name with your name. Go and tell Adrian that I love her and I'm with her. Go and tell Sabrina that I will be with her to the end of the age. Go and tell Matt that I love him and I will never turn away from him. Go and tell Abby that she can place her hope and her confidence in me regardless of her sins My love will never depart from all of my saints, and I will go through name by name and look them in the eye and tell them that I love them. And I am going before them. And I will be with them. I will lead the way into the promised city. And I will never turn back from them, regardless of how they sin against me. My love will always be with my people And because of the resurrection, we can have confidence knowing that Jesus goes before us. Look at verse 7 again. Go and tell the disciples and Peter that he is going before you to Galilee. When Mark tells us that Jesus is going before them, he's specifically using language drawn from the Exodus when God went before Israel in the wilderness. And when he went before Israel in the wilderness, he defeated all their enemies. and brought them into the promised land. In the same way that God went before Israel, the risen Jesus goes before his church He leads us now through the valley of the shadow of death and protects his church from her enemies so that he might bring her into the new Jerusalem. No power of hell. No scheme of man can ever pluck us from his hand. No persecution No loss of tax exempt status, no government coercion, nothing can ever cause the church to fail because the gates of hell Will not prevail against her, and we have the promise of that on the word of the risen Lord Jesus Christ, who has already defeated death. So what could possibly stop him now from keeping his promise? You can put your hope on him. And finally, the resurrection means that you will, if you have trusted in Christ, you will eventually see Jesus. Look at verse 7 again. Go. Tell his disciples and Peter that he is going before you to Galilee. There you will see him, just as he told you. In the same way that Jesus promised his first disciples that they would see him and they did, so he promises to all his people that they will one day see him in glory and we will. Friends, that though we now see in a mirror dimly, right, one day we will see face to face. And when we see him, we will be made like him, because we will see him as he is. How encouraging it must be. How encouraging it is for us today. You will not always have to walk by faith Lord come Jesus because my faith is weak. I believe help my unbelief. You will not always have to walk by faith. A day is coming where your faith will be turned to sight when the risen Lord Jesus will be the returning Lord Jesus. And when he returns, when he returns, the graves will open And all who are asleep in Christ will come forth from their tombs to enter everlasting life. And what the angels said of Jesus will be said of us if we are laid in the dust in our graves. When Jesus returns and the tombs are open, it will be said of us, they have risen. They are not here. See the place where they were laid. If you have repented and believed in Jesus, you may be experiencing what it means to share in his death now in this life. But the time is coming when you will know what it means to share fully in his resurrection life because he is risen. Jesus is alive. And that is a promise for you today. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we we want so desperately to be strong in faith and to be heroes of the faith. but we know there's only one hero of the faith, and that is Jesus Christ, our Savior, the risen Lord. Lord Jesus, we pray to you and ask that you would Plead with the Father to show us mercy today, to strengthen our faith, and to give us a zeal to go and tell everyone this great news. Of the risen Lord Jesus Christ and the forgiveness of sins and the promise of everlasting life in his name. We pray, Father, that you would do this for your glory and for our eternal good. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.