Dependent upon him for his grace and mercy in all things. Really, in the second half of Mark's gospel so far, Jesus' teaching on discipleship has been crystal clear. You might describe it as drastic discipleship. Being Jesus' disciples requires drastic changes to our view of God, our view of ourselves, and our view of the world. Right? The way that Jesus is really teaching his disciples about what it means to follow him, you just describe it as Jesus. Jesus doesn't get added to the orbit of our lives, he explodes our solar systems. He explodes our solar systems, but does it for our good, and he doesn't leave our solar solar system in ruins. No, he he places himself at the center of it. And he starts to reorganize our lives around him. He is our true and lasting treasure. He is the sun in the middle of our orbit because we were made for him after all. I say all this because Jesus is going to say some things this morning that underscore for us the drastic measures that must be taken for anyone who wants to follow him. Now what are those drastic measures that we're going to hear about this morning? Well, let me go ahead and read the passage for us, and I trust that will be clear. This is God's word. Mark chapter 10, verses 17 to 31. And as he was setting out on his journey, a man ran up and knelt before him and asked him, Good teacher. What must I do to inherit eternal life? And Jesus said to him, Why do you call me good? No one is good except God alone. You know the commandments. Do not murder. Do not commit adultery. Do not steal. Do not bear false witness. Do not defraud. Honor your father and mother And he said to him, Teacher, all these I have kept from my youth. And Jesus, looking at him, loved him and said to him, You lack one thing. Go. Sell all that you have and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven. And come, follow me. Disheartened by the saying, he went away sorrowful, for he had great possessions. And Jesus looked around and said to his disciples, How difficult it will be for those who have wealth to enter the kingdom of God And the disciples were amazed at his words, but Jesus said to them again, children, how difficult it is to enter the kingdom of God. It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter the kingdom of God. And they were exceedingly astonished and said to him, Then who can be saved? Jesus looked at them and said, with man it is impossible. But not with God. For all things are possible with God. Peter began to say to him, See, we have left everything and followed you. Jesus said, Truly I say to you There is no one who has left house or brothers or sisters or mother or father or children or lands for my sake and for the gospel. Who will not receive a hundredfold now, in this time, houses and brothers, and sisters, and mothers and children and lands with persecutions, and in the age to come eternal life. But many who are first will be last, and the last first. Normally, it's my practice to give the main point of the passage up front, but today I'd like to do it a little bit differently. Instead of giving you the main point of the passage up front, I want to make some general observations, three observations about the passage. Passage and in doing that, I want us to journey together through the text and arrive together at the main point because I think the main point of this passage is profound, and I want to leave us So we're going to make some general observations and then move more to the particulars starting out. Three observations. If you take notes during sermons, which I'd encourage so that you can think about the sermon the rest of the week, these observations will serve as our way markers along the way, our points in the text this morning. The first observation I want to make about the passage that it teaches us this morning is that eternal life exists. Eternal life exists. Look at verse 17. A man approaches Jesus to ask him a question and notice what he asks him. Good teacher. What must I do to inherit eternal life? The man knows that eternal life exists, and so he wants to know how he can have it. Now look at Jesus' response again in verses 18 and 19. You can just let your eyes fall over them. And as you look at his response in verses 18 and 19, I want you to notice what Jesus doesn't say. He doesn't say, Ah, my friend, I'm sorry to break this to you, but eternal life doesn't actually exist But you see the idea of eternal life is something that man just created as a crutch to help him get through the difficulty of this life. In fact, i i it's actually the case. You don't know this yet, but the truth is the universe just exploded into being for no reason. whatsoever and we're all just a bunch of molecules in motion hurtling on this insignificant speck of dust through space and and really uh we're just gonna fade to black in the end. I I'm sorry to break that to you. Is that what Jesus says to him? No, that's not what Jesus says to him. Do you know why that's why uh why Jesus doesn't say that to him? Because Jesus knows that eternal life does exist. He's not interested in correcting the man's false views about what happens in the afterlife. Jesus knows that eternal life does exist, and so he tells the man what he needs to do. And we can see that Jesus knows that eternal life exists by what he does in the rest of the passage. He explicitly states it in verses 23 to 30 over and over again. He mentions eternal life four different times. You can just look down at verses 23 to 30. Three times he refers to it as the kingdom of God. Entering the kingdom of God in Mark's gospel always has present and future aspects. Those who come into the kingdom through the Lord Jesus Christ are presently saved from sin and now await the coming eternal kingdom. But then again, look at the last two verses, verses 29 and 30. Jesus says to you, truly I say to you, there is no one who has left house or brothers or sister or mother or father or children or lands. For my sake and for the gospel who will not receive a hundredfold now in this time houses and brothers and sisters and mothers and children and lands with persecutions, and in the age to come they will receive Eternal life. Jesus could not be clearer to us this morning. Eternal life exists. I wonder What do you think about that? Seriously, think about it for a moment. Eternal life exists This life, this experience that we're all experiencing right now, the joys and the difficulties, the pains, the successes, the sorrows, all of it is not the end. This life is not all that we have. There is such a thing as eternal life. Life to the fullest. No end, no death, a life that goes on forever. I hope you understand, I'm sure you do, that this is a life-altering claim, if true. This should change everything about the way that you view your life. If you don't currently follow Jesus, I want to hold out to you today. This life that you're living right now is not the end. After you pass from this earth, there is the opportunity for eternal life, glorious life in the presence of God forever. Life-altering claim, if true. Eternal life, right? It's something that humans have been on a quest uh on a quest for from the beginning of time. Right? We think about in our day the the mythical fountain of youth, but interestingly, the the the story or tale about a fountain of youth spans back thousands of years and this idea or quest for a fountain of youth, a story about it, exists in Multiple cultures across thousands of years around the world because people in all places at all times have desired and long for eternal life. There's something in us that longs to find this fountain of youth, this place of eternal life. I mean have you not experienced this in your own life, right? And haven't we all? Gosh. Does it have to end? In our day, modern man, we may look at the story of the fountain of youth and we might think, well, it's kind of ridiculous, right? It's silly. But I I want you to know that even though it might seem silly to us, uh i it it uh though we might not believe in a fountain of youth. Modern man is no less possessed by the idea of immortality than ancient man. One of the clearest examples that I've come across just in my own reading, a story that has stuck with me now for eight years. uh was a story on the that came in the form of a Time magazine cover story from 2011. And it was about a movement known as the Singularity. The singularity movement. Uh broadly speaking, there's a a ton that goes into it, but broadly speaking, the singularity movement envisions And is working towards the merging of human consciousness with artificial intelligence in order to create a super intelligent human cyborg that can live forever. I just want to stop Now say we may laugh at the fountain of youth, but let's all just step outside of ourselves for a moment and think about what is being proposed here. But I also don't want us to laugh at it because the reality is the desire that drove people to seek a fountain of youth is the same desire that drove these scientists who are working in the singularity movement over and over and over again. In the article on the singularity, the scientists who are involved in working on it are all possessed by the idea of eternal life. They want to live forever. I don't blame them. I do too. I do too. I don't want this to end. And they're simply uh manifesting those desires, not in a search for a fountain of youth, but it's the same desire that's driving them to to find some way to create this super intelligent human cyborg that can live forever. That's what's driving them. Why is that? Why is that? Where does that come from? Why is it that humans throughout history and across all cultures have desperately sought for the path to eternal life? Now, why do we mourn? Truly mourn when loved ones pass away. It's because inside of us we know that this is not how it's supposed to be. This is not right. They are not supposed to pass away. There's something in us that screams about how unnatural death actually is. And it isn't supposed to be that way. The Bible says that we have this longing, this desire, because God Himself has implanted eternity in the hearts of men. Think about Ecclesiastes. We instinctively and intuitively long for it, seek after it, and hope in it because we were created by God to be in an eternal relationship with Him. Right? I I have one of these things at my desk, uh an embosser. Right? You put a piece of paper in it and you s you clamp it down and then you lift it up and the page is embossed and it and it says you know from the desk of John Joseph. I don't use it often because it seems kind of a little pretentious, but uh it's not like wow that came from John's desk. Great, I should pay attention to it. But why do I bring this up? The the the quest for eternal life, the the longing for eternal life, it's like when God Created our souls. He put each of them under his embosser and stamped upon our souls this quest, this knowledge of eternal life We were created with it. We were created with the knowledge of eternal life. And whenever we feel that longing for eternal life, And that longing collides with the death we experience in this world. It's as though we're running the fingers, our fingers across the surface of our soul, and we're feeling the rough edges of that embossing that God has put upon us. Right? It's not supposed to be this way. It's embedded within us. That dull ache that we feel when the desire for eternal life collides with the reality of death is the echoing of God's voice within our souls saying, This world is not your home. You were made for another home. You were made for a greater relationship, a better home. You were made to be with me, and you were made to live forever. That's what that longing is. It's his voice echoing in our souls. And the life-altering truth that this passage is holding out to us is that this life isn't the end. Let that sink in. There is such a thing as eternal life. And when you look at what Jesus and then the rest of the New Testament authors say about eternal life, we see that it is going to be glorious, right? Think about what Jesus says in the Gospels about eternal life. He likens it to a place of unbelievable treasures and riches, like a mansion with tons of room, like tons of rooms, like a massive feast and like paradise. Then you get to Paul's writings. The Apostle Paul describes it as an eternal weight of glory that surpasses all comparison. I don't even know what an eternal weight of glory. What on earth is that supposed to be describing? This is like this massive thing that just falls and like crushes everything up. I don't know, but I think what Paul is saying is it's indescribable. It's an eternal weight of glory. He says in Romans 8, it is going to be so glorious that it will far surpass the sum total of all the sufferings and pain of this life, those things will not be able to compare with that glory. And then the Apostle John. John describes the city of God, the kingdom of God, this eternal dwelling place, as a place made of precious jewels. The entire city made of diamonds and rubies and sapphire. That's amazing. Like I actually can't comprehend that, but I can kind of envision what that might look like. It's a place of staggering beauty. And more importantly, for John And for Paul and what Jesus wants us to know, that city, that dwelling place, in all its staggering beauty, that beauty pales in comparison to the fact that God is there. Eternal life, the glory of eternal life that's being held out to us today, that Jesus says exists, is an eternal life where mankind comes into reconciled relationship with God. Forever. And then God promises. I before I became a Christian, I didn't really know how to think about this. I thought heaven was just a place of like kind of vapor and you float around and it's amazing That's not what the Bible teaches about heaven. God says that he is going to restore this earth. There will be a Physical earth, a new heavens and a new earth where God dwells with mankind in physical bodies that don't break down ever, forever. Eternal life, eternal joy in the presence of God. This passage is teaching us it exists. And it's coming. I think the question that we need to ask is: if it exists and it's coming, how can I have it? How can I be a part of it? And that's what we move on to for our second point, our second observation about this passage is that eternal life is impossible for us to achieve. It's impossible for us to achieve. You see, one of man's greatest mistakes is believing that he can do what is necessary to achieve Eternal life, the man in our passage is a perfect example of this. Look again at his question in verse 17. Good teacher, what must I do to inherit eternal life? You catch that? What must I do to inherit eternal life? Kids, I just want to say to you all real quickly, I think it's this is something that adults struggle with, but I think particularly as kids is you're learning to obey your parents and they give you rules and things to follow. And uh my guess is that uh your obedience to those rules or lack of obedience to those rules affects kind of your parents' disposition disposition towards you. They can be upset if you don't obey and happy if you obey, right? One of the things the one of the good things about that is it teaches us about the blessings of obedience and uh the the destructiveness of disobedience. But I I'm guessing for you that one of the things that can happen is that you can start to think about your relationship with God that way. That if I just do enough, if I obey enough, I can please him. And the reality is, as we'll see in this passage, kids. None of us can do what is necessary to inherit eternal life. And I want you guys to learn especially from this rich young ruler He's saying, I can do it. Just tell me what needs to be done, and I'll do it. I can accomplish it. So Jesus tells him what he needs to do. Look at verse 19. He says, hey, you know the commandments. Do not murder, do not commit adultery, do not steal. He goes on and lists a few more. He lists off six commandments, five of which come straight out of the ten commandments, and one, do not defraud. That's repeated throughout the Old Testament as something that God's people are not to do. So basically, Jesus is saying. Obey God's commandments as expressed in the Ten Commandments and elsewhere in the Old Testament, and you will have eternal life. Just want to pause real quick. Really interesting observation here. Eternal life comes through obedience to the Ten Commandments. Eternal life comes through perfect obedience to the law of God. Bad news for us as we'll see, but I don't want to get too far ahead of myself. But you see, interestingly, in the passage, the man surprisingly responds, I've done all this since I was a boy. I haven't broken those commandments. I have done that. I think it's easy for us as Christians to come to this passage and read it and just think that this guy must be a supremely self-righteous hypocrite. How could you ever think to stand in front of the Lord Jesus and say you've kept the commandments? If you're tempted to think that about the rich young ruler, I get that. But I do not think that is the way we should view him. I don't think that's the way we should view him. Notice first how he approaches Jesus in verse 17. He runs up and he kneels before Jesus. He's eager and he's reverent. Then notice how Jesus responds to him in verse 21. After he says he kept all the commandments, Jesus looked at him and loved him. The word for looking there means scrutinized. It's as though Jesus is looking into the man's soul. In specting it and what he finds in the man causes him to love this man. This man is no self-righteous hypocrite. He is not. Instead, we are looking at a highly sincere and moral person. Someone who has genuinely tried To live a good life. And at least in his outward actions has kept God's laws But the sad reality of this passage is that none of us, not even the most moral person among us, can do what is necessary to achieve eternal life. Eternal life is impossible for us to achieve, to merit, to earn, to do Look at what Jesus says to him in verse 21. You lack. You lack one thing. One. You lack one thing. I love you, but you're lacking. If you uh in our church covenant, we talk about how it's a loving thing for us as members of this church. If if you're not here, we have a covenant, they're there commitments that we make. to one another about how to to live the Christian life and in our covenant uh we talk about how we will faithfully watch over, encourage, and admonish one another as occasion may require. Admonish means to Lovingly confront if you see a person straying from the way. In our culture, I bring this up because in our culture, to ever tell anybody that they're not living the way that they should is just seen as hateful, unjust, just whatever But I want you to see here that as you look at Jesus Christ as our example, an example that we should follow, Jesus loved him and pointed out where he was lacking. And we can do the same for one another. That's a brief tangent. Back to the point. What you see though is the man says, Jesus says to him, I love you, but you're lacking. Even the most moral person on earth is still lacking before God. Because God isn't only concerned with external obedience, but with internal attitudes. Which is why Jesus tells the man to go and sell everything he has and to give to the poor. What is Jesus doing? He's reaching into the man's heart and putting his finger on the one thing that the man is unwilling to give up to have eternal life is wealth. And in that we see that the man had in fact broken one of God's commandments. Which commandment had he broken? The first commandment. You shall have no other gods before me. The man's wealth, his money, his possessions had climbed up onto the throne of the man's heart and was now seated upon the throne, and the man was unwilling to give up. He may not have done it physically, but he was bowing down to his possessions, worshiping them as his true God. And that's what's going on here. He has in fact broken one of the commandments. And even though the man only lacked this one thing, this one thing, he fell far short. of God's requirement for entering eternal life. His requirement for eternal life is perfection. Perfect attitudes aligned with perfect words and actions directed at the perfect glorification of God in all And this is a standard that even the most moral person in the world fails to achieve. All of us have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. And our sins have separated us from God, from the eternal life that's with him. And none of us can do what is necessary to come back into his presence. What must I do to inherit eternal life? The answer is nothing. You can do nothing to enter into eternal life on your own. No amount of lawkeeping and good deeds can accomplish that on our part. So here's a question to help you think about whether you're actually struggling with this. Consider this question. If you stood before God today and he asked you why he should let you into heaven, into eternal life, what would you say? You don't have to say it out loud, but imagine you're standing before God, and he says, why should I let you into heaven? What is your answer? Kids, you can even write it down and talk about it with your parents later. What is your answer? If your answer Sounds anything like I have tried my hardest to live a good life and do good things to others. My fear is that you're gonna hear Jesus say to you what this man heard said to him. You lack. You lack. I love you. I get that you've tried your hardest, but you lack. You have fallen short of the standard of goodness that is required. No person that has ever lived has embodied the goodness that God requires for eternal life. Look again at verse 18. Notice what Jesus says to him. Why do you call me good? Nobody is good but God alone. Jesus isn't saying, I'm not good, therefore you shouldn't call me good. He's putting the question in the man's hands. If I am good, Which I am, then what does that mean? I'm God. And nobody can be good except God alone Nobody can be good except God alone. That's a hard saying, but this is consistent throughout scripture. There is no one righteous. No, not one. Romans chapter 3. Isaiah 64, all of our righteous deeds are like polluted garments. Right? And because none of us is good, none of us can enter this glorious eternal life that Jesus says exists. Unless, unless God makes a way for us to enter. And to do that, God would need to provide someone who is truly good to stand in our place. Someone who could both live the good life that God requires and who could pay the debt that our sins deserve. And friends, this is exactly What Jesus Christ has come to do. This is what God has provided for the path to eternal life to be open to us. God sent His Son into the world to live the perfect life on our behalf. As Christians, we so often focus on what Jesus did upon the cross to pay the punishment for our sins. And we should focus upon it. His blood has washed away our sins. Jesus, thank you, right? The Father's wrath, completely satisfied. Jesus, thank you. It's worth meditating upon, but I want you to understand That if you don't meditate upon Jesus' perfect life, you are missing out on the thing that brings power to his sacrifice It's because Jesus kept the commands perfectly, not only in external obedience, but in internal attitude that made his sacrifice powerful on his behalf. We need to praise God for Jesus' perfect life because it's that perfect life that has been credited to us so that when God looks at us and says to us, Why should I let you into heaven? We can say to him, Because your son was perfect and you've covered us in his blood, you've dressed us us in his robes. Now let us in. And he'll say, come in. Right? It's because of Jesus' perfect life that we have hope before God. It's because of his death, fueled by the power of his perfect life, that our sins have been paid for. He perfectly fulfilled the law's demands. He never lacked, not even one thing. Perfect thoughts. Perfect words, perfect actions, perfectly directed at the perfect glorification of God in all things. Praise be to Jesus It's his perfect righteousness that gives us confidence and hope before God. And to prove that his death was powerful Three days after he died, God raised him from the dead. And after he was raised, Jesus taught that even though we cannot achieve eternal life on our own, that eternal life will be given to all. Our third observation, will be given to all who give up everything to have it. That's what our passage is pointing out to us this morning. If you want to have eternal life, Jesus will freely give it to all who give up all to have it. Eternal life is given to those who are willing to give up everything to have it. When the man asks Jesus what he must do to inherit eternal life, Jesus tells him to go. Sell everything he has and give to the poor. Assuring the man, if you do this, you will have treasure in heaven. Go sell your possessions, give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven. And you will have treasure in heaven. So surely, right? Eternal life. Here's how you can have it. Surely the man is gonna do it. Who wouldn't give up everything to have eternal treasures in heaven? But look at verse 22. Disheartened by the saying, he went away sorrowful, for he had great possessions. Now the word that's translated as disheartened is a bit stronger in the original language. It means his face fell. He heard what Jesus said and he said What? Shocked, appalled, and went away sorrowful. Why? I have too much I'm not giving that up. I'm not giving up my wealth. I'm not gonna give up my possessions. Look how much I have. I'm a rich young ruler. Don't you know that? I have worked really hard, harder than most, to get to where I'm at in this life. I've kept the commandments. No way I'm giving up those things. It's crazy. That's what he says. He's been so completely seduced by his own wealth that he can't bear to let go of things that will rust. rot and fade, things that he can't keep anyway because he's going to die someday for imperishable, eternal, and glorious treasure It's no wonder why Jesus goes on to speak as forcefully as he does. Look at verses 23 to 30. He basically repeats himself three times in verses 23, 24, and 25. How difficult it will be for those who have wealth to enter the kingdom of God. Verse 24. Children, how difficult it is to enter the kingdom of God. Verse 25. It is easier. for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter the kingdom of God. For all intents and purposes, Jesus says it's practically impossible. That's what the illustration has meant. Camel, needle. Kids, how big is the eye of a needle? That's way too big, right? It's you can't even it barely fits on the tip of your finger. How big's a camel? Huge. Right, they're huge. No way the camel is going through this needle. What do you think Jesus is saying? No way those who are in love with their wealth are gonna fit through the eye of the needle to come into God's kingdom. Just not gonna, for all intents and purposes, it's practically impossible. If that makes you say, what? What do you how can he possibly say that? If you have that response to Jesus' words, I think you're understanding him correctly. Look at his disciples They're amazed, and then he repeats himself, and they're astonished exceedingly. How is this possible? Then who can be saved? Because in their day and age, they viewed wealth as a blessing from God Those who are wealthy must know God's favor, and if they know God's favor, then surely they can come into God's kingdom. And Jesus is saying, no, no, no. Wealth is a gift from God. God owns all things, and those who are wealthy in this world have received a blessing of sorts from God, but it in no way validates or secures their standing in eternal life. They must worship God and not their wealth if they are to come into eternal life. Now, we also need to read scripture in light of scripture. When I say it's for all intents and purposes, it's practically impossible. We need to read all of Scripture. We know even in the gospels that Joseph of Arimathea was a wealthy man and a disciple of Jesus Christ. So we know that people who have wealth uh who are rich in this world by this world standards can be faithful followers of Jesus. But I want us to land on the side of Jesus' warnings in this passage about the dangers of If you have questions about my take on specific circumstances, please come talk to me afterward. What Jesus is saying though is that you and I need to beware of money. We need to beware of money. We need to beware of accumulating wealth. We need to beware of acquiring lots of possessions. The things you think you own will end up owning you. They will own your soul. They will rule it. If you've ever seen Lord of the Rings, and I think you've seen a great illustration of this, maybe without recognizing it, of what money does to our souls, right? So you remember what happened to Smeagol? Smeagol was a hobbit, a normal hobbit, a normal man, and then he came in possession of the ring. And what did the ring do to him? Who did it turn him into? Gollum. It turned him into Gollum, the creepy precious ring. Right, Gollum. Just kind of that guy is. What is wrong with him, right? Gollum couldn't live without the ring. He obsessed over it. It controlled him entirely. And it corroded his very being as a creature That's what money, wealth, and possessions, according to Jesus, can do to our souls. We become little golems inside Our wealth and our possessions start to control us. Outwardly, we may look normal. It's like, yeah, that's life is going on fine, but inwardly, it's our precious ring. We cannot have anything other than it. We must have it. That's what wealth can do to our souls. And so we need to be aware of the effects of money and materialism on our own hearts. Friends, this is a serious concern. Money, wealth, and materialism. It's like the secular trinity, right? This is the God that our culture worships We live in a world, in a culture, in which people worship the God of money, the God of materialism, the God of wealth, the God of possessions. The world says, the advertisements of the world say, you live once? You better get after it in this life and enjoy it as much as you can. How do you think that's affecting you? Because we've already seen you don't live once. People say YOLO, right? You only live once. No, in in fact, it's uh Uh you actually live twice. Yault! Y'all can still say YOLT. YOLO YOLT. No, you actually live twice. This world is not all that there is. And you want to be thinking about the way that advertising and the culture's love of money is even affecting your own view of your possessions Because the reality is, we may have worked hard for our possessions. It's true, God calls us to work and to work diligently, but everything that we have in this world comes from him. And God sovereignly blesses and gives to each as he sees fit. Our money, our wealth has come from God. But it like I said, it's impossible to live in our culture and not be affected by it. So the question I want to ask you this morning. is how are you doing fighting materialism? How are you doing fighting materialism? That's actually one of the most convicting questions I've ever been asked. Leah and I had the chance to visit with some missionaries from Central Asia. uh a couple years ago and I wanted to know how they were doing not having the stuff that we enjoy here in America. Uh and as we talked with them, it became clear to me that they did not miss the things that we enjoy here in America, and that they actually had a bit of freedom and joy that I was a little bit jealous of. And then the wife uh of the the couple that we were with turned the question on me and said to me very kindly. She wasn't challenging me at all. She just said to me, how are you doing fighting materialism? And I didn't have an answer. Do you know why? Because I wasn't fighting materialism. I didn't even think about it. I didn't even think it was an issue in my life. And then she asked me and I started realizing I love stuff. It's kind of like it. You buy something, it's like, wow, my soul feels good and brings me joy, and then it fades because nothing actually finally produces that joy that we're so longing for that only comes in the presence of God. But she asked me the question, I was realized, like I've actually never thought about that. How about you? Have you been thinking about that? How are you doing fighting materialism? Now, my guess is the danger for us isn't that we are ruled by greed and just trying to get as much stuff as we can. The danger for us is going to be fighting against the subtle pull to try and serve the Lord While consciously or unconsciously also storing up this world's goods and the comfort and eve that they promise, and that they, in some sense, bring in this temporal life. Now, friends, I want you to understand that money, wealth, and possessions and the comfort and ease that come along with them are probably not going to bring instant ruin upon your soul. Here's how they work. Satan knows that we are fickle creatures and knows that our gaze can be fixed on anything that shines. So what Satan does Satan's a master anesthesiologist. That's how you should view him in relation to money and wealth. And what Satan does is he just gets you to lie down in the hospital bed and he says, hey, put out your arm. You put out your arm. And he taps the IV. And then he just lets the slow drip of money, wealth, and possessions put you right to sleep on God. Have you ever have you ever been put under anesthesia anesthesia and sometimes they say to you, count backwards from ten. Whenever it happens to me, it's like I'm gonna make it And I go ten, nine, and then I I don't remember anything else, right? You think that you can handle Money, wealth, possessions, and materials. And you think I can do it if I just pay attention to it. But Satan's like, yes, please believe that. And I'm just gonna let it drip and drip and drip into your soul until you fall asleep. And then Jesus calls you to give up everything to follow him, and lo and behold, we get disheartened. I can't walk away from that That's what happens with money, wealth, and possessions. We need to be aware of the way the pursuit of those things affects us and affects our relationship with God. They promise security when God alone is our refuge and strong tower. They promise comfort, but only God can provide the comfort we need, and God has called us in this life now to be poured out for the gospel. This life is not about comfort. That comfort's coming. That will come. But this life is about being poured out now. They promise earthly treasure, all the while keeping us from entering into eternal treasure. And the kids and teenagers, this is something that you're gonna face in this world. The world is gonna tell you that the more stuff that you accumulate, the happier you'll be Maybe you even felt that in your life already, right? If you want to have more more than the next kid, more than your siblings. If they have something that you don't, it's you kind of feel that like I want those things as well. That's because we all struggle with it. Your parents do as well. Everyone here does. As well, all of us, even you guys, need to start fighting against the lie that stuff can provide the happiness that you long for. It never has. Even the richest people in the world experience this. They accumulate more and more and more, and it never satisfies But Jesus is called to give up those things that prevent us from coming to him may sound scary and hard, and in one sense it is. But know that God does not command any of us to do what he doesn't also give us the grace to accomplish. He calls us to give up things that are hard because our hearts are fixed on them, but he gives the grace needed to actually give those things up. Look at verse 27. By ourselves it is impossible to give up all and follow Jesus. But nothing is impossible for God. God can take people who love the wealth of the world and the possessions of the world and the comfort of the world and turn them into people who will give up those things to follow him. He can provide the grace and strength to do it. Not only that, but it's clear from our passage that God provides for those who give up all to follow him, even in this life. Look again at verses 29 and 30. Notice Jesus' promise. Those who give up all to follow Jesus will provide it those very they'll be provided the very things that they give up in this life. How does that happen? How does that happen? Well it happens right here. God takes people who love the things of this world. He calls them to forsake those things, and sometimes those things are very costly. I remember a dear brother at the former church that I was at, who lives here now, who's from uh Iran. Can almost never communicate with his family because they've abandoned him because he follows Jesus and now he's in the U. S. by himself. But who's his family now? He gave up brothers and sisters and mothers. Who's his family now? The church. Among the church, we are brought into a single body, and we now receive houses and brothers and sisters and mothers and lands. Our houses are for one another. Think of Acts chapter 2, after the Spirit fell and thousands were saved. What does it say they they they were doing They met together regularly and they had all things in common. They were living out and experiencing this promise that Christ gives to those who give up all to follow him. We are the ones Who become brothers and sisters and mothers and fathers, and we open up our homes to one another, and we share with one another. We have in common all things. And it's not only in this age, but also in the age to come. It's also in the age to come. The call to give up is the call to give up what we most love is not God's way of taking away just for the sake of taking away. He takes away only to give something greater, much greater, which is himself. And though we may continue to struggle against loving the things of this world more than God, We can be assured of his love for us in Christ. And Christ will provide us his spirit to continually make us. more like him. So we even when we look at our own hearts and see that we failed in loving the things of the world more than God, we can know that God loves us in Christ and has given us his spirit to make us more like Christ. I want you to notice this. Look at verse 31 This is the encouragement I want to leave you with. But many who are first will be last and the last first. Jesus was calling the man who was first, because he was wealthy, to become last by giving all and giving it to the poor. The first becomes the last, he becomes poor, the poor become wealthy, they become rich. The first is to become last, the last will become first. But the man walked away. Wouldn't do it. The reality is that all of us, all of us, left to ourselves, would be just like the rich young ruler. None of us would have taken our possessions and given them up so that we would become last. We needed somebody who would be willing to do that for us. And didn't Jesus do it? The eternal Son of God left the riches of heaven, fellowship with the Father and the glories of being with him, left the riches of heaven to become poor. For you and me. Born into a manger, born into a lowly family in the ancient Near East. Lived a hard life, a ministry in which people opposed him. And then he showed his poverty by going to the cross. Remember what he said in Gethsemane? Father, all things are possible for you. If you take this cup, please take it. But if it's your will, give me the power to do it. And then God give him the power to do it. All things are possible for you. And on the cross, the richest son in the world became poor, so that poor Sinners like you and me could become rich in him. Glorious treasures are ours in Jesus Christ, because the first became last, so that we who are last could become first. Can't we now look at our lives and willingly say, I'll give up all things for you? I'll give whatever I need to give to follow you. And then even when we fail, we have the rock solid assurance that Christ has already done it for us and we are saved in him He is the true first who became last, leaving the riches of heaven to come and give himself to a spiritually impoverished people. Friends, Christ is worth all, worth giving up all to follow. Will you give up all to follow him today? Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for sending the Lord Jesus Christ into the world to live the perfect life that we should have lived. You gave us your law and commandments, but we broke them. We broke all of them. We cannot keep your law, but we thank you and praise you that Jesus Christ kept it perfectly and then went to the cross to die the punishment, to die the death that we deserved. And then when raised to newness of life, giving us hope and assurance that we who give up all will be surely welcomed into eternal life Lord, grant your spirit to encourage us today, to be a people who willingly give the treasures of this world to secure eternal life. And we pray that your spirit would awaken us to the glories that are to come. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.