The preaching passage this morning is Obadiah. The vision of Obadiah, thus says the Lord God, concerning Edom We have heard a report from the Lord and a messenger has been sent among the nations. Rise up, let us rise up against her for battle. Behold, I will make you small among the nations you shall be utterly despised. The pride of your heart has deceived you, you who live in the clefts of the rock in your lofty dwelling, who say in your heart, Who will bring me down to the ground? Though you soar aloft like the eagle, though your nest is set among the stars, from there I will bring you down, declares the Lord If thieves came to you, if plunderers came by night, how you would have been destroyed. Would they not steal only enough for themselves? If grape gatherers came to you, would they not leave gleanings? How Esau has been pillaged, his treasure sought out All your allies have driven you to your border. Those at peace with you have deceived you. They have prevailed against you. Those who eat your bread have set a trap beneath you. You have no understanding. Will I not on that day, declares the Lord, destroy the wise men out of Edom and understanding out of Mount Esau? And your mighty men shall be dismayed, O Timon, so that every man from Mount Esau will be cut off by slaughter Because of the violence done to your brother Jacob, shame shall cover you, and you shall be cut off forever On the day that you stood aloof, on the day that strangers carried off his wealth, and foreigners entered his gates, and cast lots for Jerusalem, you were like one of them But do not gloat over the day of your brother in the day of his misfortune. Do not rejoice over the people of Judah in the day of their ruin Do not boast in the day of distress. Do not enter the gate of my people in the day of their calamity. Do not gloat over his disaster in the day of his calamity. Do not loot his wealth in the day of his calamity. Do not stand at the crossroads to cut off his fugitives. Do not hand over his survivors in the day of his distress. For the day of the Lord is near upon all the nations. As you have done, it shall be done to you. Your deeds shall return on your own head. For as you have drunk on my holy mountain, so all the nations shall drink continually. They shall drink and swallow, and shall be as though they had never been. But in Mount Zion there shall be those who escape, and it shall be holy. And the house of Jacob shall possess their own possessions The house of Jacob shall be a fire, and the house of Joseph a flame, and the house of Esau stubble. They shall burn them and consume them, and there shall be no survivor for the house of Esau For the Lord has spoken. Those of the Negeb shall possess Mount Esau, and those of the Shephilah shall possess the land of the Philistines. They shall possess the land of Ephraim and the land of Samaria, and Benjamin shall possess Gilead. The exiles of this host of the people of Israel shall possess the land of the Canaanites as far as Zarepheth, and the Israel the exiles of Jerusalem, who are in Sephirid, shall possess the cities of the Negeb Saviors shall go up to Mount Zion and rule Mount Esau, and the kingdom shall be the Lord's. This is God's word. Have you ever wanted justice? Have you ever seen or experienced a wrong that you wish would be made right? Have you ever seen someone you love sinned against or wronged in such a way that you desired retribution? Have you ever thought or prayed, God, how long? When will this evil, when will this injustice be repaid? Have you ever thought or prayed, Lord, will my sin be forgiven? Well, if you've thought any of those things, you actually have a lot in common with Obadiah. Obadiah is one of the minor prophets, and it's one of the lesser-known books of the Bible. I've had several conversations with people this week that have said, so, Obadiah. What's that about? And the truth is, is the minor prophets, is Obadiah is one of twelve minor prophets, and and all the prophets are really a little bit harder to just pick up and understand. You know, in any of the other books in the New Testament, whether it be letters, those are a little bit maybe tougher to decipher, but the historical books certainly, even if you don't know the context, you can follow the story. The prophets are really Ancient sermons preached by ancient prophets to an ancient people, the Israelites, in an ancient context. And so it's tough to just pick that up. And just start reading and totally understand. And so because of that, we have to do a little bit of work this morning to be able to place ourselves in the shoes of the audience of Obadiah. And so stick with me. Hopefully you had some coffee this morning for these next few minutes, is going to be the most cognitively demanding aspect or section of the sermon because I'm going to just walk us through a brief guided tour of the Old Testament To bring us up to speed of where Obadiah is, so that we can really understand this. So Obadiah is a prophet. We don't really know much about him, besides the fact that he lived in around 586 BC, when Jerusalem was destroyed. And Obadiah, this book, as you probably ascertained from the reading of it and Joel's prayer, it's about the destruction and the judgment for Edom, the nation of Edom and their sin. And Edom and Israel have a long-standing rivalry. They have a long history going back really to the beginning of the Bible. And so if you look at Genesis 25, you don't have to flip there. If you want to, you can. But in Genesis 25, two sons are born to Isaac and Rebecca, Jacob and Esau. Now does anybody remember, kids, does anybody remember what nation Jacob became? Was it an adult? Israel. That's right. So Jacob became Israel. Now Esau was his brother. This is a little harder. Does anybody know what nation Esau became? I'll give you a hint really relevant to this this book that Edom, thank you. So Esau became Edom, and Jacob became Israel. And God promised, and he said to Rebekah, Two nations are in your womb, and the older will serve the younger. And sure enough, later on, Edom became subject under Israel's rule when King David and King Solomon and other kings were in Israel. And so the older did Serve the younger. But let's just skip ahead just a little bit, just to Exodus 17. Okay, so Exodus 17, the Israelites have come out of Egypt. They've just come out of the Red Sea. And they are vulnerable. They're they've just been given water from a rock, but they're hungry, they're vulnerable, they're They're wandering through the desert and they're attacked by a nation. And guess what nation attacks them? The Edomites. The Amalekites, Amalek, who is a descendant of Esau, the Edomite people, attack the Israelites. And not only do they attack them, but they attack them in a very unjust way. Uh in other references in scripture it says that they cut off their tail, that they picked off stragglers. There's a very clear picture being painted that the way they went about it was very unjust, very kind of dirty. And not only that, but this was Esau's descendants, right? These were the Edomites. They should have seen the Israelites and said, these are our distant cousins. These are our people. We should care for them. But they attack them. And so because of that wickedness and that evil, God promises in Exodus 17 to blot out the Edomites, that they will have war with them from generation to generation. And then just a little bit forward in Numbers In numbers, the Israelites are wandering through the desert and they want to pass through the land of Edom. They just want to go through, and they say, We're not going to drink any water, we're not going to eat any of your food. Just let us walk through. And the Edomites say, No. In fact, the Edomites send out an army to meet them, to threaten to kill them just for trying to pass through the land peaceably. And so yet again the Edomites act wickedly toward the Israelites. And then later, when King David becomes uh king and sits on the throne in in Jerusalem, the Edomites attack Jerusalem, the Israelites again, so that he sends out Abishai, one of his main generals, and he strikes down a lot of the Edomites and and the Valley of Salt, which is Israelite territory, so the Edomites again are attacking the Israelites And then just a little bit later, under the king Jehoram, the Edomites revolt. Though the Israelites were good, uh the Solomon and them were good kings. They did not try to attack the Edomites, they revolt. and they break away from the Israelites. And so again and again and again we see this tension, the Edomites acting wickedly and and evil toward the Israelites. And that brings us to Obadiah. To the time of Obadiah, here now you realize that there's this long-standing history of the Edomites acting wickedly, but. The last act of the Edomites toward the Israelites was by far the worst because Obadiah is writing in about 586 BC, and that is when the Babylonians captured Jerusalem. And carried the Israelites into exile. And so the Obadiah is seeing the destruction of Israel, the destruction of the temple, and it's causing great mourning, great sadness, but not only that. What adds insult to injury is that the Edomites are in on it. The Edomites join the Babylonians in the destruction of Israel and the temple. And that is the context of Obadiah. Obadiah is about roughly 1,000 years after the Edomites first attacked the Israelites when they came out of the Red Sea. And here, Obadiah is seeing the Jerusalem being destroyed, the Edomites joining in, and the word of the Lord comes to Obadiah, and he prophesies and says, the Lord says, enough. Edomites, your time has come. Vengeance is mine, and I will finally blot out you from the earth. And so, Obadiah, the main point of Obadiah, and therefore the main point of this sermon, is that God always keeps his promises God promises to make war with Edom to blot them out, and we will see that he keeps his promises. And this is just to give you an idea of where we're going. The main point is God keeps his promises, but first we're going to look at that God promises to judge sin. Secondly, we're going to look at God promises to defend his people. And then lastly, God promises to forgive those who trust in him. So God promises to judge sin, God promises to defend his people, and God promises to forgive those who trust in him. So first we see that God promises to judge sin. If you look in Obadiah, if you look at verse 2 Says, behold, I will make you a s make you small among the nations. You shall be utterly despised. God is promising that he is going to fully and completely wipe out Edom for their wickedness against Israel. And then verses five through seven It says, if thieves came to you, if plunderers came by night, how you have been destroyed. Would they not steal only enough for themselves? If grape gatherers came to you, would they not leave gleanings? What he's saying is, look, if someone even came to your vineyard and stole grapes, wouldn't there be some left? And yet that's not going to be the case with you, Edom. There will be nothing left. After you are destroyed, your plundering will be complete. And then verse eight Will I not on that day, declares the Lord, destroy the wise men out of Edom, and understanding out of Mount Esau, and your mighty men shall be dismayed, O Timon So that every man from Mount Esau will be cut off by slaughter. There won't be anyone left. No one will escape And then in verse 10, because of the violence done to your brother Jacob, shame shall cover you, and you shall be cut off forever. Shame shall cover Edom because of the wickedness that he is that they have done to his people. In verse fifteen and sixteen, for the day of the Lord is near upon all the nations, as you have done, it shall be done to you. Your deeds shall return on your own head. For as you have drunk on my holy mountain, so all the nations shall drink continually. They shall drink and swallow, and shall be as though they had never been. He's referring to the Babylonians and the Edomites drinking wine in celebration in Jerusalem as it's being torn down and destroyed. And he's saying, just like you drank wine and celebrated. You will drink the cup of my wrath and judgment for your sin. And we'll look at that more later. And then finally in 18, verses 18 and 20, the house of Jacob shall be a fire, and the house of Joseph a flame, and the house of Esau stubble. He will reduce Edom to stubble, ruins. And then in verse 19 and 20 we see that he'll displace them. They will be dispossessed. His judgment will be complete. And all of this because of Edom's evil toward Israel, because of their wickedness. And their last act, as I mentioned before, was the worst. Because in 10 and 11, if you look at verse 10 and 11. Because of the violence done to your brother Jacob, shame shall cover you and you shall be cut off forever. On the day that you stood aloof, On the day that strangers carried off his wealth and foreigners entered his gates and cast lots for Jerusalem, you were like one of them. The Babylonians plundered and took Jerusalem. And you might be a little bit confused because in 1st and 2 Kings and 1st and 2nd Chronicles, when it details the destruction of the temple, you might notice I don't see the Edomites there. They're not mentioned there. And yet, here in Obadiah and elsewhere in Scripture, it is mentioned that the Edomites did plunder them. So if you look at Psalm 137, Verse 7. We read this. This is a psalm of lament of the destruction of Jerusalem, and this is what the psalmist says: Remember, O Lord, against the Edomites. The day of Jerusalem, how they said, lay it bare, lay it bare, down to its foundations. The Edomites joined in and plundered Jerusalem. They were nearby. They were just south of Jerusalem. These were the brothers of the Israelites, descendants of Esau. They could have helped. They could have come to their aid. And yet not only did they stand off aloof, as Obadiah said, they joined in. Elsewhere in scripture it says, when refugees tried to escape, when people when there was a break in the wall, and Israelites tried to escape the horrible injustice that were going on in Jerusalem, the Edomites gathered around and they captured them and they brought them to the Babylonians. I mean it's terrible. And look at verses 8 in Psalm 137, verses 8 and 9. O daughter of Babylon, doomed to be destroyed, blessed shall he be who repays you. with what you have done to us. And just to get the n give you a an idea of the nature of this plundering that happened in Jerusalem to iz to uh to Israel Verse 9, Blessed shall he be who takes your little ones and dashes them against the rocks. This isn't some horrific thing that the psalmist is dreaming up. For the Lord to repay on the Babylonians, he is remembering what they did to them. And the Edomites took part. This is the wickedness. This is the evil that God is repaying to the Edomites. And it's important to know that not only does God promise throughout Scripture, and then here in Obadiah, that He will bring them to ruin, but historically speaking. He did bring them to ruin. Malachi, the last of the minor prophets, is prophesying about 100 years after Obadiah. Uh around 422 BC, and he says in the first few verses of that book that Edom has been laid to waste. It's been completely brought to ruins. God finally did bring Edom to destruction. He blotted them out. There is no nation of Edom. Though we know of Jews and Israelites, the Edomites are no longer as a nation. And you might be thinking at this point, okay, Mike, great, justice served on the Edomites. What does this have to do with me? And this is really crucial. Because not only does God promise to judge the sin and the wickedness of the Edomites. God promises to judge all sin, including ours. Right? And so Romans 3. 23. Famous verse, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. And then just a little bit further, Romans 6. 23, for the wages of sin is death. The consequence, the result of our sin against God is death. And that means that because we've sinned against God Because we failed to love him with all our heart, soul, mind, and strength, because we failed to love our neighbor as ourself, as Edom did, we deserve death. We deserve separation from God. We've lost communion with Him. And we now experience the miseries in all of this life because of sin. And we're also subject to the pain of hell forever because of our sin And God will judge sin. The crucial thing that we have to see in this passage for us is that we are the Edomites. We tend to read this book and think, oh that's, you know, wow, that's terrible. I mean I'm clearly the Israelites, you know, I'm the victim, but We're the Edomites, we're the ones that deserve God's judgment because of our sin. And one thing that's well a couple things we have to say about God's judgment, because God's judgment, when we when we hear that phrase, it's so misinterpreted, right? What does it mean that God judges sin? And so I just want to spend a few minutes just explaining a little bit and talking about God's judgment. Number one, God's judgment is a sign of his justice and love. Right? I mean, think about if someone you love is hurt or wronged or sinned against, if you don't get angry. You don't care. You don't really love them and we tend to think, man, God's judgment, ah, just sounds so harsh Yeah, I want a loving God. And that's one of the biggest questions of our culture, right? How can a loving God send people to hell for sin? And yet, for people who have suffered great injustice and wrong, God's judgment is actually a sign of his love and goodness. Because if you don't do anything when someone you love is hurt, then you don't care. Right? I mean think about if a an oppressor, a perpetrator of, say, human trafficking Something just terrible. Say they're arrested, they're prosecuted, and they're brought to trial. But then say the judge gets up and says, you know what This guy seems really sorry. I think we're gonna let him we're gonna let him off. I mean there would be pandemonium, there'd be outcry. Where's justice? This is terrible. We want justice. The problem is we just don't think we deserve justice. We don't think we're so evil that we deserve God's judgment for our sin. We like the idea, the idea of justice as long as it's someone else. And yet we don't want to look inward, right? If I asked for a raise of of hands, um if anyone's told a lie in their life, probably every hand would go up, right? When we've all told a lie. But imagine if I asked, okay, how many of you consider yourself a liar? I mean hands would be a lot slower to go up, right? Because we tend to think, well, certainly I'm not perfect. But I'm not a liar. I mean, I'm not a bad person. We tend to compare ourselves to others and kind of see how we're doing, right? I mean it's kinda like when you're driving on a highway and everyone's kinda breaking the speed limit and you get pulled over, it's like I mean I was just I was just going with the flow of traffic. We tend to look at each other and think, well, I think I'm doing pretty well. And we have to realize that God doesn't grade on a curve He has one standard, and that is his holiness. And we have all broken it. We have all fallen short. And so God's judgment is good. It's a sign of his goodness and justice. That's a good thing. But the bad news is that we all deserve it. The second thing is that God's judgment is unavoidable. Look at verse 3 and 4 of Obadiah. He says, The pride of your heart has deceived the Lord speaking to the Edomites. The pride of your heart has deceived you, you who live in the clefts of the rock. In your lofty dwelling, who say in your heart, Who will bring me down to the ground? Though you soar aloft like the eagle, though your nest is set among the stars, from there I will bring you down, declares the Lord. The Edomites were thinking, look, yeah, Jerusalem's getting sacked, but we've got we've got the mountains. And the Edomite land was strategically speaking a great place to be. They had high mountains. It was a buffer against them and the enemies, and they were thinking to themselves, who's going to get us up here? God's judgment can't reach us. We're good. And yet could their mountains save them? I mean later in Revelation six When the day of the Lord comes, it says that kings and people from all nations will call the mountains to fall down on them, to hide them from God's judgment. And not even the mountains that they thought that they trusted in, that they thought would be the strategic thing that would keep them from God's judgment. Not even the whole mountains could hide them for a second from God's judgment. There is no mountain high enough or fortress strong enough that can protect us from God's judgment for our sin. There's no amount of money large enough in your bank account that will protect you or keep you from the judgment that God has for sin. There is not enough people who adore you, a reputation great enough, who will be able to protect you on that final day from God's judgment that is just and deserving for our sin. It's unavoidable. We can't ignore it. We can't decide that that's not the God that I want. And we can't be protected from it by wealth or power or anything else in this world. God's judgment is good. It's just. We deserve it. And it's unavoidable. But we might be thinking, well, what does this have to do with us as Christians? Right? How does this apply to us? God's judgment for sin if Christ paid? For our sin. Well, one thing is that I think it reminds us that God hates sin. Right, the Bible says that when we sin as Christians, it grieves the Holy Spirit. But when we sin, oftentimes our repentance can be very shallow and man-centered, can't it? We can then to think about how our sin affects us and maybe the consequences of our workplace or others around us. But it doesn't supremely look at God and how we have sinned the one and only true living God who loved us and gave himself for us. Compare the two, compare the repentance of two people in the Bible, okay? King Saul and King David. King Saul, when he was confronted with a sin by Samuel, made excuses. And then in the end, all he really cared about was his public perception as king. That's all he really talked to. He actually, once Samuel confronted him about making an unauthorized sacrifice. He asked Samuel, Samuel, will you come back with me, with the people? As if to say, hey, hey, I sinned against God and everything, but could you walk back with me just so that everybody kind of knows like things are cool? That's all he's concerned about. And yet look at David's repentance. It's a great model of repentance for us. When he is confronted by his uh with his sin with Bathsheba by the prophet Nathan. Which is the first thing he says once he realized he sinned? I have sinned against the Lord. And then he writes Psalm 51, a whole psalm, a song confessing his sin, which, as an aside, isn't it just amazing the humility of some of the godliest people in the Bible? David writes a song about his greatest sin, the most public sin, for the whole nation of Israel to sing. When's the last time that you messed up and sinned and you're like, gosh, maybe I should write a song about this that we could just kind of sing as a church, you know? I mean David's humility is incredible. And we should take note of that. It's not very popular anywhere to confess our weaknesses, right? To admit our imperfections. I think especially of all of DC But we should stand out as Christians by the way we admit our weaknesses and our imperfections when appropriate. So David's writes Psalm fifty-one, and in Psalm fifty-one, he says, Against you and you only have I sinned. It's not that David didn't realize he'd sinned against Bathsheba and Uriah and so many others. He's just supremely focused on how he has sinned against God. And does that describe your repentance? There is a famous story of a famous pianist who performed a concert. And at the end of their performance, the the audience erupted in applause, standing ovation, incredible performance. But the pianist walked off the stage disappointed. And a friend grabbed the the penis and said, what's the pr you're getting a standing ovation right now? You just crushed it. And the the pianist said, Come here. See that guy up in the crowd? And the guy's like One because one guy is not cheering, like that's that's gonna put you over the top. And he says, you don't understand, that's my piano teacher. And that's how we should approach repentance, right? If no one knew about your sin, would you mourn it? If there were no consequences for your sin, would you care? If everyone celebrated your sin, would you? Our supreme focus, even in our repentance, should be God. And we should ask ourselves, are there areas of our life where we need to repent of our repentance? Is your repentance just horizontal, thinking about us and the people around us, or has your repentance gone vertical? God promises to judge sin, and his judgment is unavoidable. It's good It's just and it should remind us that he is the audience that we should aim to please. But that's not the only thing that we see in this passage. Because God also promises to defend his people. And so that's our second point. God promises to defend his people. Look at verse one of Obadiah towards the end. Thus says the Lord God concerning Edom, We have heard a report from the Lord, and a messenger has been sent among the nations. Rise up. Let us rise against her for battle. The Lord is sending out a heavenly battle cry, and he's saying, Rise up. I am going to battle against the Edomites because they have warred and sinned against my people. And just so you know, when the King of Kings Says rise up, let's go to battle, and you're not like with him, that's a bad thing. That's really bad news. And so God rises up and he goes to war. For his people. He's seen Edom's evil, and he says enough. And look at how he defends the Israelites, his people, okay? The Edomites have cut off the Israelites. Well in verse 9, they're gonna be cut off. The Edomites plundered the Israelites, but in verse five and six, the Edomites will be plundered. The Edomites have betrayed their ally Israel, their brother, right? But in verse 7, their allies will betray them. And most people believe that the Babylonians are the ones that brought Edom to destruction years later And over and over again, the Edomites displaced the Israelites. In 19 and 20, the Israelites will displace the Edomites. The Edomites drank wine in celebration, and then they will drink the cup of judgment. And the cup of judgment throughout the scriptures, the cup, is oftentimes referred to as the cup of God's wrath and judgment for sin that causes those to drink it to stagger and to be destroyed. And so God defends his people and saints, we should be supremely comforted by the fact that God defends his people. Man, have you ever had someone who didn't stick up for you the way you wanted them to? Maybe a parent who didn't encourage you or defend you as they should? Or maybe a boss. It didn't go to bat for you. Maybe he threw you under the bus. Maybe co-workers that did the same thing. Maybe you have a teacher or a coach that doesn't stand up for you, misrepresents you. Maybe you have a spouse you feel doesn't defend you, doesn't stand up for your honor the way they should. Friends, if we trust in Christ, God goes to battle for us One theologian said that there is not one square inch of all creation that God does not cry out mine, and that includes you. The one who calms the winds and the waves with his voice proclaims to you mine. Don't mess with this one. My dad played uh professional baseball for a number of years, and earlier in his career in the minor leagues, he played in this league in Venezuela in a winner league. And he was facing this team that had this guy on their on their team that was sort of like a hero in Venezuela. And there's something in baseball um where if a player does kind of like a dirty play or something that's just kind of frowned upon uh or something arrogant. Next time they're up to bat, sometimes the pitcher will, you know, give them something called chin music. It's just a little like they'll throw a pitch, it's kinda inside, brush 'em off the plate or hit 'em in a way that's not gonna like damage them permanently, but send a message like, hey, what you did was not cool and I'm gonna look out for my teammates. And so this one guy um This guy who's kind of a hero down there was up to bat. My dad was a pitcher and he was pitching and he threw a pitch kind of slightly inside. And this guy sort of just bent in and just kind of hit off right here. Just so we could take a base for free. But it was kinda dirty, you know, and kinda cheating and and so the next time that guy get you know came up to bet, my dad said, Look Like if you want to get hit with a baseball, I can help with that. And so he threw one way inside and this one hit him. And as soon as he did it, my dad was like, oh my goodness, I might have just started World War III in Venezuela Because this guy was a hero and all of a sudden people are standing up in the crowd, going crazy. This guy starts to charge the mound where my dad is. And my dad is like, my career is gonna be much shorter than I thought And so he starts to come out, but thankfully for my dad, he had a first baseman that was a very large and imposing figure. And as this guy started to charge out, my dad's first baseman ran over and stood in between him and this hitter And all of a sudden everyone got real calm. And this guy, this hitter was like, We're cool, we're cool. And so he just walked to first base and a crisis was averted, and thankfully my dad lived. And I'm here now. But on a heavenly, much more serious cosmic scale, that's what God does for us. He goes to bat for us. He stands in front of us and he says, this one's mine. You're not going to touch him. He defends us. He goes to bat for us. He sees every injustice. No abuse, no wrong, no sin has ever escaped his eye, and he will judge it justly. And that's so comforting That's why 1 Peter 2. 24 can say about Jesus that when he was reviled, he did not revile in return, but continued entrusting himself to the one who judges justly. When we're wronged, when we're sinned against, we can say, okay, my heavenly Father knows, and he'll repay all injustice. We should also realize though that Christians often suffer, and that suffering shouldn't be misinterpreted as God abandoning them. So look at verse 12 through 14. God says, but do not gloat over the day of your brother, in the day of his misfortune. Do not rejoice over the people of Judah in the day of their ruin. Do not boast in the day of their in their in their distress. What he's saying is the Edomites were looking at the Israelites and saying, look, they're being plundered. God's clearly gone. He's nowhere to be found. He's abandoned them. And yet nothing can be further from the truth Actually, the most loving thing that Israel could have asked for was that God would lovingly discipline them to draw them back to himself. There are all sorts of things that God allows in our life. His ways are not our ways, and his thoughts are not our thoughts. And we don't have the privilege and the luxury of knowing and being explained to us why he allows everything in our life. But what we can be sure of Is that our Heavenly Father promises not to waste one tear. Everything he uses for our ultimate good and for his glory And we should not misinterpret suffering as if God has abandoned us. One pastor said that God gives us everything that we would ask for if we knew everything God knew. So comforting, isn't it? God promises to judge sin God promises to defend his people. And lastly, we see that God promises to forgive those who trust in him. You might have noticed this last verse in the book It's a little peculiar. It says, Saviors shall go up to Mount Zion to rule Mount Esau, and the kingdom shall be the Lord's. Now I think this is partly fulfilled when exiles from Babylon returned to Jerusalem to rebuild the temple and the walls. That story is recounted in Ezra and Nehemiah. And they possessed the land once again. And so in that sense, saviors went up to Mount Zion, Jerusalem. But this is also hitting at a much bigger fulfillment. And I'm sure you're picking up on it. And this verse is a long shot from being the only verse that talks about this ultimate fulfillment. Of a savior going up to Mount Zion. In fact, we have to start all the way back before Jacob and Esau to see the first prophecy of this prophecy that Obadiah is hitting on. If you go back to Genesis 3:15. Right after Adam and Eve fall, God promises that a seed of the woman will come and will crush the serpent's head. And that the serpent will bruise his heel. And then just a little bit further in Genesis 15, God tells Abraham that through his descendants, through his seed, all the nations will be blessed And then out of Abraham comes Israel, right? And Israel has King David and King Solomon, and they're a blessing to all the nations. And then God promises to establish the line of David and his throne forever. Then things go south. Israelites fall away from God They become faithless. And God hands them over to the Babylonians and the Edomites. And then there's a long period of silence. Obadiah writes, then Malachi, and there's several hundred years of silence. And then comes a light. Because do you remember how the Gospel of Matthew starts? The first verse. The genealogy of Jesus Christ, son of David, son of Abraham. Jesus is the promised one. And Jesus went up to Mount Zion, Jerusalem, except he didn't go with a sword, he went with a cross. We all deserved to drink the cup of wrath that was reserved for the Edomites, for the judgment of all sin. We deserved to stagger and be destroyed by drinking the cup of wrath and judgment for our sin. And yet what did Jesus say? In the Garden of Gethsemane before he went to the cross? Let this cup pass from me, and yet not my will but yours be done. Jesus drank the cup. Jesus drank the cup of wrath. He staggered because of the terror of judgment that he took in our place. He was wiped out. The truth is, is we're all going to be wiped out one way or the other. We're either going to be wiped out in judgment for our sin. Or we're going to be wiped out by dying to ourselves, repenting of our sin, and trusting in the one who was wiped out in our place. As one person said, die before you die. There is no chance after. So will you be blotted out for your sin? Or will you live by trusting in the one who is blotted out in your place? Jesus came. He went to Mount Zion because God always keeps his promises. And if you've trusted in Christ, remember that Jesus drank the cup for you Your God rises up to go to battle for you. He defends you because he loves you and he alone should be the one we aim to please. That's great. Lord Jesus, you drank the cup that we deserved. We deserve your judgment. We deserve your judgment And in the presence of your holiness, we realize how deserving of condemnation we are. And yet, Lord God, you took the punishment. You suffer the judgment. Because you defend your people. You judge sin and you forgive those who trust in you and you always keep your promises. We thank you so much and we pray this in Christ's name. Amen.