Oh good morning friends. How's everyone doing? Great. It's good to see you all here. It's a joy to be with you this morning. And it's a joy to be able to bring to you God's word. But before we open his word, I want to lead us one more time briefly in prayer. So would you pray with me Righteous are you, O Lord And right are all your rules. You have appointed your testimonies in righteousness and in all faithfulness. Oh God, we pray that you would teach us by your Holy Spirit now to honor your righteous, faithful law. Lift up our eyes to the risen Lord Jesus Christ. May He be glorified in our midst this morning Well, a week ago today, Neil Simon, a comedy legend, died at the age of 91. In his prime, Simon was so successful as a playwright that in the 60s and 70s his name was virtually synonymous with Broadway. I think between the years of 1965 and 1980, his plays and musicals were performed more than 9,000 times. So if you do the math real quick, I had to pull out a calculator for it because I'm not great at math. But that's almost twice a day, every day for 15 years, his musicals and plays were playing on Broadway And where Simon's influence was most clearly felt was in the way in which he reformed and transformed humor and comedy His style of writing, his style of comedy was a style of comedy that was not yet seen on Broadway, and it was a type of comedy that grew out of the agonies of life. And in Simon's writing, it was most often for him the agonies of a broken family life that gave birth to his style of comedy. Uh he grew up in a depression era home that was racked by conflict. Uh his father abandoned the family on multiple occasions, which you can imagine would have been hard enough in and of itself. But when his father would abandon the family, he would come back after a year or so. And when he would return, his mom and his dad would fight often and their fights would be uh terrible. Uh and uh Simon responded Out of this agony and this internal emptiness that it created, he responded with humor. It was out of the agonies of a broken family life that his style of comedy was born. He would later go on to say, much later in life, when an audience laughed, I felt fulfilled. It was a sign of approval, of being accepted. Coming as I did from a childhood where laughter in the house meant security, but was seldom heard, as often as a door slamming every time my father took another year's absence from us. The laughter that came my way in the theater was nourishment. Nourishment. Those are remarkably revealing words, aren't they? When an audience laughed, I felt fulfilled. The laughter that came my way was nourishment. Whether intentionally or not, I think Simon, Neil Simon, in those words, put his finger on one of the most painful aspects of the human condition. Not only the agony that we all experience in life in various ways, but the hunger and emptiness. All of us feel at different times in our life. And because of that hunger, that emptiness, we all look for something to satisfy. Bill. To nourish. Right? We're all looking for food for our souls, aren't we? It's a question for you to ponder before we get to our sermon text this morning. What are you hungering for today? What are you hungering for today? Why do you think you're hungry? Do you think that there's this longing inside of your soul to be filled and nourished And what is it do you think that can ultimately, finally, and fully nourish that longing? Think about those questions even now. I ask because uh remarkably in our passage this morning we find uh not only answers to those questions, but we see that there is something in life that can finally and fully Satisfy that emptiness, that longing, that hungering. So let me invite you to turn in your Bibles to Mark chapter 6 We're going to be looking this morning at verses 31 to 44. If you're using the Bible that's provided in the seats around you, you can find our passage on pages 841. and 842. And if you don't own a Bible, I want to encourage you to take a copy of ours. It's a gift from us to you. We think the most important thing that you can have in this world is a copy of the Word of the living God, because man does not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from his mouth. So please take that as a gift from us to you. I'm going to go ahead and read our passage now. Again it's verses thirty-one to forty-four. This is God's word. And he said to them, Come away by yourselves to a desolate place and rest a while. For many were coming and going, and they had no leisure even to eat. And they went away in the boat to a desolate place by themselves. Now many saw them going and recognized them, and they ran there on foot from all the towns and got there ahead of them. When he went ashore, he saw a great crowd He had compassion on them. Because they were like sheep without a shepherd. And he began to teach them many things. And when it grew late, his disciples came to him and said, This is a desolate place, and the hour is now late. Send them away to go into the surrounding countryside and villages and buy themselves something to eat. But he answered them, You give them something to eat. And they said to him, Shall we go and buy 200 denarii worth of bread and give it to them to eat? And he said to them, How many loaves do you have? Go and see. And when they had found out, they said, five and two fish. Then he commanded them all to sit down in groups on the green grass. So they sat down in groups by hundreds and by fifties And taking the five loaves and the two fish, he looked up to heaven and said a blessing, and broke the loaves, and gave them to the disciples to set before the people. And he divided the two fish among them all. And they all ate and were satisfied. And they took up twelve baskets full of broken pieces of bread and of the fish. And those who ate the loaves were five thousand men. Uh it it happens from time to time as a pastor that you come to a text that you're preaching on as you're studying it throughout the week, uh, and it's quite difficult to really hone in on what the main point of the passage is. In my experience there are certain weeks where it feels like I'm beating my head against a wall trying to figure out what exactly is the passage teaching. But at other times, uh there are passages that you come to and the point of the text just kind of reaches out to you and grabs you. And I'm really thrilled to say that this past week has been one of those latter times. It really is impossible to miss the main and glorious point of our passage this morning. And that point is that Jesus is the compassionate shepherd. Who alone can satisfy your spiritual hunger. Jesus is the compassionate shepherd. who alone can satisfy your spiritual hunger. And what we're going to do this morning is just break that sentence in half. We're going to look at each of the parts on their own, and then we're going to look at some ways that we can think about applying this text at the very end. So first, Jesus is the compassionate shepherd. All right, so this account comes on the heels of the passage that we just looked at last week where the missionary or the disciples, the twelve disciples were sent out on their first missionary journey, and they have returned to Jesus. They returned and they let him know all that they had done and taught. And so Jesus calls them to come away with him to get some rest. In fact, he commands it. You know, there's an imperative there in that first verse, verse 31, where he tells them to rest. Come away and rest. Says, hey, time for a break. You guys need a vacation. They had been doing so much ministry Uh that they needed some time to rest. So they get in a boat and they make their way off to uh a vacation, a a short break. But their attempts at taking a vacation and getting a break are thwarted So if you look at the passage, you see in verse 33, many saw them going in the boat. And so these this crowd of people sees them going. And they don't want Jesus to get away from them, and they don't want the disciples to get away from them, and so what do they do? They run along the shoreline and through the towns, following the boat to where it was going. So their attempts at taking a break were thwarted. And so they're desperate to hear from Jesus and to be healed by Jesus so that they run to where he's going and they even get there before he arrives. And then if you look at verse 34, look there again with me. When he, that is Jesus, when he went ashore, he saw a great crowd, and he had passion on them Because they were like sheep without a shepherd. Notice that. This is one of the few times in Mark's gospel where we really get insight into Jesus' heart. Towards people. He has compassion on them. And this is a crowd of individuals. These are not his disciples. These are not people who have professed faith. These are people who are pursuing Jesus because they've seen him doing signs and they they've seen him heal people and they want to know more about him. And he looks at them and he has compassion. This is a deep affection mixed with pity, right? Compassion. It's a sympathetic pity and concern for the suffering and misfortunes of others. That's what compassion is. He feels compassion for them. And why? Well, the text tells us it's because they're like sheep without a shepherd. And this image makes sense to us, right? We can all imagine what a group of sheep without shepherd looks like. It looks like sheep. Wandering aimlessly all over the fields and possibly into ravines and getting themselves into trouble and possibly being attacked by wild beasts. Why? Because sheep need a shepherd. They need someone to corral them and lead them and go before them and protect them. But what is it about them that evokes this image in Jesus' mind? Why does he view them like sheep without a shepherd? Is it because the crowd has no apparent leader inside of it? There's no one person who seems to be standing out as a leader? Is that why he says that they're like sheep without a shepherd? Well, Mark actually doesn't really tell us a whole lot about this group except that they were willing to run for miles. So Jesus is leaving the western side of the Sea of Galilee and he's traveling north. We know that this account takes in uh the country of Bethsaeda or the land of Bethsaeda, north of the Sea of Galilee. So these people have run miles to get to Jesus and to chase him down, which does tell us that they were somewhat desperately pursuing him. But I also think we get a great hint about why Jesus looks at them as sheep without a shepherd from John's gospel. In his account of this event, he says that the people saw his signs and his healings. And so they were seeking him. They wanted to experience his power themselves. They were seeking healing. And in Scripture, physical ailments are often, if not always, intended to teach us about deeper spiritual realities Physical ailments teach us about our deeper physical ailment or spiritual ailment, a spiritual sickness of sorts that always leaves us hungering looking for something. Right? You can imagine, just think about yourself. You you hear about some amazing thing that's being done in the world and I want to be part of this. I I want to know what it's like to experience this power. Do you want to be fulfilled? Do you want to yearn for something to kind of take away the the the difficulty and the kind of wandering aimlessness that we all feel in life somehow. And so you can imagine that these people hearing about Jesus' power to heal and to do signs They think this is him. This is the one who can finally fill this emptiness inside, who can nourish this hunger that we have. It's a spiritual sickness that always leaves us hungering, looking for something to fulfill us, to satisfy our appetites. And when Jesus saw them It was clear to him that they were searching. They were looking for that thing, looking for someone or something to satisfy that hunger. But where does this hunger come from? Why do we all experience this wandering, this emptiness, this desire for more in life? Why are all of us born in search of something to fulfill us? Why is it something that all people understand? What makes us like sheep without a shepherd? I think it's really important for us to understand the way that that phrase is used throughout Scripture so that we can appreciate the riches going on here of promise and fulfillment that are happening when he uses this phrase. In Scripture, the image of mankind as a sheep without a shepherd is used in two different ways. First, it's a description of what we've become like because of our sin. So for instance, in Psalm 119, the very last verse of Psalm 119, David says, I have gone astray like a lost sheep. Seek your servant. For in Isaiah 53 verse 6, all we like sheep have gone astray. Isaiah and David are saying the same thing. All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned all of us to our own way. Both passages say we've gone astray. Gone astray from whom? From God. The Bible teaches that all mankind has rejected God. We've broken his laws, and in doing so, we've gone astray. From our shepherd, who is God. And we've become like sheep now without a shepherd. And the emptiness and spiritual hunger that all of us is familiar with is a result. of that disastrous choice. It is a result of sin. And because God Is the only one who can nourish that spiritual hunger, and we've chosen to go away from God. We're constantly left in search of something to fill that void, but nothing ever does, right? There's some poignant examples of this in real life that came to mind from me, of people that I've heard say this, who aren't Christians, but have said these very things. Think of Tom Brady. Tom Brady, after winning three Super Bowls, was interviewed on 60 minutes and said, hey, maybe a lot of people would say that this is what it is. I've reached my goals and my dreams. Me? I think there's gotta be more than this. And the interviewer asks him, well, what is it? What do you think it is? He responds. Wish I knew. Wish I knew. Three Super Bowl rings. MVP of the NFL multiple times. The dude has everything. And what does he say? It's gotta be more. But I don't know what it is. Or consider comedian Jim Carrey's well-known quote. Jim Carrey said, I think everybody should get rich and famous and do everything they ever dreamed so that they can see that it's not the answer. Not the answer. Money, riches, fame, Super Bowl trophies, huge contracts. This is not the answer. This doesn't nourish our souls. You have Jim Carrey and Tom Brady, wealthy people who've had it all. Think of uh a philosopher, French philosopher Jean-Paul Sartre, of all people An atheist, existentialist philosopher, speaks to this hunger, and he says, because he's an atheist, that God does not exist I cannot deny. I would obviously disagree with him on that point, but he says That God does not exist, I cannot deny. Yet that my whole being cries out for God, I cannot forget. How is it that an atheist philosopher committed to denying the existence of God can himself say, this hunger for God, I cannot forget Because we all experience this hunger is a result of our willingly breaking our relationship with God. We are like sheep. Without a shepherd. But I said there are two ways the Bible uses this phrase, and the second way is to describe mankind's suffering from a lack of faithful leadership. Mankind suffers from a lack of faithful leadership. In choosing to reject God, we've chosen to lead ourselves. And all of us are incompetent leaders And we've proven that in our own lives. We can look back at our lives and see the great mistakes that we have made. We are not masters of our own ship. Invictus is a horrible poem, right? Just look at your own life. In denying God, we've chosen to lead ourselves and we've made a mess of things And that choice has led to eternal wandering away from the presence of God. And none of us has the ability to lead us back. We cannot lead ourselves back into God's presence. We're like wandering sheep. And what we need is for God to provide a shepherd who can lead us back to himself. And interestingly, Throughout the Old Testament, God teaches over and over again that He is going to provide a shepherd for His people. Right? So if there are, let's say, preteens and teenagers in the room, maybe let's say nine and up, I have a question for you guys Who are the two most famous leaders of God's people in the Old Testament? Do we have one right over here? Go ahead. Moses is one. There's a second one. Who is the second most famous leader of God's people, according to the New Testament authors and according to the Old Testament? You have Moses. We'll let you go. Even though you're not nine, that's right. Go ahead. David, great job. Moses and David. Now here's a question for you kids. Before God called them to lead his people, What was their job? What did they both do for a living? We'll go in the back. They were both shepherds. Moses was shepherding the flock in Midian, and David, the youngest of his brothers, the runt, no way could he be king. He was shepherding God's flock, protecting them from lions and from bears. Right? They were shepherds, and their occupation as shepherds was a way that God was showing his own people his desire to provide a shepherd for them. To lead them, the people of God, back into God's presence. But we also find out in the Old Testament that Moses and David Are not the faithful and the faithful shepherds that we need, right? They did their job great, but they both sinned, right? They were faithful and sinful. And they showed that they were not the ones who would shepherd God's people back into God's presence ultimately. But we also learn in the Old Testament that those men were merely stand-ins. Meant to point us to the true shepherd. Right? God himself is the true shepherd who will bring us back into his presence. Speaking through the prophet Ezekiel, in Ezekiel chapter 34, God said this. Behold, I myself will search for my sheep and will seek them out As a shepherd seeks out his flock when he is among his sheep that have been scattered, so I will seek out my sheep. I will rescue them from all the places they've been scattered. And I will feed them on the mountains of Israel I myself will be the shepherd of my sheep. I will seek the lost, and I will bring back the strayed, and I will bind up the injured, and I will strengthen the weak. I will be their shepherd. I will seek the lost. I will bind up the injured. Notice the personal, compassionate shepherding that God Himself would provide for His people And he fulfills that promise in Jesus Christ. Jesus is God in the flesh, the true shepherd of God's people, the compassionate Shepherd who would seek the lost and feed his people and bind up the injured. He is the good shepherd, the only good shepherd. And in John chapter 10, Jesus claims this title for himself. I am the Good Shepherd. I know my own, and my own know me. Jesus says to you this morning, I am the good shepherd. I am the compassionate shepherd I alone am the one who can lead you back into the presence of God. I see your yearning. I see your wandering. I see your searching. I see your hungering. And I alone can provide the satisfying nourishment for your soul that you so desperately long for, because I alone am the good shepherd. Jesus is the compassionate shepherd who has come to provide the satisfaction that your soul and my soul so desperately long for. Jesus is the compassionate shepherd. And point two, Jesus alone can satisfy your spiritual Let's look back at the passage. We see this truth so clearly displayed. In verse 35, in verse 35, the disciples come to him. to figure to do uh to figure out what to do about dinner, right? Uh so the the crowd, remember the crowd had run great distances already. They've worked up an appetite But then after they get there and Jesus comes ashore, he begins teaching and he teaches them all day. Right? So we have a sermon that's like 40 minutes, it's likely that Jesus was sermonizing for hours. And the people are just sitting on the hillside in the hot Galilean sun. And they're tired. They've run. They're hungry. And so the disciples come to Jesus with an obvious question. They say, hey Hey, send the people away into the towns so that they can get food for themselves. Let them, we need to give them time so that they can get to the towns before it gets dark, so they can provide food for themselves, right? This is first century Galilee. There are no Minnie Marts. There's no Wawa, no 7-Eleven, no grocery stores every couple of blocks. If you're going to survive, you need to prepare bread ahead of time. So they're going to have to get to the town and find a way to eat But Jesus responds with a baffling command. He says to them, you give them something to eat. The stress in the original language is on you. You Disciples, you give them something to eat. Right? You can almost hear the condescension and confusion and skepticism in their voices when they respond to him. Look back at the verse. Verse 37 Shall we go and buy two hundred an area worth of bread and give it to them to eat? Because we obviously can't provide on our own. Jesus, surely you see that, right? This is a ridiculous command. We're not going to say that to you, but we're clearly thinking it because there are tons of people out here. Look down at verse 44. Those who ate the loaves were 5,000 men. I think that's accurate, and I don't think that's representative of the whole. You see, in first century Galilee. Uh it was often you would judge attendance at events by counting the men present because men were viewed as their household. But we know that view as the head of the household, but we know from Matthew's gospel and John's gospel that women and children were all also present at this event. So it's likely that there were upwards of ten thousand. Some people think there were even twenty thousand people present. So now you understand when Jesus says to them, You give them something to eat. Surely you don't mean that, Jesus. Uh shall we go and spend 200 denarii, which is in that time about eight months to a year's worth of wages, which they would have needed that much money to feed that many people bread, you give them something to eat. So we can appreciate the disciples' response, you know? So Jesus tells them, hey, go and find out how much food you have. Go and see how much there is among the people Uh and we can assume that the disciples as they're walking away, they're mumbling how ridiculous it is that Jesus wants them to see how much food there is. Clearly, there's no way that 10,000 people can be fed. Right? So they come back to him with Five loaves and two fish. And I would assume that they're probably self-congratulatory on the inside. There's five loaves and two fish. What are you gonna do with this? Right? 10,000, 20,000 people maybe? There's five loaves and two fish, Jesus. So Jesus does the same thing, the rational thing, and he Commands the people to be seated. But you've got to think as a disciple, we just told you there's five loaves and two fish. What on earth are you thinking? And they're going to be the ones who are commanding the people to be seated. They're going to go around and tell the people to sit in groups of 50s and 100s. So they're walking around, guys, guys. Not my decision. This didn't come from me. Jesus wants you to be seated. Jesus wants you to be seated. He's going to provide. Food for us. We'll see how it happens, right? This is how they're walking around. This is ridiculous. You have five loaves and two fish. But that's the point, isn't it? Jesus wanted the disciples to take inventory of their own meager supplies And the obvious inability of them to provide food for that many people, so he could make it abundantly clear that he alone is the one who can provide, and that the provision comes directly from him. Oftentimes he does that in our own lives, doesn't he? Makes you feel your weakness. Makes you feel your inability and your discipling relationships and your relationships with your neighbors and family. I can't do this. Of course you can't. Of course you can't. But God can. And if you follow the Lord and you have his power at your disposal and you know that the Holy Spirit is at work. You can trust that God will eventually bring fruit from your work because he can make food appear where none presently appears. This is what he does. This is what he does. And we come to then the climax of this account. Jesus took the bread and the fish and looked up to heaven. And he blessed the bread, and broke the bread, and gave the bread to the people. In the Greek, there's a crucial switch that's made in the verb tenses there. It's not often that I would point these things out, but it I think it's key here. Literally the text reads, he blessed and he broke and he kept on giving. The bread and the fish didn't stop coming. He opened up the fountains of heaven. and provided an abundance of food. He blessed and he broke and he kept on giving. Feel weak as a Christian? Feel spiritually dry as a Christian? You wonder how is it that God can possibly nourish you in that dry state? He blessed. And he broke and he kept on. He keeps on giving to his peace. This is a miraculous provision of food for a massive group of people. So I just want to involve the kids one more time. This question may seem like it's coming out of left field, but I want to ask you guys, what is the most important event in the entire Old Testament. It's what the old whole Old Testament is centered around. Anyone tell me what the most important event in the Old Testament is? No help from your parents. Okay, maybe you can get help from your parents? Any parents want to try? What is the most important event in the entire Old Testament? Which is that's very that's very close. That's part of this larger event. That it's inside. The Exodus. Yeah, thank you, Akhil. The Exodus. The Exodus is the central and defining event of the people of Israel. It is the Exodus. In the Exodus, God called a shepherd named Moses. And used him to rescue his people out of physical slavery in Egypt. And God did this in order to make the people of Israel his own. And bring them into a land that he had prepared for them. And what becomes clear as the Old Testament unfolds after the Exodus is that the original Exodus out of Egypt Foreshadowed a new Exodus when God would send a new shepherd to free his people not from physical slavery, but from spiritual slavery to sin. And why do I bring the Exodus up? Because it was in the Exodus and during the Exodus, after the people had been rescued out of Egypt, that they were brought out into the. wilderness and they had nothing to eat because they were in the wilderness and what did the people do they said What would that you bring us back to Egypt, please, where we had cucumbers and melons and onions and leeks and all this good food, but you brought us out into the wilderness to die? What does God do in the wilderness? provides manna from heaven and quail to fill their bellies, a grumbling and complaining people, he feeds. And God says to Moses, Moses, it's not you who's feeding the people. I will cause bread from heaven to fall upon the ground, and the people each day can go out and gather as much as they need for the day. And whoever has plenty will have what he needs, and whoever has little will have what he needs. Everyone will be nourished by my bread from heaven, bread provided in the wilderness. And it's this miraculous feeding of a massive group of people in our passage that is intentionally meant to remind us of the original Exodus. Where do we see that? Notice where does this event take place? Three times, Mark tells us they are in a desolate place. A desolate place. The word used there is wilderness. They are in the wilderness. Jesus, the compassionate shepherd. The good shepherd who came to lead his people out of spiritual slavery to sin and provide them with spiritual food that fully satisfies their spiritual hunger. This is what is happening in our passage. The new exodus that the whole Old Testament points forward to is being fulfilled in Jesus Christ. When Jesus says that the whole Old Testament is about me, this is what he's talking about. He is the true Moses, the true David, the good shepherd who provides manna from heaven, not through an intermediary, but he himself is able to give it. So that it keeps on coming. And when he calls himself, when uh when Jesus says that he leads us peace people out of slavery and provides them with spiritual food that fully satisfies their hunger, how does he do that? How does he do that? Because here he's satisfying their physical hunger. How is it that he satisfies our spiritual hunger? Well, it's here that we have to see that this meal, this feeding of the 5,000, foreshadows and points forward to an even greater meal. When Jesus calls himself the Good Shepherd, he's reaching back to the Old Testament. He's reaching back to the Old Testament where the leaders of the people of Israel were seen as shepherds of God's people. They were responsible for teaching God's people his ways and showing them how we how they should live. But what we see in the Old Testament is that most of the leaders of Israel, the shepherds, failed terribly. They failed terribly. This is what the whole prophets are about. The leaders are being charged with taking advantage of the people, using them for their own gain, oppressing the weak and the needy. They were selfish and self-centered shepherds. But when Jesus teaches that he is the good shepherd in the Gospel of John, what does he say about himself? I am the good shepherd. I lay down my life for the sheep. He isn't like the shepherds of Israel in the Old Testament. I am the good shepherd. I lay down my life for the sheep. Why does he have to lay down his life for his sheep? Why does he have to do that? Because to lead us back into God's presence, the good shepherd would have to die for his sheep. That spiritual hunger that we all have That yearning, that wandering we all experience is something that as we look at one another from a human perspective, we can all relate to and sympathize with. But from God's perspective, That hungering is the just judgment and right reward for our rejecting him as our king We are now empty and wandering. When we sinned against God and chose to go our own way, we cut ourselves off from God and fell under his judgment. But God is compassionate to those who sin. And so the Father and the Son agreed that the Son would come and be the good shepherd of the people and pay the penalty that we deserve to pay for our sins. so that we could be shepherded back into God's presence. Jesus takes our punishment as the good shepherd. I am the good shepherd. I lay down my life for the sheep. God will not let sin go unpunished, but rather than having his people bear the punishment for their own sins, he provided a sacrifice A substitute to bear the punishment for us. He gave his very own son, the compassionate shepherd, the good shepherd to be broken. For us, so that we could be fed and healed. I said that this meal foreshadowed and pointed forward to another feeding and another meal yet to come. And when does that happen? Mark chapter 14. On the night before he dies, he meets with his disciples, and he institutes the Lord's supper. And Jesus had a meal with his disciples and said to them, and as they were eating, he took bread and after blessing it, broke it. And gave it to them and said, take, eat. This is my body. Notice the same pattern in our feeding today. He took, he blessed, he broke, and he gave. The food that this crowd received foreshadows for us the spiritual food that Christ Himself would offer to all in his death. And in his resurrection, so that all who feed on him would be fully satisfied. And he offers that bread of life today to all who would turn from their sin and put their trust in him turning to him the good shepherd. And he continues to feed his church today. And since he's the only one who can feed us with soul satisfying food, we might ask ourselves, where have we this past week been seeking nourishment for our souls apart from him. He is the only one who can offer soul-satisfying food. Where have you been looking for that satisfaction this past week? Is it in your job? In your reputation? Is it in your own your own sense of your own success? Is it in your children? You have children. I mean, really, the list is endless, isn't it? We we can come up with a with a thousand things that That fills that void because we are people who are constantly looking for something other than the Lord to fill that nourishment, but He alone can provide the spiritual nourishment that we need We all struggle for looking for water in empty wells, and we should be reminded today as a church of the sacrifice of our Savior and how He alone is bred from heaven. Take, eat. This is my body. And so we should always be reminded, as a congregation at CBC, of the importance of this gathering in our own lives, right? God has commanded Christians not to forsake the weekly gathering in their own lives because He's given it to us to feed us. To feed us. Jesus says that man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes. from the mouth of God. And so we want to do everything in this service and want to center everything in this service around the Word of God. So the readings and the songs and the prayers. are meant to focus our minds and our hearts on the Word of God because it's by the Word of God that we as Christians are fed and instructed and it's God's church that's built up. Right, fasting for dietary purposes and for health benefits is all the rage these days. And I think when you look at the data, fasting actually does have some pretty profound health benefits. But you know one way that fasting is not healthy. It is not healthy to fast from joining with God's people and feeding on God's word. That never results in spiritual We should get together and this gathering is meant for us to be fed and to be us for us to be encouraged and instructed. And as God builds up this church, his desire is to make us more and more like his son Jesus, right? The compassionate shepherd. And as we look at this passage, the one thing that stands out about him is his compassion. So I wonder, as the Lord is making you more like his son, would people who are close to you describe you? as a compassionate person. We all agree that that and should be praying for the Lord to make us more like Jesus. And as he's making us more like Jesus, one thing he should be creating in us more and more is compassion. Compassion towards others. We said that compassion is sympathetic pity towards the struggles of others. Are you compassionate? I'm not saying do you condone things that God says are sinful? I'm not saying that at all. But I would ask that when you look at others and you see them struggling, do you look at them with a judgmental attitude and a critical spirit? Do you look at them and think like, what is wrong with them? Not that you're going to say that out loud. I think we all know that know that we shouldn't say those things out loud, but are we thinking those things Do we see our brothers and sisters struggling with sin, sins that we don't struggle with, and we think, what, what is wrong with them? Can't they just get over it? Clearly God says that's wrong That's not a compassionate spirit, is it? Because for us, the way that we should respond with compassion and why we should respond with compassion, even if we're not going to condone the sins of others, we can respond with compassion because we We're all made in God's image and we are all fallen. So we all know what it means to struggle with sin. So whether we're looking at other brothers and sisters in Christ or people who don't even follow the Lord, we should look at them with compassion. And with compassionate hearts, point them to the truth that there is a compassionate shepherd who has offered himself as a sacrifice for their sins so that they could be fed and forgiven for all time. We should be a compassionate people. And not only do we learn about Jesus' compassion, but we also learn in this passage about his thankfulness. You notice what he did with the bread before he handed it out? He blessed it. He gave thanks for it. He gave thanks for it And he's looking up to heaven as he gives thanks. Why? Because he knows that the bread and the fish ultimately come from heaven See, the Bible is crystal clear that God created all things. So even when we go to the grocery store and we take processed foods off the shelf. Canned goods and things that have been made from other ingredients. It's true that those things have been created by people, but ultimately all of the ingredients that made those things came from God All of the food that we could ever eat comes from the Lord, which is why when we sit down to eat at our tables, we should be praying and giving thanks. As you look at your life when you sit down before meals, is it just perfunctory? Is it just kind of a mindless rote thing you do because that's what you think you're supposed to do? No, that food, that food came from God. I think one of the hardest things about living in the West, even if we aren't all rich, No matter who you are in this country relative to the rest of the world, we are wealthy. There is food everywhere. There are mini marts and grocery stores and cupboards full of food. And what does that do? It dulls our hearts to the recognition. Our abundance unbelievably causes us to become hardened. And dull to God's provision for us. Yes, thank you, Lord. Guys, let's eat. Hurry up, hurry up, hurry up. Let's get it done. No. Your pantries are full of food. God has provided that food for you. That abundance comes from his hand. Look at the passage 10,000 people ate, and there are baskets of leftovers. Wow! His provision is amazing! He gives abundance to some of his people, and his abundance should lead us to thankfulness. So my encouragement to you, and I have to remember this myself, is when you sit down to eat, just slow down Thank you, Lord. You have provided this food. Forgive me for not recognizing it often enough. Forgive me for not being thankful enough for complaining so much. You have given us so much. Thank you for this food. Like I said, all you have to do is it doesn't have to become a prolonged ceremony, but stop. Jesus, Father in heaven, thank you for this bread. And then he passes it out. How are you expressing your thankfulness to God for the things that He's given you? How are you expressing your thankfulness to Him for that? And kids, I think a lot of lots of people today would look at God as though he's kind of mean, distant. stingy. That's kind of a common view of God because of things that are taught about him in the Bible. But I want you to know that nothing could be further from the truth. I don't know how many of you, whether it's on your birthday or at Christmas time, have ever gotten a present that's in a gift bag You know, it's not wrapped, it's not in a box. It it comes in a bag, it's stuffed full of tissue paper. Those are actually my favorite gifts And the reason they're my favorite gifts is because the bags usually have multiple gifts in them, right? And so you reach in, you pull out some tissue paper, I got one gift. Wow, this is amazing. This is just what I wanted. And then you think, well, it's a bag. There's got to be more inside of it. So I'm going to reach back in and I've I'm digging around and I oh I did! I found another one and I'm gonna pull it out now and I'm gonna pull the tissue paper out. I love this gift and Maybe there's another one, and I'm gonna reach back in and oh there is another one. But in this world, ultimately that bag does have a bottom It's not a bottomless bag of gifts, right? Eventually the gifts stop coming and we have to wait till next year. But I want you to know that that is actually not what God's giving to you is like God's gift bag is a bottomless gift bag. He blessed and he broke and he kept on giving. Look down at the passage, verse 42. They all ate and were satisfied. This physical satisfaction that they felt points forward to. Those who feed on the Lord Jesus Christ by faith will be satisfied. Satisfied Those who feed on Christ by faith will be satisfied. But I do know also that some of you may be in the midst of a difficult season. We experience trials as Christians. When I say that we when we feed on Christ by faith, we'll be spiritually satisfied, that does not mean that we will never feel like we're in need. It does not mean that we'll never feel like we're wandering. It doesn't mean that we'll never experience trials. Those things will come for God's people. But I want you to think about this as you think about God providing spiritual soul for your food. If you're struggling to remember or believe that God will provide for your spiritual need, I want you to remember that in Scripture, God often brings his chosen people into the wilderness so that they feel their need and they experience those spiritual hunger pains So that they long more and more for him, so that when he provides, it will be clear to them that it was him who fed them. Now, if you're in one of those seasons right now, you may be asking, well when? When will that happen? When will this spiritual wilderness end? How long will it last? Well, you know, I actually don't know the answer to that question. I don't know when it will end, but this I do know, it will end. And the reason I know that is because the wilderness that we deserve to wander in forever, we will not wander in forever. Because Jesus went outside the gate into a desolate place, and he experienced the ultimate wandering, being forsaken by his father on the cross. My God. My God. Why have you forsaken me? Why am I wandering here on this cross? I did nothing to deserve this But he did that for so that you wouldn't experience the judgment for sin And he rose three days later as the victorious shepherd. And he offers to all, shepherds you back into God's presence. And as Christ's people. We have the assurance that Christ will come again and there will be another exodus. And Jesus Christ himself will shepherd his sheep back into the very presence of God where we Will and we will eat an abundant feast Lord Jesus, you are the good shepherd. You laid down your life for the sheep. We cannot shepherd ourselves back into the presence of God. Our sins have separated us. From God. But we praise you, Lord Jesus, that you have cleansed us and washed us and offered the sacrifice for sins once for all time so that we could be forgiven. Oh Lord, we rejoice in your shepherding. You are our shepherd. We shall not want. You lead us into green pasture. Oh, we pray for those who feel that they are wandering today. Lord Jesus, would you lead them? Would they know your presence? And taste of your spiritual food today and be nourished by you. And would you comfort us? We are the sheep of your pasture Lead and guide us, we pray. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.