Well, friends, we're going to get right to it today. I want you to go ahead and turn with me to Colossians chapter 1, verses 3 through 8. This is the third and final message I'm going to preach from these verses. As you're turning there, I want to provide for you a bit of context for our passage. I want to remind you that the Colossians had believed the gospel and were growing in the faith But it's also clear from Paul's letter to them that they were being bombarded with competing messages of salvation. Which would have caused some of them to question whether believing the gospel was really all that they needed to do to be right with God. And so Paul writes to remind them, to remind them that the gospel is the only message. That will produce the spiritual change they need. The gospel is the only message that can save or sanctify them The last time I read these verses for us, I made explicit, every implicit reference to the gospel. And I'm going to do that again as I read the passage this morning to help you see how central the gospel's power to change is the main point. in these verses. So this is God's word. Colossians 1, verses 3 through 8. We always thank God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, when we pray for you. Since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and of the love that you have for all the saints, because of the hope laid up for you in heaven Of this you have heard before in the word of the truth, the gospel which has come to you As indeed in the whole world, the gospel is bearing fruit and increasing, as the gospel also does among you. Since the day you heard the gospel and understood the grace of God in truth. Just as you learned the gospel from Epaphras, our beloved fellow servant, he is a faithful minister of Christ on your behalf And has made known to us your love in the Spirit. Last week we considered the fact that only the gospel has the power to save. But in Paul's opening verses to the Colossians, we also find another crucial truth. And that is, only the gospel has the power to sanctify. What do I mean by sanctify? What is sanctification? The sanctification is the process by which believers become more and more like Jesus So for the teens in the congregation, I want you guys to imagine with me the most beautiful sculpture you have ever seen, whatever that might be, right? Maybe something from Michelangelo, maybe something from Bernini. Well now, how did that sculpture begin? Well, it began as a block of stone That wasn't beautiful at all. But the sculpture, the sculptor, skillfully chipped away at the stone over a long period of time until the final beautiful form of the sculpture was revealed Well, when you believe, repent and believe in Jesus, you're like that block of stone. And God, as the skillful sculptor, chips away at the block until the image of Christ Is finally, perfectly revealed in you. That's a picture of sanctification. Slowly, over time, throughout the course of your life, Jesus, God makes you more and more like Jesus. Jesus. So when you and I grow in love, joy, peacefulness, patience, gentleness, and humility, we are being sanctified When you and I grow in loving God's word more and delighting to do it, we are being sanctified. When you and I increasingly love what God loves and hate what God hates. That's evidence that you are being sanctified. We're becoming more like Jesus. And what we see in our passage Is that Paul thanks God for the ways that the Colossians were being sanctified? Specifically, he thanks them for their faith and their love. The presence and growth of love in their lives was evidence of their sanctification. But what we'll see is that the reason they're showing more love. Love for all the saints. The source of their sanctification is the gospel. Go ahead and look down at verse 3 and following with me. Paul begins by thanking God, and in verse 4, we see why. Because of their faith in Christ Jesus and their love for all the saints. And I think love in this context is a catch-all for all the spiritual fruits. Paul means they were showing gentleness, kindness, patience, peacefulness. Mercy, generosity, all the spiritual fruits that can be described as love. But where is this love coming from? What is producing this love in them? Look at verse 5. Their love for all the saints is coming from the hope laid up for them in heaven, which they have heard before in the word of the truth. The gospel. He then goes on to say that the gospel is bearing fruit and increasing all over the world. Last week we talked about how the gospel is bearing the fruit of salvation. all over the world. But God doesn't just save his people and then leave them as they are. He begins a lifelong sculpting process. Making us more like Jesus, a lifelong process of sanctifying us, and he does that through the gospel. The gospel had fundamentally changed who the Colossians were, not only by bringing them from death to life. But by now progressively and over time changing them from the heart outwards. The gospel is also bearing the fruit of sanctification all over the world. The gospel is the power that fuels our sanctification. And for some of the kids here, how many of y'all are familiar with Iron Man? Right, raise your raise your hand if you know who Iron Man is. I know some of the adults also know who Iron Man is, right? Tony Stark. What is it that gives Iron Man his power? The arc reactor, right? The arc reactor in his chest. Without the arc reactor, Iron Man has no power. No power to save himself or others. The gospel is your arc reactor. Without it, you cannot be saved, and without it, you cannot be sanctified. The gospel is God's power for salvation and sanctification. I wonder if that's surprising to you. Imagine I came to you and I asked you, how can I grow as a Christian? I wonder what your answer would be Well, I'm going to go out on a limb and guess that you would say some combination of the following. If you want to grow as a Christian, read the Bible and pray regularly. Go to church regularly, confess and fight against sin and be in some sort of discipling relationship. And while all of those things are good things that we should do in the Christian life, They are not what Paul would recommend first if you want to grow as a Christian. If you ask Paul what you should do to grow as a Christian, he would first say you need to better understand, internalize, and believe the gospel. He would say the first thing you need to do is meditate more on what has been done for you. That is what will truly change you as a person. For Paul, the answer is always the gospel. Let's go back to the gospel. Let's go back to the gospel. That's why all of Paul's letters follow a basic structure I'm gonna tell you about what God has done for you in Jesus, and then I'm gonna tell you what effect that should have on your life In Romans, I'm going to tell you about the fact that none of us is good, not even one. All of us are dead in Adam, but God sent a second Adam, the true Adam, Jesus through whom we're justified by faith and freed from all condemnation. And now in light of that freedom, live as Christ has called us to live In Ephesians, I'm going to tell you about how the Father elected you in eternity past, lavished his grace on you by sending his son. Sealed you by his spirit, made you alive with Christ when you were spiritually dead, and now I'm going to call you to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord. In Galatians, I'm going to tell you that Christ has fulfilled the law on our behalf. And as a result, you have been set free from the burden of the law through faith in him. And that is for freedom that you have been set free. Now live in that freedom. In Philippians, I'm going to tell you how Jesus The eternal Son of God humbled himself to death on the cross so that we would walk in the pattern of his humility. In each letter, Paul double-clicks. On an aspect of the gospel to show us the beauty of God's character, the majesty of God's wisdom, the power of his sovereign rule, the tenderness of his mercy, and the lavishness of his grace to us in the gospel. All which he does before telling us how we should live. For Paul, it's the gospel that propels us towards greater and greater Christ-likeness. And we need to remember that the gospel is God's power to sanctify his people because we often make the mistake of thinking that the gospel is basic Christianity. Gospel's that the gospel's for beginners. Once you enter into the kingdom through the gospel, now you mature. Right? Now you really get after it and study deep things of theology. Right? We make the mistake of thinking that we move on from the gospel to grow in understanding systematic theology and biblical theology and things like typology and all these other aspects of theology. The mistake Is thinking that the gospel is the basic stuff and the theology is the advanced stuff, when in reality, everything we learn about God and about us is meant to help us better grasp, appreciate, and stand in amazement of the gospel. To illustrate this, consider one of those, you ever see one of those infinity pools? Looks like it never ends? Well now I now I just want to imagine that you're actually in an infinity pool that does never end. Right? You're standing in the shallow end, and it has a shallow end, but then that it's that pool slopes deeper and deeper. In fact, it never stops getting deeper, right? We make the mistake of thinking the gospel of the gospel message as a shallow water where the little kids play, but then we We tread out into deeper waters, and now we're going to grow by learning systematic theology and biblical theology that those are the deep waters. When in fact, the gospel is the entire pool. And things like systematic theology and biblical theology and typology and whatever elseology it is is scuba gear to help you dive deeper in understanding the glory of the gospel. Consider the different biblical theological themes and types in the Old Testament that help us better understand the gospel. Who is Jesus Jesus is the true Adam. Through Adam's disobedience, all died, but through Jesus' perfect obedience, all who believe in him live Jesus is the promised seed of the woman and the snake crusher, who though he had his heel bruised on the cross, he rose from the dead, crushing Satan's power over us. He is the true Ark who saves us from the wrath of God. He is the seed of Abraham, through whom all the nations would be blessed. He is Jacob's ladder who unites heaven and earth. He is the true Passover lamb, whose blood protects us from the angel of death. He is the true firstborn son, not of Egypt, but of God, who was slain, so that God's people would be set free from slavery to sin. He is the true pillar of cloud by day and fire by night. He is the presence of God with his people in the wilderness. He is the true tabernacle and temple, the place where God and man meet He is the true high priest who makes atonement for his people once and for all, who always lives to intercede for them He is the true prophet who doesn't speak for God but speaks as God. He is the true king who now sits enthroned at the right hand of God and who will judge God's enemies. He is bread from heaven, water from the rock. He is the light. He is the life. He is the word of God and creator of heaven and earth. He is the suffering servant who bore the sins of many, who makes many to be accounted righteous. The entire story is about him. The shadows and types in the Old Testament are meant to prepare us for his coming so that when he comes and dies, and rises, we would see how the entirety of God's plan of redemption meets in him. And so we would by one degree of glory to another be changed by the immensity. Glory, power, and wisdom of God in the gospel. For from him and through him and to him are all things. To him be the glory forever. The glory of God and the gospel. That's why Paul is going to go on in Colossians to say human philosophy. Human philosophy is not where you gather wisdom and knowledge. Jesus He is the treasure of God's wisdom and riches in the gospel. We don't study theology so that we can impress people with our knowledge, but so that we can be impressed. Amazed and astounded by the sheer majesty of God's plan of redemption fulfilled in the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. And that message is not only God's power for salvation But for sanctification in the course of the Christian life. And our growth in Christ-like character, our sanctification Will be directly proportional to our meditation on, our understanding of God's grace, and our internalizing and living out His mercy and love to us in the gospel. I have a raised garden bed in my backyard. There are two rows of plants in that garden bed. One row is cherry tomatoes, and the other row is peppers. And both rows are at the point where they should be producing fruit. But only the row of tomato plants is producing like they should. Not only have the pepper plants not produced any peppers. They've hardly even grown. And it took me intentionally going outside at different times over the course of a few afternoons to notice the issue. I finally realized that direct sunlight was only hitting the row of cherry tomato plants. It was only hitting half the garden bed. So crucial is exposure to direct sunlight. That it is the difference between plants producing lots of fruit and plants not even growing in the same way. Those who stand under the rays of God's love for them in the gospel will produce more fruit than those who don't. Now keep this in mind, friends. My pepper plants were so close to the light. But they weren't in the light. And so they didn't grow. You can come to church. You can read your Bible. You can do all the things that God calls you to do. You can be close to the light. And you can still not bear fruit or experience sanctification. Why? James says it like this. You are a hearer of the word and not a doer. As soon as you close your Bible or leave after the sermon, you forget what you heard about the gospel and about how it should change your life. And listen, this is something all Christians struggle with to one degree or another. All of us fail to live out the realities secured for us in the gospel. Which is why it's so important for you and I to continue preaching the gospel to ourselves even after we become Christians. Martin Luther put it this way: maybe you'll enjoy this as much as I did. The truth of the gospel is the principal article of all Christian doctrine. It is most necessary that we know this article well, teach it to others, and beat it into their heads continually. Why do you and I need to have the gospel beat into our heads continually? Because we all make the same mistake. We think, thank you, God, for saving us by the gospel. Now we got it. I'll take care of, I'll take it from here, Lord. I will sanctify myself. I will set myself apart for your work. I will continue to abide in Christ. I'll be the one to do it. I won't only be the branch, I'm gonna become my own vine And when you do that, you're like a branch that's been cut off. You start to wilt and die. How do you abide in Christ? You continue in the gospel. The gospel that saved you is the gospel that sanctifies you. God intends for you to live a life set apart to dependence on Him for the rest of your life. And you will need to be dependent on him through the gospel because you and I will continue to sin. We will continue to fall short, and we will need to continue to be reminded of God's mercy to us in the gospel. Now, when I say it's important for us to preach the gospel to ourselves daily to fuel our sanctification, I don't mean a bear reciting of facts. Like I sinned against God. God sent Jesus. Jesus died for me. Thank you, Lord, I'm saved. Right? To think that you will change by simply reciting the facts of the gospel. is akin to thinking that merely walking up to an exercise machine and telling yourself facts about it will produce physical change in your life. No, you need to actually use the machine. In the same way, merely reciting the facts of the gospel will not change you. What will change you is meditating on the gospel in such a way that you move past mere facts And into the very presence of God as He's revealed Himself in the gospel. It requires truly acknowledging, wrestling with even your sinfulness. If you walk through this life trying to avoid all the ways in which you failed, you cannot appreciate God's love to you in the gospel. It is impossible because you are considering yourself a righteous person. But you're not righteous. There's none righteous. No, not one. Jesus is the only one who is truly righteous, and it's his righteousness that we need to get to God. So you need to truly wrestle with and acknowledge your sinfulness, depravity, and unworthiness against the backdrop of God's holiness. Justice and righteousness, and that is what makes God's mercy, love, grace, kindness, and forgiveness towards us in the gospel so astounding. And that is what motivates true change. It's gospel-motivated change, and it's the only power that produces true heart change Merely observing the laws. What did Jesus say to the Pharisees? You're like whitewashed tombs. You can clean it up on the outside all you want. You need to change the heart from within, and that will propel true change outwards. You will become genuinely merciful. genuinely generous, genuinely loving, but that will happen through the gospel. The law can't produce this type of change. Only the gospel can. That's why one pastor noted That Paul in 2 Corinthians 8, he doesn't simply say to the Corinthians, be more generous. That's law. What does he say? He says, For you know, You know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, he became poor, so that you by his poverty might become rich. That's preaching the gospel. True generosity flows from hearing the gospel. He's seeking true heart change, genuine sanctification in regards to their generosity Not by simply commanding them, but by reminding them of God's generosity to them in the gospel, which will encourage them towards greater generosity in their own lives. Do you want to become more patient? You could command yourself daily, be patient, be patient, be patient And when you fail, which you will, you will grow increasingly discouraged at your inability to obey the commandment Or you could respond by reflecting on the numerous ways in which you've sinned against God through thought, word, and deed, and how God has been in incredibly patient towards you through his son Jesus. And let that spur you on towards greater patience. And when you can fail, when you fail, You can then spend time reflecting on how the gospel not only provides the motivation for true change, but also the daily forgiveness you will need as you continue to stumble through this life. Do you struggle with pride and self-righteousness? Remind yourself on the regular that you and I were dead in trespasses and sins. Separated from God and without hope in the world. And yet God, who has an infinite number of reasons to be proud, Humbled himself to the point of humiliation, shame, and death on the cross to rescue sinners like you and me, and that everything you now have has been given to you. There's no reason to be proud in the gospel. It cuts the legs out from pride. Do you constantly find yourself doing and saying things so that other people will accept you? Or do you fear being rejected by people? Spend time meditating on the fact that before the foundations of the world were laid, God chose you You to set his affection on. And because of Jesus' sacrifice on your behalf, God the Father has accepted you and will never reject you. So who cares what other people think about you? The gospel speaks to every struggle we might encounter and provides the medicine to cure our ills. In the gospel, Augustine said this: Jesus is himself, physician and medicine, both in one. He is the doctor diagnosing our ills and the medicine we need to be cured. But neither should you think that this sanctification will happen overnight. One pastor said, you must let the gospel teach you, that is, train, disciple, and coach you over a period of time. You must let the gospel argue with you. You must let the gospel sink down deeply into your heart until it changes your motivation and your views. And your attitudes, this sanctification won't happen overnight. And this is something that in our culture we need to be reminded of. Right? We're inundated with messages of instant change Take this pill and lose 30 pounds in a week. Become more efficient by signing up for this class. Messages like this are common in Christianity as well. You'll find articles on Christian websites with titles like Seven Steps to a Better Marriage. Three practices to achieve greater peace, right? Because we like clarity. Give us the steps, we'll check them off, and we'll be sanctified. But The way God sanctifies us is more like. . . Well, it's more like wandering around in the desert. That's what the Christian life is like. The Christian life is one of feeling regularly disoriented, wondering where God is and what he's doing. Like I am I even growing? Sometimes you'll feel aimless and purposeless. Often you'll feel spiritually dry and full of frustration. Yet, amidst the wandering, God is working. And we know this because one of the great blessings secured for us in the gospel is Emmanuel, God with us. Even now, through faith in Jesus, God is working in your life and on your life to make you more like his son And as he leads you through the wilderness wandering, you can entrust yourself to a good shepherd who is going to bring you through some very difficult and dark valleys at times But he's doing it so that you and I might come to a greater understanding of his love for us in the gospel. And that, friends, is what truly changes us. If you want to grow as a Christian, return to the gospel. If you're here and you're not a follower of Jesus Christ, what you need to understand is that you cannot change yourself You can't save yourself by your righteousness. There is not enough good that you can do in your life to outweigh the bad that you've done. And because God is just. He will punish all who've sinned against him. His wrath will be poured out on you in your sins for all time and eternity, because he's just and righteous. But that same God promises that if you turn from trying to earn your own salvation to turning to his son who completed the righteous requirement of the law on your behalf and then died in your place and rose again from the grave, that God will welcome you completely and pour out on you his love, his steadfast love, which lasts now and for time and eternity. And through the course of your life, God will then change you and shape you to make you more like his son, Jesus. It's the gospel that saves, and it's the gospel that sanctifies. Which is why that if we want if we want to grow as Christians, we need to return to the gospel. Remember the gospel. Preach the gospel to yourself What you need to do is meditate more on what has been done for you. Meditate much on Jesus Christ Meditate on his love for you and the gospel. Meditate while you're struggling in sin on the fact that Jesus set his loving gaze upon you when you were dead in trespasses and sins. Meditate on Christ, the eternal light, who brings his light into our darkness, delivering us from the kingdom of darkness. Meditate on Christ, the victorious King, who broke the chains of sin and death in your life. Meditate on Jesus, the Good Shepherd, pursuing you as you wander from God. Meditate on Jesus, the righteous son, who was slain, so that prodigals like you and me could be embraced by the Father. See him stricken so that you could be healed. See him forsaken so that you could be brought near. See him stripped naked so that you could be clothed in righteousness. And see him die so that you could live Live by his death and live by his resurrection power secured for you in the gospel. The gospel, friends, is not only God's power for salvation, but his power for sanctification So let's turn from trying to save ourselves and remember that God has already done that work for us. And out of the changed hearts that are rejoicing because of what God has done for us, Let's seek to obey his commandments because he's worthy of it. And when we fail, preach the gospel to yourselves. Let's beat it into our heads continually. Let's pray Heavenly Father, we rejoice and are thankful for your mercy towards us in the gospel. The mystery of the gospel that was once hidden but has now been revealed to the apostles and prophets. Lord, we thank you That you revealed the gospel, and that we no longer have to seek to figure out shadows and types, but we have seen and beheld the full revelation of your plan of redemption in your Son Jesus Christ. Help us to not be drawn away by false gospels. By the gospel of moralism, by trying to save ourselves, by the prosperity gospel, seeking riches and blessing in this life. Help us not to be drawn away by false human philosophies to understand that the treasures Of wisdom and knowledge and redemption and salvation and forgiveness and sanctification are found in and through Jesus Christ alone. Impress this upon our hearts Help us to live a life worthy of you because of it. And help us to continue to turn back to the gospel when we fail. And help us to do this until your Son returns from heaven. And we pray that he would return. Come, Lord Jesus, come. And all God's people said, Amen.