Invite you now, if you have a digital Bible on your phone or a physical Bible, to go ahead and turn to Colossians chapter one. Colossians chapter one. I'm going to pray for us briefly, and then we'll dive in. Heavenly Father, your word is our delight. Your commandments are right and true and good. All of your precepts give life. Your word is our life. And so we open your word this morning Desiring to drink from the fountains of life, and we pray that you would give to us freely by the Holy Spirit, that you would encourage us in your word, and that you would sanctify us in the truth. Your word is truth. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well I hate introductions. I hate them. Now I'm not talking about personal. Introductions. I love meeting and getting to know new people. I'm talking about introductions to books I hate them. It's like listen, listen, I bought the book to read the book. I didn't buy the book to read the introduction. The introduction is keeping me from getting to the content that I actually paid to read. I recall one book in particular. It's a favorite of mine. It's called The Pentateuch as Narrative And that book had an 80-page introduction. That's not an introduction, buddy. That's a book Right? Seriously, why not just call the introduction chapter one so that lazy readers like me actually feel like they are making progress? And it gets worse, right, when there's a preface to the introduction. Like really you need a preface to tell me about the introduction that's going to tell me about the book The book that I now won't actually get to read because I have to spend the next couple days working through the preface and the introduction And don't get me started when books have forewords to the preface, to the introduction. Whenever I open a book that has a foreword, a preface, and an introduction, I calmly close it Squeeze it tightly. Walk to my shed. Grab some gasoline and a lighter. I'm kidding. I'm kidding. Kind of. The truth is, though, I have learned over time just how important the introduction to a book is. It's in the introduction that the key points and major themes and important ideas are laid out. And it's true, the same thing is true for introductions to letters in the New Testament. Some of those introductions are longer and some are shorter. Some contain key themes that will be expanded upon in In the book, Romans, the introduction to the book of Romans is a is a perfect example. Other introductions seem to simply express general greetings before the author dives right into the meat of the letter. But one thing I have learned is that regardless of the length of the introduction, they are all important. And all of them are worth carefully meditating on. And such is the case with the introduction to Paul's letter to the Colossians, though brief, And seemingly worthy of passing over, we'll actually find that these two verses direct us to the very heart of the message of Christianity. So, if you haven't already, turn with me to Colossians 1. We're going to be looking at verses 1 and 2. I'm going to read them for us now. This is Colossians 1, verses 1 and 2. This is God's word. Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus, by the will of God. And Timothy, our brother, to the saints and faithful brothers in Christ at Colossae. Grace to you, peace from God, our Father That's it. That's the introduction to Paul's letter to the Colossians. So what could be possibly what could possibly be worth meditating on in these two verses? What is worth meditating on are those two words. In the second half of verse 2. Look there with me again. What are those two words? They are grace and peace. Grace and peace. If you're saying to yourself, Grace and Peace, so what? Doesn't Paul say that at the beginning of all his letters Well, yes. Yes, he does. You would be correct if you thought that. In fact, he says those exact words in the introduction to all of his letters. Romans chapter 1, verse 7. To all those in Rome who are loved by God and called to be saints, grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. 1 Corinthians chapter 1 verse 2 to the church of God that is in Corinth. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Second Corinthians chapter 1 verse 2, in case they forgot it. in his first letter to the church of God that is in Corinth with all the saints who are in the whole of Achaiah. Grace to you And peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Galatians, the church in Galatia that was screwing up royally. Galatians chapter 1 Verse 3 to the churches of Galatia, grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Ephesians chapter 1, verse 2. to the saints who are in Ephesus and are faithful in Christ Jesus. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Philippians chapter one verse one to the saints in Christ Jesus at Philippi. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ 1st and 2nd Timothy to Timothy, my beloved child, grace, mercy, and peace from God our Father. Apparently Timothy needed to know that God was showing him mercy also. Titus chapter one, verse one, to Titus, my true child in a common faith. Grace And peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Savior. Philemon to Philemon, grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ in every single one of his letters Paul begins by reassuring his audience of God's grace and God's peace to them. The mistake that you and I make is thinking that it's just a throwaway line, a platitude that Paul uses in all his letters, when instead The fact that he opens all of his letters with that same exact phrase, Grace to you and peace from God our Father, should tell us that it is central to the message of Christianity. Do you want to know what Christianity is all about? It is about how mankind can receive grace from God and obtain peace with Him Do you want to know what God wants to tell you today, first and foremost, if you follow Jesus Christ? It is not buck up and be a man. It is not try harder. It is not pick yourself up by the bootstraps. It is not how have you failed me again? It is grace. And peace to you from God the Father in heaven That is his word for you today. It is not stop doubting my word. It is not, how could you be so wayward again? It is not listen. I've said it so clearly in my word, and yet you've disobeyed again. How could you fail me again? His word to you today, if you are in Christ Jesus, is grace. Grace to you. And peace. From me in heaven, above. That is my word to you today. Do you notice that Paul, look at verse 1. Paul is an apostle, which means he is commissioned to bring God's message to the world and to his church. So when Paul asks God what message he should bring, it's as though God responds, Paul, I have. Many things to say to my children, but what I want them to hear above all else, above all else, is grace And peace. What they chiefly need to be reminded of, because they are sure to forget it, is that I will never stop giving them my grace. And though they fail, they sin, and they struggle, they have peace with me. Is that a message that you need to hear today Oh you bet it is. Why? Because you and I never ever Ever stop needing God's grace and we never stop needing to be reminded that we have peace with God. Oh friend, if you have come here today after another week of giving in to the same sin that you swore you wouldn't give in to again. After another week of battling temptations that you know are opposed to God's will for you, after another week of being impatient with your kids Or mean to your spouse or critical of others or whatever sin it is. If you have repented of your sins and trusted in Christ Hear what God has to say to you today. Grace and peace That is what is between us today, my child. Grace and peace. My grace And my peace are always available for you. You cannot plumb the depths of my grace and peace. You cannot cross the ocean. You cannot climb the mountain of my grace and peace. My grace and peace have been, are now, and forever will be given to you. That's hard to believe sometimes, isn't it? We know from Scripture that God is gracious, but we can't help but distort in our minds how gracious He really is. Right? When we need grace, we imagine, we imagine that God rolls his eyes at us, willing to give us grace, but judging us internally. And we imagine that he thinks, oh, oh, oh great, not not you again. Right? Like you just came to me for grace yesterday. We imagine him to be, you ever been at a party and that person walks in and you're like, I just want to get out of here now. Don't want to see them. We imagine that that's what God's like when we come to ask him for grace. He's like slipping out the back door. Don't want to see that child of Christ again. Right? We imagine him as severe. Giving us grace, but also tallying the times that we've come to him, knowing that eventually he's going to make us pay. Or we we imagine him cringing when he sees us coming again for grace. In his book, Gentle and Lowly, Dane Ortland says this. We naturally think of Jesus touching us the way a little boy reaches out to touch a slug for the first time. Face screwed up. Cautiously extending an arm, giving a yelp of disgust upon contact, and instantly withdrawing. This is why we need a Bible. Our natural intuition can only give us a God like us The God in Scripture deconstructs our intuitive predilections and startles us with one whose infinitude of perfections Is matched by his infinitude of grace. But it's not only the people who are struggling who need to hear about God's grace and peace. Those of you who aren't struggling in obvious ways need to be reminded of God's grace and peace as well Those of you whose kids are thriving and growing in the knowledge of the Lord need to be reminded of God's grace. Those of you who are struggling at work or having difficulty in your family or you're battling an illness or you're simply weary from living in a Fallen world. Those of you who are doing well may be may needed to think that the blessings that you are experiencing are the product of your own inherent godliness. When those blessings are actually produced by God's grace at work in you. And if it weren't for God's mercy towards you in Jesus That you wouldn't have the peace with God that you now have. In 1 Corinthians 4, speaking to people who perceived themselves to be killing it spiritually, Paul asks. What do you have that you have not received? If then you did receive it, why do you boast as if you did not receive it? One pastor said this, God relentlessly offers his grace to people who do not deserve it. or seek it or even appreciate it after they have been saved by it. I wonder if you have taken time to appreciate And give thanks to God for the blessings you may be experiencing in life, for they are certainly a sign of God's grace to you in Christ. If you're doing well spiritually and tempted to think it's because of your own inherent godliness, you need to be reminded that it's only because of God's grace that you are who you are today You were so far gone that the only thing that could reconcile you to God was the death of his own son. All that you have, you have been given. But if you're one of those struggling today and doubting that God will continue to show you grace, you need to be reminded of what he already gave to save you. He gave the life of his very own son to redeem you from the power of sin. If he showed you that kind of grace when you were dead in sins, how much more will he continue to show you grace after he's made you alive by the Spirit? Hear God say to you again, grace to you and peace from God our Father. We serve a gracious God. It is who He is. The Lord, the Lord. The compassionate and gracious God. This God says to you today, grace and peace. God's message to you today is grace and peace. Janine What does God say to you today? He says, grace and peace. Caleb, what is God's message to you today? Grace, my son, and peace. John Malone. What does God in heaven say to you today? Grace. And peace. God's message to all of his children this morning is grace and peace. We also see in these first two verses that God's grace and his peace are for all people. I want you to notice if you look down at the passage, notice the ethnic makeup of the people listed in the first two verses, all of whom have received grace and peace from God the Father. Paul. Paul is Jewish. And Timothy, our brother. Timothy's mom was Jewish, and his dad was Greek. He was, in effect, the child of an interracial relationship And the Colossians. In chapter 3, verse 11, we learn that the Colossian church is made up of Jews, Gentiles. Barbarians, that is a people group, Scythians, another people group, slaves and free. And all of them Paul, Timothy, and the diverse Colossian church had received God's grace and peace because God's grace and peace are for all people. Our God does not show partiality to one ethnicity over another He doesn't show partiality to one socioeconomic group over another. He doesn't show partiality based on one's level of education. He freely bestows his riches on all people because all people are made in the image of God. Indian people, black people, white people, Asian people, Hispanic people, people in Africa and Asia, people in North America and South America, people in Australia and Europe. I don't know if there's anyone in Antarctica, but if there is, they receive it if they would turn, Jews, Greeks, Gentile, Colossians, and all of us. He shows grace and peace to all people because regardless of how different we may look or how different our life experiences may be, we all share another crucial thing in common. Not only are we all made in God's image We have all sinned. God's grace and peace are for all people because all people have sinned against God. We are united in our common descent, both physically and spiritually, from Adam And so all of us need the same thing from God. We all need grace and peace. And that is what God offers to all today. So when you hear God say, Grace and peace to you, my child, he means it. He doesn't care what ethnicity you are. He doesn't care how powerful or how lowly your job is. He doesn't care about your level of education. This is what God says in His Word. This is the one to whom I will look. He who is humble and contrite in spirit and trembles at my word. What God cares about is whether you will acknowledge your need for forgiveness. If you will do that, then you will receive the fullness of his grace and peace. And did you notice that God's grace and peace aren't just for all people regardless of their ethnicity? God's grace and peace are offered to all, regardless of how bad they may have been in life. Why do I say that? Well look at who is bringing this message of grace and peace from God to the Colossians. It's Paul. As in Paul, who formerly opposed, oppressed, persecuted, imprisoned, and killed Christians. The man who other Christians feared and fled from and likely were praying for God to judge is the same man who God chose to show abundant grace to. He is the same man who was once an enemy of God, who God chose to make peace with. There is nobody who is beyond the pale for God. God will show grace to and make peace with anyone who turns to him in faith. I know we all shake our heads in agreement at that. If we're a Christian, we all we all shake our heads and we know, yes, that's correct. God will show grace to anybody. There's nobody who's beyond the pale for God. But I wonder how many of us are more like Jonah than we are like God. Not the Ninevehes. They're too evil. You've gone too far, God. They don't deserve your grace. They have sinned too much. Who are your Ninevites? Who is the person that comes to mind for you when you think of the most wicked person on earth? Who is it? What would you think if God showed them grace and extended peace to them? What would you think if they turned in faith and showed up to CBC? If they came in the door and you saw them and they said, I've repented and put my trust in Jesus, would you say Praise God! Or would you say, I was hoping it wouldn't be you. I was hoping you wouldn't receive grace from God Would you rejoice or would you struggle with being angry at God? Think about it seriously. If there's any check, any pause in your heart, any any sense of like, oh, I just wouldn't want it to be them. Why is that? Your response will tell you how well you understand the limitless nature of God's grace and peace There is nobody who is beyond the pale to God. Not even you. You see, when we don't want God to show grace to other people because of the sins that they've committed, we show that we don't recognize how grievous our own sins are to God. In those moments, God says to us, My dear child, have you not forgotten that your sins were the cause of my beloved son's death. He was pierced for your transgressions. He was crushed for your iniquities, and yet I've shown you Grace and I've made peace with you, and yet you would fault me for showing grace and peace to others You see how different God is from our world and our culture today I don't know if you've noticed this, but as I take a step back and just look at our culture, watch the news, get on Twitter, check Facebook What I see most is gracelessness, no forgiveness, no mercy, no peace. Nobody is it willing to extend grace and you see how different God's remarkable grace is. From our world today. And we in the church are not immune from adopting those attitudes of being graceless and unmerciful and unforgiving. But God does not mute people God does not block people. God does not cancel people. When you repent of your sin and trust in him, he will friend you, and it won't be so that he can scour your timeline to dox you. No, God's grace covers over all of our sins. He doesn't scour your past and your timeline to bring them out into the light and to declare them to the public. No, God says, I will cover your sins. And because I have covered your sins, both now and always, you will always have grace and peace from me. Friends, do you see the opportunity the church has to be today, by God's grace, a ray of light in our dark and graceless world? A community in which the grace that God extended to us is now freely extended to others, both outside and inside the church. We should be, because of the grace and peace that God has shown to us, a community that can say, regardless of your past, regardless of what you've done, you are welcome here. We were once exiles, we were once aliens, we were once estranged from God, and God has graciously welcomed us into his presence, and we now want to graciously extend that same grace and peace. To you. The world may have canceled you, but we won't cancel you. We should be a community of people who show grace and forgive. Over and over and over because God calls us to be like Himself, and if we're going to become more like God, then we too will show grace and forgive. Over and over and over. You see, we tend to be like Peter or like the world tallying. How many times do I need to actually forgive? Seven? Is that enough? Because after that, I'm done. No more What does Jesus say to Peter and to all his disciples? No, 70 times 7. Nonstop, all the time. You show grace because of the grace that has been shown to you. Oh, kids, I want to put these two things together for you. The fact that God shows grace and peace to all people, and he shows grace and peace to all, no matter how bad they've been. And that we're called to show grace and peace to others. I want you to think about how in your own life you can befriend people who are different from you. Even a different ethnicity, who have uh look different from you, or have different textured hair, or different colored skin, whatever it may be. That you can show in your life that you recognize that all people are made in God's image by loving all people the same way, regardless of what background they have, regardless of their ethnicity, regardless of where they may come from. God shows grace and peace to all people because all people are made in his image. And he shows grace and peace to people no matter how bad they've been. So no matter what sins you may have committed, no matter how far short of God's standard you feel like you have fallen, kids, I hope you know that God in heaven is a gracious God. And in any sense that you feel like you can't come to him because you sinned against him, you feel like you need to clean yourself up before you come. Just know that that is a lie. Satan wants you to hide in the dark, but God says, come, receive my grace, receive my peace through Jesus Christ I will give it in abundance and I will never stop giving it, no matter how many times you stumble and fall in this life, because I am a God of grace and peace. The immensity of God's grace is unfathomable to human minds. His grace is scandalous. He is a friend of sinners. You remember in Jesus' own ministry, how his life scandalized the self-righteous Because he befriends those who those who are self-righteous and holier than thou don't want to befriend. But Jesus says, no, my grace and my peace are for the lowly. The downtrodden, those who know that they have sinned, those who know that they need forgiveness, sinners like Paul and Timothy, sinners like the Colossians, and sinners like you and me. And when he friends you, you can rest at ease because his friendship and the spectacular grace and unshakable peace that comes with his friendship. Are not dependent on your performance. What does Paul say in Titus chapter 3? When the grace and loving kindness of God our Savior appeared, he saved us. Not because of works done in righteousness. but because of his own mercy. Which is why Paul begins all of his letters with Grace to you and peace from God our Father. He wants us to know That everything he's about to say comes wrapped in a message of grace and peace. Looking forward to the letter of Colossians, we imagine Paul saying, I'm going to say some things that may be hard for you to hear, so I want you to hear first grace to you and peace from God our Father. I'm going to instruct you to put off the old self, and you're going to recognize that you haven't done that perfectly. And so I want you to know first and foremost: grace to you and peace from God our Father. I'm going to tell you to put off anger and impatience and wrath, and you're going to see all the ways that you have failed in that. So I want you to hear first. Grace and peace. I'm going to call you to put off lust and sexual immorality, greed and envy. And you won't have done it perfectly. And so I want you to hear me say first, Grace And peace. God our Father wants us to know before anything else that we have his grace and his peace forever. Do you need God's grace and peace today? You bet you do. Do you have God's grace and God's peace today? Well, if you've trusted in Christ, you bet you do. Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus, by the will of God. And Timothy, our brother, to the saints and faithful brothers in Christ at Chevrolet. And peace. God, our Father. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, your grace and peace are overwhelming. They overwhelm us as a flood. The world waits in judgment for waters, the flood waters to come in judgment, but we know that the flood that will come for us is a flood of grace and mercy and peace. Would you pour out your spirit not only on our people today, but on this community of Greenbelt in which we are hearing the gospel and hearing your message of grace and peace today? Would you pour it out in Chevrolet? Would you pour out your spirit in Bowie and Lanham and Landover Hills and all the surrounding areas that these people would see and hear and believe that you are a God of grace And peace, and that grace and peace is on offer today for all who would turn from their sin and trust in you. Oh Father, we pray that you would encourage us today. With the grace and peace that are ours in Jesus Christ. And help us also To show grace and show peace to those who need it. Help us to be a people who display your character and your goodness to the watching world. Now, Father, we bless you and we praise your name forever. And it's in Christ's name that we pray. And all God's people said, Amen.