Well, all of us at various times in our lives face circumstances that are simply beyond our control. Circumstances that show us just how finite we are. These circumstances can at times cause us to fear. If you follow Jesus, sometimes it can cause you to fear that God is not actually in control. Or it may cause you to fear that God isn't paying attention to you somehow. He's lost track of you and you're wandering aimlessly and hopelessly apart from him, and he's got to find his way back to you. It can cause you to fear that. Or maybe you believe that he is in control and is paying attention, but you doubt that he's actually going to help you in the midst of your circumstances. Yeah, I wonder, I want to start off with a question for you this morning. What are the hard and difficult circumstances that you're facing in your life this morning? Take a moment to think about it. What are the hard circumstances that you are facing this morning? Circumstances that might cause you to fear or to question God's love and care for you. Maybe some of you are struggling in marriage. Your relationship with your spouse is slowly wearing you down. Could be one circumstance. Maybe you're struggling with loneliness and the prospects of finding a spouse or a friend, a true friend, just seem really slim. You have no idea how the Lord can overcome those circumstances. Maybe others of you are experiencing hardship at work. There just doesn't seem to be any light at the end of the tunnel. We live in a fallen world, and there is just no such thing as the trialless life. Whether you're currently experiencing trials or not, all of us at one point or another will face trials in this life. And so we want to arm ourselves and be preparing ourselves with a better understanding of how God is able to overcome any and all circumstances. to come to our aid so that we can more confidently walk by faith in the midst of those difficult circumstances. And our passage this morning is just a great lesson in that. And so I want to encourage you if you have your Bibles to go ahead and open with me to Mark chapter six We're going to be looking at verses 45 to 56 this morning. If you're using one of the pew Bibles around you, you can find Mark chapter 6 and our passage on page 842. Uh, and if you're here and you don't own a Bible of your own, I want to offer the Bible that we have on our seat to you as a gift. Uh, we think there's nothing more important in this world than for you to have a copy of the Word of the Living God. And we believe that God has only spoken through his word in the Bible. And so we want to encourage you to take a copy for yourself and read it. And I'm going to go ahead now and read Mark chapter 6, verses 45 to 56. This is God's word. Immediately he made his disciples get into the boat and go before him to the other side, to Bethsaida. while he dismissed the crowd. And after he had taken leave of them he went up on the mountain to pray. And when evening came, the boat was out on the sea, and he was alone on the sea. And he saw that they were making headway painfully, for the wind was against them. And about the fourth watch of the night he came to them, walking on the sea. He meant to pass by them. But when they saw him walking on the sea, they thought it was a ghost and cried out, for they all saw him and were terrified. But immediately he spoke to them and said, Takeheart, it is I Do not be afraid. He got into the boat with them. The wind seized. They were utterly sounded. For they did not understand about the loaves, but their hearts were hardened. When they had crossed over, they came to land at Gennesaret and moored to the shore And when they got out of the boat, the people immediately recognized him and ran about the whole region and began to bring the sick people on their beds to wherever they heard he was. And wherever he came, villages, cities, or countryside They laid the sick in the marketplaces and implored him that they might touch even the fringe of his garment, and as many as touched it were made well. There is one single thing that Mark wants to teach us in his word this morning in the passage that we are studying today, and that is this. That there is nothing in life. No trial so great. No circumstances so difficult. Nothing can prevent God. from coming to the aid of his people. Let's sink in for a moment. Let's sink in If you're going to walk away from church this morning, if you check out the rest of the service, walk away knowing this. There is nothing in life that can prevent the living God from coming to your aid. And that's our one point this morning. Some sermons we have two points, some we have three, some we have four. This morning we have one. There is nothing in life that can prevent the living God from coming to your aid. And where do we see that But first, before we start walking through the passage, we're just going to walk walk from beginning to end through this. I just want to let you guys know uh most of the the people who attend here regularly are used to me preaching through Most, if not all, of the verses in a passage, I want you to look down to verses 53 to 56. If you've been with us through our study in the Gospel of Mark and you read these verses, and you would think, oh I've heard this before. I've heard Mark say something like this. Wherever Jesus went, people were coming to him and everyone was being healed. And that's because Mark. Takes seams of his gospel where he transitions from one theme to another and he punctuates those seams, ties them together like a like a seamstress by using these summary statements And because I've already preached through these summary statements two times in this book, I'm not going to spend as much time in these verses this morning. It's pretty self-explanatory. Jesus healed everyone who came to him, and even the fringe of his garment could heal them. All the sick And he's done this throughout Mark's gospel. So if it's your first time here at CBC, I want you to know that we've seen over and over again that Jesus can heal the sick. Anyone with any disease, even the people who are paralyzed, he can cause them to get up immediately. And that's what he's summarizing in verses 53 to 56. I want our attention this morning to be on verses 45 to 52. So where do we see that there is nothing in this life that can prevent God from coming to our aid? Let's look with me at verse 45. Verse 45, Jesus makes his disciples get into a boat and go ahead of him while he stays behind to dismiss the crowd. So if you were here three weeks ago, then you will recall our study on the feeding of the 5,000, which if you look in your Bible came right before that. It's there that Jesus miraculously multiplied a few loaves and some fish into enough food to feed upwards of 10,000 people. We said that it's even though it's called the feeding of the 5,000, it was 5,000 men that were counted, but there were also women and children there, so it's likely upwards of 10,000 people that he fed. And that's the crowd that Mark is referring to, that Jesus stays behind to dismiss. So the disciples get into a boat, and they begin making their way from the northeastern side of the Sea of Galilee to the western side, to the town of Gennazaret, where we'll This will end up in verses 53 to 56. And you notice in verse 46 that after Jesus dismisses the crowd, where does he go? Verse 46. He went up on the mountain to pray. Went up on the mountain to pray. This is one of two different times that Jesus goes, or three different times that Jesus goes up on a mountain in the Gospel of Mark All three of those are significant events. The first time that he goes up on a mountain, after he does that, he calls the first 12 disciples, the first 12 apostles. Here he goes up on a mountain, and we're going to see what's significant about that in our time together this morning. And then the next time that he goes up on a mountain, he's going to go up with Peter, James, and John. And he's going to be transfigured in front of them. Mountaintops in the gospels and throughout biblical narrative are often places of significant divine Revelation. And what we find out that's being revealed as Jesus goes up on the mountaintop is that he is the all-seeing, all-knowing, living God And we'll see that in the verses to come. But I want you to notice here that Mark really emphasizes something after verse 46, or in verse 46. Excuse me, not in verse 46, in verse 47. He says, when evening came, the boat was out on the sea, and he was alone on the land. What's Mark doing here? I think what he's doing is he's trying to draw our attention to three different things. Which will draw out and highlight for us the awesomeness of what happens next. First, he says, when evening came. So remember, this is happening immediately after the feeding of the 5,000. And if you remember in the feeding of the 5,000, some of the disciples came to Jesus and they said to him, Hey, hey, you've been teaching all day. It's getting late. We need to send the people away so that they can make it to the towns before it gets dark, so that they can get something to eat, right? They want they're concerned with the people's safety. And Jesus says, no, we're good, we're gonna give them something to eat. I'm gonna give them something to eat And so then he has thousands of people sit down, multiplies food, and has the disciples pass it out. Why am I bringing this up? Because the disciples came when it was getting late, and then he does all of this. And what happens when it gets later in the day? It gets Darker. It gets darker. Evening time in first century Israel usually referred to the hours between 6 p. m. and 9 p. m. That's what they called evening time. So if they're coming, the disciples and saying, hey, it's getting late, we can assume it's closer to 6 p. m. So that when Mark says he went up on the mountain and it was evening, it's probably closer to 9 p. m. which in ancient Israel without ambient light from the surrounding cities means is really dark and Jesus is up on a mountain And not only is it dark out, but by this time the boat full of disciples is out on the sea. Jesus up on a mountain in the dark, disciples Long way away. Out on the sea. When Mark says they were out on the on the sea Uh the word for out there is called is also translated middle or in the midst of. So the boat was out in the middle of the sea. So the trip they were making from the northeastern side of the Sea of Galilee to Gennazaret would have been about a five-mile trip So it's likely that this boat full of disciples is one, two, or three miles offshore. By this time they've made it that far out into the sea. And then Mark tells us, just so that it's clear Jesus was alone on the land. Jesus has made it up to the top of the mountain under the cover of night where he's praying. The disciples are in a boat under the cover of darkness out in the middle of the sea, and Jesus is alone. Why does Mark want us to know this? Because of what he tells us next. Look at verse 48. Saw. But they were making headway painfully. For the wind was against them. In the Bible, there are various images used, and these images. uh have different meanings. And so wind in the Bible can be related to the spirit of God or the power of God. It's often described as a rushing wind. But wind is often described and related to adversity in life. So if you think about Jesus' teaching about the building of the foolish builder and the wise builder, the foolish builder built his house on the sand, the wise builder built his house on the rock, and then what happens to both those houses? The winds come and beat against the house, and the one that's built on the sand falls apart. So wind often relates to and is used to describe adversity in life. And you can even see it pictured in this passage. They're facing a headwind and they're making their way painfully. They're struggling against this adversity. The winds symbolize adversity that would spiritually uproot the persons whose life is not rooted in Jesus Christ. And so the disciples here are a picture of disciples of Jesus who are facing adversity. They're facing difficult circumstances in their life, maybe even wondering, where is God? Is there going to be any help for us? But that's not what's most striking about the beginning of verse 48, is it? It's not the wind that's most striking. Notice what it says about Jesus right at the very beginning. And he saw. Wait, what? He saw As in he saw with his own eyeballs a tiny boat that was miles away from him. As in, he saw with his own eyes a tiny boat that was miles away from him while he was on top of a mountain As in he saw with his own eyes a tiny boat that was miles away from him while he was on top of a mountain, while it was dark out. And he could see that they were making their headway painfully It's like Marcus saying he's seeing in HD here. Because in Nasby, the New American translation translated as he could see that they were struggling with their oars. From the top of a mountain in the dark, miles away from a tiny boat out in the middle of a lake, and he saw what? Wait, what does this mean? How is this possible? But just go raise your hand if you're here and you qualify as having 2020 vision or better. This is not an opportunity for you to brag because I'm about to humble you Raise your hand if you have 20-20 vision or better. Just raise it high. All right. Read my manuscript, Mike. Can you read it? No, of course not. Even the best of people, the best of eyesight. You're just sitting a few feet away from me and you can't make out what's on my manuscript. And here Jesus is on the top of a mountain in the dark, seeing that his disciples miles away from him are struggling with their oars. Right? We we we experience eyesight in this life in a in a much more difficult way, right? Even if we have good eyesight. Over the course of our life it's diminishing. But even most of us, or lots of us, have glasses or contacts or have LASIK surgery. I'm blind, I'm legally blind in my left eye Because I had an injury a few years ago. Our eyesight is constantly failing throughout life. But not Jesus. Jesus can be posted up on the top of a mountain, miles from his disciples, and still see them perfectly. And that is because Jesus is God. Jesus is God. Throughout the Old Testament, God is described as all being. He's described as all seeing. He sees everything. And typically we think of that as a frightening reality. Yikes, that means God sees everything that I do, even the things that other people don't see. But that's not the way the Bible typically talks about God being all-seeing. In the Old Testament, the fact that God could see all things was meant to encourage his people because his seeing all things was equated with his presence. When he could see his people, it was as though he was with them. So we think about the beginning of the book of Exodus in chapter 3. Before God sends Moses to the people of Israel, he speaks to Moses and he says to them, I have seen what has happened to you in the nation of Egypt. I have seen all of the trials, all of the suffering, and now I am coming to your rescue. The fact that God can see his people, even when they can't see him, is meant to be a comfort. to them because his seeing them is the same as his being with them. But think about this. I was at uh safety day this past week Uh we had safety day here in Town Park in Chevrolet. They brought a bunch of helicop like a helicopter came out, fire trucks, ambulances for the kids to touch and to you know to to walk around on and to see. And during safety day at one point Jack and Knox were with me and I let them run away and play out where all the other kids were playing. And as they were running away running around, I was just keeping an eye on them. And I was watching them But as I kept my eye on them, you know, crowds, people are moving around and the kids are running around, so Jack gets disoriented and he stops and he turns around to where he thinks I'm still standing And he looks, and I can tell that he can't see me anymore. Right? He's looking, where is my daddy? And he starts to panic and become afraid. Why? Well, because Jack thinks that because he can't see me, I can't see him, and therefore he is not safe. But the reality is, I was watching him the entire time. And it didn't matter that he couldn't see me. I could see him and I could come to his aid whenever he needed Think about that. Friends, we can't see the Lord. But because we can't see the Lord doesn't mean He can't see us. In fact, he sees all of us. He says, Psalm 121, the eyes of the Lord are toward the righteous. He looks after them in all that they are doing. And when God looks after his people, that means he's with his people. So there's no circumstance that you're going to face in life, no trial so great, no difficulty that you're going to face where you have actually fallen out of the Lord's sight. He sees through walls. He doesn't have his vision blocked. There's nothing. His eyesight is never declining. He can always keep his eye on his people. The fact that we can't see God can often cause us to panic in the midst of trials because we think that if he can't see us and we can't see him, that means he can't see us. But he always sees us. He knows what we're experiencing. And because we can't see God doesn't mean he can't see us. God's vision isn't limited by darkness or distance or any other obstacle. There is nothing in this life that can prevent God from seeing you and coming to your aid. He sees everything and his eyes are always on his people. But not only are we never out of God's sight, were also never out of God's reach. Look back at verse 48. And he saw that they were making headway painfully, for the wind was against them. And about the fourth watch of the night, he came to them. At this point you're thinking, you stop, you don't read any further, you think, okay, he came to them It was pretty amazing that he could see them from the top of a mountain in the dark. So he must have walked down the mountain and taken a boat that was there, you know Taken it off its mooring and hopped into it and now he's gonna row out to his disciples because he wants to come help them. That's how he came to them, right? No. Look back at verse 48. He came to them walking on the sea. The sheer supernaturalness of this event cannot be avoided. It's the it's so supernatural that it stands out as one of the greatest miracles in the gospels, one of Jesus' most famous. It's the one that has caused enlightenment scholars and post enlightenment scholars to say There must have been a sandbar that he was walking on or some hard surface under the water, right? Because they need to have some sort of rational explanation. Supernatural things can't happen. Therefore they don't happen We obviously see how circular that is, but that's what they think. There must be a logical explanation to this. I would say that there is a logical explanation. It's that Jesus is God. Therefore he can walk on whatever surface he wants to walk on. I think that's the conclusion. we're supposed to draw. But what they are seeing correctly is that this is just utterly impossible for a human to do. Can you walk on water? I sink right away. Right? I don't even stay up for a second. I've even tried like the whole Peter thing. I have faith, I have faith, boom, like right to the bottom. Right We don't walk on water. The only way a person walks on water is if that person is God. That's what Mark is stressing here. Jesus is God. And the sight of seeing Jesus walking on the water completely terrifies the disciples, right? Look at verses 49 and 50. They are terrified. They saw him walking on the sea and they thought it was a ghost. And they cried out and were terrified. Or is this emphasizing? This was as crazy as it sounds. You can imagine if you've ever been out on a boat at night It's pitch black. Like the ocean, because there is no light is super dark. If there's some moonlight, you see some of it. So you imagine seeing this being come to you on the water. This is terrifying. I would lose it. I'm afraid of like our dark basement. I mean like if if if somebody comes walking to me on top of the water out in the ocean, I am going to lose it And it says they thought he was a ghost because of it. Unless we think these are just like people who are always devoting things to the supernatural and ascribing things to the supernatural. The word for ghost only occurs twice in the New Testament, and it's extremely rare elsewhere in ancient writings around the time of the gospel. So people were not just chalking things up to ghosts and the supernatural all the time. It was a rare thing, which is why they were terrified. Why they were terrified. But in response to their fear and their terror, What does Jesus say? Look at verse 50. Immediately he spoke to them and said, A heart. Is I not be afraid. Take heart. It is I Do not be afraid. Right? These are comforting words on the face of them. You can just read that verse, and it's comforting. Jesus says Take heart. They are afraid and terrified. He says to them, hey guys, take heart. Me. Just me. You know me. There's no need to be afraid. We see the tenderness of Jesus. We see the compassion of Jesus. We see the kindness of Jesus to comfort those who are fearful. Take heart. It is I do not be afraid. Comforting word. But there's more going on here than what appears on the surface. Phrase that he uses. It is I, in the Greek has a deeper and different meaning. Literally, the phrase in Greek reads, Take heart. I am. Do not be afraid. In the Greek, ego ami, I am. Take heart. I am Do not be afraid. Who is I am in Scripture? Shout it out. Say it out loud. Who is I am in Scripture? God Yahweh, Jehovah, Yahweh, the covenant Lord of Israel, the great I am Who after bringing his people out of slavery in Egypt and bringing them out into the wilderness, what does he say to them? Do not be afraid, for I am with you. Take heart, Jesus says. I am. Do not be afraid. In Exodus 3, when God sends Moses to the people of Israel to tell them that he was going to rescue them out of slavery in Egypt. And Moses says to them, Moses says back to God, well, if I come to them, if I come to the people of Israel and say to them, the God of your fathers has sent me to you, and they ask me, what is his name? What shall I say to them? And God said to Moses, I am who I am. And he said, say this to the people of Israel. I am has sent me to you. This is my name forever, and thus I am to be remembered throughout all generations. Tell them, I am sent you. Take heart. I am. Do not be afraid. Jesus is Yahweh the covenant God of Israel. And this isn't the only place that we see this in the passage. You notice that odd detail that Mark includes in verse 48? Look back at verse 48 again with me. And he saw that they were making headway painfully, for the wind was against them. And about the fourth watch of the night he came to them, walking on the sea. He meant to pass by them. That's a weird statement, isn't it? He meant to pass by them. So this is where my mind goes when I'm studying this passage. What on earth does that mean? They're struggling painfully to make headway against this wind. And Jesus is coming to them walking on the water. And he meant to pass by them. So like is he gonna like walk up to the boat and say sorry about y'all's luck? Right, I'm just gonna keep going here. Yeah, y'all keep rowing, I'll see you on the other side. He meant to pass by them Is that what Jesus is saying? Is he going to mock them? I don't think that's what's going on here, thankfully. Right? That phrase, pass by, is meant to call our minds back to the Exodus. Laura read the passage for us this morning after God rescues Israel out of Egypt, brought them out into the wilderness. He allows Moses to climb up Mount Sinai to be in his presence. And when Moses is on the mountain, he asks God, God, show me your glory. Show me your glory. I want to see you. I want to see the great I am who has rescued us out of Egypt. And how does God respond to Moses? Read it again for us. He said I will make all my goodness pass before you and will proclaim before you my name, the Lord. But he said, you cannot see my face, for man shall not see me and live. Behold, there is a place by me where you shall stand on the rock And while my glory passes by, I will put you in a cleft of the rock, and I will cover you with my hand until I have passed by. Then I will take away my hand, and you shall see my back, but my face shall not be seen. And while my glory passes by I will put you in a cleft of the rock and will cover you with my hand until I have passed by. And about the fourth watch of the night he came to them, walking on the sea. And he intended to pass by them. See this? See what's going on here? Yahweh, the great I Am, the one who displayed his power over all creation by causing the waters of the Red Sea to part. so that Israel could pass through on dry ground and who showed his glory to Moses by passing by him, that Yahweh is revealed in the person of Jesus Christ. Jesus is the great I am. Take heart. I am. Do not be afraid. And Jesus Like Yahweh, as Yahweh displays his power over all creation by walking on water to the disciples, and who showed his glory to them by passing by them. But how how merciful and how kind of the Lord that in Jesus Christ the disciples don't need to be tucked away in the cleft of a rock Because in Jesus, God has allowed us to see his glory, and we are not consumed by it as Moses would have been. What makes us even more amazing about this scene is what we know about Yahweh from the Old Testament. Consider this. He is the awesome and almighty creator of the universe. The one who spoke and who brought all things into existence. He is the one that the Old Testament says is holy, holy, holy. High and lifted up, and the whole earth is full of Yahweh's glory. He is the one who is completely unlike us. His nature and his ways are unfathomable to human minds. He is other. He is unlike us. This one who is infinitely powerful, holy, and just, infinite in every way, in all of his attributes. took on flesh and became a man and got into the boat with his disciples I mean, like, are you seeing this? This holy and awesome God is not far off, but he draws near to his people, and he got into the boat with them. The one who created all things. The one who spoke the galaxies into existence. I mean he spoke and planets were formed and stars shot out and the universe was formed. The one who owns all the nations, who says that all things that have ever been created are like a drop of sand in my hand. He is that awesome and that grand and he got into a boat with his struggling disciples. You think he won't draw near to you? He got into the boat with them. Look at the humility of God. Walks on the waters to come to his disciples' aid and then says. I'm not going to stay out here and show you that I'm the Lord. You know I'm the Lord. I'm going to come in with you. I'm going to come in with you. I'm going to sit down with you. We think about this. The divine condescension of the Lord. When we talk about God condescending to us, we're not talking about He's He's treating us like we're children. We're talking about His humility. He says, I am holy and majestic. I'm going to come down. I'm going to wash your feet. I'm going to get into the boat with you. I'm not going to leave you and your circumstances alone. I'm going to come down. Got into the boat with his disciples. You know, people think about God sometimes and talk about him. I understand it. They talk about it as like a watchmaker, right? Who wound up the earth and walked away from it And I think the reason people believe that is because they look at creation and they can see this didn't just happen. But then they look at how awful things are and they wonder, how can there be a good God? He must have created it and just walked away. But I hope you see here that the one who is transcendent, who made all things, who spoke all things into existence, also took on flesh. He did not leave us just spinning out of control in the universe. He became a man and he got into the boat with his disciples. He came near. He is intricately involved in all that happens in our lives. Life is not spinning out of control, even though it may feel that way sometimes. Jesus came to them. Got into the boat with them. What happens in verse 51? The wind cease. The picture of the peace that God brings to his people in the midst of adversity. Not that all your trials go away. But that when God gets into the boat with you, you have the presence of the one who can overcome all circumstances and all trials to come to your aid and knowing that God is with you in the midst of those circumstances and trials, knowing that he gets into the boat with you enables us to have the peace that we need to move through those trials. About this, this reality is most clearly seen about God coming to the aid of his disciples, not here in this passage. But in the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. That's what this passage is pointing us forward to, when Jesus Christ paid the ransom for our sins. Right? He rescued us not from a difficult job or relationship struggles or health issues, but he rescued us from death itself, because we were dead in the trespasses and sins in which we once walked, following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air. Following the spirit of the sons of disobedience that is now at work in the world, and we were by nature children of wrath like the rest of mankind, but God Being rich in mercy because of the great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in trespasses and sins. We were dead in trespasses and sins. Made us alive together with Christ. You think about the circumstances of your life now. God knows that they're difficult. God knows that we face trials. You are not supposed to judge God's love for you on the presence of trials and difficulty. You're supposed to look to the cross and say, if I was dead and he made me alive, he can carry me through this. God gets into the boat with his people. And how does he do that for his followers? He gives you a new heart. Puts his spirit inside of you. gets into the boat. He's with you in your trials. He's with you even now if you're following Christ. If you're not following Jesus. You look at this passage, if you look at verse 51 and 52, it says there that the disciples were utterly astounded, for they didn't understand about the loaves. That means they didn't see the miracle of the loaves, and it didn't teach them what it should have taught him, taught them, that Jesus is God. What you're supposed to take away from this passage of Jesus being able to see from miles away in the dark, Jesus being able to walk on water Jesus being able to go to the cross and take the punishment for our sins and then rise again from the dead three days later. You're supposed to say this Jesus is God and He's worthy of my trust and He is worthy of your trust. So if you're not following Jesus today, let me encourage you to turn from your sin and put your faith in Jesus Christ and He will get into the boat with you. He will take up residence in your heart. For all who follow Jesus, he's done that already. He's done that already. So when we face adversity, we can take heart and not be afraid. Hear Jesus say to you. Brett and Stephanie Jesus says, take heart. I am. Do not be afraid. Laura and John. Take heart. I am Logan and Jessica, take heart. Do not be afraid. He gets into the boat with his disciples, Stephen and Liah. Whatever you're facing in this life, take heart. Do not be afraid. Jesus draws near to his people and gets into the boat with them. And so we want to be a community of people who know not only the peace that comes through Christ's presence in our life but who also brings that peace into one another's lives by being present for one another in the midst of trials All right, so kids, if you're thinking about following Jesus, one of the most important things about following Jesus is that Jesus calls you not only into a personal relationship with himself, but he calls you to a relationship with other people, the church. And in the church, we're called to sacrifice ourselves for others and to look after others. And so it's important for you to even think about that now is if you want to follow Jesus as how can I cultivate a care for other kids in my age? and to be concerned about the things that are affecting them. And then for the the adults in the congregation, think about our congregation. As you look around the members in this congregation, what are the hard circumstances that they're facing? Look around the other people in the congregation. Not that you need to know everything difficult that's going on in people's lives, but if you look at a bunch of people in this congregation and you can say, I don't know what the heart is in their life. Pursue them. Ask them. People who are struggling with adversity, struggling with difficult circumstances, struggling with trials, they don't tend to offer those things up. And they certainly don't do it in just a passing conversation. We want to display the love that God displayed towards us. God pursued his people even when they rejected him, even when they stiff armed him and wanted nothing to do with him. And so if we're going to emulate the love of God towards others in this congregation, we want to engage with them. Get to know them and ask them how they are struggling. What are the difficult circumstances in each other's lives? Think about doing that even after today's service. I hope it's not like frightening for any of you to know like, oh my gosh, people are going to come ask me what's hard. But this is part of living the Christian life also. In the community of believers, we can share our struggles with one another and pray for one another and support one another. Some of you may also be wondering, hey, if nothing can prevent God from coming to my aid, then why am I still experiencing the trial that I'm facing? I've asked him for help. What gives? If you're wondering that I want you to notice something else in our passage. It's in verse 47. In verse 47, do you notice there? It's evening It's evening when Jesus sees that the disciples are facing adversity. It's evening when he first sees them out on the boat. It means it was likely sometime close to about 9 p. m. , right? But then look at verse 48. Jesus doesn't come to them until the fourth watch of the night. So the Romans broke up the nighttime hours into four separate categories, nine to twelve. Uh what would it have been? 9 to 11, 9 to 12, somewhere around there, 12 to 3, 3 to 6. So that's three categories. That's the Jewish one. The Romans divided it into a fourth category. So the fourth watch was the latest watch of the night It was the early morning hours, sometime between 3 and 6 a. m. So what's the point of that? Well, for approximately six to nine hours, the God who can walk on water and see people from miles away. Let his people suffer. He let them endure the difficult circumstances that they were facing before coming to their aid There are times in our lives where God allows particular trials to persist before coming to our aid. But his purpose for doing this is ultimately for our good and his glory. We think about as we look to the New Testament, even the few things that the New Testament says about why New Christian New Testament Christians suffer and what is going on in that suffering. Well, ultimately, it's because through trials, God is conforming us into the image of his son, Jesus. And as we experience trials, God is sanctifying us, the process by which he makes us more like Christ. And trials sanctify us by showing us the things that we depend on for hope and for comfort that aren't Christ, so that we can confess to the Lord. Look to Christ again, know the forgiveness that is ours in Christ, and be strengthened and sanctified and made more like him. They also show us our weakness. Trials show us that we are finite and that we do need an infinite God to come to our help. So these trials drive us to further dependence on God, and they ultimately Teach us that this world is not our home. Because as long as you are facing trials in this life, you are not yet home with the Lord. Because by the time you get home with the Lord, you will no longer face trials. And whether the trials we're facing are severe or not, we can know that nothing in the world can separate us from the love of Christ. Because he Gotten into the boat with us. Not famine or nakedness or death or sword or all things. Nothing in all the world can separate us from the love of Christ. And soon and very soon the trials and difficult circumstances of this life will come to an end Because just as Jesus Christ came to his disciples walking on the water, so he will come to us riding on the clouds. And the glory of the great I am will be seen by all. But there, he's not going to get into the boat with us. Not that time. When he comes that time, he's going to take us the place that he has created for us. In that place, there will be no cause for fear, because in that place, there will be only perfect. Nothing will prevent this from happening because nothing all of life prevent God coming. Heavenly Father, we believe. Help our unbelief. Lord, help us to remember that you are with us through the presence and power of the Holy Spirit That through the Spirit, you provide for us the steadfastness and endurance that we need spiritually to endure the difficult trials of this life and to do it with joy and rejoicing. Lord, help us all to keep our eyes fixed on heaven today. Help our eyes and our hearts to long for the appearing of the Lord Jesus Christ coming on the clouds. And we pray, Father, for those who are struggling today. That you would draw near to us and remind us that you have gotten into the boat with us. We pray this in. Amen.