The sermon passage for this morning is Colossians one, fifteen to twenty. He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation For by him all things were created, in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities, all things were created through him and for him And he is before all things, and in him all things hold together. And he is the head of the body, the church. He is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in everything he might be preeminent For in him all the fullness of God was pleased to dwell, and through him to reconcile to himself all things, whether on earth or in heaven, making peace by the blood of his cross. This is God's word. Well, it is great to be with you this morning. Uh thank you so much for giving me an opportunity to share God's word with you. uh and for so generously supporting us. Um it is it's an honor to uh receive help and be able to share with you and I respect you so much for uh the way in which the the the place that God's word has in your life as a church. And and so thank you. So I want to begin this way. Raise your hand if you have read one of C. S. Lewis' Chronicles of Narnia books. I see a lot of adults and a lot of kids having read them. Great, great. Well, if you haven't, we'll fill you in and encourage you to uh to read it later on. But um You'll know if you've read it that Aslan is like the Christ figure. You know, it's not an exact allegory, but it's he's kind of the Christ figure in the story. And in the very first book is where the four children meet Aslan for the first time. And they hear about him. And there's a part where Lucy, the youngest of the children, asks Mr. Beaver. If Aslan is a tame lion, and Mr. Beaver replies like this: he is not tame, but he is good. He is the king. Now, that's a famous line if if uh you've heard that maybe you've heard that quoted before, even if you haven't read the book. Uh and I've quoted it many times, but reading through this book the book the last time I did to my kids I realized that at this point in the story, Lucy and the other children have already sensed that Aslan is good Because it says that uh upon hearing the name of Aslan, Lucy felt as if she was just about to embark on summer vacation. Which is to say Asland is really, really good, because if you're kids, right? You're looking forward to you're probably looking forward to a winter vacation, right, coming up. That's a good thing. And so Lucy knew that Aslan was good And yet, she wanted this good reality to be a tame one. That is, she wanted it to be something she could control. She wanted to be able to put it on a leash and lead it to where she wanted it to go. She wanted Aslan to be a tame lion because while entrusting yourself to something out of your control, even if it is good, is scary Lewis meant to teach us something about how we all relate to Christ There is a Lucy inside all of us that wants a tame, domesticated, put a leash on him and lead them around kind of Christ. Who will bring us a safe, domesticated, not so scary salvation that won't ever call us to do anything that is too hard. And that is where our passage for this morning comes in. Because in this passage, I think Paul is sort of doing for us what Mr. Beaver did for Lucy. Paul is saying, Oh, the Christ in whom you believe. is exceedingly good, but he is not tame. And Paul does this by quoting what I think was probably a well known hymn that the people had sung back then, a hymn about Christ. You see, in Paul's context in Colossae, the place where this letter was written, there were people who would have admitted that Christ was, you know, relatively important, you know, that that good person who's done good things kind of idea. And there was a sense in which you needed him for salvation. Yes, they would have said that. But they would have stopped short at saying that he was fully God and that the fullness of our salvation resides in him. They didn't want to go that far. And I think this hymn challenges that Lucy-like mentality. Well we've already heard it read, so let me just sort of jump right into this and say um what I want to do, uh there's not enough time to look at all the details of this hymn. There's so much here, it's it's so rich I want to kind of make some points based upon the structure of this hymn. And that's why I've given given it to you in sort of outline form. The structure there I think reflects the The structure that uh the the poetic structure that's native to the hymn itself. And by the way, that's not a thing that I came up with. A number of commentators have said that as well. I can tell you which ones afterwards But if you look at that outline that I gave you, in terms of the structure, we're dealing with two stanzas and a bridge in between. Do you see that? And we can understand that the hymn is structured this way because we see the parallel words and phrases And I think the authors, and I highlighted that, I color-coded them for you so you can make that uh connection a little bit easier. And I think the author's goal in structuring the hymn this way. with these parallel stanzas is to get us thinking about the content of those stanzas together In other words, Paul wants to set forth for us two realities about Christ in parallel with each other so that we can connect them together and so that Christ will seem even bigger. And he is big. He is all glorious. But we'll be able to appreciate that by connecting these realities together. Notice, I'll show you some of the connections. Notice the in verse 15 it begins, he is And then we have another he is in verse 18b. You see that there? Clearly, then we're not dealing with two different people throughout this hymn. There's one he, there's one person in view in this whole hymn. But we'll see that Two different facets of his nature come out. You'll notice that right after the he is, a couple words later, you have the firstborn references. The first stanza, it's firstborn of creation. Second stanza, firstborn from the dead. Notice also the cosmic language that shows up repeatedly throughout here. The reference to all things twice in verse 16. And then notice the in verses uh uh tw in verse twenty, over the heavens and the earth. That that phrase is in both stanzas, over heaven and earth, or over earth and heaven. These two stances are parallel with each other to get us thinking about two different realities side by side and to help us see how they're connected. So, what are these two realities? Well, stanza one is about the glory of the eternal Son of God. I believe prior to and apart from the incarnation. Have you thought much about the fact that the Son of God existed long before he took on human flesh? I mean he always existed. I think Christians sometimes, I know I don't, always give that enough weight in my mind as I ought to. The eternal Son of God is eternal. As important as, you know, Christmas is coming up, and as important as the incarnation is for us understanding who the Son of God is to us. In our relationship with him, as important as that is, the Son of God had a life prior to and apart from the incarnation, prior to and apart from taking on our flesh He was eternally with his father, one with his father, full of glory, sharing that together. And that means that if we really want to know who this Christ is, when he shows up in history and meets us in our salvation. If we really want to know him, we have to trace his origin all the way back to his eternal divine nature. He is the divine person, and we must understand him that way. And this is what I think the first stanza is about: the eternal Son of God. It begins, he is the image of the invisible God. That's a reference to him being God. One commentator on this passage points out that the is there is best taken in a timeless sense. He just is this way, right? He did not become the image of God. He is the image of God. Hebrews 1 gets at that as well. And that means that he possesses the full glory of God. He didn't have to do anything to earn it. That wasn't a reward. He didn't have to take on human flesh and accomplish so great a salvation in order for him to be worthy of glory. He just is worthy because he just is God. And as God, he just is, in reference to creation, firstborn, which means of highest rank and importance. His relationship to creation is such that he is of highest rank and importance. Compared to creation. You see, as God, He just is over everything, over heaven and earth, visible and invisible, every sphere of reality and every way of dividing it up you could think of. Which The author has several ways of thinking about dividing it up in this passage. But every way you divide it up, he's Lord over it all. One pastor I know paraphrased it like this. The Son is the one from whom all things derive. And the one to whom all things aspire. In other words, he is the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. Friends, realize that every subatomic particle, every galaxy, every this is however you want to divide it up, right? Every human emotion, every idea, he rules over it all. As one theologian put it, there is not one square inch of this whole created realm which he, the eternal Son of God, does not point to and say, mine. It's his. He is Lord over it inherently by virtue of who he is. He didn't do anything to earn that status. He just is Lord of all by virtue of being God. That's the first stanza. The second stanza is about the same person, the eternal son of God. We haven't switched persons here, right But it's about what he did in the course of redemptive history to bring us salvation. Here's where the incarnation, right? What we celebrated Christmas with all those cookies comes into view. His death, resurrection, ascension, and session at the right hand of God also comes into view here The second stanza starts out, he is the beginning, the beginning of the new creation. That word beginning is just filled with all kinds of rich meaning here. It means not only what happens to be first in a temporal sequence, right? Not that beginning necessarily, not just that. It also means the source of authority, the foundation of it all, the fundamental principle, that without which a thing could not be what it is. Christ is the source and authority and foundation and grounding principle of the new creation He is the firstborn from the dead. In verse 20, he reconciles all things to himself. So even though both stanzas here have the same person in view, and I think that could not be more clear from the he is in verse 15 and 18b, in the second stanza, he becomes something that he was not. He is the one who has come down for us and for our salvation. He has come in the flesh. He has died and he has risen again unto new life. As one early church pastor put it, he said, without ceasing to be what he was, he becomes what he was not. He did not cease to be who he was as the eternal God, but he became what he was not. He took on human flesh. He made himself one who could suffer and die and rise again to fulfil God's plan of having a human over all creation. The second stanza is about what the eternal Son of God became in his incarnate glory over creation. And then we have the bridge. The bridge is where the two stanzas come together, and the bridge is my favorite part, actually. The bridge says, and he is before all things, and in him all things hold together. And he is the head of the body, the church. And I think this is the greatest point of tension in this hymn. In the bridge we see that the one who is before all things, and in him all things hold together. Is the same one who is head of the church, the church who he loves, the church who he shed his blood for, the church who he intercedes on behalf of. He is head of the church. Which means we have access to him. We can come boldly before him, not fearing his wrath If we are part of the church for whom he died, Christ is safe in that sense. We need not fear his wrath. But he's still not tame. We cannot put him on a leash and lead him around. No, he is bigger than we could possibly imagine. He is the one in whom all things have their meaning, and he is ruler over all. But he is given to us to be our personal head, our king. We gather in his name and he is with us. We are his people and he is our God. Well, what does this mean for us? That's something of the structure of the hymn. Let me give you three and a half points of application. The last one's sort of a partial point that's a bonus. First point, number one. We must share the gospel in such a way that it is crystal clear that Christ must be God. We must share the gospel in such a way that it's crystal clear that Christ must be God. And when I say we must share the gospel, I do mean that we must evangelize, but I really like what Jerry Bridges says: that we should preach the gospel to ourselves every day. Right. When Pierton said we should rise up within ourselves as the most powerful preacher we know, and you guys are familiar with some powerful preachers, so you can take your pick, right? And you should imitate them as you preach the gospel to yourself. So when you preach the gospel to yourself and to others, you should do it in such a way that it is crystal clear that Christ must be God. Now, you might say, well, I kind of already knew that And and yet it is easy to not actually incorporate that into our understanding of the gospel. It's easier than we might think to fail at that. It struck me recently that in my early years of teaching and preaching, I didn't bring that in. When I preached the gospel, I said something like this. Now, before I tell you what I said, let me warn you, all the language is correct. And I'm not gonna Push back and run away from truths that we hold dear. But the problem is I shared the gospel and I put it in the wrong context. I put this correct language in the wrong context. So I would say something like this We all deserve God's wrath. This is because of how the first people have sinned and how we've all followed in their steps. But God, in his infinite love, sent his son, who had to be human, to take our place So that he could receive the wrath in our place. And he also had to be human so that he could give us his righteousness, so we could stand before God, not as the sinners we are, but justified in Christ. Now, I would have probably also added somewhere in there that Christ is also God. But hear me. He didn't have to be in order for the story to make sense as I shared it. And the way I shared salvation there sounded a bit like a business deal. A transaction where I get rid of the thing that I don't want and I get the thing that I do want. Now please understand that language is not wrong because it's it's biblical The Bible uses economic language to talk about our salvation. The word redemption means to be bought back. It's a glorious truth Justification is legal language. Before the court, before God is our judge in Christ, we are justified. We are accepted, acquitted, declared righteous. We should use all that language. But see, when the Bible uses that language, it roots it in the greater story, a story that is not at all man-centered but eminently God-centered. It is the story of God coming to do what only God can do for our salvation And you know this if you've read your Bibles. Because the Bible echoes the fundamental truth again and again that God saves. God saves. And and when he saves, he does it in a way that That no one else could do it. And so it is so clearly he who is the Savior. Think in the book of Exodus. An old man leads 2. 5 million people out from the thumb of the world's most powerful dictator. Who else but God could do that? God is the only one who can take people who are objects of his wrath and turn them into objects of his glory. God can do that. The Bible is about the fact that God saves. And when he saves, he does it in a way that nobody could write the script, nobody could tell him how to do it. Nobody can be his counselor. Here, God, this is how you have to save us. And yet it is such, he does it in such a way that it is so obviously his work. And I think this is one of the things that Paul is trying to communicate in the structure of this hymn. Even when the Son of God becomes something very much unlike what he was before, that is one who could bleed. One who could die. Even when he does that, even when he comes down in the lowest form of his humiliation, he is revealing his divine nature. He is telling the story that he is God. So we could add to what that church father said, and say it like this: we could say, without ceasing to be who he is, he became what he was not, and he does this to reveal who he has always been. I think the parallel structure of this hymn brings this out. Notice the first stanza, the hymn reveals his authority as God over heaven and earth. It is all through him. But this one comes down to bring us salvation to reconcile all things to himself. So once again, he is over all. This is a similar point to what Paul makes in Ephesians 1, when he says all things are summed up in him, and that summing up of all things in Christ is not a function of his deity merely It is a function of who he is, having taken on human flesh and died and risen again to be the source and authority and grounding principle of the new creation. In his incarnation, he is revealing who he has always been. The point is that this Son of God is overall. That is his nature. He is cosmic. And therefore, in the course of redemptive history, when the Son of God enters our history, when he suffers and when he dies and when he rises again, he brings us a salvation that is also cosmic. A salvation that is over all. He's incapable of bringing us a salvation that has anything less than all things as its final scope. So, friends, when we share the gospel, we must recognize that it is the gospel of this Christ. We must be crystal clear that He is God. That must not be just tacked on to the end, it must be central to the story. And this brings us to the second point here. What Christ does in the course of redemption is all for his glory. Related point. What Christ does in the course of redemption is all for his glory. And this is another thing that I think very much challenges the man-centered view of salvation. It's not actually for us. It's all for the glory of God. And I there's a number of ways we could understand this from this hymn, but the way I want to look at it is Through that word firstborn here. Notice in verse 16, and then it's in also in verse 18. Verse 16, he is firstborn over creation, and then verse 18, he is firstborn from the dead. And the fact that firstborn occurs at the beginning of each stanza here, it's kind of obvious that he's the author here is making a connection between those two words That first reference to firstborn gets people tripped up sometimes because it could sound as if the eternal Son of God was born. Which we know we can't be. And if you've ever had Jehovah's Witnesses, you know, knock on your door, this is one of the verses they'll turn to. Ha, look, the Son of God was born. We win. But it's not that easy. If we didn't have a context, though, we might not quite understand what it means. But it's interesting. The Jehovah's Witnesses never read the next verse. That talks about him, that talks about all things are created through him and for him And I think verse 16, all things are created through him and for him, explains the meaning of firstborn. This is what it means for him to be firstborn, that all things are created through him and for him In other words, it's explaining the priority that he has over all creation. It's explaining how he is preeminent over all of creation. And that's what the word firstborn means in the Old and New Testament. It describes rank and importance, not necessarily birth order. So in what sense then is the Son of God firstborn over creation? Well, in every conceivable sense, you could say But I think Paul has a specific way in which he wants us to understand Christ's firstborn identity in this passage. And in order to understand this, we have to connect a few things together. Think about the themes that we have on the table at this point in this passage. I mean, we have the theme of authority over all creation, right? We have the theme of image of God. And if we back up a few verses, we'll see the phrase that sort of launched this whole section. Paul talks about God's beloved son. So we have sonship, we have image, we have authority. Where else in Scripture do you see those ideas come together? Maybe Genesis 1 comes to your mind? God created humanity in what? In the image of God. And he gave them authority to rule over creation, right? The birds of the sea, or the birds of the sky, the fish in the sea. It was just the sea if you were paying attention. And then we learn in Genesis 4 that to be in the image of God is to also to be the Son of God. Those are correlative terms. They explain each other So this passage has clear allusions to Genesis, to creation. This passage is meant to be read with creation in view, where the first man and the first woman are In the image of God, sons of God, and they are delegated authority over all creation. But the first stanza of Colossians 1, the hymn there, we're clearly not talking about Adam, are we? We're talking about God's son. And we aren't even talking about God's son as he took on the role of the second Adam, right? To do the work that the first Adam failed to do. We're talking about God's Son as he is the eternal Son of God. What we're talking about then Is the in in uh Colossians 1, the reference to image there, the Son of God, I think what in firstborn I think we're talking about the Son of God, not as he is the second Adam, but as he is the pattern for the first Adam. I think what's going on here, if we put the pieces together, is that when God created man and woman in his own image to rule over creation, the image in which he created them is the image of his beloved Son. We could sort of picture in our minds this way of a of a sculptor you know making this statue and and how do they how do they do it? They look at a model, right? And they make the sculpture in the image of the model that they look at? They make it in the likeness of something else. And so likewise God, the Father, made humans By looking at the model too, and the model was his eternal son, because the son is the true and ultimate image of God. What we have in creation is something like a great king who wants to honor his son by putting images of his son throughout his realm. That's what's going on when God made the first man and woman in the image of his son and then sent them out to multiply and fill the earth. That is to fill the world with the glory and beauty of the Son. Creation is designed by the Father, who loves his Son, to show off the glory of the Son. And I think that's the sense in which the Son is first over all creation The human role in creation as being over the birds of the sky and the fish of the sea and so on is derived. From the eternal Son of God and his role as being over the heavens and earth, rulers and authorities, visible and invisible. We are like the eternal Son of God, but shrunk down, qualitatively shrunk down to human size And how well have we done imaging the Son of God? Not such a good job, have we? Instead of showing off the glory of the Sun, we've we've tried to show off our own glory. We've distorted and misrepresented the Son of God. Now, we're still in the image of God in some sense So it's like we walk around with a giant sign over our head saying, Look at me, and I will show you what the glory of the Son of God is like. Instead of an accurate representation of the Son, where we're pumping out filth It doesn't at all bring glory to the Son. And for that, God is angry with us. I think the force of God's anger can only be grasped when we realize the love that He has for His Son and the design of creation to show off the glory of the Son. And that we've mocked and belittled that glory. But the good news of the gospel is that there's another reference to firstborn here. Look there at the second reference to firstborn in the second stanza, verse 18. He is the firstborn from the dead. And obviously he died. Why did he die? He died for us He died to take the punishment that we deserve for, get this, belittling and mocking his glory. And then he rises again from the dead in resurrected glory. His divine glory is seen in human form, and then he shares his resurrection glory with all those who believe in him. And he is once again exalted to the highest place of first preeminent over all. Just as the eternal Son of God was the pattern. Of the original creation, so also once again in his resurrected glory, he is the pattern of all those who receive new life in him. And so once again, he is first over all. This is just like what Paul says in that famous passage in Romans 8. Those for those whom God foreknew, he also predestined. Why did he predestine them? To be conformed to the image of his son. Why? So that he, his son, would be firstborn among many brethren We are remade into the image of the Son in his resurrected glory so that the Son would be exalted and preeminent over all things. Listen, your salvation is not simply about you getting out of hell and getting into heaven, as great and glorious as that is. It's about Christ being glorified, Christ being seen as first. Now sometimes people push back on that a little bit as I've shared that. Sometimes people say, No, no, no, the gospel is like a A train conductor who has to make a terrible choice. Maybe you've heard this illustration before. Either he saves his son or he saves the people. He can't act for his son and for the people at the same time. He must choose. And he chooses us. But no. Obviously, there's a certain sense in which God did give up his son for the sake of our salvation. But if we zoom out We see that in giving up his son to die on the cross, the Father was also giving the Son the status of firstborn and most exalted The Father was giving him a name above every name, that at the name of Jesus every knee will bow and every tongue will confess that he is Lord to the glory of the Father. This doesn't mean that his love for us is any less. In fact, it shows that his love for us is even greater Because it shows that he wants to use us to bring glory to his son. And what could be of higher honor than to be used to bring glory to that which is of greatest worth? The beauty of the gospel is not that God loves us more than his son. The beauty of the gospel is that in God's infinite wisdom he has made a way, and that loving his son He can also love us as sons as well, even though we've hated that son and made a mockery of his glory. But see now, instead of just going out and filling the earth and multiplying and reproducing little images of his son throughout the world, which is a good thing to do, and and glad to see all the little images of God's Son being raised up. But now we also go therefore and take the gospel to all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, teaching them. to observe everything that Christ has commanded, which is to say we are to go out and fill the world once again with new creation images of the Sun. By sharing the gospel, the process of evangelizing, telling the people the message of salvation so that they can be sons of God as well, so that the glory of Christ will be seen in them. Friends, if you haven't trusted Christ, do so today and be used by God to bring glory to the Son. Be part of the plan that God is working from the beginning of creation to magnify his son. What could be better than that? And this leads us to the only real point of application that I'm going to give you. See the beauty of Christ. See the beauty of Christ. I think that's the main thing that Paul wants his readers to get from this text. See the beauty of Christ. I think that's why this is poetry. What does poetry do? Poetry aims to bring out the beauty of something in the form in which it is written. When you write poetry, you don't just say something But you say it in a way that is beautiful. The form matters. I'm amazed that in this passage, Paul can, in so few words, bring so many profound realities together. It's like Paul is working with planes of reality and They do backflips and they collide and they break fireworks. There's an amazing display of glory in this hymn. Brothers and sisters in Christ, to be a Christian is not simply to believe that there is such a thing as the incarnation. To be a Christian is to see the incarnation as beautiful. And we're not all gifted in poetry. I know I'm not. But how is your life reflecting the beauty of the incarnation? The psalmist says, one thing I ask from the Lord, this only do I seek, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to gaze on the beauty of the Lord. Christ is that beauty, and he has come that we may gaze upon him, that we may be changed by beholding him. Are you gazing upon his beauty? Yes, let's work hard to get our theology right so that we can speak of Christ in a way that is true. There's so much precision in the language here in this hymn. So much that we've just had to rush over, but all the details matter. Let's take that to heart. But in our quest to be true, may we never rush over the beauty. Because if we say it in a way that is true but not beautiful, is it really the Son of God that we're talking about? Well let me leave you with this is the half point of application that I promised. A short thing to just get your mind thinking in another direction. And really, this is a half a point because it actually could be a whole nother sermon in itself. But all I want to do is just point out that there's something in this hymn that really opens up a whole new doorway into the understanding of this text. And that is simply this. When we see that Christ is beautiful, the church is also beautiful. When we see that Christ is beautiful, the church is also beautiful. That must be the case. Why? Because the church is his body. Look back at the bridge again, verse 18. He is the head of the body, the church. Now, this reference to the church might seem a bit odd because, you know, after mentioning the church here, Paul goes on for the rest of the hymn almost as if he never said anything about it. We don't see any other clear reference to the church throughout the rest of this hymn. Or do we? Maybe the problem isn't that Paul has failed to adequately develop his theme. Maybe the problem is that We haven't correctly spotted where the church is. The second stanza is all about Christ ruling over all things in order to bring about peace and reconciliation, isn't it? Where do we see him doing that? Well, you know, honestly, it's hard to see him doing that out in the world, right? And look at racial relations today. Look at the conflict among nations. We don't see a lot of peace and reconciliation in the world. But we do see it in the church, not perfectly, of course, but truly. It is there. The church is the place where we've been reconciled to Christ, identified with Christ, and we've come to submit ourselves to Him and be reconciled to one another. And you see, as we do that, we look forward to the day when all of created reality will be consciously under Christ's authority, when every knee will bow and every tongue will confess that He is Lord. See, I don't think the church is just another topic that Paul threw here in here so we could like balance out the stanzas here. No, I think I think it's intentional. Conscious submission to Christ in the church foreshadows that final consummate submission to Christ in all things, which is the subject of the second stanza here. And it will happen at the end of the age. Do you realize what the church is then? The church is that future end times reality that has invaded the present That's what the church is. It belongs to the future, but is transported back in time, as it were, as a signpost of what is to come. Let me just be a little bit autobiographical here for a second as I close. This truth was important for me to realize. Because I think it was mentioned that I was a pastor for about seven years, or I was a pastor of uh mentioned I was a pastor, I was a pastor for seven years in Greenbelt. This truth was important for me to realize because there were many points as a pastor when I would have said, I understand that theologically, but I don't live that out. You see, I was a pastor of a, it turned out to be, in the end, a wonderful church that I loved, and I got to serve alongside of amazing elders. I saw so much evidence of God's grace in the church and people's lives being changed. But there were many times as a pastor, actually almost on a daily basis, I had to guard my heart from discouragement because you know. We just didn't look that impressive as much as I thought we should. I made a lot of stupid mistakes. Growth was extremely slow. And we had seasons where it went backwards. When I first came to the church in nine months, I grew the church from 110 to 55. Here's what I had to realize. When we gather faithfully week after week, and consciously submit ourselves to Christ When we hear his word of reconciliation preached, and when we obey it, and when we're reconciled to one another, when we do those things, we foreshadow the final day when Christ will visibly rule and reign over all. What I needed to see is that the church doesn't have to look impressive by the standards of the world to foreshadow the future glory of Christ. In fact If it does look impressive by the standards of the world, it's a good chance it's not foreshadowing the future glory of Christ. Because didn't Paul say that God uses the weak things of the world to shame the strong? And didn't Jesus say that the kingdom of heaven is like a mustard seed, which starts out small, but in its full grown, it's the tallest among the trees? Well, friends, this might speak most clearly to you if you're a church leader. But I think the challenge for us all is to base our level of commitment to and participation with the local church. Not what we see before us, however great that might be. And I'm sure there's a lot of things to be encouraged by. But rather to base our commitment to and participation with the local church On the standard of Christ's glory. Our excitement for the church shouldn't be driven by how the how many cool programs there are or great conversations, however great they might be. It should be driven instead by our view of and love for the glory of Christ, which we know will be revealed You know, politicians today talk about being on the right side of history, and that phrase strikes me a bit odd because you know most of them don't have a philosophy of history that says it's actually going somewhere, and how do they know it's going in the right direction? But there is a way that we can be on the right side of history, because we do know where history is going, and that is to be in the church Because the church is the one place where that future glory is, at least by faith, visible for us now. So be part of the church. Be reconciled to Christ and trust in him as your only hope of escaping God's wrath One day the king will come, and his glory will shine not just dimly and sporadically over various places. But it will cover the earth as the water covers the seas. To live in view of the church as the future glory of Christ, Is scary. Again and again it takes us out of our comfort zone. It forces us to relate to people we would never relate to outside of Christ. It calls us to do hard things. But it is good because he really is the king and he will come. Come, Lord Jesus. Let's pray Oh Lord, we thank you for Christ and for His glory. The glory that we can see and get to experience. Not to our detriment, not consigning us to what we deserve. Eternity is separated from you. But rather, we get to experience that glory and share in it. As being raised with him. As he is the first fruits of what we will be in that resurrected glory. And thank you That we can point and we can be arrows that point to his greatness and his glory. Oh Lord, may we find our identity not in seeking greatness for ourselves. but rather in demonstrating, being objects of Christ's mercy and grace and reflecting his glory. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.