Well, good morning, Chevrolet Baptist Church. It is so good to see uh many part of your faces that I know well. It is also really encouraging to see faces I don't know that have come from many different places. I wish I had time to hear more about uh your stories and get to know each of you. But it is a joy to gather with you this morning. We send our greetings from First Baptist Church in Upper Marlborough. We're thankful for your witness here in Prince George's County. As a fellow Prince Georgian County and Church in Upper Marlboro. I'm also personally very thankful for your pastor, John Joseph And many of you that I do know that are part of this gospel witness here in Chevrolet. We love you from Upper Marlborough and we are thank we thank God for you. If you want to open up in your Bibles with me to Psalm 130, we're going to be looking at Psalm 130 this morning. And if you're looking at the black Bible on the chair uh that you're sitting on or nearby you, that's found on page five hundred and eighteen. Page 518. And as I'm sure is your custom here, let me encourage you to keep your Bible open. Follow along with what the writer is saying in Psalm 130. Listen carefully to what I'm saying and test it according to what you see in God's word. If it's what God is saying, believe it, obey it. If it's not, then just move on and forget it. With that in mind, let me pause and ask God for help as we consider His word. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for the gift of your word. We know that it is living and active, that it is sharper than any two-edged sword, that your word is truth. We ask now that you would sanctify us by your truth, that we would not be conformed to the pattern of this world, but that we would be transformed by the renewal of our minds. Father, I ask specifically, Lord, that you would do such a work in our hearts that we would be able to say with Paul in 1 Corinthians that surely God is in this place That we would fall on our face and worship you together by what you reveal about yourself to us through your word Bring conviction of sin where we need it. Bring encouragement and strength where we need it. Bring life where there is death, light where there is darkness. That we might worship you together, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, uh two years ago, just before Thanksgiving, I found myself being rushed to the emergency room in Annapolis uh about 2 a. m. In the morning, due some due to some pain that I was feeling in my abdomen, I it became clear to me that something was going on that I needed to get this checked. And by the time I got to the emergency room, the pain was so bad that I actually keeled over uh at the admissions desk with the nurse that was checking in people to the emergency room. But I remember I was just I was literally on my hands and my knees groaning in pain and the nurse who was doing the admission d told me to go sit down in the chair and wait And the reason for that was because what is known in hospitals as uh triage. If you're a medical professional, if you're a nurse, a doctor, you you're familiar with that. Triage is this idea where they're kind of ranking people according to the need of the the severity of the the pain they're going through and and how urgent that is. And My gallbladder, which it turned out to be, my gallbladder, although it was really painful and I was moaning out loud in the emergency room, it could wait Because as I was sitting there, there was two other men that had rushed into the same emergency room who had just suffered a heart attack and doing uh healthcare triage, they said that needs to go before you, you sit and wait. And they were right to do that. Um so they could go in first. What I want us to do this morning, though, is to do some theological triage. I want us to back up and do a triage, just kind of a big picture of our lives. Imagine that we went out into Chevrolet today with our clipboards and we did a broad survey of people living in Chevrolet and asked, I want you to answer the question. What is the biggest problem that you're facing right now? The most urgent, desperate problem that you're facing right now? Or if you had the power to fix the most serious issue, trouble, trial that you're facing right now, what would it be? I imagine as we heard from people in the community, we'd hear things like a variety of answers, like, you know, having the pandemic come to an end, or a broken relationship, a marriage, a friendship being fixed. Finding relief from years of the darkness of depression, loneliness, a solution to the political divide that we see in our nation Concerns that they're expressing about the future of our country, suffering from years of discrimination or racism, and so on and so on. We'd fill our clipboards with answers from people in the community. Suffering, trials, pain threatens our hope. You ever feel that? Do you ever feel your hope being threatened by a trial that you're facing? Suffering threatens hope. And we, we as human beings made in God's image, cannot live without hope. Perhaps that's how you feel this morning, sitting here in this auditorium. Hope less. Maybe you're here and you're not a Christian. Maybe this is your first time here. You came on the arm of a friend at the invitation. Maybe you saw the sign walking by and you're here for the first time. And you're not really sure why you're here, you're not a Christian, you don't normally listen to sermons from the Bible, but you're so desperate for hope that you're sitting here willing to check it out. To see if the Bible has anything to say for the hope that you're looking for this morning. And if so, we're glad that you're here. If you're looking for hope, Christianity's answer is that hope is found in God. But how do we get there? Psalm 130, the Psalm we're going to look at this morning, Psalm 130 shows us the surprising path. Listen as I read us from Psalm one thirty, starting in verse one. Out of the depths I cry to you, O Lord. O Lord, hear my voice Let your ears be attentive to the voice of my pleas for mercy. If you, O Lord, should mark my iniquities The Lord who could stand. But with you there is forgiveness that you may be feared. I wait for the Lord. My soul waits, and in his word I hope My soul waits for the Lord more than watchman for the morning, more than watchman for the morning. Oh Israel, hope in the Lord For with the Lord there is steadfast love, and with him is plentiful redemption, and he will redeem Israel from all his iniquities. Church, do you need hope today? In our church, when I ask a question, you answered, do you need hope today, church? Okay. Taking notes, point number one is this. Come to God. It's worse than you think. You're looking for hope. Come to God. It's worse than you think. And we're going to see that in verses 1 through 3 of our text this morning. Now you might hear this idea of it's worse than you think, and you say, hold on, Zach, I thought we were talking about a path to hope. Telling us that it's worse than we think. How is that hopeful? Life is hard right now. I'm I'm about ready to sink. Just stick with me. I told you that it's a surprising path. And so before we go up, we need to first go down, where the psalmist takes us. And that's how the psalmist begins in verse 1. He says, out of the depths. Out of the depths I cry to you, O Lord. Again, Psalm 130 is a psalm for those who feel like they're in the pits. When you feel like your life is in the depths. You can't get out. This is your psalm. The word there for depths refers to deep waters where there's no place to put your feet. You're treading water and you feel like you're about to drown. The water is creeping up to your neck and the waves are pushing over you and they're and you're and you're crying out to God and you're wondering if He's hearing for you, if He's hearing you, and you're in the depths, you're in the pits And so he cr and he cries out that way in verse 2: a cry of desperation. He says, Oh Lord, I'm in the pits, I'm in the depths, O Lord, hear my voice. Let the ears be attentive to the voice of my pleas for mercy. You can hear the desperation. Waves crashing over him. He's about to go under the water. Hear me, oh God. And I just note that there are people who love God. There are people who believe the Bible, who come to church on Sundays, and they are heartbroken. They are depressed. They are discouraged. They feel like life's about to swallow them up. You can be a Christian and believe the Bible, and that might be where you're at. Sorrow can be so overwhelming that you lack the words to describe it. You're so burdened that you can't think straight. And you're trying to read the Bible, you're trying to pray, but it's just like your words are hitting the ceiling and the the the words of scripture just feel like words on a page and you're so cast down, you're so in the depths that you're doubting that God hears you because you've been waiting on him for so long. There is a category in the Bible for Christians being in that place. Psalm 130 is an example of that. Psalmus was in the depths. He was in the pits. And that doesn't mean he's not a Christian. It doesn't mean that he's not a follower of God. It doesn't mean that he's a the people of God. He is. Under the inspiration of God, he's crying out to God, and God recorded his prayer for us in Psalm 130 for our benefit. So that when we're in the depths, when we're in the pits, we know what to sing, we know what to pray. Friends, if the psalmist filled out our triage survey, what's the biggest problem you're facing? What would he say his biggest problem is? Give your clipboard. You ask the psalmist, what's the biggest problem you're facing? Look at verse 3. He tells us. If you, O Lord, should mark iniquities, O Lord, who could stand? That would be his answer The greatest problem that our souls face, the crisis that is at the top of the list, according to the psalmist Is unforgiven sin. Sin that is on our record when we stand before a holy And righteous God, to whom we must give an account. The psalmist says in verse 3, in other words, God, if you wrote down my sins in your book, It'd be a really long book. If you treat me like my sins deserve, then I'm doomed because I have no defense. I plead guilty. I know my guilt. And if the spotlight is put on my sin, there's no way I can stand before you, a holy God. I realize, I confess, I deserve death. I deserve hell. And part of what we we realize by because of verse three is that there are, friends, there are serious problems in this world right now, in your life, today, right now, that are real. Those problems keep us up at night. Those problems fill our pillows with tears. And we should never, listen, we should never belittle the pain that we go through in this life. Pain that comes from oppression. Or illness or injustice or joblessness or whatever trial that we're facing in this life. But what he's saying is that whatever trial you're in today Verse 3 informs that our greatest problem, on the top of the list of our triage question, our greatest problem is worse than we think. And it leaves us in a pit, in the depths that we cannot climb out of on our own, no matter how hard we try. Sin puts us in a pit that we cannot get out of on our own. Now I assume that a church like Severley Baptist Church, if you're a member here, I assume this morning that you understand yourself to be a sinner. And so you have no objection to what I'm saying so far. That you recognize yourself to be a sinner who is in need of Jesus. That's why you're here at church, and that's a good reason to be here. But before we can just agree with that theological truth and move on, I want us to just just to pause a little bit and do a little bit of self-assessment on that reality. If we fast forward to Mark chapter two, the gospel of Mark chapter two, we Mark tells us the account of this man who is paralyzed. And his, because he's paralyzed, his four friends have to pick him up and carry him to Jesus on his mat And the house that Jesus is in is so crowded they can't get to him. They actually have to dig a hole in the roof to get to Jesus. And so that's what they do. They they dig a hole in the roof and they let down the their friend who's laying on this mat paralyzed. And they and and then and he just he plops down right in front of Jesus in a crowded house as Jesus is teaching. So you can imagine this scene in Mark 2. There's a hole in the roof. The man interrupts Jesus and everything just stops. And all eyes are on Jesus. What's he gonna do? Jesus tells the paralytic. Just pause for a moment though. Imagine you're the paralytic in that moment. Your friends worked so hard to get you to Jesus. You've been paralyzed for years, perhaps all your life, unable to move. You've seen Jesus heal people. You've seen him heal other paralytics. People who were paralyzed, now they walk You've seen him do it. You know he can do it. That your friends got you there. And Jesus says to you, son, your sins are forgiven. Would you rejoice? Or would you say, Jesus, I'm paralyzed? That's why I'm here. That's my bigger problem. It's possible, and this is why I want us to pause. It's possible for us to, even as Christians, intellectually agree That unforgiven sin is our biggest problem. And yet then go on with our day and live as if our greatest crisis is the pain that we feel today. We make our personal triage assessment and we make unpaid bills or division or sickness or strife or some other present circumstance, our biggest crisis. And I think I want to acknowledge, I think that's understandable. It's kind of human nature because present pain, present suffering is real. And it's so loud, as C. S. Lewis calls it, it's God's megaphone. It's so loud that it it does feel ultimate. And I think Jesus knew that. And so after forgiving the paralytic, he goes on to address the skeptics that are listening to him in Mark 2. And he says. What do you think? Which is easier? To say to the paralytic, your sins are forgiven? Or to say, rise, take up your bed, and walk? I love how Jesus goes right after the heart like that. And I I hate to admit it, but I think that if I were the paralytic that day. There's a big part of me that may want Jesus to want that may want Jesus to make me to walk more than I want him to forgive my sin. And I think that it's it's easy for my own heart to assume that it's easier for God to forgive my sin. Because We tend to trivialize God's holiness and trivialize our own sin and its consequences. It's easy to look at God's law and think, Well, I'm not perfect, but who in this room is not? I'm not so bad as so-and-so who's sitting next to me. And then to justify ourselves and move on. And this self-righteousness is a pride that actually blinds us to the reality and danger of our sin and how deadly and serious that it is. And so Jesus, when we come to Jesus' Sermon on the Mountain, Matthew 5, 6, and 7, he looks at our sin and goes deeper. He says that God's law is not just about checking the box of obedience. Our obedience is a matter of our heart and our heart's posture towards God. When we then revisit God's word with our heart in view, not just our outward obedience, when we revisit God's Word with our heart in view, we realize it goes much deeper and it leaves us with questions that we might ask today. Why did you want to ram the car that was tailgating you this morning on I-495? Why were you so defensive and angry when your fet friend corrected you this week? Why did you take a second look at the person who was wearing a very revealing outfit? Why did you go to the other side of the room? To avoid a church member that you know is hurting. The heart is deceitful above all things. And when our hearts are exposed by the light of God's Word, it's painful to see the depths, the pits that our sin puts us in before a holy God. But we need to see it. We need to see how deep our sin has put us in. Friends, I recognize I can't convince myself, I can't convince you of the seriousness. The work of conviction is not a work of any human being. The work of conviction is a work of the Holy Spirit. But we Can open our own hearts to God and we can ask God to turn the lights on our sin. And friends, that's one of my encouragements to you this morning: you'd pray this week, God, if I have blind spots, If I have sinned that I'm aware of, I pray that you would help me to see that. Bring a friend into my life to show that. Use some Text of scripture, do something to reveal that sin to me and help me to turn away from it. Again, at this point in the sermon, you might be thinking, Zach, I thought this was a sermon about hope. This is discouraging. All we're talking about is sin and how bad it is and how bad we are. Why are we talking about sin so much? Well, right after um Jesus heals the paralytic in Mark two He tells a group of self-righteous Pharisees, those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick. And Jesus' point there is that you don't go to the doctor unless you realize That you're sick. You don't go to the doctor, you don't go to the ER unless you realize how bad the pain or how serious the issue is. Self-righteous people don't go to Jesus as the great physician because they don't think they need him. Self-righteous people think I can crawl out of the pit because the pit's not that deep. I can get to God on my own, I can do enough good works, I can be a good enough person, but but scripture over and over and over reminds us that we can't. We can't get out of this pit that sin has left us in. It's too deep. And I think that's why verse 2 of Psalm 130 is actually a plea for mercy. I love that we sang that song this morning. Lord, have mercy. Christ have mercy. That's what the psalmist is saying. It's a plea for mercy. Our sin means that we need God's mercy, for God to spare us from the very thing that we deserve. Which is his righteous wrath. Path to hope Requires us to first go deep, to go low before we go up. We have to see how bad it is, how helpless we are, so that we come to the physician for mercy and for help. Chevroly Baptist Church, come to God. Come to God again and again and again. Come to Him again this morning because your your problem is worse than you realize. Point number two. And to God, he is better than you can imagine. Point number two, come to God because he is better than you can imagine. And this is verses four through eight of our text. So after after the psalmist kind of pushes us down, or at least exposes how deep we are in the pits because of our sin. The psalm turns a corner in verse 4, and I think we're meant to kind of breathe a sigh of relief when we get to verse 4. So look at verse 4. But with you there is forgiveness that you may be feared. I wait for the Lord, my soul waits, and in his word I hope. My soul waits for the Lord more than the watchman for the morning, more than the watchman for the morning. O Israel, hope in the Lord, for with the Lord there is steadfast love, and with him is plentiful redemption. And he will redeem Israel from all his iniquities. When the psalmist comes to God in repentance, he's turning from his sin, he comes to God, what does he find? He finds three companions. Verse 4, with you there is forgiveness. Verse 7, with the Lord there is steadfast love. And then the third companion, verse 7, with him is plentiful redemption. With you is forgiveness, with the Lord is steadfast love, with him is plentiful redemption. With God there is forgiveness, steadfast love, and redemption. God's steadfast love. What is that? This is unfailing. Covenant keeping love. Steadfast love is heartfelt affection But it's affection guaranteed with a promise. So in a man and a woman Enter into the covenant of marriage, they make a vow, they promise to love. For better or for worse For rich or for poor, in sickness and in health, until death separates them. It's affection. Affection for a husband and a wife. They're crazy about each other. But it's affection, it's love Undergirded by a promise, a covenant, that even when it gets really hard, that love's not going to break. It's a steadfast, not going anywhere, stick with it, love. And that's what we find with God. Steadfast love. We also see his redemption. What's redemption? What does he mean by that? Redemption is another word for ransom. It's a word that means to pay a debt. To pay a price that is necessary to purchase a person's life, to purchase their freedom When they were once held captive in slavery. Redemption is that the purchase of their redemption, the purchase of their freedom is paid in full. The title of Psalm 130 you'll notice is is a Psalm of Ascent. So this Psalm 130 is one of the Psalms that the people of God would sing. as they made their pilgrimage up to Jerusalem to celebrate one of the three uh feasts that that uh that Jews are required to go up to Jerusalem to celebrate. And so you can imagine them going up to Jerusalem to celebrate the feast of the Passover, singing Psalm 130 as one of the Psalms of Ascent. They sang a song of God's redemption. But once they got to Jerusalem, The song would stop, and they'd come together and they would sacrifice a lamb. A Passover reminder that the wages of our sin, the wages of their sin, is death. The cost of their redemption. The ransom was the blood of a lamb. In the Old Testament, the Passover lamb was a sacrifice that served as a signpost that was pointing forward to Jesus. who himself would pay our debt of our sin by laying down his life for us. So even as we read Matthew one this morning, it was a great reminder that Psalm 130 was Was read and sung, and and they would wait generation after generation after generation for the Messiah to come. And when when Christ came, he was the fulfillment of what Psalm 30130 was pointing forward to. For our redemption. So, how is forgiveness and love, steadfast love and redemption, how are those three things connected in Psalm 130? Well, it starts with God's love. God sees those who are made in his image, who have rebelled against him. And he looks at us and he sees us in the depths. He sees us in a pit that we cannot climb out of because of our sin. He sees the weight, he knows the wages of our sin is death. And he hears our cries to God for mercy. And what happens when when when he when he hears the cries of his people for mercy, how does he respond? His heart of love compels him to gladly, to willingly pay the ransom himself that we might go free It's what we see in John 3. 16. For God so loved the world that he gave his only son that whoever believes in him will not perish but have eternal life. That's what makes forgiveness possible. The forgiveness of verse 4 is possible because of God's love and because of God's ransom. Forgiveness is only possible because of God's love and his ransom that he provides in verse 7. Don't forget that, Christian. Keep that at the center of your of your gaze this morning because the best antidote to our self-righteousness is to look at the cross and to remember that our salvation was costly. It was free to us. By grace you have been saved. But it cost Jesus his life But not only is the best antidote to self-righteousness to look at the cross, the best antidote to despair is to look at the cross. Because when you look at the cross, not only you see what he was willing to pay for our redemption. The cross is the best antidote to our despair because God willingly, lovingly laid down his life for us. He did it because of his great steadfast love. So when the psalmist says forgiveness, redemption, and steadfast love are with God. As his constant companions, he's saying that this is more than just something that God does. Forgiveness is more than something that God just does. He's saying this is who God is. When you come to God, you will always find with him as his companions forgiveness, redemption, steadfast love. You might hear that and think, I'm not sure I believe that. Sure, God may do loving things for us, but listen, you don't know what I've done. As for what I've done, I'm sure the best that God could do for me is tolerate me. You ever feel like God just tolerates you? Yes, Jesus died for me, but his heart is really just one of, oh, fine, I'll save you. I'm tolerating you. Do you ever feel like that? If you think that at best God in his heart tolerates you, look at Psalm 130. The answer to that thought is no. That's not right. That's not right thinking about who God is. The heart of God that is behind his forgiveness is a heart that is willing to pay the ransom. It's a heart that really, truly loves you. It's remarkable because it's who God is. It's not just something that he does, it's who God is. I love how verse 7 ends. With him is stingy, partial, half-hearted redemption. Is that what it says? Is that what your Bible says? No. With him is plentiful, overflowing, heaped up, waiting to deliver redemption. God is not stingy. God is not unwilling. His redemption is plentiful. It is abundant. God's heart longs to save. He doesn't wish that any would perish. He wishes that all would reach repentance. And so if you've blown it, if you think you're beyond the reach of God's love, because how bad you've blown it, then come to Him. This is God's heart, and what you will find is God's love. Every one of us is born into this world, walking away from God in rebellion, stiff arming him, not wanting anything to do with him, so that we can be our own gods. We don't want to follow him. We want to be in charge, doing what we want when we want, and that pride is at the heart of all of our sin. With God, Psalm 130 says, is steadfast love. With God is redemption. With God is forgiveness. But the path to hope begins with seeing that our greatest problem is unforgiven sin. If God should mark our iniquities, no one could stand. None of us. No matter how good you think you're doing. And again, if you're thinking, but you don't know what I've done? If I come to God, he's going to clobber me, then again, Psalm 130 says: if you turn from your sin, if you come to Christ, who is our redemption. You will not find God with a club ready to clobber you. You will find God with open arms ready to forgive you If you're not yet a Christian this morning. If you're not yet a follower of Christ, come to him. Don't wait. Don't put it off. Turn from your sin and trust in Jesus. He will receive you with open arms. And if you have questions about what it means to trust in him To give your life to him. Talk to one of the pastors here. Talk to Pastor John. Talk to talk to me. Talk to somebody who is a member here of the church. We would love to talk more with you about what it means to trust in Christ. If this is God's heart, what then is the result of God's for what's the result of God's forgiveness? Look at verse four. With you is there is forgiveness. What's the result? That you may be feared Doesn't that sound strange? You expect him to say, with you there is forgiveness that there may be a party and celebration and gratitude, and that's true. But this text says, with you there is forgiveness that you may be feared. And again, we tend to think of fear as oh, I'm gonna get whacked. That's not what he's meaning here. Here, fearing God means reverence, it means worship. When you come face to face with awesome, a 50-foot ocean wave, when you stand before the Grand Canyon and you when you see a volcano erupting with all its power And you come face to face with that, our response is Whoa. In the same way, when we see God's gracious response to sinners like us, who've stift-armed him and hated him and offended him, and yet he with him is abundant Plentiful redemption. Steadfast love. Forgiveness. When we finally see it for what it is. Response is whoa. With you as there's there is forgiveness that you may be feared. We worship. And so one of the things that we need to realize is that is that don't be reluctant to come to God because God is glorified in his forgiveness, forgiving us. We see the truth about God when he forgives. And so he's doing this for his glory. He's doing this for our good. So we should run to him knowing that. Isn't God amazing? When you see the heart of God, doesn't your heart say, whoa? I pray that it does And if that's the only response or application you have to this psalm, praise God. It's a right application. But let me give you two more implications. Just in light of Psalm 130, what does this mean for us? Let me give you two implications, two applications. Number one, humility. Being forgiven, being accepted and loved by God after we've offended him should soften our hearts. It should humble us It's easy to see other people's sin. It's hard or it's it's hard to see our own. It's easy for us to overlook our own sin or to at least belittle it. And the reality is that we need someone to come alongside us in our blind spots and say, I love you. Have you noticed this? And the psalmist is doing that for us this morning. Psalm 130 is not just the psalmist's personal private testimony. He's pointing out something that is a shared testimony of all of us this morning in our sin. But I want us to notice something that it's only after grieving his own sin in verses 1 through 6 that he then turns around in verse 7 and addresses the congregation. O Israel, hope in the Lord. He deals with his own business, his own sin, and then only after doing that does he then address the congregation. So we need humility to receive correction, but we also need humility to give correction. Jesus taught in Matthew 7, first take the log out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to take the speck out of your brother's eye When my wife worked as a structural engineer in downtown Chicago, nearly every project that she worked on uh involved litigation. I mean these are they were designing skyscrapers. There's millions of dollars involved in these projects. And so when somebody screws up, each group involved in the process of the design and construction of a skyscraper would sue each other. Because they don't want to lose money. This is a lot of money. And so there was one project where something went wrong, and the architect, the engineer, and the construction manager were all in the room and they were They all had their uh problems. They're ready to point their finger. You did this. You're at fault. They were going to blame each other and sue each other. And it's just kind of the way it goes. But what's interesting is that Katie's boss was a Christian. He was an elder at a local church, and he looked at the situation and he realized: you know what? At this area, we were wrong. And so in this meeting with the engineer, the architect and this construction manager, the engineer, her boss, said, you know what? This one is on us. This is our fault. And the architect and the construction managers, their jaw dropped, and they're like, this is new. What's going on here? What's the play here? And when the when when they got over the shock, the room cooled down. And it was interesting because they came up with solution without lawyers because of the humility of the engineer. Friends, if that can happen with engineers, how much more should we expect humility rather than a defensive blame shifting or accusation within the local church? How much more should you expect that humility at Chevrolet Baptist Church? What a wonderful and strange thing it is to be a Christian. That we would want the light of God's word exposing our hidden sin. Because we actually believe that it's for our good. Who else wants that? But we Christians, what a wonderful and strange thing. We want that because we want to be more like Christ. So pray that God continues to cultivate this honest gospel humility among the members at Chevrolet Baptist Church that you might show something different to a watching world. Implication number two. The first implication is humility. Implication number two is patience. All right, kids. Do you like waiting? Anybody want to raise their hands? I love waiting. I love waiting in lines. Anybody? No takers? No, no one likes waiting. And I think the younger you are, the harder I think that waiting can be. Because when you're young, your whole life is ahead of you and you and it looks like everybody's really living life, but you're the young person who has to wait until the next phase, until you get into high school, until you get into college, and then life will really begin, and so you have to wait and wait and wait. Your parents are telling you to wait, your teachers are telling you to wait. And so it feels like when you're young, like life just moves on like a slow turtle. And waiting is hard. You ever feel that way? Waiting's hard. And it's not just for young people, waiting is hard for all of us. No one likes waiting whether you're 10 years old or whether you're 80 years old And here's the thing, when you're hurting, when you're in the middle of a trial or suffering, waiting can feel impossible. That's why this psalmist is so desperate. God hear me! I'm in the depths, I'm in the pits! Life hurts When God leaves us to wait and it hurts, it leaves us weary. It leaves us feeling impatient. Frustrated. And yet the psalmist had to wait. Look at verse 5. I wait for the Lord. My soul waits. And in his word, I hope. My soul waits for the Lord more than the watchman for the morning, more than the watchman for the morning. Oh, Israel, hope in the Lord. Three times he mentions waiting And just to be clear, he's not waiting for God's forgiveness. He's not waiting for God to forgive him. In verse 4, he says, there is forgiveness. That's present tense. If you trust in Christ, you don't have to earn God's forgiveness or wonder if He'll forgive you one day. You are forgiven if you trust in Christ So what is he waiting for then? Well verse 6 says, my soul waits for the Lord. Having offended God, he's waiting for fellowship with God. He's waiting for joy of his salvation to return. He's waiting for satisfaction in God. And twice he uses this image of waiting, the image he uses of waiting is a watchman. A watchman is a person who would uh a city would have a city uh wall and a watchman is somebody that was in charge of security during the night. His job would be to s to sit or stand on the on the gate and watch the horizon for enemies. All night long. And if there was an enemy, he would cry out, and then they would come and defend the city. But if you're the watchman waiting all night long, exhausting. Waiting. Waiting. You're watching. And so when the dawn breaks and the sun begins to rise, the watchman breathes a sigh of relief His job is done for the night. And I think here's the point in using that image of the watchman. We too have to wait. Even after Christ came, we we're still we waited for Christ, now He's come, now we're waiting for His second coming. The basic posture of the Christian life involves waiting. And waiting can seem like it takes forever, but just as God tells the sun when to rise, we can be confident that God has appointed a time for our waiting to be over. We wait now, but we will not wait forever. There's a day when our waiting will be done. And so we tend to think in the middle of waiting That this present crisis that I'm in is the greatest, it's the most ultimate crisis, it's the biggest problem in my life. But I think if we could see our present problems that we're going through right now From the perspective of eternity, we would say otherwise. And I think Psalm 130 is challenging our personal triage regarding our current problems, and it provides an eternal perspective. This eternal perspective is not so that we don't care about our present crises. Psalm 130 is a reminder that we can face our present crises because we know the heart of God in it. Remember Romans 8:31, 32? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son, but delivered him over for us all, how will he not also with him freely, graciously give us all things? So, because our sin problem is taken care of, our biggest problem is taken care of, and God cannot go any further to show his heart for us, we can know that whatever we face today, he will freely, graciously give us all that we need. We sang about that in the song Yet Not I But Through Christ in Me. It's a wonderful song that reflects on that truth. So we need to remember. That Psalm 130 is not just a text in the Bible, it's a prayer. And prayer helps to close the gap between what we know in our heads To be true from Scripture, it closes the gap between our head and our heart. It brings it together. Prayer helps us to move from what we just know to be true to actually feeling that truth and resting in that truth. Let me ask you a question. What can you associate with the psalmist this morning? If I asked you, are you in the depths? Is there any way you can say, yeah, I'm in the pits? Could you describe that? What are the depths that you're in today Identify that. Talk about it with your family this afternoon. Talk about it over lunch. Talk about it with another member of the church. But don't just listen to this sermon. Don't just read Psalm 130. Once you identify that, then take time to pray. Use Psalm 130 as a template. Use it as a springboard for your own prayer life when you are in the pits. So that you say, it's not just out of the pits I cry, it's out of my depths I cry. Christian, there are seasons that we, like the psalmist, will have to wait. There is simply no five-step simple plan to instant happiness. As much as we wish there was sometimes. Sometimes life hurts. Sometimes we weep. Sometimes we're not satisfied. We have to wait for it. We wait for the Lord. More than the watchman of the morning. In other words, we wait with a sure hope. We wait in his word, and his word we hope. In the Lord we hope, and no one who waits for the Lord will be put to shame. We're about to celebrate the Lord's Supper together. And part of the Lord's Supper is looking back on what Christ did for us on the cross. But an important aspect of celebrating the Lord's Supper is also looking forward to the time when Christ comes again and we gather together around this great feast, this wedding feast. Together. And so when we eat when we eat the Lord's Supper together, we're looking forward to that day when Christ will come again and there will no longer be any pain or suffering or tears or sorrow or death. We look forward to that. We look forward to the day when our waiting will be done and faith shall be psyched. So celebrate that meal together in hope and in faith that Christ always keeps his word. Let's pray together. Father, we do thank you that you help us in our waiting That you have already provided the solution, the means of rescuing us from our greatest depths that our sin and rebellion have brought us into. And that knowing that, we can trust you for today and we can trust you for tomorrow. Help us, help Chevroly Baptist to be a church that waits in hope, that helps each other, that points each other back again and again to you, that is a community of people that is marked by confident humility. An openness to confess their sin and find hope in Christ. And to help each other make it to the end. To do that we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.