At some point in life, all of us will suffer. At some point in life, all of us will mourn. We will experience trials. And we will experience heartache. It may come through losing a loved one. It may come through being hurt by another person. It may come through realizing a dream for your life just isn't coming true. Well, there's really no end to the list of trials that we could come up with that we could all possibly experience in this life. The question that I have for you this morning, as we're thinking about mourning and suffering and trials is how do you respond to those trials? What do you do to make it through them? Where do you turn for hope? Is there any hope? These are questions that all of us face. And these are questions that all of us need answers to. And our passage this morning wonderfully provides us with answers to those questions and guidance for Christians who are suffering, guidance for all who are suffering. So let me invite you to turn in your Bible to Psalm 42. If you're using one of the Black Pew Bibles around you, you can find Psalm 42 on page 469. And also, if you don't have a Bible, if you don't own a Bible, please take the one that's in the chair next to you, those Black P Bibles. That's a gift from us to you. If you're not familiar with reading the Bible, what you're looking for is the large number 42 on page 469. That's going to be Psalm 42. And then when I talk about the verses, when I point you to different verses throughout the Psalm. in our time together this morning. Those are the smaller numbers that you see after that. I'm going to go ahead and read Psalm 42 for us now. This is God's word. To the choir master, a masculine of the sons of Korah. As a deer pants for flowing streams, so pants my soul for you, O God. My soul thirsts for God For the living God. When shall I come and appear before God? My tears have been my food day and night, while they say to me all the day long, where is your God? These things I remember as I pour out my soul, how I would go with the throng and lead them in procession to the house of God with glad shouts and songs of praise, a multitude keeping festival. Why are you cast down, O my soul? And why are you in turmoil within me? Hope in God, for I shall again praise Him, my salvation and my God My soul is cast down within me, therefore I remember you from the land of Jordan and of Hermon from Mount Mizar. Deep calls to deep at the roar of your waterfalls. All your breakers and your waves have gone over me. By day the Lord commands his steadfast love, and at night his song is with me. A prayer to the God of my life. I say to God, my rock, why have you forgotten me? Why do I go mourning because of the oppression of the enemy? As with a deadly wound in my bones, my adversaries taunt me while they say to me all the day long, where is your God? Why are you cast down, O my soul? And why are you in turmoil within me? Hope in God, for I shall again praise Him. My salvation and my God Psalm 42 opens wide its arms to those who are downcast. and welcomes them in to identify with the circumstances of the psalmist and to be taught by his example. You see that the psalm was written by the sons of Korah. These were musicians from the tribe of Levi placed in charge of temple worship by David and Solomon. It's likely that the psalm was written by one of them as it focuses on a single individual. But more important than the author of the psalm are his circumstances. Look at verse 3. He's in a state of constant sadness. Tears fill his eyes day and night. Then look at verse 5. He's downcast and in turmoil. You see the same refrain repeated again in verse 11. He's emphasizing that a deep Dark sadness has enveloped his soul. And what's causing it? What's causing this? Look at verse 3, the second half of verse 3, and then also verse 10. He's being mocked and taunted by his faith or for his faith by his enemies. And I think what's going on here is that the psalm is being written during the Assyrian exile. You'll notice that the Psalmist is writing in verse six from the land of Jordan and Hermon. That was the land far to the north of Jerusalem, which were both centrally located in the kingdom of Assyria. And so these enemies were likely his captors who were taunting him. Say, where is your God if he's so powerful? Let him come rescue you. And he's being taunted by them over and over again. This exile, this separation from God's presence was a devastating experience for an Israelite. To lose God and to be cast out of the land in exile was to lose God Himself. It was to lose all of the promises. It was to be forsaken as the people of God. And so in exile, he is wondering, where are you, God? Why is this trial happening to me? Where are you in the midst of my trial? Why do you not answer my questions? This is a life-altering event that has happened to this person. And it's causing questions about God's existence. Questions about whether God had forgotten him. Questions about his own response as he responds to this trial. Why are you cast down, O my soul? You can see him. Wrestling with what he knows to be true about God, but he also feels in his experience. It's the the common experience of trials in this life. You're just you're left swirling. It's like you're in a washing machine You know who God is, but how can this be true? And since all of us will at one time or another face circumstances like this, where we wonder where God is. Where we wonder why he isn't answering our questions. We wonder if he's forgotten about us. Since circumstances like this will be true for all of us, I want us to consider the guidance that this psalm provides. For those who are downcast. When you're downcast, despondent, even despairing and wondering where God is in the midst of trials, there are six things. That you should remember. Six things this Psalm teaches us to remember. And the first is, remember that only God can quench your thirst. Look at verses 1 and 2. The separation from God that he's experienced calls forth in him a deep yearning for God. Notice how he describes himself He's as a deer panting, a deer yearning for a cool drink of water in the hot sun that would have been common in the barren wilderness that existed outside of Israel. And this is an image. It's actually hard for us to relate to, right? We can picture it in our minds. Yes, an animal that's hot and needs water. He wants to go to this water. We can picture our minds, but to relate to this experience means that we would have had to have been put in a position where we literally didn't have water available to us. And in our culture Uh that's just not common. We have water fountains right back there. If you're thirsty, you can go to the bathroom, put your mouth under the faucet, you can bring bottles of water with you to church. Struggling for thirst, being on the brink of dying from parched thirst is not something that we often experience. Without water, the deer had no chance for survival. And so when the psalmist likens his yearning for God to the yearning of the animal for water that will sustain his life, he's saying that without God, Without God in the midst of this trial, he has no hope of enduring this particular trial. And that's what's most remarkable about the psalmists. response right imagine the the the the infinite number of places that he could have turned to to quench his thirst in the midst of this trial he could have turned to a spouse He could have turned to another family member. He could have turned to another friend. Or he could have just turned to any number of things that just simply served as a distraction to keep his mind off of the trial and off of his circumstances, but instead he turns directly to the one who alone is able to provide the life-giving water that he needs. You see, periods of mourning and sorrow and grief that are so common in this life have a way of exposing the empty wells that all of us normally turn to in these trials to look for spiritual water. When we enter into seasons of sorrow, when our faith is tested, we will inevitably go in search for something to fill the emptiness inside. Some of us are prone to look for that in a job. When trials come, we'll cast ourselves wholeheartedly into our work. Thinking that somehow we'll find fulfillment in that, something to fill the void while we're suffering. Right? Others of us fill that void, quench that thirst in shopping. Thinking that buying new things will somehow sustain us. Others of us sink it and seek it in affirmation from family and friends. And so we turn to Instagram or Twitter and Facebook. We turn them into wells of water to find something to quench our thirst But these things were never meant to be wells to fill that void. They simply can't sustain the the r the responsibility that we give to them to to fill the void in our souls. None of these things ever do because they weren't created to provide the life-giving water that we all need and are all in search of. Maybe you're here and you're not sure about Christianity, but you're interested in learning more about that. If that's you, I'm glad that you're here. I'm so glad that you've come to this service. If that's you, if you're not sure about Christianity, I wonder if you've ever considered how Christianity, of all the religions in the world, best explains reality. Here's what I mean. You see, Christianity doesn't explain away our desires as the source of our suffering, as Buddhism would. Nor does it teach that our unquenchable quest for fulfillment is merely the byproduct of an unguided, purposeless, meaningless process, as atheism does. Right now, you see, Christianity offers a better explanation for our experience in this world It says that we were created by an all-loving and all-wise God who created us to live in perfect relationship with Him. But our first parents chose to seek spiritual fulfillment away from him, disobeying him, breaking his God's law, and through that sinned and rebelled against him and were cast out of his presence. And since then, all human beings who were born from them, which all have been, all of us have been seeking and searching. Questing for that that fulfillment, that spiritual water to fill the void in our hearts And we try to find it in things that simply never will. And the Bible teaches that our quest to find meaning and fulfillment apart from God are not a simple misunderstanding or mistake. But they point to a deeper rebellion against him that he has promised to punish completely. Yet the same God sent his son Jesus to come and seek and save the lost. Those who are seeking water from wells that are empty and dry, and he did that by offering his life as a sacrifice upon the cross bearing the penalty for our sins, and by rising again from the grave three days later, showing that God accepted his sacrifice, so that all who turned to him in faith and repentance would be forgiven of their sins and would find in him a well of living water that never runs dry. Friends, in the midst of trials, if you follow Christ, you will find no other well of living water to turn to that will quench your thirst like Jesus will. He is the only place that you can turn for the life-giving water that you so desperately need. Recall even Jesus' words to the woman at the well. What did he say to her? Whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will become in him a spring of water welling up to eternal life. In the midst of trials, remember that only God can quench your thirst. But second, remember also the importance of the church during your trials. Look at verse 4 of the psalm The psalmist's separation from God leads him to reflect on the joy he experienced worshiping God with God's people. Notice how he describes leading crowds of people in song as they traveled together to the house of God. So the house of God was the temple, and the temple was the unique place where God manifested himself. It's where the people of Israel came to meet God, and it served as the central location for Israelite festivals and worship. And so what the psalmist is doing here is he's looking back on and remembering that special experience of coming into God's presence with God's people. And I say it was a special experience because in the Old Testament it was, according to the yearly worship calendar in the Old Testament Corporate worship like this where you gathered with crowds of people to go to the temple only occurred a few times a year around particular festivals. And so in the midst of his trial, he's recalling the joy that he experienced during those special celebrations at the temple. And this unique experience of worshiping God in the presence of his people isn't something that's limited to the Old Testament, right? God has made Jesus the new temple. The place where true worshipers come to meet God. And not only do true worshipers come to God through Jesus, But God comes to us through the power of His Holy Spirit. He takes up personal residence and all who follow him by the power of the Holy Spirit And while we have the unique experience of living individually in the presence of God by the power of the Holy Spirit, God has also given the local church to his people for us to come together as one body to worship him and to build one another up. Right, so instead of a few times a year of coming together to the temple, gathered worship is now weekly. Instead of going to the temple, believers gather in local churches wherever they live Instead of performing elaborate festivals and rituals, Christians gather together to hear the word, to sing the word, to pray the word, and to see the word performed in baptism. and the Lord's Supper. And all of this is aimed at building up and encouraging greater and deeper faith in God's people. Right? So it may surprise some of you to know that the New Testament has absolutely no category for Christians who aren't part of churches. To be a Christian, according to the New Testament, is to be a member of a local church. The idea that one can live as a Christian apart from a local church is more a product of American individualism than it is of biblical Christianity. The Bible teaches that Christians join churches. And one of the purposes for the local church is so that suffering Christians would not suffer alone. God has given the gathered church to suffering Christians as a place to be comforted. Consider Paul's words to the Corinthians, were to mourn with those who mourn. He's given the church to suffering Christians to be refreshed when the trials, when the suffering Christian is thirsting for God, the church gathers around them and sings for them when they're unable to sing. That's what we're doing in our songs this morning. We're not just singing for ourselves to God, but we're reminding one another of the truths of God. That in the midst of suffering, when it feels like our life is about to give way, God will hold us fast. In the midst of suffering, when we're when we're looking for hope in the things of this world, we're reminded that it's in Christ alone. He is our only hope. He is our life, our strength, our joy. We're gathering around to refresh those who are suffering, to mourn with those who mourn. And he's given the church to the suffering Christian to be reminded. To be reminded That God's work is most powerfully seen in the midst of the most hopeful circumstance, hopeless circumstances. God's power is most powerfully seen in the midst of the most hopeless circumstances because when we gather each week, we're gathering to celebrate the fact. that the darkest and most despairing and hopeless moment in life when the Son of God was crucified on the cross wasn't the end. But the Lord Jesus Christ got up from the grave. And as he got up from the grave, light and joy and eternal hope sprang forth In his resurrection from the dead. And so if you're facing trials today and facing hopeless circumstances, you can know for certain that hopelessness and sorrow and despair are not the last word for the Christian Hope in God, for you will again praise Him. Remember the importance of the local church in your trials. Third, remember, God is sovereign over your trials. Look at verses 6 and 7. Look at verses 6 and 7. Though he's mourning and in sorrow and separated from God, the psalmists Resolves to remember God. And in verse 7, he uses the image of water, these breakers and waves. He uses that image to describe the experience of his trials. Right, so in the Old Testament, the ocean and the floodwaters and images of water represented chaos and judgment. And so he's describing the bewildering effect. That trials and suffering have on our experience in life. It feels as though wave upon wave is crashing upon him and he's going to drown. But notice, this is what I want you to see, notice who the psalmist says the waves and breakers come from. Look down at the psalm. All your breakers and your waves have gone over me. These sufferings, these trials come from God. The psalmist rests in the reality that as bewildering as his trials are, he takes comfort in the fact that God is sovereign over all of them. Right now, when I say that God is sovereign over trials, I don't mean that God is responsible for evil acts that lead to suffering. The Bible is crystal clear that God is never the author of sin. And nor do I mean to say that God is responsible for the sinful choices that we make in our life that bring about grief and suffering and trials. Now the fact that God is sovereign means that no decision of man can ever disrupt thought or stand in the way of God's purposes. for his people. So powerful is his control over all of creation that any actions meant for evil, he's able to ultimately use for good. in carrying out his purposes. And if you're here as a Christian today, I want you to see and experience the bottomless well of comfort that this provides in the midst of your suffering. Regarding God's sovereignty, Charles Spurgeon said this. There is no attribute more comforting to his children than that of God's sovereignty. Under the most adverse circumstances, in the most severe trials, they believe that sovereignty, God's sovereignty, has ordained their afflictions That God's sovereignty overrules them, and that God's sovereignty will sanctify them all. There is nothing for which the children of God ought more earnestly to contend than the doctrine of their master over all creation. the kingship of God over all the works of his own hands, the throne of God, and God's right to sit upon that throne. Friends, in the midst of your trials, in the midst of suffering, in the midst of sorrow, you can know that a loving and sovereign God is over all things. and is working in and through all things to bring about his perfect purposes in your life and in the life of all of his people, which is the salvation of his church. Even when it feels like you're drowning in the sorrows and trials of life, you can stand firm and know that whether or not you ever understand why you're suffering, You can know that God has not allowed it for no purpose. And He is using it to bring about His plans Plans that ultimately none of us would ever change. John Newton said this: if it were possible for me to alter any part of God's plan for my life, I could only spoil it The reality is that when we get to heaven and look back on this life, the only thing that any of us will ever change is our sin. You will look back from heaven in the presence of God and see the masterpiece that He has been working in all of creation, in all people, in all nations, this tapestry that expanses all of human history to bring about his purposes to save his people through his son Jesus Christ. And you will see how he used your suffering and your trials and your sorrows to bring about that glorious plan and you will not change any of it because it will be perfect. If it were possible for us to alter any part of his plan, we could only spoil it. God in his infinite wisdom and power is working in and through our trials to bring about our salvation. So even if you feel like you're drowning in the midst of your suffering, you can call God what this psalmist calls it. Even after he describes them as though he's drowning, he calls God my rock. That's the reality of the Christian life. When you feel like you're drowning in the midst of your trials and sorrows, you yet stand upon a rock. that you will ultimately rise upon, the Lord Jesus Christ. So in your sufferings, in your trials, remember that God is sovereign. Fourth, remember God's love for you in your trials. Remember God's love for you in your trials. Look at verse 8. The psalmist turns from considering God's sovereignty behind his present circumstances in verse 7 to considering God's love towards him in verse 8. You notice in verse 3, if you look back at verse 3, he was in tears day and night because of his trials. Yet at the same time, we see here in verse 8 that he's reflecting on God's love for him, a love That's as strong during the day as it is at night. Right? And it's this collision of realities present in the Psalm that so perfectly captures life in a fallen world, right? It's the collision of tears and truth. When the reality of trials and the sadness come from that come from it collides with what we know about God and we know about his love for us. And we kind of circle through those things. Why, God? But I know that your steadfast love is present for me. But why is this happening? But your song is with me at night. Anyone who suffered as a Christian knows what this experience is like. And it's an experience that can often lead a person to question how a God who loves them would even allow them to experience trials like this. And this is where we need to be instructed by the psalmist. Notice what he calls it. He calls it God's steadfast love. God's steadfast love. God's steadfast love is the love that God uniquely has for and shows towards his covenant people. For you, if you are in Christ. And He's commanded His steadfast love for you He's ordained that you should receive it. And nothing that God commands or decrees or ordains can ever be overturned. His decision to love you is fixed in the heavens. He will not reverse, repeal, or overturn his decision to love you because his love for you has been sealed by the blood of his son. Jesus Christ, who willingly laid down his life for you. God loves us when he saves us Yet he loves us too much to leave us as we are. And so in his sovereign wisdom, he allows trials into our lives in order to slowly and continually shape and fashion us more and more into the likeness of his son Jesus Christ. And this hurts This hurts. Some of you may remember, if you're old enough, Jessica McClure. She was a 18-month-old girl who back in 1987 fell into a tiny well in her aunt's yard back in Mid Midland, Texas. And Jessica, as an 18-month-old, stuck in this well, 22 feet below ground, was there for 58 hours. Wedged underneath the ground as rescue workers fought tirelessly to save her. And when the rescue workers finally got close enough to her, they reached her, they realized that the way that she was wedged into the well. meant that they might have to break her bones in order to get her out of the well. And that's when you heard on the news, there's a news clip where you hear it clearly the lead rescuer yells, Pull hard. She doesn't have more time. You may need to break her to rescue her. That's what the experience of trials can often seem like in this life, like God is breaking us. And we can be sure that he is. He is breaking us from dependence on self, from trusting in the things of this world. causing us to cling more tightly to him. And yet the breaking is never a separating. No, there is no trial so great that could ever separate you from the love of Christ. Not tribulation, nor distress, nor persecution, nor famine, nor nakedness, or danger, nor sword, not infertility or unemployment or cancer or powers nor height nor depth nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. Remember God's love for you in your trials. Fifth Fifth, remember that you won't always have your questions answered. One of the most common responses to trials in this life is to ask why, right? Why me? Why would this happen? Why would this happen to that person who's such a good person? We ask it almost instinctively in response to trials. And you see this reality played out in our psalm. Look at how many times he asks why. Look down at the Psalm with me. In verse 5. Why are you cast down, O my soul? Why are you in turmoil within me? Then in verse 9, to God, why have you forgotten me? Why do I go mourning because of the oppression of the enemy? Then in verse 11, if you think you won't ask the same questions over and over again in the midst of trial, just see how the psalmist asks the same questions over and over again. Why are you cast down? Why are you in turmoil? Then you see him repeat the question that his enemies keep posing to him in verses 3 and 10. Where is your God? Right, where is your God? They're taunting him because his God seems to have abandoned him and not rescuing him. And he's essentially using their question as a question for God. Why are you allowing this to happen to me? Where are you? And what I want us to notice is not just the questions, but the lack of answers. God doesn't respond. Why God? Why have you forgotten me? Why would you allow this to happen to me? Why haven't you healed me? Why haven't you given us a child And all too often the response that we receive is silence. It's silence And the sting of silence from God can often be worsened by the response of well-meaning Christians, right? You see, most of us, if we're honest, struggle to know how to respond to those who are suffering. Right? We want to find something to say to make it okay and to make them feel better. And so we say things like, don't worry, God's going to show you why this happened. Or someday this will all make sense. In this life, you'll find out why When the reality is, it may not ever make sense. Not in this life. We may not get answers to all the questions about our suffering in this life We may never know why certain trials have occurred in life, and that is okay. In fact, when God leaves our most pressing questions unanswered, It's then that he's most clearly refining our faith. Because faith is trusting God when there are no answers. Faith is trusting God when there are no answers. Kids, I want to challenge you guys to really consider this and to think about this. So many people think today that having a relationship with Jesus and following him means life will be easy, that it'll be fun and good and everything will go well for you, that nothing bad will ever happen to you. But the reality is quite the opposite. Honestly, if you choose to follow Jesus, you will definitely face challenges and trials in this life. And you'll ask God why these things are happening to you. You'll ask Him why you're suffering, why you're facing these trials. And you need to know that you may not get an answer. You may not get an answer. But here's where I want to encourage you, and here's where I want to encourage all of us. The goal of our faith is not answers. The goal of our faith is God. Our faith is in God God. Our faith is not in God providing answers. Otherwise, it wouldn't be faith. To need all the answers is to put conditions on your relationship with God. God, I will serve you, I will follow you if you tell me why this is happening. But that is not the way that God works. He won't have conditions placed upon him. He calls for absolute faith to follow him even when answers are not given because he is the point of our faith and he knows that and he leaves questions unanswered to teach us that because in leaving questions unanswered we're forced to cast ourselves more fully upon him. And in casting ourselves more fully upon him, we come to know him more fully as the all-sufficient God. The all-sufficient God who sustains us in our weakness and draws us closer to Him in the midst of life's unanswered questions. Remember that you won't always have your questions answered. But finally, finally, remember that your trials Will end. Your trials will end. Look at me at verse 11 Why are you cast down, O my soul? And why are you in turmoil within me? Hope in God, for I shall again praise Him. My salvation and my God. Though the psalmist is in the midst of despair, he resolutely instructs himself to hope in God He's a great example of what you and I should do in times of trial. We should instruct ourselves with the with the words of Scripture, with the truths about God. And why can he tell himself to hope in God? Because he knows that he will again praise God. And notice what gives him this confidence that he'll praise God again. Look down with me at that last line in our psalm. Notice what he calls God my salvation. He instructs himself to hope in God. Knowing that his trials will come to an end, knowing that he will praise God again because God is his salvation. You see, in the midst of trials, we all grasp for something to hope in, something to assure us that eventually everything will be okay. But we need to be honest about what provides true hope and what doesn't. Right? If there is no God. If there is no God, then hope itself is an illusion. It's a mental trick that we play on ourselves to help ourselves feel better We can hope in any number of things, but ultimately we all die and we will all be consumed by the hopelessness that is an eternal blackness and destruction of all things that will come. That is the reality underneath the fact that they're or the proposition that there is no God. What we need is a true hope that death cannot touch. And that is what Christianity alone can provide, because only in Christianity do we find something to put our hope in that death cannot touch. And that is God himself. In the Bible, we come to know the God who not only exists, but who understands our suffering. And why does he understand it? Because he took on flesh and became a man. And he experienced the trials and sufferings of living in a fallen world. And we see how even this psalm is ultimately fulfilled in his life and points forward to him. Jesus Christ. took on flesh and knew the depths of despair that descend upon a person when all hope seems to be lost. Think about the despair that Jesus experienced in the garden before his crucifixion when he said, my soul is very sorrowful. Even unto death. And he knew the stinging pain of being mocked and taunted by his enemies for his faith in God. Remember his experience on the cross. When the chief priests and scribes mocked him like the enemies mocked the psalmist in Psalm 42, saying, He saved others. He cannot save himself. He is the king of Israel. Let him come down now from the cross, and we will believe in him. Trusting God, let God save him now desires him. Mocked upon the cross, the Son of God was, despaired of his soul. And not only that, but he, more than any of us, knew the crushing weight of unanswered questions because his life ended with unanswered questions. My God! My God! Why have you forsaken me? His life ended with unanswered questions. You see the sweetness that this offers to you, Christian. Jesus knows what your experiences of suffering are like. When the Bible tells us that he sympathizes with us in our weakness, it is not giving us a platitude He experienced the trials and sufferings of life to a far greater degree than any of us will ever experience, and he does it. So that he can sympathize with us, so that we when we come to him and pour out our souls and we ask God these questions, he can say to you, I have had these same questions. I know what that experience is like. I know what hopelessness feels like, but take heart, Christian. Not only am I mediating for you now, but I rose from the grave. I gave you an eternal hope, a sure hope that cannot be consumed by hopelessness or despair or sorrowing. It will not be consumed by unanswered questions. It will not be consumed by death. Because even if you die with unanswered questions in this life, you will yet rise again. That is what Jesus Christ says to us. And he holds out that sure promise to all that if you put your trust in him And follow him, you can know the hope of being forgiven by God and the promise that ultimately your trials will end. Because what we always have to keep our eyes fixed on as Christians is that your destiny, your ultimate destiny, is not this world. You were made for a better world, and to a better world you are going, a world where there will be no more mourning, nor crying, nor pain. There will only be ceaseless praise, for we will again praise him. Our salvation and our God. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come to you as those who do experience trials. As those who do experience suffering, as those who are weak and mourning, who have tears fill our eyes day and night because of our sufferings in this world, we have questions We wonder where you are. We wonder whether you love us. We wonder whether you're in control. And we know that you are, Father. So we pray that you would help us to have deeper faith in times of trial. Oh Lord Jesus, we know that you sympathize with us. We pray that you would bring our prayers to the Father and that He would give us comfort in our sufferings. An assurance of your love, and remind us that the sufferings of this present age are not worthy to be compared with the glory that is to be revealed to the sons and daughters of God. Place this reality deep within our heart today. Convince us of it. And help us to mourn with one another as we walk through this life, we pray. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, friends, I think it's right for us now as we turn to the Lord's Supper to consider. To consider the reality that Jesus' death upon the cross, his sorrow before his death upon the cross in the Garden of Gethsemane. When his soul was sorrowful even unto death. His being handed over by one of his own followers, being betrayed by one of his own disciples His being mocked and beaten by the Roman soldiers, his taking a wooden cross full of splinters upon his beaten back and carrying it to Galgotha, where he would be nailed to that cross and hanged for hours, being mocked and scorned that all of this happened because of our sins. So it's right for us as we come to the Lord's Supper now. And to confess our sins to God. And Jonathan Lehman will come and lead us in confessing our sins.