Good morning. It's a pleasure to be here with you all today. I'm excited to open up God's Word and to hear what He has to say to us today. But before we do that, we want to pray again briefly that God would give us wisdom to understand his word. So let's do that now. Please pray with me. Lord, apart from your spirit, we simply have no hope of understanding the true intent and meaning of your words. But we know that you desire to be understood and you've sent your word for a purpose that you might save the lost through it, that you might sanctify your people. And we pray that you would do that this morning in the power of the Holy Spirit. Lord, grant the Spirit to give wisdom, to open hearts and minds, to receive your word with joy, we ask. In Jesus' name, amen. Well, friends, go ahead and turn with me in your Bibles to Mark chapter 11. This morning, we're going to be looking specifically at verses 1 to 11. And if you're using the Bible that we've provided for you in the seats, you'll find our passage on page 847 Uh and if you don't own a Bible, uh we'd encourage you to take a copy of one of the Bibles that we provided as a gift from us to you. There's nothing more that we would want than for you to have a copy of God's Word. We believe The God that exists, who created all things, who has spoken, has spoken in the Old and New Testaments contained in the Holy Scriptures, and that in opening them you can hear him speak for yourself. So we want to encourage you to take a copy of the Bible that's there if you don't have one. Also, if you're not really familiar with with reading a Bible, Uh you're not in it all that often. Uh when we talk about Mark chapter eleven, we're looking for the big bold number eleven. That's the chapter number. And then we're gonna be looking at the smaller numbers one through eleven following the big bold number. That's those are the verse numbers. We continue today in our study through the Gospel of Mark, and our passage this morning is really a major turning point in Mark's Gospel. Alright, so Jesus has been teaching his disciples over and over again in chapters 9 and 10 that he's headed to Jerusalem, and when he arrives in Jerusalem, he will be arrested. He'll be tried, he'll be condemned, and he'll be crucified. And our passage this morning documents the events surrounding his arrival in Jerusalem. And what you're going to notice If you're paying close attention to Mark's gospel, is that the speed with which Mark has been recounting events in the life of Jesus is going to slow down to a crawl. Think about this. Mark chapters 1 to 10, Mark recounts the events that take place over a roughly three-year period. He dedicates ten chapters to three years, and now he's going to dedicate six entire chapters, seven entire chapters to one week. And this isn't the only gospel that this happens in. In Matthew's gospel, Matthew devotes eight chapters to this one week. Luke devotes six chapters, and John devotes ten. What does that mean for us? Well, each of the gospel writers is just trying to underscore how central for us the death and resurrection of Jesus was were in the minds of the gospel writers and how central Jesus' death and resurrection is in understanding his mission when he came to earth. So, how did Jesus' entrance into Jerusalem unfold? Well, let me go ahead and read the passage for us. You should follow along silently as I read this aloud to us now. Mark chapter 11 verses 1 to 11. This is God's Word. Now, when they drew near to Jerusalem, to Bethphage and Bethany, at the Mount of Olives, Jesus sent two of his disciples and said to them, Go into the village in front of you, and immediately as you enter it, you will find a colt tied, on which no one has ever sat. Untie it and bring it If anyone says to you, Why are you doing this? Say, The Lord has need of it, and we'll send it back here immediately. And they went away and found a colt tied at a door outside in the street, and they untied it. And some of those standing there said to them, What are you doing untying the colt? And they told them what Jesus had said, and they let them go. And they brought the colt to Jesus and threw their cloaks on it, and he sat on it. And many spread their cloaks on the road, and others spread leafy branches that they had cut from the fields And those who went before and those who followed were shouting: Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Blessed is the coming kingdom of our Father David. Hosanna in the highest. And he entered Jerusalem and went into the temple. And when he had looked around at everything, as it was already late, he went out to Bethany with the twelfth. Uh often uh after reading the passage, I will give what I understand the main point of the sermon to be and then maybe provide uh an outline for you to follow along with. But I think the the passage this morning lends itself best to looking at the thing, the the the passage as a whole. And I think as we after we look at it as a whole, we'll understand what the main point is, and then I'm going to draw out two applications for us. So what I want to do is just work through the text together. You guys can follow along. I'm just going to explain verse by verse what the passage says, what it means, and then what it means for us. So go ahead and look down with me. Look at verse 1. We see that Jesus is just outside of Jerusalem on the Mount of Olives. Uh the Mount of Olives is a a small range of four summits that ran north to south on the east side of Jerusalem. And it was So close that if you were standing on one of the summits of the Mount of Olives, you would have a clear view into the city and could even see the temple quite clearly from the summit of the Mount of Olives. And the Mount of Olives is really a biblically significant location. It appears again and again throughout the Old Testament and again in the New Testament. So we think about David when his son Absalom uh led a coup against David. David fled. Through the Mount of Olives and beyond them as he fled from Absalom's attack. Then King Solomon, towards the end of his life, built places of worship for the pagan gods Kemosh and Molech on the Mount of Olives Or you think about the book of Ezekiel in chapters 8 to 11, after the Lord sees the corruption that is taking place in his temple, the glory of the Lord departs the temple. Stops on the summit of the Mountain of Olives, looks back, and then leaves altogether. Then Zechariah in chapter 14 predicted that when God comes in judgment His feet would touch down on the Mount of Olives. And we see Jesus in the Gospels. He weeps over Jerusalem. He foretells the destruction of the temple from the Mount of Olives. And he visits the Garden of Gethsemane here. What does all that mean for us? Well, it means that when you're reading the Bible and you see a significant location like this come up, one that has shown up throughout the biblical storyline, you just want to be aware that something significant is probably taking place. And what we'll find out is that something significant is taking place. The towns that you see there listed in verse 1, Bethphage and Bethany, were both situated on the Mount of Olives. And Bethany was a town that Jesus stayed in whenever he visited Jerusalem. Think of his relationship with Mary and Martha, or with Lazarus. They lived in Bethany. And what happens in the rest of the passage is pretty straightforward. Jesus sends two of his disciples into a nearby village. He doesn't say what village it is in Matthew. Matthew tells us it's Bethphage. But more important is what he tells his disciples to do. So look at verses 2 to 4. Verses 2 to 4, he tells them that as soon as they enter the village, they're going to find a cult that is tied up There to untie the colt and bring it back to him. But then he says to them, hey, if somebody asks you why you're doing that, just tell them that the Lord needs it and he'll send it back here as soon as he's done with it. So then if you're looking at verses 4 to 6, the disciples just do what Jesus told them to do. In verse 4, they go into the village, and lo and behold, there's a cult. It's tied up, just as Jesus said there would be. So the disciples untie it, but as they are untying it, somebody says to them, Hey, what are you doing with that colt? Why are you untying it? And Mark tells us they said to the people what Jesus told them to say, and everything worked out well. The people let them go, and in verse 7, they bring the cult to Jesus. Pretty straightforward, right? Jesus wants a cult. He sends his disciples to get a cult, and they bring him a cult That's really all that's going on here. I think a question we might want to ask ourselves though is what why do we need to know that this happened Right, well, why are these details provided? Couldn't Mark have been a lot more concise and just said to us in his gospel? Jesus came near to Jerusalem at the Mount of Olives, and after sending his disciples to retrieve a cult, he rode into Jerusalem. Well, I mean it basically tells us the same thing, right? His disciples would go get a cult? Why do we have these details here? What is Mark telling us all this for? Just seems like unnecessary information, doesn't it? And I think obviously I think it would be, I think the answer is that it would be unnecessary unless there was something in that information that is significant for us. And what we find is that there is. I honestly I think in all of the passages that I've studied so far in Mark, no other passage has been more plain. And yet more surprising. Like, whoa my gosh, this passage is a lot like a piece of stained glass or a stained glass window. Consider if you've ever uh walked by a stained glass window at night, it just looks kind of ugly. It's a dark piece of glass that you can't see through and you have no idea what's actually inside of it. But what happens when the sun comes out? It shines through the stained glass, and you're like, whoa, there is so much more in this pane of glass. than I previously thought, and I think that this passage is a lot like a piece of stained glass. It looks pretty dull. Pretty plain on the surface. Jesus wants a cult. They get him a cult. He gets on the cult. Great. But then when you see the sun and the light of the old testament line up behind this passage, you start to realize Whoa, there is so much more here than I originally thought, and that's what I hope us to see this morning. The first thing I want to point out that's unique about this passage that we should recognize Is that nowhere else in Jesus' ministry ever is there any record whatsoever of Jesus riding an animal? He walks. He rides in boats, but never ever is he recorded as riding an animal. It's like he stays away from riding animals or the gospel writers stay away from recording him riding on animals so that there would be no chance that this event would be misunderstood because of how significant it actually is. But there are other details in this passage that I want us to notice this morning and I want to point out. So that we just grasp kind of the fullness of what is going on here. So what I'm about to do is I'm about to go back to the Old Testament, and it's going to seem like I'm jumping around and Typically, my fear is as a pastor when I do something like this that you check out. Because this is like, where is he going with all of this? This doesn't make any sense, right? And it's easy to check out. Let's uh let's just be honest. It's not it's not easy to stay connected with someone when they're talking about something and they're just jumping around. But here's what I want you to do. I want you to really kind of try to grasp what's going on here. I want you to lock in on what's going on in the Old Testament so that when the payoff comes, you can do what I did and go like, whoa, that was amazing. That's awesome. And if you don't, it's okay. God's Spirit will use this in some way, somehow. So the first detail I want us to notice. Did you notice the seemingly odd repetition of the words tied and untied? Look at verse 2. Jesus says to his disciples, Go into the village in front of you, and immediately as you enter it, you will find a colt tied on which no one has ever sat. Untie it and bring it. Then look at verse 4. They went and found a colt tied, and they untied it. Then in verse 5, the people say to them, standing there, what are you doing? Untying the colt. Okay, we get it. Mark, mark. The colt was tied and it needed to be untied. Why are you beating us over the head with this seemingly meaningless detail? And I think it's because Mark wants us to see how Jesus is fulfilling a promise that was made all the way back in the book of Genesis at the very beginning. So if you're not familiar with the Bible, at the beginning of the Bible, Adam creates man and woman, Adam and Eve. He creates them to live under his rule And they choose to disobey God. They are tempted by the serpent, by Satan, they sin against God, and God curses the world world, and they fall from grace, and now they're under God's judgment. And God, after they sinned, pronounces a curse on Adam and Eve for disobeying him, and then he pronounces a curse on the serpent. And what he says to the serpent is this: I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your offspring and her offspring. He shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel. Simply put. God promises that from the woman there will be a seed, an offspring, a child, a person who comes to crush the head of the serpent, yet who is injured in the process. So immediately in Genesis, there is a hope that is created, an expectation that someone would come and crush the head of the serpent. And one of the main purposes of the book of Genesis is to trace the lineage of that seed. that offspring, so that we can know, hey, this is the family line that the offspring who will come and defeat the serpent is going to come from. So? What we do in Genesis is we keep a lookout for the offspring or the seed, and we see in chapters 6 to 9 that it will come to Noah. God makes a covenant with Noah and with his offspring, his seed after him. The seed is going to come from Noah. Then to Noah is born Shem. And Toshem is born Abram. Stick with me here. We're still on it. Stick with me. And God makes a covenant with Abraham and his offspring after him. And then God makes the same promise to Abraham's son Isaac, and then to Isaac's son Jacob. The seed who will crush the serpent is going to come from Jacob's serpent. family. One of his sons will produce this child. But Jacob has 12 sons. Oh my gosh, which one of them is it going to come to? You would think if you're reading Genesis that it's going to come to Joseph. Joseph is j is Jacob's favorite son, but it does not. In chapter 49, at the end of the book of Genesis, where the seed was promised at the very beginning, now at the very end, we find out. which son this seed is going to come from. As Jacob is about to die, he calls his sons to him to gather around so that he can blessed them. One thing to note about blessings from parents to children in the Old Testament is that they were prophetic. They were predictive. Whatever the parent said about the child would come true. It's not like if we bless and pray for our friends, we don't determine the future. But these blessings in the Old Testament very much did. And Jacob, when blessing his sons said this to his son Judah. This is where the payoff comes. Judah, your brothers shall praise you. Your hand shall be on the neck of your enemies. Think, crush the head of the serpent. Your hand shall be on the neck of your enemies. Your father's sons shall bow down before you The scepter shall not depart from Judah, nor the ruler's staff from between his feet. A king will come from Judah. until tribute comes to this king, and to him shall be the obedience of the peoples. And that king, Jacob says, will tie his donkey to a vine. and his cult to a choice vine. Jesus says to them, go into the town and you will find a cult. Tied, untie it and bring it to me. The disciples go into the town and they find a colt tied and they untie it. And the people say to them, Why are you untying the colt? Mark is wanting us to say, Hey, hey Remember Genesis 49 and the promise to Judah, this king who would come, who would hold the scepter, who would crush the head of the serpent, he will have a donkey that is tied to a vine. So we're supposed to see that this chosen seed, this child who would come and crush the head of the serpent, would come through Noah, and then Abraham, and then Isaac, and then Jacob, and then Judah, and this child will rule over his enemies, his brothers will bow down to him. He will be a king who holds a scepter. The peoples of the world will come to obey him, and he will own, have, and ride a donkey that is tied to a vine. That's not the only detail that's going on here. There's more. Notice in verse 4. Jesus tells his disciples that they'll find a cult tied up that's never been written. And they would know that it's never been written because when they come to find it, it would be without what we would call a saddle, which is why the disciples then throw their cloaks on it in verse 7 so that when Jesus gets on it, it's more comfortable. But what's important for us is that he wants a cult that has never been ridden. The fact that he needed a cult that had never been written communicates something of the uniqueness and importance of this event. That the cult had never been written shows that it was being set apart for special use. Why do I say that? Because in the Old Testament, animals that were offered as sacrifices or that were used for special religious purposes were never meant to be used, yoked, or worked in any way. They were supposed to have not been ridden. Just like the one, the animals, the cows that were called to carry the Ark of the Covenant. God says to them, get two cows That have never been yoked before, so they can carry my presence. Just like this donkey who has never been yoked before or ridden before is going to carry the sovereign Lord. You see the kind of religious significance of what's going on here. He needs a pure animal because he's going to carry the pure sovereign Lord into his city and to his temple. And then look at how the crowds of people respond to him after he climbs onto the colt. Look at what they do. They start throwing their cloaks on the ground. This is a display of homage in recognition of Jesus' royalty. Right? And the only other place where we see this happening is in the Old Testament. in 2 Kings chapter 9 when Jehu is made king over Israel. And what's astonishing about this passage from 2 Kings chapter 9 is how it's so almost identical, yet in microcosm, to Jesus' entire Ministry. So think about this. When Jehu is made king in Israel, the king in Israel at the time was Ahab. Ahab was wicked, the worst king in the history of Israel, according to the Old Testament. He was the wicked king. He had a wicked wife also named Jezebel, and they were terrible for the nation of Israel. So because he was so wicked. Uh Elisha sends somebody to anoint Jehu as the king of Israel. But because Ahab's so wicked, they have to anoint him in secret. Because if Ahab finds out, he's gonna kill him. He's gonna kill him. So A uh so Jehu is anointed in secret. He's made king over Israel in secret, and then when he when he makes his first public appearance as the king of Israel the people of Israel throw down their cloaks before him, and he walks into the temple. So his first public appearance is him walking over garments that have been cast down before him. So think about this, Jehu was made king in secret. He comes out in public. The first time he's coming out in public, people throw down their cloaks before him, and then he goes immediately to make war against Ahab. And here you have Jesus. What has Jesus been doing his entire ministry? He's been keeping his identity a secret. He's the King of Kings and Lord of Lords, but he doesn't want anyone to know And now he's going to be presenting himself publicly as the king for the first time, just like Jehu. And what do the people do? They throw down their cloaks and their garments before him, and immediately, just like Jehu went to make war on Ahab the evil king, Jesus is coming to Jerusalem to make war on the serpent. You just see all these connections from the Old Testament that just start exploding like fireworks in the background. You think, gosh, I thought this passage was just about a guy getting a cult and running a cult in Jerusalem, but you see so much more is going on here You see, God is trying to show us, I have promised from the very beginning. My promise is sure. Thousands of years may pass, and I will bring it about perfectly. just like I said I would. But honestly these these details that we've looked at when when you take all these together Are they pale in comparison to the way this passage fulfills God's promise to the prophet Zechariah that we've already heard this morning When God promised to come as a king to save his people. Zechariah chapter 9, verse 9. Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion. Shout aloud, O daughter of Jerusalem, behold, your king is coming to you. Righteous and having salvation is he. humble and mounted on a donkey, on a colt, on the foal of a donkey. He's like, Don't miss it, y'all. The king has come. My promises to overthrow the serpent are coming to fruition right now. That's why the gospel writers slow down. I want you to see everything about what's going on here, about God's promise in Genesis 3 is finally coming. The curse is gonna be lifted. Mark does not want us to miss the reality shattering significance of what's going on here. Right? The seed of the woman is come. The one who would crush the serpent's head has come. The son of Noah, the son of Abraham, the son of Isaac, the son of Jacob has come. The lion of the tribe of Judah has come. The one who holds the scepter The one whose brothers will bow down to him, the one who will receive the obedience of the peoples has come, and the king who comes humbly and riding on a donkey, on a colt, on the foal of a donkey, has come And he has come to save his people. Praise be to God. Now we see why the people are shouting out, Hosanna, save us, we pray. And the irony about it is they they probably don't fully recognize what they're actually asking for. They're probably asking to be saved from some earthly salvation. They want him to set up an earthly throne, but the salvation that he brings is far greater. Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion. Shout aloud, O daughter of Jerusalem, right? It's no wonder the crowds respond as they do. The one who has come to lift the curse from all of creation is here. And we know from John's gospel that they're throwing down palm branches. If you're not really familiar with Christianity, but you've heard people talk about Palm Sunday, this is the passage where that celebration comes from. Palm Sunday is celebrated seven days before Easter because Jesus' triumphal entry into Jerusalem when palm branches were thrown down before him occurred seven days before his resurrection from the dead. And the practice of cutting and waving palm branches traditionally occurred in the Jewish festival of tabernacles. That was a celebration of God's faithfulness to the people of Israel when He provided for them. in the wilderness. So you see some uh some uh fulfillment of that going on here as the one who sustains his people in the midst of the wilderness has come. Right? And here I think the people are using these palm branches as an instrument of celebration, a way to show how special this event was. God has been faithful and he has finally shown his faithfulness in sending the promised king. And so you see them praising God in verses 9 and 10. Look down there with me. They shout, Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Dan already mentioned this morning that they're quoting from Psalm 118, which is one of the halel psalms. Halel as in Hallelujah. These were psalms that were sung at various festivals to praise God for who he is and what he's done. Hosanna in Hebrew meant save us, we pray, and was often just used as a shout, a declaration of praise to God, as you see here. But you even see the glory of this moment as a shout Save us, we pray, to the only one who can provide the salvation they need. This one who has come in the name of the Lord. Then in verse 10 they say, Blessed is the kingdom of our Father David, Hosanna in the highest This passage doesn't come from anywhere in the Old Testament. They're not citing a psalm when they say this. It seems like they're just recognizing that Jesus is the long-awaited fulfillment of God's promise. In 2 Samuel 7 to David, when he promised to give to one of David's descendants an eternal throne. And this king, King Jesus, is the fulfillment of that promise. You just see the Old Testament comes flooding into this passage and all these various threads are woven together in Christ. But it's here, honestly, that the passage comes to a surprising close. Imagine this, we've we've just talked about all this fulfillment of the Old Testament. Uh the way that Jesus and these details from all these promises long past have come to fill fulfillment in Christ, and the crowds recognize it, and they're throwing down cloaks and they're waving palm branches and they surround him on all sides, and then all of a sudden. Jesus comes into Jerusalem. Verse 11. And he went into the temple. And when he had looked around at everything, As it was already late. He went out to Bethany with the 12. It's almost like have you ever heard a record scratch to go like when somebody like messes something up, it's kind of like wait a second, what's going on here Like there was just a massive party and celebration surrounding the arrival of the King of Kings. He's come, and then it's like radio silence. Comes into Jerusalem. Went into the temple. Seemingly nobody there, right? He looks around. Nobody's cheering. Nobody's shouting. It's already late. He goes back out to Bethany with the 12th. It's a surprising end to this passage, right? He's surrounded by crowds one minute, and the next moment the crowds are gone. All of a sudden, he's in the temple, seemingly all alone. He takes a look around. I don't think he's being portrayed here as a tourist. I think he's the sovereign lord and king of kings who is inspecting his domain. He is the Lord of the temple. He looks around at it. And then he walks off and leaves. It's an odd, odd passage, but it's not just odd. It's sad. It's sad when you think about it. It seems like Mark has presented this passage in such a way to draw a sharp contrast between the crowds and the absence of crowds at the temple. The temple. The temple was the dwelling place of God on earth. It was God's home. And here. The incarnate Lord and King of all the universe has appeared in his own home, in his own temple, and nobody seems to notice at all. Of all the places on earth where a crowd should be surrounding Jesus, singing psalms of praise, it's the temple. But nobody's there. Nobody notices him. Nobody recognizes him for who he is. The cheering crowds set against the absence of crowd at the temple is an ominous sign. And what we'll find is that the lack of celebratory reception of the incarnate God in his very own home was a symptom of a much deeper spiritual problem between many of the people in Israel and the God that they professed to serve. And from this point forward, the conflict between Jesus and the temple takes center stage. This is the first time in Mark's gospel where the temple has been mentioned at all, and it will now be mentioned twelve separate times in the last six chapters. It's clear that Jesus has come because he has a problem with the temple and he's going to fix the problem with the temple. And that conflict takes center stage. On the following day, Jesus will appear in the temple. He'll drive out the money changers and those selling goods, and he pronounces judgment on the temple. The people who said that they had served him had made the temple into a den of robbers. Selling goods, oppressing people, taking money from them that they shouldn't have been taking. It's supposed to be a place of prayer for all nations, but you've turned it into a den of robbers, he says On multiple occasions during this final week of his life, he'll appear in the temple and he'll be challenged and plotted against by the religious authorities. And then he'll even go so far as to predict the destruction of the temple itself. He's going to predict the destruction of the building that was the center of religious life in Israel, the dwelling place of God on earth. But his conflict with the temple and all that it had come to stand for wasn't without a purpose. Right? Jesus doesn't want to destroy the temple just to destroy it. He came to destroy the temple and in its place provide a new and better temple where man can meet with God. And where is that temple That temple is Jesus Christ Himself. Recall his words to the Pharisees in John's Gospel Destroy this temple and in three days I will raise it up. What are you talking about? It took 46 years to destroy this temple. You're talking about how you're gonna destroy the temple and rebuild it in three days. You you can't possibly do that, but they didn't realize That he was talking about the temple of his very own body. Destroy this body, and in three days I will raise it up. I am a new temple And the Pharisees would destroy his temple in just a few days after his triumphal entry into Jerusalem. He will be betrayed by one of his very own followers. He'll be handed over to the authorities. They will lie against him. They will treat him unjustly. They will wrongly convict him. They will condemn him. And they will hand him over to be crucified by the Romans. But his death Was not proof that he had failed to accomplish his mission. Remember that when God promised to send a ruler to crush the serpent's head, that ruler would be bruised. injured in the process. It was God's very own plan to crush his son. Jesus' death would be the means by which the serpent would be destroyed and salvation for God's people would come. And in the process of that, a new temple would be built. Nowhere, nowhere do we see this more clearly than during the last moment of Jesus' life. Turn with me to Mark chapter 15, verse 37. As Jesus is dying on the cross He utters a loud cry and he breathes his last breath. And as he breathes his last breath, what happens in the temple? The curtain of the temple was torn in two. From top to bottom. The curtain of the temple was this massive garment, this massive rug, like 50 by 50 that kept people from coming into the immediate presence of God in the temple. It showed that even though God was present in the temple, that man was not yet fit to come into his immediate presence. Man could not come directly into his presence, but in Jesus' death God was making a way for mankind to come directly into his presence. The temple would no longer be necessary the curtain that keeps man from God would no longer be necessary. Now men and women and children from every nation and tribe and tongue on earth Could come directly into the presence of God through his Son, Jesus Christ, the true temple of the living God. And we know that Jesus is the true temple. Because three days after his body was destroyed, he raised it up from the dead. He was raised up by the power of God. And after he rose from the dead in power. He proclaimed to all that whoever would turn from their sin and trust in him would be forgiven for their sins and welcomed into the very presence of God through the power of the Holy Spirit. The triumphal entry of Jesus into Jerusalem is the beginning of Jesus' coronation procession as the long-awaited king. After he rides in as king later on in the week, he will be robed in royal robes, yet mocked as the people are doing it He will be crowned, but with a crown of thorns, and he will sit upon his throne, but his throne will be a cross of wood, because Jesus, the great King, came humbly. He came to die for the sins of his people. Having salvation is he and righteous, and he extends that salvation to all who would turn from their sin and trust in him. He came to crush the serpent. To lift the curse and to bring salvation to his people. Our friends, if you're here this morning and you don't understand yourself to be a follower of Jesus, I am extremely grateful. that you would take the time to be with us this morning. We celebrate this week in a in a in a special way. We do celebrate the resurrection every Sunday, but we want to take special time to meditate on what Christ accomplished for his people. Because it is so important for you to understand. If you don't know the Lord Jesus Christ, I think what he would say to you is this, listen Your first parents, Adam and Eve, they sinned against God after God had created them. They fell from grace. They came under God's curse and they live under judgment. And you too, because you are a descendant of Adam and Eve, you were born in bondage to sin And you show this every day by your sins, whether by your anger or your hatred of others or your bitterness or lying or stealing or lusting or cheating All of these things are symptoms of the problem that is at the heart of very humanity. But here is why I came I came to free you from that bondage, and I am going to show you the depths of my love for you because I am going to the cross I am going to take the punishment that you deserve. In my very own flesh, I will bear the punishment for your sins, so that you can receive grace and mercy from God. So please hear me, Jesus would say. Turn from your sins and trust in me, and you can have confidence that you will be forgiven of your sins, because three days after my temple was destroyed, I raised it up. And you can come to God through me. And if anyone would turn today from their sins and come to God through the Lord Jesus Christ, they can be forgiven. They can be extended grace and they can have the confidence of eternal life in the very presence of God. That's a message, it's not just for those who don't know Jesus. That's a message for all of us. Who follow Jesus? Because we still sin. We struggle with sin. We're not perfect. We're not righteous. Not in any way. No, not one is righteous. And if you're like me, you came in here today just thinking about all the ways that you fell short this week And thinking that God is upset with you, but Jesus is saying, Look to me, look to me, and rest, rest in what I have done for you. And that's how I want you to respond this week, Saints. Respond by resting. Respond by resting. We've reached a point in Mark's gospel where all Jesus' lessons on discipleship Where we talk about application. All these lessons on discipleship have come to an end. The disciples will fall away. It is just Jesus. It is only Jesus who is in the garden alone. Everyone else asleep on him. It is only Jesus who goes to the cross. It is only Jesus who rises from the dead because God wants you to see it's in Jesus that you're saved. It's in Jesus that you rest. It's not your own performance. It's not your own perfection. It's not your own righteousness. You can rest in my Son. He has done everything needed. to save you from your sins all that is necessary to cleanse us. He has paid for it all since past, since present, since future. And his resurrection from the dead, dear saints, is for you to look to to know When you doubt, and when the serpent whispers in your ear, it's for you to know God has forgiven me. He has accepted the sacrifice that was paid on my behalf. So rest in him. And to the kids that are here, the teenagers also, I want to emphasize this for you. Jesus does, he does call all who follow him to labor. We are to pour ourselves out for his sake. But he calls us to rest in the midst of our labor. Our labors, kids and teenagers, do not earn our salvation from God. They are the gracious response to the salvation that we've received. We pour ourselves out in response to this gracious giving of his own life to save us from our sins. And in the midst of all of our labors, we're able to rest, knowing that Jesus has done once for all what we so desperately needed. And we can also, all of us here, we can also take comfort in God's sovereignty We can take comfort in God's sovereignty. Consider this, that Jesus' arrival in Jerusalem is part of the fulfillment of promises. that are thousands of years old. I struggle to keep a promise that I make to my kids at the beginning of the day. I'll tell I tell Jack like Or knock sometimes. Like daddy promises I'll play with you after work, and then I get after work, I'm like, no, I can't play because we gotta do this. Like I struggle to keep my promises over the course of a day. God waits thousands of years Thousands of years pass and he is able to keep his promises, the promises that he's made to his people. Doesn't matter how much time passes. One year, one day, one moment, God's promises to his people never, ever fail. Not only do they never fail. But by his sovereign power, he's able to fulfill even the smallest details of these promises Really Genesis 49, like understand that that was written close to 2,000 years before Jesus ever came. And Moses was writing about a promise, that promise About 1,500 years after the promise is made. You're talking about a promise that is 3,500 years before Jesus arrives And he promises that his cult will be tied to a vine. Even the smallest of details, the Lord is sovereign over all of these circumstances. I think we often think about God's sovereignty as something that operates at a distance in our lives, but we need to recognize as followers of Christ that He's present and active in the daily. In the mundane, in the circumstances that you don't think have any meaningful impact on your life or your eternal destiny John Piper, a pastor, said something like this. He said, God is always doing 10,000 things in your life, and you may be aware of three of them. I think it's probably an understatement, true. It's so good, but it's probably an understatement. God is always doing 10,000 things in your life, and you may be aware of three of them. That means that we can go about the daily tasks that we'll face this week confident that God is at work in them, whether we can see it or not. Whether we can see it or not. And I do recognize that there may be some of you here who are suffering in some way, who may struggle to recognize How can God be sovereign and present in my circumstances? What does that mean for me? Does that mean he's good if I'm suffering? How can he be both loving and good and sovereign all at the same time when these difficulties happen? I mean if that's you, depending on your situation, probably for all of your situations if you're suffering, I can't give you clear Solid answers from my perspective on what God is doing in them and why you may be suffering. But I can tell you with great confidence that God is able to sovereignly bring good out of suffering. Recognize that it is through Jesus' suffering that He brought salvation to the world Why was that God's plan for Jesus' life? We don't know. Could God conceivably have done it other ways? Sure. He's the Lord. He chose this way. What is God doing in my life, and why is this happening? I don't know the reason, but what I can point you to is the display of love on the cross that Christ would come to be crucified in your place. He would suffer in your place, and through his suffering, great good would come to the world. And he can use your suffering to produce good, not only for others, but for you. Consider what Paul says in Romans 5. We thought about this recently in the past couple weeks. He uses our suffering, and through our suffering, he produces endurance, endurance brings character, and character produces hope. And hope will not put us to shame because nothing can separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus. Even if you're suffering, God's sovereignty extends over all circumstances and is present in all circumstances and God can bring good even in your life. So if you're suffering and doubting God's sovereignty or his goodness, look to the cross where you'll see his sovereign goodness display towards you Where he sovereignly accomplished his plan to offer his son to free you from sin so that you could receive grace and mercy. Friends, that's what we're celebrating this week. It's true that every Sunday we celebrate the resurrection, but this week provides us with an opportunity to meditate specifically on the reality that the king came. He rode into Jerusalem knowing what awaited him, knowing the betrayal, knowing the anguish, the sorrow, the mocking and beating, and the terrible crucifixion And all this he did so that you and I could be forgiven of our sins and know his wondrous salvation. Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion. Shout aloud, O daughter of Jerusalem. Behold, your king is coming to you Righteous and having salvation is he, humble and mounted on a donkey, on a colt, the foal of a donkey Praise be to our humble, righteous, and saving King. Let's pray Heavenly Father, we come before you this morning, not recognizing as we ought how awesome your sovereign power actually is. And we recognize something of it. We do praise you for your sovereign goodness, your sovereign power that it that enables you by or by which you keep promises over thousands of years. Oh Father, help us to grasp more of who you are and your great power displayed towards your people. We want to know you more. Help us by your Spirit to increase in the knowledge of you. And we pray, Father, for any who are doubting today, your sovereign goodness towards them. Help them to hold fast to your promises in Christ for them. Help all who don't know you today to turn and trust in this great saving King. And help us to remember, even as we're thinking about him coming into Jerusalem, as we come to the table now, the Lord's Supper, help us to remember what he did for us upon the cross. And we pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen.