It is good to be with you all and to have this opportunity to open God's word with you. Let me pray again briefly for the preaching of the word, and then we'll look at God's word. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we are completely dependent upon your grace to open our eyes and the ears of our heart receive your word We ask humbly, Father, that you would do that now. We desire to hear your voice. We desire to hear you speak. And we desire to go away and be doers of your word. Please accomplish every good and perfect purpose that you have intended your word for us today. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, many of you know that I love survival shows. I am a huge fan. of watching people be pit against the extremes of nature to see if they have what it takes to survive. And apparently I'm not the only one. And that's pretty obvious because of how many survival shows there are now on TV. The first one that I remember, I'm not sure about you, but the first one I remember was Survivor. Which has been running for 21 years now. That doesn't make you feel old. I don't I don't know what does if you uh are old enough to remember when that show first came on. And the success of Survivor spawned a whole host of uh other shows, Survivor shows like The Island or Dual Survival To Survivor Man, to Man vs Wild, to Man and Woman vs Wild, to Ultimate Survival, and to my recent favorite, which is Alone And while these shows share a number of similarities, I think perhaps the most obvious similarity between them is that if you want to win the prize. If you want to take home the reward, the big reward at the end, you must continue You must continue. You can't give up. So in the most recent season of Alone, they were in the Arctic Circle, surviving on their own, in like utter barrenness. And uh there's a uh a handful of people who make it to like past day 60 and then past day 65 and then to day 70 and then There's three people left. One guy, his cabin that he built up, catches fire, burns down, he has to ring in the bell, he's gotta go home. Uh then there's uh uh a lady who makes it to like day 74, and she just decides. Can't take it anymore. Rings the bell, and then there's one dude left, Jordan Jonas, who wins. He makes it, I think, 77 days. Day 75? Not enough. She she didn't win the prize. She didn't get a prize. You only win if you continue until the end. It's a very simple lesson. The lesson for us today. If you want to share in the prize, you must continue to the end. Very similar lesson to one we see taught about the Christian life in our passage this morning. So I want to invite you to turn in your Bible to Colossians chapter 1. We're going to be looking at verses 21. And as you're turning there, let me just provide some context to our passage today. We've already seen in chapter one that Paul's focus is on the power of the gospel. The whole chapter is about the power of the gospel. In verses 3 through 8, it's the gospel that is bearing fruit in their lives and bearing fruit all around the world. Then at verses 9 to 14, Paul prays for the Colossians to continue bearing gospel fruit in their lives before transitioning And verses 15 to 20 to describe the preeminence of Jesus. What does that have to do with the gospel? Well, the gospel is about the preeminent Christ. The creator of the world, the image of the invisible God, the sustainer of all things, the one in whom the fullness of God dwells, this one died on the cross For the forgiveness of sins. That is the gospel that Paul has been focusing on. And in our passage today, Paul explains that the gospel is a message of shocking reconciliation. of shocking transformation that calls for continued faith from those who believe. If you want the reward that is promised, the reward promised to those who endure, you must continue. You must keep going. Let me read the passage for us now. This is God's word. And you, who once were alienated and hostile in mind, doing evil deeds He has now reconciled in his body of flesh by his death in order to present you holy and blameless and above reproach before him. If indeed you continue in the faith, stable and steadfast, not shifting from the hope of the gospel that you heard Which has been proclaimed in all creation under heaven, and of which I, Paul, became a minister The message of verses 21 to 23 is simple. Reconciliation with God and the rewards that await are for those who remain in the gospel. You've been reconciled to God through the gospel. Now remain in the gospel. Continue in the gospel. We're going to look at the met that uh this passage under those. two points. If you're taking notes, point one will be reconciled and point two will be remain. I want us to consider first. Reconciled. You've been reconciled to God through the gospel. Paul's central assertion in verses 21 to 23 is that the Colossians had now been reconciled to God. Why don't you look down at verse 22? This is really the main verb. This is the independent clause upon which everything else is dependent for my grammarians out there. God had reconciled them to himself. He had acted in time and space to forgive them and restore their relationship with him. The lesson in this passage is very straightforward. But we've got to slow down to consider everything else that Paul says here because it's everything else that makes their reconciliation with God really just pop off the page. There are two things about their reconciliation with God that I want us to slow down and consider. And the first thing that we have to consider and appreciate is just how shocking their reconciliation with God was. This is a shocking reconciliation. And it's shocking because of who they used to be. Look at verse 21 again, at what Paul says about who they used to be. And you. Who once were alienated and hostile in mind, doing evil deeds Before God accomplished everything that was needed to reconcile them, to restore their fellowship with Him, to forgive them, they were alienated. Hostile in mind and doing evil deeds. Just think about what those words mean. They were alienated. They were alienated spiritually from God, separated from him They were exiled from his presence, wandering spiritually lost in the world, and unable by their own power to come back into his presence. And even if they had the power to come back into his presence, they would not have wanted to, because they were also hostile towards it towards him in their minds. They were hostile toward God in their minds. In the Bible, the mind is very similar to the heart. It describes the very core. of a person in their very core heart and mind they were hostile to God enemies of God. Hey, we don't like you and we want nothing to do with you That's the attitude in the mind of mankind towards God. Enemies of God. Opponents actively against God. And their hostility toward God appeared in their behavior. They did evil deeds. When the Bible speaks of evil deeds, what does it have in mind? Is it just like really heinous sins? We just got to look to the New Testament to see what it has in mind. Think of the description the descriptions the New Testament gives. Gossip and slander. Pride and boasting. Covetousness, jealousy, anger, malice, sexual immorality, lying, disobeying parents, guilty of that one when I was younger, probably still guilty of it today a little bit, being foolish, faithless, heartless, and ruthless. This is what the Colossians were like. But this wasn't peculiar to the Colossians either. This is what you were like and what I was like before God reconciled us to himself. This is the spiritual state in which all people come into the world To my non-Christian friends, I wonder how you would answer the question, what's wrong with us? What's wrong with humanity? Why are we the way that we are? And why is it that when I ask you that question, you just already know what I'm talking about? Why are we the way that we are? You think about the the common uh understandings, the common answers to those questions today. Most everybody today in the secular world tries to explain it away by Darwinian evolution. It's just some kind of Darwinian evolution of the gaps, just Evolution made it so. That's why we are the way that we are. With no other explanation. But Darwinian evolution can't explain morality whatsoever. Other people increasingly choose to believe that people just come into the world basically good and that what the Bible says about us isn't actually true. We're just blank slates who are then corrupted only because of what we encounter in life. But then you've got to kind of ask yourself, well, if we come into the world basically good and all mankind has come into the world basically good, where did the first corruption come from? How did that happen You kind of have to infinitely go backwards and find out what made us the way that we are today. But if you think that we came into the world as blank slates, all you have to do is take care of a toddler for a couple hours to know that we don't come into the world basically good How? How do you explain what's wrong with us? I'd really encourage you to consider what the Bible has to say about why we are the way we are. I think it provides a better explanation of reality than any other religion or worldview or philosophy. What the Bible says is that mankind was created by a personal God. We have eternity set in our hearts. We desire to live forever. We desire to know God, but none of us actually knows God because we're opponents to God and we go searching for other things to fill that God gap in our hearts. We were created by a personal God, but our first parents chose to reject him and rule themselves. As a result, they were cast out of his presence, alienated from God And their sin was passed down to all mankind, so that we come into the world as adorable little bundles of hostility towards God. And towards each other. And this is proved over and over again in each of our lives. Because we all do evil things. But you see, when Paul is speaking to them and saying, you who once were evil and uh hostile in mind, doing evil deeds, he's not standing over them self-righteously condemning them as evil, whereas he is holy and righteous. Right? In his other letters, he calls himself the chief of sinners. He's saying this is all of us. That's what I'm saying to y'all today. I'm not standing up here saying y'all are evil and I'm I'm on good ground with God. Friends, this is this is all of us. This is what God says about all mankind. Evil. Hostile in mind. Doing evil deeds. Right? We see it in our own lives. We see it in our own hearts. You look honestly at yourself. How much anger did you experience this past week? How much hatred of other people did you experience in your heart? Maybe it didn't come out, you maybe were smiling on the outside. I hate them Hate them. Much lying. Judging others. Doing evil deeds. It's us. Friends, we do have to recognize the fracturing we're seeing in our society right now is downstream from the fractured relationship we all have with God. This is an outworking of it. Divisions exist between us only because division already existed between us and God. The attack on the Capitol, uh the the evil that was done over the summer in those riots, that which was evil in those riots. uh theft, murder, robbery, what whatever it might be, you should picture a river in your mind Big channel, big body of water. I used to be stationed on the Columbia River when I was in the Coast Guard. Massive body of water. Billions of gallons of water come through that thing like every minute. Right? Massive, massive river And coming off that river, there are little tributaries, little creeks that go every which way here and there. That river, hostility towards God. That's the division between us and God. All of the thing that we things that we see in our world, these are the tributaries. They all lead back to this river. If those things are going to change in our world, you know that riverbed needs to be dried up. A dam needs to be put in place. Reconciliation needs to happen if we're going to dry up those tributaries that show up in our society and in our own lives. But we can't accomplish that reconciliation because we're hostile to God. We need Him to take action first. And that's the shock of this passage. God would provide reconciliation for people who are undeserving of it and opposed to him Right? Who would want to provide reconciliation for a hostile and evil people? But it's not just the mere fact that he would provide reconciliation of it. The shock of it is that Jesus would die to accomplish it. Just think of someone that you're upset with right now, right? Maybe they hurt your feelings, maybe they said something about you that wasn't true, whatever it is. Now ask yourself: do you want to die for them right now? You want to die for them right now? Probably not. That'd be my guess. Well now pretend that that person's entire life has been nothing but hostility channeled directly at you. Now would you die for them? Of course not. But that is what Jesus has done for us to reconcile us to God. But think of what Paul says in 1 Corinthians. For rarely will anyone die for a righteous person. He's talking about us, humanity. Rarely would we even die for a righteous person Though for a good person perhaps someone might dare to die, but God demonstrates his own love for us in this, while we were still sinners. Christ died for us. This is marvelous grace. This is a type of grace that spawns songs like amazing grace. And can it be? How can it be that I can stand up here to you right now? Right now in the grace of God and preach to you the gospel of God when I was such a vile sinner in my own life. How is it possible? Because God, in his amazing mercy and grace, rescues, reconciles evil sinners to himself. This is a shocking reconciliation But it's not only shocking. It transforms people. It is a transforming reconciliation. That is the second thing we need to notice about our reconciliation. It's a transforming reconciliation. Look at verse 22 again. You who once were. You who once were alienated and hostile in mind, doing evil deeds He has now reconciled in his body of flesh by his death. Why? In order to present you holy and blameless and above reproach before him. The goal of our reconciliation is total transformation. Total transformation. This is a transforming reconciliation. You were once alienated and hostile in mind, doing evil deeds, but now, but now you are holy blameless and above reproach before him. What happened in between those two things? How did we go from here to here? Christ died for you Transforming reconciliation, Jesus' death and resurrection are transformative, friends It transforms alienated, hostile, and evil people into a people who are holy and blameless and above reproach before God. I mean, goodness gracious, we have just come into some of the richest, most glorious, most praiseworthy truths in all of reality. If you have been reconciled to God through faith in Jesus, you are now, as in right now, this millisecond. holy, blameless, and above reproach before God. That's you if you've trusted in Christ. How? How could that be? How could that be? Just this past week, I'm sure some of you, like me, got angry, spoke unkindly to others. Or lie to someone or use someone for your own gain or curse another person, sinfully judge or love this world more than God, how could you or I possibly be described as holy, blameless, and above reproach in God's sight? It's because of what we call the sweet exchange. This is the heart of the gospel in reconciling us to God. Jesus took our sins upon himself. They were imputed to him. They became his. Not that he was a sinner, but he took the burden of our sins. He said, hey, you are carrying this on your back, and it is going to crush you and kill you. Let me take it on my back because I want to do that for you. I want to rescue you. He took the burden of our sins off our backs, put them on his back. Peter says he himself Bore our sins in his body on the tree. He took all of our sins, past, present, and future, to the cross and bore the punishment we deserved for our hostility towards God. And then he got up from the dead showing that God accepted his sacrifice. And when we put our faith in him, he gives to us his perfect record. He doesn't just take away the sinfulness, he replaces it with perfect righteousness. His holiness becomes our holiness His blamelessness becomes our blamelessness so that we are as above reproach as he is. One pastor said in Christianity, the moment we believe in Christ. God imputes Christ's perfect performance to us as if it were our own and adopts us into his family. And because of that, God can say to us, Just as he once said to Christ, you are my son. You are my daughter. With you I am well pleased. Wow, please. You think about it, one pastor described it like looking through stained glass, right? When you look through stained glass, light that comes through is transformed into the color of glass that you're looking through. If we look through a piece of red glass, everything is red. Through blue glass, everything is blue. Through yellow, everything becomes yellow, and so on. The glorious truth is that when we believe in the Lord Jesus Christ as our Savior. God looks at us through the Lord Jesus Christ and he sees in us all the white, hot holiness of his son. That Is the great doctrine of imputation, of our sin to Christ and his righteousness to us. If you have repented and believed, Right now, you are holy and blameless and above reproach Do you believe that? Do you believe that? Do you believe what God says about you? You don't need to walk around condemning yourself for sins committed. You don't need to carry around excessive guilt for the things you've done. We should absolutely, absolutely mourn our sin, seek forgiveness from God and others when we sin. And if our sins are grievous enough, they may permanently impact our life and relationships, but they will never Impact your holy, blameless, and righteous standing before God if you've repented. Oh, to the teenagers and kids. This is what empowers you to live joyful, hopeful lives as Christians. If you've ever done something wrong and you know that you you've gotten caught for it or you know that you're gonna get caught get caught, you know you have that sick sinking feeling in your stomach. Uh, you know, talking about you're just like, oh, I did this wrong, and my mom and dad are gonna find out, and I am really in deep trouble. It's that that sick feeling in your stomach. If you've repented and trusted in Jesus, You will not face the punishment your sins deserve because Jesus has already taken it for you. That sick sinking feeling Does not need to stay in your stomach. It doesn't need to burden you all of your days. God has removed the stain of your sins from you. It is for freedom that Christ has set us free. I don't know about you. I like kids I like all of us your parents I should be way more joyful all the time than that uh than I actually am Way way too often I just get weighed down by my own sins, weighed down by my own frustrations, weighed down by my discouragements, and there are things that happen in this life, like this past week, that are really hard, and they're discouraging, and they're really hard. But this truth buoys us. It lifts us up above the waves of this life, the storms of this life. It's an anchor for the soul. It's a ballast for your soul. It's a ballast for your joy. Because you will never stand before God in judgment. Because of what Christ has done. Be reconciled to God through Jesus Christ. So many great gifts he gives to us through his son But this passage doesn't just speak of a present transformation. It also speaks to a future one. There is an end times ultimate transformation that has yet to take place. For those who walk by faith, who have seen victory over sin, but still struggle with sin, God isn't done with you yet. He who began a good work in you will carry it on to completion at the day of Christ Jesus. There is a day coming when Jesus will present us before God as his bride That's what he came for, to present us before God as holy, blameless, and above reproach. He's going to look, Father, you sent me. You sent me for all of them. The bride and I have cleansed all of them and made all of them holy and I have now brought them to you That's what Christ is gonna do. There is a day coming when he will present us before God as his bride, having fully purified us from sin. And on that day, it will be said of you and me that we are And will forever be truly holy, truly blameless, and truly above reproach. On that day, all lingering struggles with sin All besetting temptations, all maladies of the soul. Forever. Holy. Lameless. Good I've done, Father. Above reproach They will never come back. And the revelation of that transformation will be something to behold. You think about like something common in our lives, think about you know Chip and Joanna Gaines, the show Fixer Upper, if you've ever watched it. What's the best part of the show? Best part of the show is the the revelation at the end. When they the people get to see the house that was all messed up and it's been all it's been all fixed up. They get to see all the work that they've done on the house. Well what what do Chip and Joanna do? They put a giant picture of what the house used to look like in front of it on like rollers And then they bring the people up blindfolded so they can't see, you know, past the picture, and then they take the blindfold off and they're standing there and they're like, oh, I wonder what it looks like beyond that picture, right? And You know, and then they they dramatically roll the picture out of the way and then right as the commercial breaks you like see the face. Whoa! And then they return after commercial break and the people are just like unbelievably just can't believe our house, what it looks like. Right? Oh my gosh! That's a small, oh, infinitesimally small picture of what the revealing of our final transformation will be like. But it will be far greater than anything that this world can offer because God is not simply working to renovate you. He intends to make you into a brand new creation. Behold I am making all things new. Jesus. This is what's going on in Colossians This is what Paul is trying to point us to. Jesus is accomplishing the mission that was originally given to Adam. To exercise dominion and fill the earth with image bearers. He is the true Adam who's exercising dominion now from the right hand of God and who by his death and resurrection is reconciling our lost and ruined race to God so that we might display his holy, blameless, and righteous character throughout all the earth, both now and eternally. And he's doing that through the gospel. Only the gospel has the power to reconcile us to God. Only the gospel has the power to transform who we are. So we need to remain in the gospel. Remain in the gospel. That's point two. We need to continue in the gospel. Look at verses 21 to 23 again. And you, who once were alienated and hostile in mind, doing evil deeds, he has now reconciled in his body of flesh by his death. in order to present you holy and blameless and above reproach before Him, if You continue in the faith, stable and steadfast, not shifting from the hope of the gospel that you heard The present and future transformation that flows out of our reconciliation is conditioned upon our continuing in the faith, remaining in the gospel. The rewards of reconciliation are ultimately reserved for those who remain in the gospel, who continue. in the gospel. And we see this taught elsewhere in the New Testament. You think of 1 Corinthians 15, right, where Paul says, I would remind you, brothers, of the gospel I preach to you, which you received, in which you stand, by which you are being saved, if you hold fast to the word I preach to you. Or Mark 13, 13, what does Jesus say? You will be hated by all for my name's sake, but the one who endures to the end will be saved. Reconciliation, transformation, forgiveness, salvation, eternal life are promised to those who endure to the end. I was a student at VCU in Richmond, Virginia from 1997 to 2002-ish. It's a little hazy to me because by 2002 I had finished almost all of my degree requirements, hundreds of hours of class and homework, except for one class, one lingering class. All I needed to graduate was one class. I just didn't really feel like taking it. I had gotten a job. I was too busy having fun, and so I went on my merry way for a few years, acting like I had graduated, when in fact I had no degree I was not a graduate all because of one class. Couldn't they just overlook that one class and just give me the degree? Can I can I just call myself a graduate of VCU? Do I really need to finish all my classes to get the degree? Yes, those are the rules for everyone. I could no more receive the benefits of graduating without doing all the coursework than we can receive the full benefits of salvation without continuing until the end. John Piper put it plainly, you must fight until you are dead, or you will lose. Sounds daunting though, doesn't it? I trust some of you are simply struggling to survive today. And yet, God is calling you to endure until the end. How on earth are we going to do this? Well, the simple answer is we wouldn't if it was by our own strength. But what we need to recognize is that God also supplies the grace and strength we need to carry out his commands. You and I need to continue. We must continue. He commands us to continue, and he gives us the grace and strength to continue. This is why Paul said, By the grace of God, I am what I am, and his grace toward me was not in vain. On the contrary, I worked harder than any of them, though it was not I, but the grace of God that is with me. God saves us by his grace. He grants faith and repentance, gifts from heaven Then commands us to continue in the faith, which true believers choose to do, all the while it's his grace sustaining our efforts to continue. There's a beautiful illustration of this in John Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress. In chapter 5, the main character, Christian, meets a helper named Interpreter. Interpreter's job is to teach Christian certain truths he will need in order to complete his journey of faith. And interpreter shows Christian a fire that is burning against a wall. There's a fire, and right behind it, there's a wall. And next to the fire stands someone constantly trying to put out the fire by pouring water on it. But the fire doesn't go out. It only burns higher and hotter. So Christianism, what does this mean? An interpreter explains that the fire is the work of grace that God produces in our hearts. The grace of trusting Christ and love for Him. But the devil is constantly trying to pour out, put out this fire by pouring water on it, the water of temptations and worries and trials. That interpreter wanted to show Christian how the fire not only kept burning. But kept burning higher and hotter. So what does he do? He takes him around to the back side of the wall, where he sees a man with a jar of oil in his hand that he's pouring continually into the fire The Christian asks him, what's this mean? And the interpreter tells him, this is Christ, who continually, with the oil of his grace. Maintains the work already begun in the heart, by the means of which, notwithstanding what the devil can do, the souls of his people prove gracious still. And in that thou sawest that the man stood behind the wall to maintain the fire, this is to teach you that it is hard for the tempted to see how this work of grace is maintained in the soul. You may not see it. Let me just think about this. You you went to bed last night and woke up today, and you're still a Christian. Did you see Christ pouring grace into your heart? Yet he's there behind the wall, pouring the oil of his gladness and grace in continually to keep the fire going. Even if you're a smoldering wick, won't put you out. He will continue He will protect the ember. He will protect the flame. And he will allow it to continue to grow. Keep going, friends. Keep going. Continue in the faith by the grace of God. Even tells us what this should look like. Says positively continue in the faith, stable and steadfast. Not flashy with a lot of pizzazz, not sprinting and flaming out, not perfectly. Is it say continue in the faith? Perfectly. When you fall down, get back up. Return to the throne of grace. Confess your sins and keep going. Keep plotting Spurgeon said it best, by perseverance, the snail made it to the ark Be a snail. God's not looking for cheetahs, right? He's not looking for leopards. People who wow the world with their faith. Be a snail. Keep going. By the grace of God. Keep going. Stable and steadfast. And don't shift from the hope of the gospel. This entire chapter has been about the power of the gospel The good news of the death and resurrection of the preeminent Christ is the only message that is bearing eternal fruit throughout the whole earth It's the only message that reconciles us to God. It's the only message that truly transforms us, and it's the only message that preserves us to the end. Don't shift from that message. There's no hope outside of that message. Like for Paul to move on from the gospel to look for spiritual riches elsewhere. would be akin to uh Jeff Bezos thinking he be he can become richer by leaving his job at Amazon and taking a job at a cash as a cashier at a Chick fil A Like nothing wrong with that job, but you're not going to get richer than being the CEO of Amazon, dude. There's no other game in town for you. You're like the richest person in the world. Paul's saying to you, you have all riches in Christ There's no other game in town that can compare to it. You will not give richer anywhere else, only poorer. Don't shift from the gospel. There are no greater riches than the riches found in the gospel There's no reconciliation with God found anywhere other than the gospel. There's no message that has power to save and transform other than the gospel. Continue in the gospel. What does this mean for you? When you wake up tomorrow morning, employ the common means of grace that God has given to us Turn to the word. Be fed by the word. Even if it's two minutes. If you have two minutes, spend two minutes. If you have five, five. If you have twenty, spend twenty. Turn to the word. Spend some time in prayer. Surely we all have enough time to say the Lord's Prayer, to ask Him for what we need. Continue gathering with the saints. This is what it looks like to continue in the gospel. You wake up tomorrow morning, just keep going. That's God's intention for our lives, that we would continue in the gospel. And if you are struggling with whether or not you I hope J. I. Packer's words are a comfort to you. He said this. I need not torment myself with the fear that my faith may fail. As grace led me to faith in the first place, so grace will keep me believing to the end. Friends, in the end, it's not us holding fast to God that keeps us to the end, but the confidence that His mighty hands are holding fast to us. So consider reconciling, transforming power of the gospel, and continue in it. Keep going. That's what we're doing here today. That's what we'll even do as we celebrate the Lord's Supper, remembering his death on our behalf. And as we do these things, Christ stands behind the wall, continuing to put oil in the fire. Let's bring it up. Amazing grace. How sweet the sound that saved a wretch. Wretches like us Father, thank you for reconciling us to yourself. Thank you for giving your son Jesus to die in our place so that your enemies would become your friends. Father, we pray that you would empower us to continue in the gospel. We believe. Help our unbelief. Nourish us, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.